June 17, 2020||Goa||Not sure yet of returning to FC Goa, says star man Hugo Boumous||PANAJI: Last week when FC Goa coach Juan Ferrando conducted an online session for players, Hugo Boumous was all ears. He listened attentively to the training program that has been designed by the coaching staff, took notes and assured to keep himself fit for the season ahead. When the season kickstarts, though, Boumous may or may not be wearing the FC Goa colours, even though he still has two years left on his existing contract. The French midfielder was a sensation last season and the chief reason why FC Goa finished on top of the Indian Super League (ISL) standings. His brilliant play stood out particularly towards the closing stages of the league when coach Sergio Lobera parted ways and there appeared to be question marks over the team’s future. For his efforts, Boumous ended up with the Golden Ball award, an unanimous choice given his performance all through the season. No surprise, almost everyone now wants a piece of the player with several clubs ready with lucrative offers. “As of today, I don’t know (about next season). I am not sure at all. I have to talk to the club and take a call. For now, I cannot say anything. Maybe things will be clear in a few days or another week,” Boumous told TOI in a telephonic conversation on Monday. Bomous remains central to FC Goa’s plans for next season. Goa will debut in the AFC Champions League, a first for an Indian club, and the Frenchman’s presence will enrich the squad considerably. Given that several players have now left the club – Mandar Rao Desai, Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall and Jackichand Singh for example – Boumous’s departure will be a heavy blow. “I have to see what is the plan of the club. FC Goa should be ambitious for next season. As you know, Jahouh, Fall, Jackichand, Mandar have all left and they were important players. I have not seen any new player join the club, apart from Redeem (Tlang),” said Boumous, whose contract with the club ends only in the summer of 2022. Privately, Goa have maintained that they have quality replacements to fill the boots of those who have left for greener pastures. The signings are only a matter of time, but it remains to be seen if they can retain their most-prized possession. “Playing in Europe is a good option but there are other leagues which are equally impressive. For now, I am trying hard keep myself fit. It’s not been easy to be at home (due to the coronavirus pandemic) and I want to get back on the field as quickly as possible. There is no better feeling than being on the field. “I’ve heard that the ISL will now start only in late November. The players would be without competitive football for almost eight months. That’s too long a break and will impact the players’ performances,” said Boumous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-sure-yet-of-returning-to-fc-goa-says-star-man-hugo-boumous/articleshow/76411822.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 17, 2020||World||Coronavirus hotspots flare in Arizona and Florida; Oregon church linked to outbreak||For a second week in a row, half a dozen US states face a surge in new coronavirus cases and rising hospitalizations, including an outbreak linked to a church in rural Oregon. Arizona, Florida and Oklahoma all reported record increases in new cases on Tuesday after recording all-time highs last week. Nevada also reported its highest single-day tally of new cases on Tuesday, up from a previous high on May 23. At the Tucson Medical Center on Monday, just a single intensive care unit (ICU) bed designated for COVID-19 patients was available, with the other 19 beds filled, a hospital representative said, adding they were working to increase capacity. "ICU to be expanded, hopefully, in coming days," Dr. Steven Oscherwitz, an infectious disease expert at the hospital, said in a tweet on Monday night. "Not sure where people needing ICU care will be able to go, since most AZ (Arizona) hospitals are pretty full now." North Carolina reported record coronavirus hospitalizations on Tuesday with about 74% of its hospital and ICU beds filled, according to a state website. Health officials in many states attribute the spike to businesses reopening and Memorial Day gatherings in late May. Many states are also bracing for a possible increase in cases from tens of thousands of people protesting in the streets to end racial injustice and police brutality for the past three weeks. In Oregon, health officials are trying to contain an outbreak tied to the Lighthouse United Pentecostal Church in Union County. The Oregonian newspaper reported that a video on the church's Facebook page on May 24 showed hundreds of people standing close together singing. Large gatherings were not permitting under the state's reopening plan at that time. The video has since been deleted, it said. Reuters was not immediately able to reach the church for comment. Across the United States, 17 states saw new cases rise last week, led by Alabama, South Carolina and Oklahoma, according to a Reuters analysis. In Oklahoma, where President Donald Trump plans to hold an indoor campaign rally on Saturday, new cases rose 68% to 1,081 in the second week of June, while the rate of people testing positive for the virus increased to 4% from 2% the previous week. Vice President Mike Pence on Tuesday said officials were considering other, possibly outdoor, venues for the Tulsa event. The virus spreads far more efficiently in enclosed spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coronavirus-hotspots-flare-in-arizona-and-florida-oregon-church-linked-to-outbreak/articleshow/76413747.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Follow Punjab’s anti-Covid model: PM Narendra Modi to other states||CHANDIGARH: Prime Minister Narendra Modi was all praise for Punjab's micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the state during his interaction with some CMs vis vide-conferencing. An official spokesperson said on Tuesday that the PM intervened while Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was describing the state's model to combat Covid and suggested that all states should follow the same strategic approach to effectively counter the virus. Modi video conference is part of his scheduled two-day interactions to review the Covid situation and management strategies of all the states. He will be holding a similar meeting with the chief ministers of the other states on Wednesday. During the meeting, Amarinder urged Modi to set up a group, which should include a few chief ministers, to discuss and formulate a coordinated Centre-state response to the devastating impact of Covid on the economy and state governments. During a video conference with the PM, who eas joined by Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and health minister Harsh Vardhan, Amarinder requested that the Centre should work closely with the states to ease the distress caused by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns. Amarinder recalled that when he had said in early April that Covid could go on till September, he had been termed an alarmist by some people. But with experts now warning that the pandemic could continue even beyond September, it was important to learn to co-exist with it and cope with it better, he stressed, underlining the need for the central and state governments to work in close coordination for this. Amarinder said a detailed memorandum had already been sent to the Government of India, listing the impact of Covid-19 and also seeking fiscal and non-fiscal assistance. Thanking the PM for release of GST payment of around Rs 2,800 crore in early June, Amarinder requested for release of the state's pending share of taxes. He mentioned that the crisis in Punjab was likely to be acute with around Rs 25,000-30,000 crore shortfall in revenue collection on various counts. He said that even though Punjab's contribution to the all-India cases was less than 1% (at 3,140 cases) at present, with a mortality rate of 2.1% and recovery rate of 75%, the curve was rising as a result of the inbound travellers and easing of restrictions and more mixing of people. Emphasising the need for more tests, despite the current 5,527 tests per million in Punjab, being higher than the all-India average of 4,088, Amarinder reiterated his request to direct central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase testing capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/follow-punjabs-anti-covid-model-pm-to-other-states/articleshow/76414425.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||City restaurants struggle to stay afloat post unlock||The few odd restaurants which opened doors to customers in the city on June 8 are finding it difficult to carry on. For one, most of the lunch-time customers are absent because educational institutions and most offices are still closed. And come dinner time, the night curfew comes into effect. Then of course there’s the persistent fear of enclosed public spaces that’s making even the bravest of foodies give second thoughts to eating out. Add to that the ban on liquor sales and there’s hardly anything left for restaurants to lean on for income, let alone profits. Sudesh Poddar, secretary, Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India, said, “We are having a meeting on Wednesday to review the situation and decide how to go about business if the order banning liquor sales in not lifted soon. It is becoming impossible for restaurant owners to continue. Paying staff salaries is becoming a problem; forget about rentals, electricity bills, maintenance and hygiene, raw material procurement and so on.” Park Street & Esplanade restaurants hope for better timesThis area, which houses some of the most famous restaurants in the city, is yet to return to normality. Most addresses yet to open post the lockdown. Those that have are having second thoughts. Restaurateur Nitin Kothari, who owns Peter Cat and Mocambo, told us that business has come to a standstill. “Sales are dismal in light of the 9 pm curfew and ban on liquor sales. There is hope for us if the government allows liquor sales and lifts the curfew. Only then can we expect diners to return to restaurants,” he said. A few, like Amber owner Sanjay Khulla, have decided to wait it out. “We haven’t opened our restaurant yet. We will take a call once the state government allows the bar to reopen, as most of our business comes from that,” he told us. Songhai, which reopened on June 8, is doing just 7-8% business compared to pre-lockdown times. “We are sure business will rise to 30-40% if the state allows us to serve liquor and lifts the 9 pm curfew,” said Sudesh Poddar from the restaurant. Rajiv Ghai from Kawality (Park Street and Ballygunge Phari) is hopeful that customers will drop in at the restaurant once the 9 pm curfew is lifted. “We opened our branches in Ballygunge Phari and Park Street on June 10 and 12 respectively and a few of our old customers are coming back. Business is mostly takeaway. Losses are high and unless the sales rise it will be difficult for most restaurateurs to continue,” said Rajiv. Abhishek Kajaria, owner and Founder of The Myx Bar & Kitchen and Hammer, said, "We are not operational yet as we find ourselves today, in an unprecedented situation which has massive financial implications on our business. Besides, the early closing time is another setback. Moreover, we can’t sustain without serving alcohol. It’s 90% of our business.” South Kolkata restaurants plagued by low footfallMost restaurateurs in south Kolkata are also staring at uncertainty owing to dismally low footfall. S Ramani, founder-director of 6 Ballygunge Place and Wall said, “Takeaway is the trend now, but that won't help us survive. We are spending Rs 70 on each customer for disposable cutlery, shoe covers and sanitizers, but there are hardly any customers. We don’t know how long we can continue business like this.” Sambit Banick, the chef-owner of Saffron Tree and Spice Kraft, said he is trying to negotiate a lower rent till December with his landlord. “Since we have to invest a lot more on sanitisation, it’s an added expense for most restaurateurs now. And with 50% capacity utilisation and no alcohol service, which accounts for 30% of overall sales, it will be very difficult to run businesses,” he said. Bonisha Sharma Sarda, owner of Whistling Kettle, said, “Will people walk into our cafe if we open our doors keeping all the norms in mind? I have my doubts. That apart our staff is not there and they will be here next week so after that, we will analyze the situation and take a final call.” TS Walia owner of Xrong Place and three other hotels in Sudder Street said, “All my three hotels in Sudder Street are closed as there are no tourists. Xrong Place is open but we don’t know how long we can continue to run our business with such an amount of loss and practically no business.” Kolkata partner of the Fatty Bao and the Monkey Bar in Camac Street, Avantika Saraogi Butta, said they have started doing online deliveries but will only resume their in-restaurant operations by the end of June after taking stock of the situation. “In the current environment, we want to be 110% sure that all the strict SOPs are in place with regards to sanitisation of space, food and people. We are also training staff to meet these new norms,” she said. Debaditya Chaudhury, MD of Chowman, Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2, said, “We do not serve alcohol, so the customers who are coming in now are mostly here for the food. The F&B industry has been facing extreme losses in the short span of two weeks that restaurants were allowed to open post lockdown. Added to the losses faced since the lockdown, it has been impossible for many businesses to continue,” he added. Salt Lake Sector V restopubs are playing it safeThe IT hub of the city now wears an almost deserted look. No wonder the happening restopubs here are not keen on resuming full operations. Abhinav Jaiswal, partner, The Brewhive, said, “We don't want to take any risk with our staff or our guests, so we are not opening anytime soon. Since the kitchen team is in town, we recently introduced a special food delivery menu and are also delivering alcohol through partners." To this, Sudhir Ahuja, owner of Bakstage and Motor Works & Brewing Company, added, “Since most restopubs are sitting on rented properties, many landlords are still negotiating adjustments or waiver of rent. With no support from the government, the owners are left to fend for themselves. And without liquor being served, it's very difficult to cover costs.” Mall-based restaurants want curfew to be relaxed The city malls, which too opened their gates to visitors from June 8, are also witnessing low footfall. And this in turn is affecting the mall-based restaurants. Speaking to us, Rishi Bajoria, the owner of Chilli’s and Royal China, said, “My question is simple. If liquor shops can be open, why can’t restaurants serve alcohol? And in Kolkata, who goes out to have dinner at 7 pm? The curfew from 9 pm has to be reworked by the government; otherwise our businesses will collapse.” Cafes, co-working spaces plagued by high rentalsThese cafes usually have large spaces, a part of which is used as a dine-in area. The rest is used to generate revenue as a co-working space. But the lockdown has thrown a spanner in the works. Left with no options, the owners are being forced to pay the hefty rent from their pockets. Urvika Kanoi, chef-owner of The Daily, said, “The rent for my café is more than ` 1 lakh per month and I have been paying it from my pocket. We also can’t increase the prices of our items in the health cafe, though everything is costlier now.” Shuli Ghosh, CEO and creative head of Sienna Store and Café, said, “We are currently making only contactless home delivery and pick up with a very small team. Consequently, we are not making profits. This is a very difficult time for businesses like ours. Our events and co-working spaces are not being utilised as we are closed.” Sonali Lakhotia, owner, The Potboiler Café, said, “Luckily, my landlord was considerate enough and he didn’t charge me the rent for the months of April and May. But that has its pros and cons too as now I have to get into a revenue sharing model with him, which has a lot of other terms and conditions too. We have opened our doors for the customers but there has been hardly any business since people are still apprehensive about eating out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-restaurants-struggle-to-stay-afloat-post-unlock/articleshow/76411511.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 17, 2020||World||Trump signs order on police reform after weeks of protests about racial injustice||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump, facing criticism that his policies and inflammatory rhetoric have aggravated a racial divide in the United States, signed an order on Tuesday that he said would reform police practices even as he pressed for "law and order" nationwide. After weeks of protests against racism and policy brutality prompted by the death of George Floyd, a black man killed on May 25 in police custody in Minneapolis, Trump sought to offer a policy response to rising concerns about racial injustice going into the Nov. 3 election, in which he is seeking a second term. Trump, a Republican, opened his remarks by expressing sympathy to the families of victims of police violence, pledging to fight for justice and promising them their loved ones will not have died in vain. But he quickly pivoted to a defense of law enforcement officers and a threat of penalties to looters. "Americans want law and order, they demand law and order," Trump said at a ceremony at the White House, reiterating a call that has angered protesters who have poured onto streets from New York to Los Angeles. "Americans know the truth: Without police there is chaos, without law there is anarchy, and without safety there is catastrophe," he said. In his public comments and on Twitter, Trump has called for crackdowns on protesters and emphasized a forceful and militarized response to the social unrest sparked by the death of Floyd and others. Despite issuing a call for unity, he used his Rose Garden address on Tuesday to criticize former President Barack Obama, the first black U.S. president, for his record on police reforms. Opinion polls show widespread concerns among Americans about police brutality. Tuesday's order encourages police departments to employ the latest standards for use of force, improve information sharing so that officers with poor records are not hired without their backgrounds being known, and add social workers to law enforcement responses to non-violent cases involving drug addiction and homelessness, officials said. Trump's proposal would steer federal money toward police departments that get certification by outside bodies and would ban chokeholds unless an officer's life was in danger. It also would encourage them to use less-lethal weapons such as stun guns. Critics, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, said the order was insufficient. Trump reiterated that he opposes calls to "defund the police" by reimagining or dismantling police departments. Leading Democrats, including presumptive presidential nominee Joe Biden, have not embraced such calls, but Republicans have jumped on the issue. The Democratic-led House of Representatives is expected to vote later this month on sweeping legislation put forward by the Congressional Black Caucus to rein in police misconduct. Senate Republicans are expected to unveil their own legislation on Wednesday that concentrates more on data collection than on policy changes in areas involving lethal force. Trump urged Congress to act. Democrats want to allow victims of misconduct and their families to sue police. Republicans are pushing to reduce job protections for members of law enforcement unions. Trump's decision to ban chokeholds appears similar to the ban included in the Democratic legislation. Republican lawmakers are divided on that issue. Inimai Chettiar of the Justice Action Network said the use of grant money to influence police department policies could be an effective way to get results, but she noted that Trump's Justice Department has resisted other reform efforts. "I have a lot of skepticism in terms of how rigorously this is going to be implemented," she said. Other civil-rights groups said Trump's order did not go far enough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-signs-order-on-police-reform-after-weeks-of-protests-about-racial-injustice/articleshow/76414958.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||Delhi toll jumps by 437, city at No. 2 with 1,837 deaths||NEW DELHI: The toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi mounted to 1,837 on Tuesday with the state health department reporting as many as 437 deaths. Of this, the department said, 93 deaths took place in the last 24 hours while the rest took place earlier and they were reported on Tuesday following perusal of the case summaries by the death audit committee. “This cumulative figure includes all pending deaths reported to and audited by the death audit committee,” the department said in its health bulletin. With 1,837 fatalities, Delhi has the maximum number of deaths due to the novel coronavirus in the country after Maharashtra (5,537). Gujarat is third with 1,534 deaths. Delhi’s total tally of Covid-19 cases is 44,688, including 1,859 new ones. Of the total cases, 5,469 are admitted in various hospitals. Officials said 802 require ICU support and 215 patients are on ventilators. “The number of people requiring ICU support is going up with rise in infection cases. If the cases continue to rise like this, the existing infrastructure may fall short of the need,” said a senior doctor. He added that lockdown measures may require to be put in place strictly in areas with a high number of cases for contact tracing and limiting disease spread. Delhi reported its first fatality due to Covid-19 in March. That month witnessed one more death. In April and May, 57 and 414 deaths were reported, respectively. In June, 1,314 deaths have been confirmed till now. Some of the deaths took place in the previous months but they were made official only recently as the hospitals concerned failed to share case summaries of the deceased on time, the officials said. The incidence of Covid-19 has also gone up significantly, with over 1,000 new cases being reportedly since May 28, except on June 1. Between June 12 and June 14, the daily went up to above 2,000 new cases daily. Tuesday’s tally of 1,859 is less but epidemiologists say it is likely that the cases may go up again as more people are tested for the disease. “Covid-19 transmission is taking place in communities in many localities. The government concedes that contact tracing is getting difficult,” an official said. Recently, the Centre and the state held a high-level meeting to tackle the crisis in the national capital where it was decided that testing numbers will be increased to over 10,000 daily. Currently, this figure stands at around 7,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-toll-jumps-by-437-city-at-no-2-with-1837-deaths/articleshow/76414984.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 17, 2020||India||Want relief in case? Give PPEs to hosps, Delhi HC tells builder||NEW DELHI: If errant litigants were earlier asked to plant trees, they are now being made part of the fight against Covid 19 by the Delhi high court. In a recent order, Justice Najmi Waziri granted conditional relief to a property owner by asking him to supply 250 personal protective equipment (PPE kits) to a few government hospitals where testing and/or treatment facilities for Covid-19 is being carried out “so as to provide some protection the medical staff/healthcare workers engaged in combating the pandemic”. The HC permitted the owner to carry out repairs on the property in Kotla Mubarakpur that had been sealed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation earlier for unauthorised constructions. The builder had moved the court seeking relief since the corporation had sealed the premises, while claiming that the constructions are not as per the sanctioned plan. In his plea, the owner contended that he should be given another chance to remove illegal portions so that there is no violation of the plan. “In view of the global pandemic, resulting in the countrywide lockdown, there is constant apprehension of contracting the disease from anyone. It is the need of the hour that those engaged in the frontlines of dealing with the pandemic and the resultant casualties are provided protective gear,” Justice Waziri observed, while giving another chance to the owner to rectify the illegal/unauthorised construction. “The properties shall be de-sealed by the corporation for only a period of four weeks for due compliance i.e., to carry out due rectifications. The petitioner shall not part with the possession of any part of the properties during the period of de-sealing,” the HC said, asking the SDMC to point out the areas that are part of unauthorised construction and need to be removed. On the condition imposed on the property owner, the court said some PPEs have to be provided to those dealing with the last rites of pandemic-related casualties and asked him to ensure the kits are ICMR-approved. The same bench had earlier also expressed concern at the delayed cremations of Covid-19 victims while directing North Delhi Municipal Corporation to operationalise at least two cremation platforms in Delhi's Nithari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/want-relief-in-case-give-ppes-to-hosps-delhi-hc-tells-builder/articleshow/76415048.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 17, 2020||India||It’s a privilege to die for nation, I’m proud of my son: Col Babu’s father||HYDERABAD: Col Bikumalla Santosh Babu’s father B Upendar was visibly shaken, but still refused to give up his stoic demeanour when he heard the news of his son’s death on Tuesday. “I was always aware that one day I could hear what I heard today, and I was mentally prepared for it. Everyone dies but it is a privilege to die for the country and I am proud of my son,” the retired banker told TOI, while proudly mentioning that Col Santosh had fought terrorists in Kupwara during his 15-year career and received a commendation from the army chief. Read AlsoLAC face-off: 20 soldiers die in worst China clash in 53 yearsTwenty Indian soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed and several others grievously injured in a violent physical skirmish with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday. The Indian casualties could go up further. Clashes lasted several hours till midnight with PLAUpendar said it was he who encouraged his son to join the army and knew the dangers involved. The young boy joined Sainik School, Korukunda in Andhra Pradesh and after that he was totally committed to a life in uniform. Read AlsoDefiant China confirms casualties but silent on numbersA defiant China blamed India for the violent LAC scuffle saying Indian troops crossed the border twice illegally and launched "provocative attacks". While the Chinese foreign ministry didn't mention any casualty on their side, a PLA spokesperson said there were "severe clashes and casualties". A topCol Santosh’s last words keep ringing in Upendar’s. “You should not ask me that,” he had told his worried parents when they enquired for details about the border skirmishes during a brief call on June 14. “I am not supposed to tell you anything. We can talk when I am back with you.” He died the following night. Read AlsoPLA violated pullback commitment, we will defend borders: IndiaIndia squarely blamed China for starting the violent clashes in the Galwan Valley on Monday night which saw casualties on both sides and a serious escalation of hostilities with deaths for the first time since Tulung La in 1975 when India lost over 10 men in a fight with Chinese troops. IndiaThe officer had told his parents that there was a “big gulf” between the reality on the ground and what they were hearing from news channels. “Little did we know that it would be his last call to us. Everyone has to die. But dying for the country is a big thing and we are proud of our son,” Upendar, 62, who retired as chief manager in SBI, told TOI. Read AlsoIndia-China standoff: How the Galwan Valley clash unfoldedTwenty Indian soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed and several others grievously injured in a violent physical skirmish with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday, in a massive build-up of military confrontation in the high-altitude region since early-May even“I wanted to join the force but could not. So, when my son was 10 years old, I put it in his mind about serving the country by donning the uniform,” Upender said. The young boy studied at Sainik School from class VI to XII. He then got into NDA, then IMA and served in many sensitive postings, including in Jammu and Kashmir. Col Santosh’s parents, Upendar and mother Manjula, live in Telangana’s Suryapet town. His wife Santoshi lives in Delhi with their daughter aged 8 and son aged 3. Santoshi was the first to be informed about the death. “In 15 years, my son got four promotions. As a father, I was hoping he would reach higher positions. I was aware of how uncertain life can be in the army, so we are only satisfied that he made the supreme sacrifice for the country,” Upender said. The body of Col Santosh is expected to reach Shamshabad airport on Wednesday and taken by road to Suryapet for the last rites. Manjula was eagerly looking forward to meeting Col Santosh. She said her son had asked for a transfer to Hyderabad which would have brought him close to the family. “I am happy that he gave his life for the country but as a mother I am sad. I have lost my only son,” she said. “For his education his father took a transfer to a place near Korukonda. Just before the lockdown he was with his family in Delhi on leave. Due to the lockdown, his leave got extended and about a month ago he reported back to duty near Leh,” Manjula said. Watch Galwan Valley clash with China: Telangana soldier Colonel Santosh Babu martyred||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-a-privilege-to-die-for-nation-im-proud-of-my-son-col-babus-father/articleshow/76415071.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 17, 2020||India||EC to take cognisance of false affidavits complaints on a case-to-case basis||NEW DELHI: Cracking the whip on candidates furnishing false information in poll affidavits, the Election Commission on Tuesday said it would henceforth take cognisance of complaints relating to such false affidavits and refer the matter to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis. As per the extant provisions, individuals are filing such complaints in the competent court under section 125A of the Representation of People Act, 1951. A full meeting of EC — comprising chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra — on Tuesday delved into the issue of the Commission taking cognisance of complaints of false affidavits filed by candidates at the time of their nomination, “which adversely affects the rights of voters as well as impinges on the purity of electoral process”. Stating that furnishing false information in election affidavits is a devious design to defeat the right of the voter to be informed and transparency in elections, EC said it had been receiving complaints against false affidavits filed by some candidates. “As per the extant provision, individuals are filing such complaints in the competent court under section 125A of the Representation of People Act, 1951. Now, Commission has reviewed this position and decided that, in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints, which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis,” a EC release said on Tuesday. A candidate, in his/her affidavit, is required to disclose his criminal antecedents; assets and liabilities; and educational qualifications. Commission had in 2013 decided that the assets and liabilities of the candidates, as filed in their affidavits, would be verified by Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Citing the observation of the Supreme Court in People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India (2003) case, EC on Tuesday said the foundation of a healthy democracy is to have well-informed citizens-voters. “He must have necessary information so that he can intelligently decide in favour of a candidate who satisfies his criterion of being elected as an MP or MLA.” The poll panel further stated that the voter has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution to know about the candidates at an election. “Commission views the erosion of this fundamental right as an affront to the democratic ideals which underpin the system of government. Furnishing false information in election affidavits is a devious design to defeat the right of the voter to be informed and transparency in elections. The Commission has today decided to robustly address this challenge to further ensure free, fair and ethical elections in the country,” said EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-to-take-cognisance-of-false-affidavits-complaints-on-a-case-to-case-basis/articleshow/76415225.cms||Bharti Jain
June 17, 2020||India||Green shoots of economy visible, unlocking to continue: PM to CMs||NEW DELHI: Saying that the country will continue with the unlocking which has resulted in the beginning of economic recovery, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed on Tuesday that restoration of full normality will depend on the discipline with which the nation fights the coronavirus. “We always have to keep in mind that the more we can stop coronavirus, the more it will stop growing, the more our economy will open, our offices will open, markets will open, transport will open, and so will new employment opportunities,” the Prime Minister said as he emphasised the need for people to stick to the anti-virus protocol comprising mandatory use of masks, adherence to "social distancing" and hand hygiene. Addressing a group of chief ministers and LGs of Union Territories, Modi said two weeks into Unlock-1, green shoots of economy such as a reversal of the drop in power consumption have already begun to be visible.“Fertiliser sales in May this year saw an increase of more than 12% during kharif sowing in comparison to last year, increase in production of two-wheelers which has now reached 70% of pre-lock down level, digital payment in retail reaching pre-lockdown level, increase in toll collection in May and bouncing back of exports. These signals are encouraging us to forge ahead,” he said, making it clear that the relaxations are set to stay. He reiterated the need for continuing vigilance against the deadly virus, saying the danger is not over yet. Modi emphasised that the country's response to the public health emergency has been effective as can be gauged by a recovery rate exceeding 50%. “All modes of transport are now open, lakhs of migrant labourers have travelled back to their villages, thousands of Indians have returned from abroad, and even though India has a huge population, coronavirus has not assumed as life-threatening a form as in the rest of the world," the PM said as he praised co-operation between the Centre and states. This was the PM's sixth interaction with chief ministers since the lockdown started on March 25 and the first after Unlocking-1 unfolded. He will have another round of interaction with the remaining CMs on Wednesday. In his address at the outset, Modi said when India's fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how the country worked together and served as an example of ‘cooperative federalism’. “Experts world over are praising the discipline shown by Indians as the recovery rate in the country is now over 50%. India is amongst the nations with the least deaths due to coronavirus. A big lesson is that if we remain disciplined and follow all rules, coronavirus will cause least damage,” he said. Seeking suggestions from the CMs, the PM said feedback from them about the reality on the ground will help the Centre chalk out effective plans. The PM suggested that states should identify their "specific economic activity points" where work should happen round the clock. He also said loading and unloading should be quickened to give further boost to economic activity. “The states will also benefit from a cluster-based approach for local products,” he said, adding that such products should be identified at each block and district level for better processing and more effective marketing. Modi emphasised need for cooperation to ensure that announcements made under “Self-Reliant India” campaign deliver results at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/green-shoots-of-economy-visible-unlocking-to-continue-pm-to-cms/articleshow/76415266.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 17, 2020||India||India gave a befitting reply to China: Nadda||NEW DELHI: Referring to clashes among Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said Indian forces gave a befitting reply and were ready to take on any adversary. Addressing party workers from Kerala in a virtual rally, Nadda said the borders would remain intact under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. “I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised. We now have the political will and our Army is fully equipped to take on any adversary,” Nadda said. Reacting to Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s demand to reduce fuel prices, he said, “Sonia Gandhi says that the price of petrol should be reduced. I want to tell you that petrol prices were raised in Puducherry, Rajasthan, Punjab and Maharashtra after the lockdown, all of them are Congress-ruled states. I just want to ask Sonia Gandhiji... why are your chief ministers not listening to you?” Nadda said he was pained to say that the opposition party’s behaviour was gravely irresponsible. “We as a party work to serve the nation. But Congress’s intention is to serve the party only,” he added. Nadda said Modi had given a new direction to the country’s democracy with his “far-sighted policies, dedication and the spirit of team India”, and people’s welfare and the country’s interest were reflected in every government decision. “This first year of the Modi government’s second term will be known for its tough and big decisions and converting challenges into opportunities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gave-a-befitting-reply-to-china-nadda/articleshow/76415307.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||Congress questions PM’s silence, says govt must tell nation about response to face-off||NEW DELHI: Accusing the Prime Minister and the defence minister of silence on Chinese aggression for over a month, Congress on Tuesday questioned the claim of the government that casualties in Galwan Valley resulted during the de-escalation process. Congress said it was time for Modi government to tell the nation how much of Indian territory had been illegally occupied by China since May when the PLA troops breached the LAC. The Congress Working Committee will meet on June 23, and sources said the China issue and border problems may dominate the discussion. Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “Will the PM and Raksha Mantri take the nation into confidence as to how could our officer and soldiers be killed as the Chinese were reportedly withdrawing from our territory in the Galwan Valley?” Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Words cannot describe the pain I feel for the officers and men who sacrificed their lives for our country. My condolences to all their loved ones. We stand with you in this difficult time.” Congress spokesman and MP Manish Tewari said, “The situation has been serious on the border since the last week of April and last night’s confrontation should really be the trigger for the PM to brief the former PM of India, defence minister to brief the former defence minister and for the NSA to brief his predecessor, about what is going on at the border.” The party asked, “Will the PM and defence minister now come forward to tell the nation as to how much of our territory has been illegally occupied by the Chinese, post April/May, 2020?” Surjewala said the PM must tell the nation what the government proposes to do to meet the challenging situation which has “serious ramifications for national security and territorial integrity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-questions-pms-silence-says-govt-must-tell-nation-about-response-to-face-off/articleshow/76415310.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||Must hold high-level talks immediately: Left parties||India’s principal Left parties, CPI and CPM, expressed shock and concern over the escalation of tensions and clashes and casualties of Indian soldiers in the Galwan valley. “It is imperative that both the governments immediately initiate high-level talks to defuse the situation and advance the process of disengagement on the basis of the agreed understanding on maintaining peace and tranquility on the border,” CPM said in a statement. CPI general sceretary D Raja also pressed for ending the present standoff through talks and established frame-works agreed by both countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/must-hold-high-level-talks-immediately-left-parties/articleshow/76415312.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||J&K media policy hits free functioning of press, says PCI||NEW DELHI: Jammu & Kashmir’s new media policy, which authorises government officials to take action after making a distinction between fake and authentic news affects “free functioning of the press”, the Press Council of India said on Tuesday. Taking suo motu note of the “fake news” provisions of the J&K media policy, PCI sought replies from the chief secretary and information secretary of J&K administration. J&K’s ‘Media Policy-2020’, approved by the administration on June 2, said it would help create a “sustained narrative on the functioning of the government in media” and promote the highest standards of journalism in the UT. The government also said the policy will “thwart misinformation, fake news and raise alarm against any attempt to use media to vitiate public peace, sovereignty and integrity of the country”. The “fake news” provisions authorise J&K officials to not only decide which content of print, electronic and other forms of media qualifies as “fake news”, but also empowers them to proceed against journalists and media organisations. “The key highlight of the policy is that it lays down a solid foundation to use all forms of media to build public trust, pay attention to grievances of people projected by the media and strengthen the relationship between the various stakeholders,” a statement by the J&K’s department of information and public relations had said. A formal policy governing media was put in place in the backdrop of the local police in J&K lodging FIRs against two Kashmiri journalists and summoning a few others in relation to their reportage and social media posts. The ‘fake news’ provisions authorise J&K officials to not only decide which content of print, electronic and other forms of media qualify as ‘fake news’, but also empowers them to proceed against journalists and media organisations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-media-policy-hits-free-functioning-of-press-says-pci/articleshow/76415362.cms||Swati Mathur
June 17, 2020||India||Recovery rate 52%, focus now on reducing deaths||NEW DELHI: With more than 1,80,000 people cured of Covid-19 so far, India on Tuesday reported a recovery rate of 52.47%. The country has been reporting a recovery rate of over 50% for the last three days now. Experts said faster recovery was also reflected in an improved doubling time of active cases, while the increase in daily growth of cases has started slowing down. “The early lockdown helped India convert the exponential growth rate into a linear trend,” a health ministry official said. On Monday, the recovery rate was a little over 51% as 1,69,797 patients were cured of the infection and it was 50.59% on Sunday. Officials in the health ministry reiterated that the focus right now was on better clinical management and reducing the number of deaths. There were 10,667 new Covid-19 cases and 380 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 343,091, the health ministry said. Total deaths stood at 9,900. Total active cases were 153,178 till Tuesday. Meanwhile, during a meeting with chief ministers of 21 states and UTs on Tuesday, PM Modi highlighted India’s achievement in combating the Covid-19 crisis and said despite a large population, the country had minimised deaths and the recovery rate was over 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recovery-rate-52-focus-now-on-reducing-deaths/articleshow/76415380.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 17, 2020||Business||Firms ready Covid policies to ease staff pain||Chennai: With the Covid pandemic impacting more people, companies are devising specific targeted plans to ease employees pain, ranging from paid leave to reimbursement of medical bills to finding beds for affected employees and also counselling the cured.Take Hyundai. The company has extended a special assistance package for Covid which includes testing, hospitalization cover through additional insurance, special tie-up with nearby hospitals for cashless treatment. In addition, the affected employee gets 28 days of special leave, optional financial assistance, immunity booster kit for every affected member of the family too, a Hyundai spokesperson said. A medical follow up by a medical officer is also offered.Some others are adding post hospitalisation counselling. Cognizant, has designed an employee Covid plan whereby the employee can avail of involuntary absence for the entire 14-day quarantine period, beyond which sick leave can be used. “Our group medical insurance plan for employees and dependents covers treatment for Covid 19. If hospitals are unable to provide a bed, we have made a special provision for insurance to cover treatment at home. We are in the process of launching a special plan that will allow employees to pay the premium and pick up additional top-up to cover Covid treatment costs ranging from Rs 1 to Rs 5 lakh,” a Cognizant spokesperson said. In addition, employees are asked to attend a series of self-paced online courses and wellness webinars to help them stay mentally and physically fit.India’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki has announced a special pandemic leave for employees who are affected by Covid virus. “We have started the concept of special pandemic leave over and above the existing leave entitlements for the employees. The duration of this leave is till the time the employee fully recovers from the infection,” said Rajesh Uppal, member executive board, HR, IT & Safety. The medical expenses of the employees and their immediate family members will be fully borne by the company and post hospitalisation cure will see employees being helped by medical professionals and counsellors. “A mobile enabled wellness App has been in place for employees to monitor their health and reach out to the company for any help that they may need in these times,” Uppal said.Nearly 15,000 employees and their immediate family members of micro lender Equitas will get their testing expenses covered by the company. The company will also reimburse a significant portion of the non covered portion in an insurance claim, should there be an hospitalisation with the junior employees getting more reimbursement than seniors. “A special leave of 30 days plus 50% of the cost of testing for other family members (immediate members get fully paid) will be borne by the company. Besides, an employee can transfer his or her leave to an affected employee. We will follow it up with an employee assistance program where a one time reimbursement of any wellness diet or programme an employee takes up post hospitalisation,” said Pallab Mukherji,chief people officer, Equitas. (With inputs from Nandini Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firms-ready-covid-policies-to-ease-staff-pain/articleshow/76413731.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 17, 2020||Business||Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan invests in yoga chain Sarva||Chennai: Yoga wellness ecosystem brand Sarva has raised an undisclosed amount of funding from cricketer Shikhar Dhawan.Dhawan joins an illustrious list of global investors including David Giampaolo, noted entrepreneur in the global health and fitness sector; Mark Mastrov, an entrepreneur hailed as the ‘Steve Jobs of Fitness’, Jennifer Lopez, Alex Rodriguez, Zumba, Fireside Ventures and Mantra Capital. Bollywood celebrities Malaika Arora, Aishwarya R Dhanush, Shahid and Mira Kapoor also back the venture.Sarva has raised $8 million in funding so far.“I have benefited from yoga, be it while recovering from an injury, getting back into shape, building stamina or staying focused before a game. For me, yoga is a holistic workout that helps me achieve a perfect blend of physical fitness, mental strength, agility, and peace of mind. This is why when I met Sarvesh, I connected to his vision for Sarva instantly.”Sarvesh Shashi, founder of Sarva, “ Sports and fitness go hand in hand and Shikhar aligned completely with Sarva’s philosophy of holistic health and well-being, which is a must for a fast-paced game like cricket. His involvement will help us rebrand yoga as authentic yet modern and inclusive yet transformative — a positioning that yoga has never had in India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cricketer-shikhar-dhawan-invests-in-yoga-chain-sarva/articleshow/76413744.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||Three woman branded as witches, brutally thrashed||Vadodara: Three women from a village in Devgadh Baria taluka branded as witches were beaten up badly by men from the village including the relatives of the women. The men believed that the women were responsible for illnesses in the village. An offence registered at the Sagtala police station by Batli Chaku Bariya _ a widow residing in the Dabhva Matajinu Faliyu village of Devgadh Baria taluka _ states that the incident took place on Sunday evening when she, her daughter-in-law Kana Baria and Kana’s two daughters were working in their farm. Seven accused including Aapsing Dhira Baria, Kanu Dhira Baria, Nagin Aapsing Baria, Dhanji Mohan Rathwa, Chetan Dhanji Rathwa, Vinod Mohan Rathwa and Chandrasinh Mohan Rathwa approached the women hurling abuses when they saw them working in the farm. According to Batli, Aapsing, Kanu and Nagin were related to her. While Aapsing was armed with a pipe, the other accused were carrying sticks. Batli has said that the group beat up Kana and her two daughters alleging that it was because of them that animals and people were falling sick in the village. Batli raised an alarm and rushed to inform her sons. By the time the sons came, the accused had left the place. The injured women were rushed to Godhra for treatment. The police received information regarding the incident on Monday evening and an offence was registered at the Sagtala police station. The accused are yet to be detained by the police. Women accused of being witches, beaten up Tnn/Sachin/June 16, 2020 Vadodara: Three women from a village in Devgadh Baria taluka were labelled as witches and beaten up badly by men from the village including the relatives of the women. The men believed that the women were responsible for illnesses in the village. An offence registered at the Sagtala police station by Batli Chaku Bariya, a widow residing in the Dabhva Matajinu Faliyu village of Devgadh Baria taluka, states that the incident took place on Sunday evening when she, her daughter-in-law Kana Baria and Kana’s two daughters were working in their farm. Seven accused including Aapsing Dhira Baria, Kanu Dhira Baria, Nagin Aapsing Baria, Dhanji Mohan Rathwa, Chetan Dhanji Rathwa, Vinod Mohan Rathwa and Chandrasinh Mohan Rathwa approached the women hurling abuses when they saw them working in the farm. According to Batli, the Aapsing, Kanu and Nagin were related to her. While Aapsing was armed with a pipe, the other accused were carrying sticks. Batli has said that the group beat up Kana and her two daughters alleging that it was because of them that animals and people were falling sick in the village. Batli raised an alarm and rushed to inform her sons. By the time the sons came, the accused had left the place. The injured women were rushed to Godhra for treatment. The police received information regarding the incident on Monday evening and an offence was registered at the Sagtala police station. The accused are yet to be detained by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-woman-branded-as-witches-brutally-thrashed/articleshow/76410346.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||Monsoon safety measures launched in 5 ECR divisions||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has launched monsoon safety measures in its Danapur, Sonepur, Samastipur, Pt Deendayal Upadhaya and Dhanbad divisions to ensure the safety of passengers. ECR general manager (GM) L C Trivedi held a high-level meeting in this regard with senior officials of the headquarters in Hajipur on Monday. “Due to the early onset of southwest monsoon in Bihar, the ECR has launched monsoon safety measures, which will be followed till August-end, in all its five divisions. Railway employees have been asked to maintain a close vigil on major rail bridges and tracks to make sure that they are in good condition and not waterlogged,” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Tuesday. Besides, vulnerable places falling under the jurisdiction of Danapur, Sonepur and Samastipur divisions have been identified. “Arrangements have been made for sand bags, stone dust and boulders at these places and a team of railway gangmen has been deployed,” the CPRO said, adding that branches of trees near railway tracks had been trimmed. Another team of the ECR’s signal and telecom and engineering departments has been asked to inspect big and small stations located in the vulnerable areas. “During the monsoon season, the railway signalling system often gets damaged, causing disruption in the movement of passenger trains,” Kumar said. Employees of Danapur division donate Rs 51 lakh to CM’s fund: Officials and employees of the Danapur division have donated Rs 51 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Covid-19. Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar handed over a cheque to chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday. The CM released a booklet, highlighting the achievements and major works of the railways in Bihar from 2014-2015 to 2019-2020, on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monsoon-safety-measures-launched-in-5-ecr-divisions/articleshow/76411948.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||MCX allows tests of -ve commodity prices||Mumbai: The Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) on Tuesday allowed all its brokers and IT infrastructure providers to test negative prices for every commodity that is traded on its platform. The move is aimed at making the commodities derivatives trade in India on a par with international standards, and to ward off any disruptions in this segment due to negative prices. The ones allowed include commodities in addition to crude oil, which first traded in the negative territory on April 19 on the NYMEX. MCX has also allowed testing of negative prices for gold, silver, lead and zinc as well as agri commodities like cotton and mentha oil. “Members are advised to actively participate in test market environment and test the changes related to acceptance of negative (-) price in the system,” an MCX circular said. Once MCX, the IT vendors and the brokers fix the bugs, the exchange will start mock trading to test its systems further, sources said. “Members are requested to incorporate the changes in their software and have readiness by June 30, 2020 to participate in the mock trading session planned in July 2020,” it said. In April, as crude oil prices turned negative, NYMEX settled the contracts at negative prices, the first such instance in the history of crude oil futures trading. Since the settlement price for crude oil contracts on MCX are derived from NYMEX, the Indian bourse also, after an initial delay, announced settlement of its crude contracts at a negative price — again a first in India. Subsequently, Sebi and the exchanges started to change the trading software to incorporate negative prices too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mcx-allows-tests-of-ve-commodity-prices/articleshow/76414381.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||D-Street discounts border clash, sensex ends in green||TNN Mumbai: Dalal Street witnessed volatile trades on Tuesday with the sensex swinging nearly 1,100 points intra-day due to border tensions with China. But it finally discounted the jitters and closed 376 points higher at 33,605 as financials led the surge. With all efforts expected to be made to defuse the Indo-China row and the US market showing strong early trends due to a surprise positive reversal in sales data in the world’s largest economy, the sensex is not likely to go into any major correction on Wednesday, market players said. The sensex opened over 600 points higher at 33,854 and rallied up to 34,022 — a gain of almost 800 points over its previous close — boosted by a strong recovery in the US market on Monday night and a rally in Asian markets on Tuesday morning. However, after the news about border tensions with China surfaced, the index fell to an intraday low at 32,953 points, but a late recovery helped regain 650 points from that point. But the market is expected to witness volatile trades since it is tracking global trends more than being influenced by domestic factors, Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra said. “Besides, the stand-off between India and China at the LAC will also be on investors’ radar and any further escalation could negatively impact the markets,” Mishra said. Among the sensex stocks, HDFC Bank, HDFC and ICICI Bank led the gains, while selling in ITC and Axis Bank partially limited the up move. Foreign investors continued to remain net sellers with a net outflow of Rs 1,479 crore. Domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 1,162 crore, BSE data showed. Among the sectoral indices, BSE’s finance index closed with a gain of 2.8%, while bankex closed nearly 2% up. On the other hand, its telecom index closed 1.5% lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/d-street-discounts-border-clash-sensex-ends-in-green/articleshow/76414287.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Standard Life to cut stake in HDFC MF||Mumbai: Standard Life of the UK, the joint venture partner in HDFC Mutual Fund, has decided to sell up to 5.64% in the fund house at a floor price of Rs 2,362 per share, to mop up about Rs 2,800 crore. The stake will be sold through the offer-for-sale (OFS) route on the stock exchanges, in which even retail investors can participate, notices to the bourses showed. On Tuesday, the stock price of HDFC MF, the second largest fund house in India, on the BSE closed at Rs 2,538. The OFS floor price is at a 7% discount to the stock’s last close. Standard Life said it will sell 60 lakh shares of HDFC MF, that is 2.82% stake, in the fund house at a minimum price of Rs 2,362 per share. Depending on total demand for HDFC MF shares, it could double the number of shares, up to 1.2 crore shares, or 5.64%. The OFS will open on June 17 for non-retail investors and on June 18 for retail investors, it said. DSP Merrill Lynch is the broker for the deal. According to shareholding pattern disclosed on the bourses, as of March 2020, housing finance major HDFC had a 52.7% stake in the company while Standard Life had 26.9% stake. The balance 20.4% was held by public shareholders. If the UK company is able to sell the entire 5.8%, it’s shareholding in the fund house will come down to 21.1%. On June 4, Standard Life had sold 2% in HDFC Life Insurance, in which also it’s a joint venture partner to HDFC, and mopped up a little over Rs 2,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/standard-life-to-cut-stake-in-hdfc-mf/articleshow/76414282.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Amid new corona cases, watch out for waterborne diseases, caution doctors||PATNA: With the early onset of southwest monsoon, which brings with it fears of several waterborne and vector-borne diseases, health experts have advised Patnaites to be extra cautious. They say a plunge in temperature and rise in humidity can lead to an increase in cases of cold, cough, respiratory problems, flu and allergies among people, who are already bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic. Talking to this reporter on Tuesday, Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) general physician Dr Pratyush Kumar pointed out that one should focus on boosting one’s immunity. “Vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria and waterborne ones like typhoid and diarrhoea usually spread their tentacles during the monsoon season. Since people are already dealing with Covid-19, they should take all necessary precautions and boost their immunity,” Pratyush said. He also asked people to maintain proper hygiene and keep their surroundings clean. Another doctor, Kaushal Kishore Keshari, said, “With the onset of monsoon, people have become more prone to several diseases, including Covid-19. Hence, they have no choice but to rely on a strong immune system. They should also stay at home so far as possible.” A Muzaffarpur-based paediatrician, Dr Arun Shah, claimed that the vaccines used for some diseases often played an important role in boosting the immunity of the patients. “Our population is quite prone to infections — viral, bacterial or parasitic — and the vaccines used to fight some of them increase our immunity. For instance, the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) and MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccines build an immunity shield against other diseases as well. However, it cannot be said if they are effective when it comes to Covid-19,” Dr Arun said and added that people with comorbidity were at a higher risk than others. Health dept gears up to tackle vector-borne diseases: The state health department has launched measures to prevent the spread of monsoon-related ailments. Patna civil surgeon Raj Kishore Chaudhary pointed out that precautions were being taken to contain the spread of dengue and acute encephalitis syndrome. “Asha workers are creating awareness about the harmful effects of stagnant water as it breeds malaria and dengue. They are also asking people with coolers to change the water on a regular basis,” he said. Raj added, “All the necessary medicines are available and a larva disinfection drive is being conducted for controlling dengue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-new-corona-cases-watch-out-for-waterborne-diseases-caution-doctors/articleshow/76411888.cms||Archi Rani
June 17, 2020||Nashik||Woman constable, kin test +ve||Nashik: A 30-year-old woman constable attached to the control room of the city police commissionerate tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Her five-year-old daughter and 50-year-old mother-in-law have also caught the virus and have been admitted to MVP medical college in Adgaon. Senior police officers said that this was the fourth Covid-19 case from the city police commissionerate. Earlier, a constable at the Bhadrakali police station and two constables of Indiranagar police station had tested positive. “The woman constables’s husband is attached to the Mumbai police. On June 1, he had visited his family for a day and returned to duty in Mumbai the next day. He tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai. Meanwhile, his wife was checked in Nashik and her tests returned positive along with that of her daughter and mother-in-law. All three of them were asymptomatic,” said deputy commissioner of police (headquarters and traffic) Pournima Chaugule. The DCP added that three women who came in contact with the constable have been asked to go on leave for a few days though they did not have any symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-constable-kin-test-ve/articleshow/76412293.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||BNP Paribas to exit wealth management business in India||MUMBAI: BNP Paribas has decided to exit its onshore wealth management business in India. The French bank said that its decision was unrelated to the current pandemic and has no impact on its wealth management strategy in Asia, which it described as a “growth engine”. The move is likely to impact 60 positions. It is not clear how many will be redeployed. A spokesperson for the bank confirmed the winding up of the wealth management business, stating that it was done to enable the bank to focus on areas where its global footprint and diversified business strengths allow it to provide clients with more value-added services. The bank’s wealth management clients will be referred to Sharekhan, BNP Paribas’ wholly owned subsidiary, for brokerage and investment services for individual clients. “We have injected almost 800 million euros in capital since 2012 to support our India growth aspirations. We are setting up an asset management JV with Bank of Baroda to distribute mutual funds in India and abroad. Sharekhan, a full subsidiary of BNP Paribas, is also foraying into the discount brokering category via a new subsidiary company,” the spokesperson said. The bank did not comment on whether there would be job losses. “We can confirm that a number of roles will be affected. As we are currently looking for redeployment opportunities within the group, it would be inappropriate to comment further,” the spokesperson said. Besides its local business, BNP has a large technology and operations centre in India catering to global business where it employs over 13,000 staff in Chennai and Mumbai. BNP Paribas has had a presence in India for over 160 years. The bank said that it will continue to focus on growth of its corporate and institutional banking franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bnp-paribas-to-exit-wealth-mgmt-biz-in-india/articleshow/76414259.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Prices may rise as Flipkart ups seller fee||BENGALURU: Walmart-owned Flipkart will hike various marketplace fees from next month, irking sellers hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The move may lead to increased prices of products on the platform for consumers. The decision, reviewed by TOI, concerns marketplace fee components like fixed and local shipping charges. These have been increased across price buckets, especially doubling in the lower order value bracket of less than Rs 500. Additionally, the online commission for products that are in demand after the lockdown would be increased — in a range of 30-80% from current rates — from July 1. These products include trimmers, shavers, inverters, headphones, FMCG essentials and air coolers. Merchants say the new policy will hit them hard in the current economic environment and they will be forced to increase prices in different categories. Since receiving Flipkart’s new fee structure, merchants in their Facebook groups have been protesting the implications of this change when economic activity has just started to pick up. For instance, Flipkart now charges an 8% commission for a trimmer priced up to Rs 500. This will be 14% from July 1. It will charge 9% for trimmers above Rs 1,000 compared to 8% now. Similarly, for what it calls ‘FMCG combos’, the new commission would be 4-6%, depending on unit value, compared to almost a uniform fee of 3% now. “Sellers like us are going through a time of crisis. We were already fighting Flipkart SmartBuy in search results and pricing, but after the coronavirus struck, business suffered immensely. Now the arbitrary increase in commissions, shipping, and storage prices will lead to a further burden on us. Shipping cost increase will hit us hard because it is charged both ways — when the customer orders and when the customer returns. Products being sold for Rs 149 or Rs 199 will start incurring losses,” said Mohit Anand, a seller on Flipkart. “Sellers will be forced to increase their prices — the only option left to cope with this,” he added. A Flipkart spokesperson said it is working with lakhs of sellers so they can resume operations. “We regularly revise our commissions and shipping rate cards based on business metrics and this is a periodic exercise,” Flipkart said. “The price hikes by Flipkart need to be rolled back and they should instead reduce their fees in order for sellers to survive while giving the best benefits to consumers. With the revised fees, the sellers will be forced to increase prices by 5-7%, depending on category and selling price,” a spokesperson of online vendors’ group Aiova said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prices-may-rise-as-flipkart-ups-seller-fee/articleshow/76414254.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC prohibits transfer of agricultural land to non-farmers through wills||AHMEDABAD: Even if there is a will, there will be no way for land developers in Gujarat. In a major blow to builders in the state, the Supreme Court has said that a farmer cannot transfer his agriculture land through a will to a person who is not a farmer. There are thousands of cases in which farmers have transferred their farming lands to non-farmers by preparing wills. Otherwise in Gujarat, no person can become a farmer except through succession. The title of a farmer can only be inherited through ancestors’ land, said lawyers involved in the litigation. A three-judge bench of the apex court on Monday upheld the order passed by division bench of the Gujarat high court in 2009, by which it had held all such transactions of agricultural land invalid. The issue before the court was the inconsistency between the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands, Act, 1948 and the Indian Succession Act for the purpose of interpretation on whether agriculture land can be transferred through a will. Like the high court, the Supreme Court also interpreted land laws for the benefit of the poor and disadvantaged, whose land parcels, it felt, require to be protected. After interpreting provisions of the Bombay Tenancy Act, the apex court said, “…it emerges that the primary concern of those provisions is to see that the legislative scheme of granting protection to persons from disadvantaged categories and conferring the right of purchase upon them, and thereby ensure direct relationship of a tiller with the land.” The court further said, “The provisions, though they lay down a norm which may not be fully consistent with the principles of Indian Succession Act, are principally designed to attain and sub-serve purpose of protecting the holdings in the hands of disadvantaged categories.” It said that the mandate to obtain prior-permission of authorities to transfer land is meant for such protection only. The SC further clarified that the Gujarat legislature’s use of word “assignment” also includes testamentary disposition – a will – for transfer of land, but this provision also does not render the provisions of prior-permission form the authorities invalid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-prohibits-transfer-of-agricultural-land-to-non-farmers-through-wills/articleshow/76413742.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Udaipur||Students, teachers not happy with online classes: Survey||UDAIPUR: A survey by the department of Political Science at the Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MSU) reveals that majority of school/college students and teachers were dissatisfied with the online classes held during the past two months of lockdown. Even surprising was to find, 44% of the students didn’t use any e-learning resource. The survey found more women supporting this methodology as 24% more women had conducted or attended the online classes than men and they voted 6% more in its favour. Another surprising revelation was despite all digital divide and internet connectivity issues, rural students seem to be more supportive of e-learning platforms as 2/3 of the urban respondents refuted the idea of making online education a permanent feature of Indian education system. Only 1/3 of the rural students had objections to it. The reason for the rural students supporting the e-classroom teaching, experts say, is due to the fact that they save considerable money every month by the electronic platform as they have to shell rupees for lodging and food when they live in cities to attend regular classes. The survey was conducted to evaluate the efficiency of online classes and comprehend the experiences of teachers and students about this transition. Research scholar Harsha Verma and head of the department, also the Dean, Arts College Professor Sanjay Lodha conducted the assessment through snowball sampling method, receiving responses from students and teachers at school, undergraduate and post-graduate levels. “Among the respondents, a majority of 42% comprised UG students followed by 21% PG scholars. We received responses from almost all the states, including Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi etc,” Lodha told TOI. More than half of the respondents observed inadequacies in the online mode citing issues of internet connectivity, lack of interest, time management, family and economic issues. " From the suggestions received by the respondents, it is clear that we have to strengthen the digital infrastructure and deliver it at the doorsteps of villages. The online mode has to be made affordable, inclusive and democratic. The aim should be to cultivate creativity and productivity rather than making students bookworms. Quality of the e-content and increasing the platforms of e-learning has to be looked into seriously" Lodha suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/students-teachers-not-happy-with-online-classes-survey/articleshow/76418445.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||PMC to charge Rs 360 per year for trash collection||PATNA: The residents of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) area will have to pay holding tax with one time user charges for door-to-door waste collection this year, PMC’s empowered standing committee decided on Tuesday. Mayor Sita Sahu, who chaired the PMC meeting, said the private firm assigned to collect the holding tax in the city would also collect the user charges for waste collection. “Residents of all six circles of PMC would have to pay Rs360 annually for garbage collection from this financial year 2020-21. The decision was taken to bring transparency in the revenue from door-to-door garbage revenue collection. It will also reduce the burden of monthly collection of fees for the same,” the mayor said. “People, who have already paid holding tax can pay the garbage collection charges online on PMC’s website or can pay it next year,” she added. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the empowered committee members also passed a proposal to pay Rs 10 lakh as ex gratia to the family of any sanitation worker who dies due to the deadly virus. Besides, the PMC has decided to give an incentive of Rs 4,500 to each sanitation worker on par with state government employees. The members also passed a proposal for construction of an underground nullah between McDowell roundabout and Saidpur sump house as the existing one was now defunct. Nullahs would also be constructed in ward number 52, 58 and 62 under Patna City circle. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the civic body has decided to join hands with Sulabh International for maintenance of modular toilets across the city. “They would also install water ATMs in several areas, so that people can easily get drinking water without any charges. For maintenance of toilets and installation of water ATMs, the PMC will shell out Rs70 lakh,” he said. Several other proposals like construction of high-powered tube wells in ward number 35, 39, 44 and 62, construction of link roads in Patna City circle and termination of a private company for breaching contract were also approved at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-to-charge-rs-360-per-year-for-trash-collection/articleshow/76411995.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 17, 2020||Business||Co-working spaces redesign policies to create demand||Chennai: Co-working spaces throw in carrots, offer freebies as they waive off charges on additional hours spent on property, increase the number of hours on using conference rooms for calls, relax the movement around property, clients are no more restricted to follow any shift timing and can walk in at their convenience, to bring people back to their offices. Co-working spaces are occupied by techies who have now locked themselves inside WFH mode. On an average, the current occupancy rate has fallen to 25%-30%, and much lower at centres which fall under containment zones. As per Covid-19 norms, the ideal occupancy level has to be maintained between 50% and 60% (except Maharashtra) and differs from state to state. Chennai-based co-working space TwoTrees’ co-founder, Priya Goutham, said “We earlier had two shifts – morning shift (9am-6pm) and evening shift (2pm-12am). For every extra hour a client occupies, he/she needs to pay additional charges which may be the double. However, we are now open for 24 hours and waived off those extra charges. Now, our clients are for free to use the lounge and open space, which was earlier restricted.”Smartworks, with 32 centres, has given access to all its centres across the country for its customers, who want to work closer to home and avoid travel. Its founder Neetish Sarda said, “Earlier a customer had access to only the centre which they have booked. We have now relaxed that rule and provided access to all centres (i.e) intracity and intercity level. This is primarily because companies do not want their employees to travel, and request access to centres closer to their homes. Further, we have provided 20% of common spaces in all our facilities.” Mohit Srivastava, COO of Incuspaze, which runs a chain of premium co-working space facilitates customers with deferred payments, besides two free months on annual subscription. Srivastava said, “Many clients have shared with us that their employee productivity has started to slow down contradicting the spike seen in March and April, 2020. Thus, it has led to many companies exploring not just work near home. Such companies may not want their employees to come to work every day, but do work from satellite offices closer to their homes.Awfis now charges clients from monthly and yearly parking charges to hourly.Amit Ramani, CEO and founder said the fee varies between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10, 000 per month and differs from centre to centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/co-working-spaces-redesign-policies-to-create-demand/articleshow/76413675.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 17, 2020||Patna||One more rhino born at Patna zoo during lockdown||PATNA: A male rhino was born at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, on Tuesday morning. Zoo director Amit Kumar said the baby is healthy and has taken the first milk of his mother. “The male rhino was born to Rani (30) and Ayodhya (33). The mother remained healthy during the 16 months of gestation period,” he said. It was the second rhino birth at the zoo in the last 38 days amid the lockdown owing to Covid- 19 pandemic. Earlier on May 8, a female rhino was born to Gauri (18) and Ayodhya. “Now, the rhino count at Patna zoo has gone up to 13, including six males, five females and two calves — male and female,” Amit said. Principal secretary of department of environment, forest and climate change Dipak Kumar Singh wrote on social media: “Rani has given birth to a male calf Yuvraj at 4.30am. It is the thirteenth rhino at Patna zoo (sic).” He also shared few pictures and videos of the mother and the calf. According to zoo officials, the baby was born in open grassland area. The mother and the newborn were under the close monitoring of veterinary doctors. The newborn weighs around 45kg and has started playing, snuggling and following his mother. As far as the captive population of rhinos is concerned, the Patna zoo tops the list in the country and second in the world after San Diego zoo. To boost the population of critically endangered rhinos, the Patna zoo has opened a ‘Rhino Breeding Centre’, which currently has a pair of one-horned rhino Lali and Ganesh. Both the rhinos are under the supervision of zookeepers. During the lockdown, a hyna gave birth to three cubs. A porcupine also delivered a baby whereas a python laid a dozen of eggs. Presently, the zoological section of Patna zoo is closed for visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-rhino-born-at-patna-zoo-during-lockdown/articleshow/76412155.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 17, 2020||Business||Sebi panel bats for stronger process, short enquiry time||Mumbai: A committee set up by markets regulator Sebi has recommended ways to strengthen the regulator’s enforcement mechanism and also improve its system for the recovery of money siphoned off by fraudsters in the market. The committee also recommended new ways of quantifying illegal profits made by such fraudsters, which led to investor losses. It also suggested some amends to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code so that market manipulators can’t use this as a veil to protect themselves from Sebi prosecution. The committee was headed by former SC judge Anil Dave. The panel will receive public comments and suggestions on its recommendations till July 7. One of its recommendations is to replace Sebi’s two-stage enquiry process with a simplified structure of less intervention of top officials like whole-time members. The proposed structure could also reduce the time taken to complete such enquiries. For cases relating to recovery of ill-gotten money, the panel has proposed a process of interim attachment since the current process has inherent challenges. It has also recommended that Sebi should have the power to impound and retain the proceeds, securities or money not exceeding the value of the proceeds in respect of any transaction, which is under investigation. The Dave panel also suggested a process of quantification of profits wherever possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-panel-bats-for-stronger-process-short-enquiry-time/articleshow/76414243.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Students, teachers not happy with online classes: Survey||UDAIPUR: A survey by the department of Political Science at the Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MSU) reveals that majority of school/college students and teachers were dissatisfied with the online classes held during the past two months of lockdown. Even surprising was to find, 44% of the students didn’t use any e-learning resource. The survey found more women supporting this methodology as 24% more women had conducted or attended the online classes than men and they voted 6% more in its favour. Another surprising revelation was despite all digital divide and internet connectivity issues, rural students seem to be more supportive of e-learning platforms as 2/3 of the urban respondents refuted the idea of making online education a permanent feature of Indian education system. Only 1/3 of the rural students had objections to it. The reason for the rural students supporting the e-classroom teaching, experts say, is due to the fact that they save considerable money every month by the electronic platform as they have to shell rupees for lodging and food when they live in cities to attend regular classes. The survey was conducted to evaluate the efficiency of online classes and comprehend the experiences of teachers and students about this transition. Research scholar Harsha Verma and head of the department, also the Dean, Arts College Professor Sanjay Lodha conducted the assessment through snowball sampling method, receiving responses from students and teachers at school, undergraduate and post-graduate levels. “Among the respondents, a majority of 42% comprised UG students followed by 21% PG scholars. We received responses from almost all the states, including Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi etc,” Lodha told TOI. More than half of the respondents observed inadequacies in the online mode citing issues of internet connectivity, lack of interest, time management, family and economic issues. " From the suggestions received by the respondents, it is clear that we have to strengthen the digital infrastructure and deliver it at the doorsteps of villages. The online mode has to be made affordable, inclusive and democratic. The aim should be to cultivate creativity and productivity rather than making students bookworms. Quality of the e-content and increasing the platforms of e-learning has to be looked into seriously" Lodha suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-teachers-not-happy-with-online-classes-survey/articleshow/76414376.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||2,000 oxygen beds in Gaya district soon: DM||GAYA: Preparing for the likely surge in Covid-19 cases, the Gaya district administration is to get 2,000 oxygen beds ready in different hospitals and health facilities of the district. District magistrate Abhishek Singh said more than 1,900 oxygen beds were already in place and the remaining would be ready for use by June 20. “The beds will be of two types -- cylinder compatible and to be connected with the oxygen supply pipeline,” he said. At a review meeting held on Monday evening, Gaya civil surgeon Dr BK Singh said 405 tests for Covid-19 were being conducted daily. “Random sampling of high-risk people like vendors, rickshaw-pullers and those who generally work outside was also being done. Altogether 125 of the 405 tests were done through TrueNat and the rest through proper test protocol observed in the laboratories,” he said. As per the statistics given at the review meet, altogether 144 positive cases were detected in the district so far and 83 of them had fully recovered. The field officers have been directed to monitor the health status of migrant workers and their family members. Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College (ANMMCH) is the dedicated Covid-19 hospital for patients from Gaya, Aurangabad, Nawada, Jehanabad, Arwal, Rohtas and Kaimur districts. The combined population of these seven districts is about 1.25 crore. Sources say nearly 60,000 people (about 0.5% of the population) may need hospitalization in case of a surge in cases of virus infection. According to Gaya chapter president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, the private medical practitioners below 65 years would not shy away from providing their services in case of health emergency for Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2000-oxygen-beds-in-gaya-district-soon-dm/articleshow/76412039.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||Cars find many takers amid pandemic||PATNA: Automobile dealers in the city have claimed that the sale of cars and other vehicles has started picking up the pace amid Unlock 1.0. They attribute this sudden surge in demand to the fear of contracting coronavirus while using autorickshaws and buses. M K Gupta, the manager of an automobile showroom on Bailey Road, said there had been an unexpected rise in demand for four-wheelers during the last few days. “A lot of people are getting in touch with us. Due to the pandemic, they prefer travelling by their own vehicles to using public transport,” he added. Gupta also shared some figures supporting his claim. “Compared to last year, the enquiry rate between June 1 and 15 has gone up by 47% and the booking rate has increased by 41%. The retail sales has surged by 61%,” he said. Dhananjay Kumar, human resource manager of an automobile showroom on Boring Road, claimed that nearly 50 small and big four-wheelers had been sold since the last week of May. “We had not expected such a great response from customers during this pandemic because a lot of people are facing financial crisis. We hope that more vehicles are sold in June,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, some dealers pointed out that the production and supply of vehicles had been disrupted due to the lockdown. “Due to the disruption in production at our automobile plant, the supply of four-wheelers is quite less. Besides, the import of different parts, which is done from other countries, has just started. Despite the shortage, we are trying to fulfil our customers’ demands,” said S K Singh, general manager of an automobile showroom on Ashiana-Digha Road. Customers also said they were planning to get new cars. 24-year-old Mohit Shrivastava, who works with a private firm, will buy a car from his savings by the end of June. “My mother is concerned about me because I use public transport. Hence, I have planned to buy a car,” the Kadamkuan resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cars-find-many-takers-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76412091.cms||Archi Rani
June 17, 2020||Patna||‘Proposed Rajgir film city to help budding actors’||PATNA: The state art, culture and youth affairs department has expedited the proposed film city project at Rajgir in Nalanda district to provide a launchpad for budding actors from Bihar. Principal secretary of the department Ravi Parmar said the proposal for work on the film city, which was conceptualized in 2015, is in its final stages. “The main purpose of the Film City is to attract big filmmakers to make films in Bihar. Also, it will be a platform for budding artists, who are unable to pave their way to Mumbai,” Parmar said. He added, “The film city project is being executed utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs10.76 crore and construction work on fencing the 20-acre land is underway.” Budding actors from the state welcomed the move and said the upcoming Film City will be a boon for thousands of artists. Actor Pankaj Jha, who hails from Araria, said the lockdown has changed a lot of things in Bihar. “Proper promotion of the Film City will definitely change the mindset of artists, who struggle for success for years in Mumbai. Besides, it will create job opportunities for those, who returned to the state. Studios will be made and people will look at Bihar as a potential location for movie shooting,” he added. Theatre artist Shivanshu Singh Satya said, “There’s hardly any scope for acting or filmmaking in Bihar. The state lacks infrastructure because of which, people are forced to go to other states.” “The Lucknow Film City has now become a hub in itself with the availability of most shooting essentials. The same can happen in Bihar if the authorities prioritize and make the essentials available,” said Rajesh Gupta, a Mumbai-based director and producer, who also plays a big role in Bhojpuri entertainment industry. He added that a Film City in Bihar will not just give job opportunities to the artists but will also save money of filmmakers. “Whenever we go to other states for shooting, we are required to pay for accommodation, food and extra wages. If a film city gets promoted in Bihar, the artists won’t go to other states for work and will stay at their homes, which will save our money,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/proposed-rajgir-film-city-to-help-budding-actors/articleshow/76413020.cms||Archi Rani
June 17, 2020||Business||China’s Great Wall Motors in pact with Maha, has $1bn India plan||Mumbai: Even as India and China are involved in a confrontation at the border, China’s Great Wall Motors (GWM) on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Maharashtra government to invest Rs 3,770 crore in Talegaon near Pune to set up an automobile plant. It is part of the Rs 16,100-crore investment that has been earmarked for Maharashtra over the next few years. The state government signed 12 MoUs, which included three Chinese firms. The online conference was attended by China’s ambassador to India Sun Weidong and the state’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “This would be a highly automated plant in Talegaon(near Pune) with advanced robotics technology integrated in many of the production processes,” Parker Shi, managing director of the Indian subsidiary of GWM, was quoted as saying in a statement. “Overall we are committed to $1 billion (over Rs 7,600 crore) of investment in India in a phased manner. This is directed towards manufacturing world class, intelligent and premium products, an R&D centre, building a supply chain and providing jobs to over 3,000 people in a phased manner,” he added. In January this year, GWM had signed an agreement to acquire the plant from American manufacturer General Motors. GWM will produce its EV and SUV models at the plant. Other Chinese companies that signed MoUs were Hengli Engineering that will invest Rs 250 crore as part of its phase II expansion at Talegaon in Pune and will generate employment for 150 people. Also, PMI Electro Mobility in a joint venture with Foton (China) will invest Rs 1,000 crore and provide employment to 1,500 people, said a government press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinas-great-wall-motors-in-pact-with-maha-has-1bn-india-plan/articleshow/76414360.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||ICICI Lombard to cover Covid-19 home care||Mumbai: With authorities now supporting home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, ICICI Lombard has included health management at home in its insurance policies. The private insurer has also halved the cooling period for Covid-19 claims in new policies to 15 days from the earlier one month. The teleconsultation facility is available not just for Covid-19 but also for other ailments. This will benefit policyholders who would have normally visited a hospital but due to the pandemic opted for remote treatment. Customers can get contactless consultations done through the company’s ILTakeCare app through a callback facility. Each call will generate an e-prescription in line with the government’s telemedicine norms. The company has tied up with specialist providers who can arrange for paramedics, diagnostic tests and provide an equipment kit. “Hospitals are getting overwhelmed and running out of beds and capacity is a constraint. In 75-80% of the cases, hospitalisation is not required. Home isolation will increasingly become a reality,” said ICICI Lombard executive director Sanjeev Mantri. He said that in the months since the crisis has started, there is now enough information available to insurers to devise and price Covid-19 covers. So far, claims have not been much. Individual health insurance penetration is 3-4% of the population and that is reflected in Covid-19 claim numbers, he said The home care facility can be availed in two ways. One is where the network hospital facilitates home care by providing teleconsulting, with ICICI Lombard providing seamless cashless service for this option. The second is a form of health management, where ICICI Lombard’s specialist providers manage home care through network partners. ICICI Lombard chief (underwriting and claims) Sanjay Datta said that issues between the insurance industry and hospitals’ overbilling of personal protective equipment (PPE) have been sorted out. Insurance companies have agreed to pay for PPE and hospitals have agreed to spread the costs across patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-lombard-to-cover-covid-19-home-care/articleshow/76414410.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||Sugarcane farmer challenges Ashoka to an open debate on land reforms||MYSURU: Dismissing the claims made by Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka, who defended the amendments that the state government has proposed to the existing Land Reforms Act, president of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association Kuraburu Shanthakumar on Tuesday challenged the former to an open debate on the subject. “The state government is out to undermine the very basis of the legislation, which was passed to reinforce the rights of the farmers on their land,” Shanthakumar said. He charged the government with trying to avoid a debate on any forum, and pass the amendments using the ordinance route. “If these amendments are ratified, those with money will turn landlords, and it will sound the death knell for the farmers. These amendments will, in no way, be of any benefit to farmers or youngsters,” Shanthakumar added. He said that amendments proposed to the Land Reforms Act, coming close on the heels of the state government modifying the APMC Act, were primarily to appease multinational companies. “Farmers will hold a state-wide protest against both these reforms,” said Shanthakumar, urging the state government to protect women entrepreneurs in villages, facing harassment at the hands of agents of micro finance companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sugarcane-farmer-challenges-ashoka-to-an-open-debate-on-land-reforms/articleshow/76413330.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||Parents in small towns turn to home schooling as uncertainty looms over reopening of schools||MYSURU: The cloud of uncertainty hanging over reopening of schools, lack of clarity on the logistics of holding classes, coupled with the fear of their children contracting the deadly Covid-19 infection has compelled parents to consider various alternatives to ensure continuity in their education. Suspicions over the efficacy and advantages of online classes have made them contemplate home schooling. Many parents are advertising for private tutors. Home schooling is not an uncommon practice in the metros. The Covid-19 crisis, however, has resulted in parents in smaller cities and towns seeking to adopt the method given the fears that accompany sending their children to school. However, many parents in Mysuru said that they were looking at home schooling as a stop-gap arrangement, which they would not look to continue beyond the 2020-21 academic year. “Tuition centres have closed down, while schools want to hold online classes, which I am not comfortable with. Tutors arrive to teach my two children for three hours every day, and I am paying them per hour. In addition to offering classes, my children are being given assignments. Of course, once normalcy returns, I will prefer to send my children to school,” said Shyamala Kundar, a mother of two in Mysuru. Tutors in Mysuru said that they had been receiving several calls inquiring into their availability to teach children at homes. “I worked at a private tutorial centre near Asoka Circle. Since it has been closed, I am now looking at home schooling opportunities. Right now, I am taking classes at four houses on alternate days,” said Sunanda Srinath, a tutor in Mysuru. Sunanda said that she involved students in science experiments. “Science and mathematics teachers are in demand,” she said. Experts, however, cautioned against adopting new methodologies in a hurry. “Every system has its advantages, and demerits. Parents must not try new experiments just because classrooms will be closed for a few months,” said former vice-chancellor of Bangalore University and academician MS Thimmappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/parents-in-small-towns-turn-to-home-schooling-as-uncertainty-looms-over-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/76413422.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Security biz sees higher demand amid lockdown||MUMBAI: At a time when most businesses are shrinking due to the Covid-19 crisis and the lockdown, security services are seeing an increase in demand. It is also the only segment providing job security to low-end workers amid a wave of reverse migration to villages. Security and Intelligence Services (SIS), the largest and the only listed security firm in the country, said that it is adding jobs as a new way of life gets institutionalised at workplaces and other public areas. Speaking to TOI, SIS group MD Rituraj Sinha said that even as the lockdown was announced, security services were declared part of the essential services that would function along with healthcare and banks. This meant that there was no dip in revenue nor any loss of livelihood for the employees. For workers, the role of a security guard, who typically earns lesser than an Uber driver or a delivery person, suddenly became more attractive because of income security and retirement benefits. “Even in businesses where there are job losses and the economic situation is worsening, security is not being cut as clients are worried about unrest and petty theft,” said Sinha. “While malls are shut, deployment of security guards continues as owners have left crores worth of material in their showrooms. Security guards are the first line of defence, checking temperature and ensuring everyone is wearing a mask,” said Sinha. He adds that while security is less impacted than other directly hit industries like auto, there would be working capital challenges for security providers in future. SIS, which operates in security, facilities management, and cash management business has over 2.3 lakh employees, of which 1.5 lakh are security guards and over 54,000 are in facilities management across the country. It also has operations in Singapore and Australia. Last month, it added 2,500 guards in India as demand increased. According to Sinha, the presence in Singapore helped prepare for Covid-19, as the government there came out with a protocol earlier in the year, much before Europe. This helped the company to devise training programmes for staff across the country. Facilities management is turning out to be another growth area. According to Sinha, just like how the 26/11 attacks changed security protocol with all offices having baggage checks and metal detector doorways, Covid-19 is forcing employers to look at disinfecting rather than cleaning. “Companies are asking us to disinfect surfaces instead of dusting. The periodicity of disinfecting also is high,” said Sinha. The downside of working during the pandemic is the exposure risk. Around 221 employees contracted Covid-19 at some point and over 50 are positive currently. A large number are from around 427 hospitals, where nearly 20,800 staff are deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/security-biz-sees-higher-demand-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76414230.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Record Covid deaths, cases in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Tuesday recorded its highest one-day spike in Covid cases and casualties as 550 people tested positive for the virus and 18 people died of it. With this, the number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 8,272 and the death toll to 118. According to the state’s daily bulletin on Covid-19 cases, 51 patients were in a critical condiction on Tuesday evening, with 18 of them on ventilator support and 33 on oxygen support. The Covid positive rate in Haryana has risen to 4.39% and the fatality rate is now 1.43%. Also, 183 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered cases to 3,748. The state’s recovery rate is 45.31% and it has 4,406 active cases. Haryana’s doubling rate has though gone upto nine days, but this continues to be low when compared to other states. Gurgaon continued to top all tables. The district reported 205 new cases and nine deaths. With an overall figure of 3,682 Gurgaon has 1,721 active cases. It was followed by Faridabad, which reported 174 new cases and five deaths. Sonipat got 32 new cases and one death. Rohtak got 25 cases, 21 cases each were reported from Rewari and Ambala, 13 from Karnal, eight each from Panipat and Jhajjar, seven from Bhiwani, six each from Palwal Mahindergarh and Charkhi Dadri, five from Hisar, four from Fatehabad, three each from Sirsa and Kurukshetra, and one each from Panchkula, Jind and Nuh. A Covid-19 patient (45) suffering from heart diseases died on the way to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. With this, four deaths have been recorded in the district due to Covid-19. In Karnal, deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said all patients had travel history to Delhi. Two deaths were reported in Bhiwani. One of them was a man from Patharanwali village who died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College (MAMC), Agroha, in Hisar. ( With inputs from Hisar, Karnal and Jind)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/record-covid-deaths-cases-in-hry/articleshow/76414395.cms||Manvir Saini
June 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Munger University to set up multimedia research centre||PATNA: For the first time in Bihar, Munger University (MU) is likely to set up an educational multimedia research centre (EMMRC) to promote e-learning by harnessing the information and communication technologies. Its vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma said equipped with a multicam studio, state-of-the art production equipment and multimedia workstations, the centre would be involved in the development of open online courses, e-content and production of video lectures and documentaries for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The main objective of this centre is to produce high-quality audiovisual programmes and develop multimedia content, he said. Two senior teachers — Amar Kumar and Suraj Konar — have been appointed conveners of this centre to develop it both from university’s internal resources and the funding agencies. The university has already uploaded 1,433 videos to its official YouTube channel. Besides, study materials on 1450 topics developed by university teachers have been uploaded to Google drive during the lockdown period, the VC said. The university, which has got its logo and seal approved by the chancellor recently, has already earned the distinction of becoming the first institution of higher education in the state to introduce university management information system (UMIS). Under this system, the university could introduce centralized online system of admission to all the undergraduate courses in as many as 30 of its colleges in the last academic session itself. Now a student needs not apply separately for different courses and for different colleges. He would indicate all his choices of courses and colleges in order of preference in a single application, thus saving him from unwarranted physical and mental harassment, said Verma. The university has already decided to introduce some innovative academic programmes with a view to ensuring socioeconomic development of the region and increasing the employment potential of the local youths. These programmes include one-year postgraduate diploma courses in fragrance flavour and aroma technology, food safety and quality management, disaster management, and investigation and security management and a certificate course in endangered languages, Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/munger-university-to-set-up-multimedia-research-centre/articleshow/76412189.cms||B K Mishra
June 17, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s fans stage protest, burn effigies of Bollywood stars||PATNA: Two days after Bollywood actor and Patna boy Sushant Singh Rajput committed suicide in Mumbai, his supporters staged a protest march and burned the effigies of Bollywood bigwigs near Income Tax roundabout here on Tuesday. They alleged that Sushant’s suicide was a fallout of nepotism prevalent in Bollywood and demanded CBI inquiry into the causes of his death. They accused several Bollywood stars and directors for demoralizing the newcomers having no background or any godfather. Manish Kumar from Rajiv Nagar said there was so much nepotism in the Bollywood industry that a humble guy from small town like Patna had to suffer a lot to make his position. “But Sushant proved his mettle and had a huge fan following,” he said. Aniket Jha said big actors with family background and running the film industry don’t allow outsiders to make a career in Bollywood. “They only want to promote their siblings, wards and families. They can’t see the success of any newcomer without strong background,” Jha said. Rahul Yadav said this movement against nepotism would spread across the state and country to stop such actors and directors from humiliating newcomers. “In Bihar, we will boycott the films of such actors and directors, who have created monopoly in Bollywood,” he said. Many Sushant’s fans in Bihar have been posting messages on social media like ‘Justice for Sushant’, ‘Stop nepotism’ and trolling many Bollywood bigwigs. Meanwhile, former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav wrote a letter Union home minister Amit Shah demanding CBI inquiry into Sushant’s death. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also told reporters that the government should consider the request if the family and relatives of Sushant sought thorough enquiry into his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-fans-stage-protest-burn-effigies-of-bwood-stars/articleshow/76412685.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 17, 2020||Business||Standard Life to sell up to 1.2cr HDFC MF shares||Mumbai: Standard Life of the UK, the joint venture partner in HDFC Mutual Fund, has decided to sell up to 5.64% in the fund house at a floor price of Rs 2,362 per share, to mop up about Rs 2,800 crore. The stake will be sold through the offer-for-sale (OFS) route on the stock exchanges, in which even retail investors can participate, notices to the bourses showed. On Tuesday, the stock price of HDFC MF, the second largest fund house in India, on the BSE closed at Rs 2,538. The OFS floor price is at a 7% discount to the stock’s last close. Standard Life said it will sell 60 lakh shares of HDFC MF, that is 2.82% stake, in the fund house at a minimum price of Rs 2,362 per share. Depending on total demand for HDFC MF shares, it could double the number of shares, up to 1.2 crore shares, or 5.64%. The OFS will open on June 17 for non-retail investors and on June 18 for retail investors, it said. DSP Merrill Lynch is the broker for the deal. According to shareholding pattern disclosed on the bourses, as of March 2020, housing finance major HDFC had a 52.7% stake in the company while Standard Life had 26.9% stake. The balance 20.4% was held by public shareholders. If the UK company is able to sell the entire 5.8%, it’s shareholding in the fund house will come down to 21.1%. On June 4, Standard Life had sold 2% in HDFC Life Insurance, in which also it’s a joint venture partner to HDFC, and mopped up a little over Rs 2,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/standard-life-to-sell-up-to-1-2cr-hdfc-mf-shares/articleshow/76413247.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Beenext raises $110m fund for India, SE Asia||Bengaluru: Singapore-based venture capital firm Beenext, which has backed Indian startups like payments company BharatPe, gaming startup Mobile Premier League and neo-bank Open, has raised its new ‘Emerging Asia Fund’ of $110 million, or Rs 834 crore. Beenext will allocate about 50% of the fund for Indian startups, while the rest will be invested across southeast Asia, said the fund’s founder and managing partner Teruhide Sato. Additionally, it has also raised a separate $50-million (Rs 380-crore) fund to invest in software-as-a-service (SaaS) startups in Japan. Sato, who previously founded Japanese e-commerce firm Beenos, has so far backed a total of 72 startups in India since 2015 through Beenext, and typically invests as an early-stage backer. The latest fund will invest across sectors like e-commerce, fintech, health-tech, agri-tech, edu-tech, and artificial intelligence. One of its prominent exits from an Indian bet has been payments startup Citrus Pay, which was acquired by PayU for $130 million in 2016. “We also look at it (sectoral investments) like the economy of life and now, more than ever, need for safety, security, health, food, sustainability, and other essentials are needed for our life. In a broader sense, how we recover from this pandemic is actually by the power of digital,” Sato said. According to him, the internet ecosystem is no more just a sector, but an economy in itself. “This acceleration of digital shift is inevitable and there is going to be more,” he added. New-age fintech startups, beyond payments, in areas of financial services like insurance, lending, asset management would be an area of interest for the fund. Prior to this, Beenext had raised two funds — $80 million in 2015 and then a $95-million fund that closed in 2018. The third fund’s limited partners, who invest in these funds, include Japanese and US-based institutions, along with executives of public-listed companies in Japan and entrepreneurs. On the outlook of consolidation among startups amid a cautious investment approach by investors, Sato said there are likely to be two outcomes. “There is a chance for the number one company to acquire the number two company (in the same space) and become an overwhelming number one company. There is also a chance for number two firm, with a unique angle, to catch up with number one, if it’s very unique, as consumer behaviour is different (post-pandemic),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/beenext-raises-110m-fund-for-india-se-asia/articleshow/76414397.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Answer to last-child connectivity may lie in revival of Balchitravani||PUNE: Balchitravani, the State Institute of Educational Technology, could be the answer to the education department’s quest for a solution to schooling students this year. The setup was allowed to fade away in 2017, affecting the state’s capability now to have quality educational content and make it available free via TV and radio. Covid-19 has buried classroom teaching for now and the state has mooted online lessons, but stumbled over the lack of smartphones, internet connectivity and the tech knowhow. Kerala has an educational channel along with an online channel with a time-table for all classes for students and the modules are streamed via direct-to-home television networks. Maharashtra, where Balchitravani once pioneered educational shows, has no such presence. TV or radio option The most effective way to broadcast educational content would be TV or radio. Education expert A L Deshmukh said in a state where internet access is limited and smartphones are just one or none in households, students are bound to suffer. “The state government can use Marathi channels for 30 minutes each day to telecast the content. Balchitravani can be telecast six hours per day slotted for education to reach the last student in the remotest village,” he said. Vijay Deoskar, former director of State Council of Educational Research and Training and de-facto head of Balchitravani, said Balchitravani could have played a stellar role now. “The studios and equipment are available. Good quality content can be created by in a short time and uploaded for TV/radio and a web channel,” he added. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said she will probe why the previous government closed down the venture. “If Kerala can start and run it successfully, we can do the same. I will take action," she said on Tuesday. Allowed to fade away Bipinchandra Chaughule, former producer at Balchitravani who joined institute at its inception in 1984, said it was a Union government funded project under INSAT. “We researched extensively for the educational videos, going beyond the textbooks. There was pretesting and post-testing to make the matter understandable and interesting. Thousands of parents, students and teachers wrote to us, and we won numerous national awards for the videos. Maharashtra was then the best in educational videos,” Chaughule added. A host of problems led to Balchitravani’s slump. “We had to fight for good slots for students to view. When it changed from Doordarshan to Sahyadri, it was limited to people with a dish or a cable connection. In 2004, Doordarshan demanded money for slots. Central funding dried up and the state did not take it up as Gujarat and the other states did. Bad administrative decisions ruined a good enterprise,” Chaugule added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/answer-to-last-child-connectivity-may-lie-in-revival-of-balchitravani/articleshow/76414365.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||IMA holds protest, burns copies of Clinical Establishment Act||Ludhiana: A meeting of the local branch of Indian Medical Association was held at IMA house to tear and burn the copies of the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) as a part of the ongoing protest against this Act, which the government says will be applicable on medical establishments from July 1. It gave a memorandum to additional deputy commissioner and will observe a complete medical bandh on June 23. Dr Sunil Katyal, president of the IMA, Ludhiana chapter, said, “The Act was completely uncalled for and wrongly timed. Doctors are already governed by the Punjab Medical Council (PMC), National Medical Council (NMC/MCI), hospital buildings are governed by building regulation and norms and many hospitals are getting accredited to the NABH. The introduction of this Act will achieve nothing extra, except for the harassment of doctors.” Dr Dheeraj Aggarwal, honorary secretary, IMA, Ludhiana, said, “This act is totally against people, patients, poor people and doctors. It will lead to increase in the hospital charges and treatment costs. The private healthcare delivery in Punjab is already of high quality as witnessed by the fact that more than 70% of patients seek treatment from private setups than from government hospitals. The states where it has been implemented does not show any improvement in healthcare delivery.” Dr Manoj K Sobti, co-chairman, joint action committee, Punjab State Governing Council, said “We are opposing this Act completely. If no one listens to our demand, then a Punjab State Governing Council meeting will be held on June 28 to decide the further course of action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ima-holds-protest-burns-copies-of-clinical-establishment-act/articleshow/76413507.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Drinking water shortage in city hits supply frequency||Coimbatore: The city residents are supplied drinking water only once in seven to 10 days, against four to seven days earlier, as the water level in Siruvani reservoir is fast nearing dead storage capacity. According to them, the city corporation has also cut down on the water supply duration.R Deepa, a resident of Venkatapuram, said, “We have been receiving drinking water only once in 10 days for the past two months. While we store water in multiple containers, at times that won’t last still the next supply. In that case, we have no other option, but to purchase water.” The situation, she said, would be worse if the city corporation failed to supply borewell water daily.R Pugazhenthi, president, Ganapathy Maanagar Joint Action Committee, said the civic body has also reduced the water supply duration. “Most often, our tanks would be half empty after the water supply. As the water pressure is low, houses at the tail end of supply chain receive even lesser water.”Unlike the other areas, he said, they were not getting borewell water regularly. “Corporation workers supply us bore water only on request.”Suresh, a resident of Saibaba Colony, said they hadn’t received drinking water for the past 15 days. “Water was supplied a few days ago, but only to be stopped within a few minutes as it was contaminated. How could we manage without water supply for such a long time?”A source with the city corporation said water supply to Boopathy layout in Saibaba Colony was delayed because of works that were being carried out to fix a feeder main pipe leakage. “The work has been completed now and we have started supplying water.” As the Siruvani reservoir level is low, the quantity of water drown for supply has come down considerably. The city corporation has been supplying Pillur water to Siruvani water-fed areas.“The frequency of water supply could be improved once the water level in the reservoir goes up. We are hopeful that its catchment areas would receive good rainfall,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drinking-water-shortage-in-city-hits-supply-frequency/articleshow/76414377.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy steps up tracking of SARI cases via pharmacies||Trichy: With Covid-19 cases increasing in numbers in the urban areas, the district administration has roped in pharmacies to identify symptomatic people who approach them. Pharmacies were instructed to identify their customers who develop severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). “If anyone frequents the pharmacy for medicines for SARI cases, the staff should collect their details and inform us so that we can track them and test them,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI. The information should be passed on to 1097 helpline. The collector also said that they received information about 52 such people from the pharmacies in the past three days. “Our team verified the information and none of them tested positive. Around 50% to 60% of them had normal fever. Still, the process continues,” he said. Change of weather would also increase the chances for respiratory illness but doctors said that not all cases can be construed as Covid-19. Since then the last week of April, Trichy district administration has shifted their attention on the random sampling method, which tracked pregnant women, people with SARI and influenza like illness (ILI) at the containment zones. Patients with such symptoms were also visiting primary health centres, government hospitals and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). Such people were also tested for Covid-19. In Trichy, the Covid-19 positive cases saw gradual increase from the first week of June this year. The Chennai returnees and their contacts contributed to the numbers. State president of the Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association (TNCDA) K Manoharan in Trichy said that pharmacies have been asked to cooperate with the government to identify patients. “We have been asked to identify such people one-and-half months ago. Since then we are taking down the details of such patients and informing them. Some customers were disappointed over the process,” said Manoharan adding that the association has advised to avoid over-the-counter sale of medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-steps-up-tracking-of-sari-cases-via-pharmacies/articleshow/76414900.cms||R Gokul
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Mid-day meal ration to be given to students’ parents||Jaipur: The school education department has issued orders to distribute mid-day meal ration to parents of children studying in classes I to VIII. Wheat and rice are lying in the schools. As all education institutions were closed during lockdown, the government has decided to distribute the ration among students. All the district education officers in urban areas and panchayat elementary education officers in rural areas have been given responsibility to supervise the distribution. According to the orders, the work should be completed by June 25. Government has taken into account 94 days’ lockdown period starting from March 14 when schools were closed. So, according to rules, from classes I to V, each student gets 100 grams of grains (wheat/rice) per day. For 94 days, each student should get 9.5 kg grains. From classes VI to VIII, each student gets 150 grams of grains per day. For 94 days, they get 14kg each. Narayan Singh Sisodia of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh said that this order will help expose dishonest teachers. “It is a norm to purchase less grains and show a higher quantity on paper. Government teachers in connivance with suppliers in the village try to pocket some money. Now, with this order if the quantity of grains is found to be less, then the teacher will be caught. I believe this order will get a lot of people in trouble,” said Sisodia. Meanwhile, many teachers said that though the order should be implemented they should be given more time to execute it. “We have to complete the procedure by June 25. But teachers are supposed to reach by June 24 to open the schools. So, it will be difficult for us or else we have to open the schools early. It is better to extend the execution date to be convenient for everyone,” said Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mid-day-meal-ration-to-be-given-to-students-parents/articleshow/76414390.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 60-year-old chases down snatcher, stabbed in thigh||NEW DELHI: A senior citizen was robbed and stabbed by criminals in north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla on Sunday night. The victim claimed that even though a police vehicle was stationed near the crime spot, no one stepped forward to save him. A case under section of armed robbery has been registered, but no arrest made so far. Khemchand (60), who retired from the railways as a chief office superintendent, told police that he had gone to check his new house in Aman Vihar on the eve of the house warming ceremony when he was attacked near the old Rohtak road. “My son, Babulal, drives an e-rickshaw and we had stopped near the Daya Basti railway station to drop off two passengers. My mobile phone was in my hand when a man snatched it and started running towards the railway station. Me and my son chased him. Meanwhile, the man passed the phone to his associate, but I managed to catch him. I asked them to return my phone when one of them whipped out a long knife and stabbed me. I think they were around four people. Though a police vehicle was stationed outside, it was the locals who helped me and gave me a piece of cloth as I walked drenched in blood,” Khemchand told TOI. After the incident, the victim reached the police station from where the cops rushed him to a hospital. The victim sustained five stitches on his thigh. Ever since the incident, the family is fearing for their safety as their son operates his e-rickshaw on the same route. “After the incident, we tried calling 100 but it did not get connected. I don’t know if I should take the case back because I don’t want anyone to harm my son. They all seemed in their early 20s, but since it was dark I could not see their faces properly,” added Khemchand. Sarai Rohilla police are now checking the CCTVs installed in the area and analysing the record of criminals released in the recent past. On Saturday, a cash collection agent was shot at and robbed by a group of men in north-Delhi’s Wazirabad area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-year-old-chases-down-snatcher-stabbed-in-thigh/articleshow/76414384.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Families with relatives in Nepal anxious over simmering dispute||Gorakhpur: Unfazed by the rumblings of the Indo-Nepal border dispute, Gorkha soldiers stuck in Nepal during lockdown have started returning to India through Sonauli border to join duty, , but many people in the east UP belt are anxious and watchful about the ongoing developments. A large number of Gorkha soldiers are posted at Gorakhpur Air Force base. The soldiers who went home before lockdown and were stuck as the border was sealed due to pandemic are now returning. Circle officer of Nautanwa in Maharajganj district, Raju Kumar told TOI on Monday, “In the last two days, around 80 Gorkha soldiers entered India with their families through Sonauli border after thermal scanning and proper check up.” However, many people having relatives on both sides of border are a bit worried. Many people in the region have married their sons and daughters in Nepal. “Many families in east UP have relatives in Rupandehi, Nawalparasi, Kathmandu, Narayanghat, Taulihawa, Kapilvastu, Bhairahawa, Chormara, Dang, Dhanghari, Nepalganj, Mahendranagar, Janakpur, Morang, Saptsari and Bhutwal in Nepal. We have ‘Beti-Roti’ relation with Nepal,” said Anil Gupta, president, Bharat Nepal Maitri Samaj. “More than 50,000 people of Maharajganj and nearby districts are married in Nepal. Mostly people near border districts like Sonauli, Nautanwa, Koluhui, Bargadwa, Thoothibari, Nichlaul, Siswa, Paniyara have relations in Nepal,” he added. “This is a political issue and it has nothing to do with common people. Many people of east UP districts work in Nepal. We wish the dispute is resolved soon,” said Gupta. Sudhir Kalwar of Bhairahawa in Nepal said, “Both my sons are married in India, one in Siswa and the other in Gorakhpur. We go across border frequently and are a bit worried that the issue may lead to some curbs.” Nautanwa’s Rajiv Pandey is married in Bhutwal and her sister in Taulihawa. He was not able to attend his nephew’s birthday due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/families-with-relatives-in-nepal-anxious-over-simmering-dispute/articleshow/76412317.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy steps up tracking of SARI cases via pharmacies||TRICHY: With Covid-19 cases increasing in numbers in the urban areas, the district administration has roped in pharmacies to identify symptomatic people who approach them. Pharmacies were instructed to identify their customers who develop severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). “If anyone frequents the pharmacy for medicines for SARI cases, the staff should collect their details and inform us so that we can track them and test them,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI. The information should be passed on to 1097 helpline. The collector also said that they received information about 52 such people from the pharmacies in the past three days. “Our team verified the information and none of them tested positive. Around 50% to 60% of them had normal fever. Still, the process continues,” he said. Change of weather would also increase the chances for respiratory illness but doctors said that not all cases can be construed as Covid-19. Since then the last week of April, Trichy district administration has shifted their attention on the random sampling method, which tracked pregnant women, people with SARI and influenza like illness (ILI) at the containment zones. Patients with such symptoms were also visiting primary health centres, government hospitals and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). Such people were also tested for Covid-19. In Trichy, the Covid-19 positive cases saw gradual increase from the first week of June this year. The Chennai returnees and their contacts contributed to the numbers. State president of the Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association (TNCDA) K Manoharan in Trichy said that pharmacies have been asked to cooperate with the government to identify patients. “We have been asked to identify such people one-and-half months ago. Since then we are taking down the details of such patients and informing them. Some customers were disappointed over the process,” said Manoharan adding that the association has advised to avoid over-the-counter sale of medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-steps-up-tracking-of-sari-cases-via-pharmacies/articleshow/76414901.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar cabinet approves Rs 120 crore for schoolteachers’ salaries||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the government’s proposal to earmark Rs120 crore from its plan fund for payment of salaries to schoolteachers under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) in the 2020-21 fiscal. The Centre has not yet disbursed the fund for the payment of their salaries under the scheme. The cabinet immediately sanctioned Rs40 crore for the purpose. The cabinet approved the government’s proposal to create five posts of teachers for imparting postgraduation education in five subjects, besides allotting 100 seats for the graduates at the Tibbi College and Hospital in Patna as per the recommendations of the Medical Council of India (MCI). It was also decided to create 100 new posts of various teaching and non-teaching grades at Nalanda Open University (NOU), Patna. The posts include eight of professors, 28 of associate professors, 54 of assistant professors and 10 other posts for multitasking. The government’s proposal to expand the executive committee of Bihar Museum was also cleared. The revised six-member committee would be headed by art, culture and youth affairs department principal secretary, while the director of Bihar Museum would also be its member secretary. Besides, of the existing two posts of its deputy directors, one has been converted into the post of executive engineer. The cabinet approved forced retirement of six officials of the building construction department, including assistants and engineers, in view of their “very unsatisfactory performance”. They were also above 50 years of age. Pertaining to the same department, the cabinet approved the proposal to put on forced retirement Deepak Kumar, assistant electrical engineer posted at Muzaffarpur, on the charges of indiscipline and laxity in work performance. Similarly, it approved the dismissal from services of Dr Sanju Prasad, medical officer of primary health centre at Gopalganj, for absenting herself from duty. The proposal to transfer 6.42 dismil land to National Highways Authority of India was also approved for the widening of NH-2 near Kanchanpur in Rohtas district. The cabinet also approved the proposal to regularize persons posted at six posts in the computer cell of the Patna High Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-approves-rs-120-crore-for-schoolteachers-salaries/articleshow/76413552.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||Over 200 garment shops in Nashik suffer rain damage||Nashik: Monday’s heavy rainfall led to flooding in many low-lying areas in Nashik city. More than 200 garment shops in the Jijamata Road, Dahipul, Hundiwala lane, Saraswati lane and Saraf Bazaar areas of the city suffered losses running into lakhs of rupees after rainwater entered their premises and damaged the goods.The odd-even formula of opening the shops compounded the problems of some store owners as they could not even take out their stocks. Saris, bales of cloth, ready-made garments kept in the shops were damaged. Rupesh Abad, owner of a sari shop, had kept his unit closed on Monday in adherence to the odd-even formula. “When it started raining, I immediately rushed to my shop. By then, the water had already entered my shop and damaged most of the saris and other garments. I have incurred losses to the tune of Rs 2 lakh at least. This is besides the cost to be incurred to repair the damaged furniture,” said Abad.Owners of shops that could stay open on Monday tried to shift their goods, but could not take out much, he said. “I have started cleaning the shop and it will take at least a week or two to restart the business,” said Abad. Owner of a fashion jewellery shop in Dahipul, which is a low-lying area, said the rainwater had damaged so much of the furniture in his shop that he would require Rs 4 lakh for the repairs. “There was heavy rain for almost two hours on Monday. My shop was completely flooded. I, along with two to three workers, took out the fashion jewellery and other goods, but the furniture was damaged,” said the owner.Meanwhile, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal visited the flood-affected areas along with municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game and other officials. Bhujbal said Nashik smart city officials were developing infrastructure in old city area, which includes Saraf Bazaar and its surroundings. “I will hold a meeting between smart city officials and traders,” he said.Mayor Satish Kulkarni also visited Saraf Bazaar and other low-lying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-200-garment-shops-in-nashik-suffer-rain-damage/articleshow/76412324.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 17, 2020||Goa||Sawant again raises mining resumption issue with Modi||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi yet again to restart mining activities in Goa — much needed to boost Goa’s economy, which has taken a further beating due to the Covid pandemic. tnn Sawant also requested that the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation of the last eight-months, which is to the tune of about Rs 750 crore, be released to the state. He also sought financial assistance from the PM Cares fund. “We have briefed the Prime Minister on the mining and tourism industries. I once again raised the mining issue and told the PM that economic activities in the state get a boost only if we restart mining activities. We have requested the PM to restart mining activities in Goa,” Sawant said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a video conference with chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation. The chief minister also briefed Modi over the state’s Covid-19 situation and economic status. He informed the Prime minister that the pharma industry has commenced in a full-fledged manner in Goa and that only the hospitality industry remains to be started. Sawant said that the PM has laid emphases on resumption of economic activities. Stating that the state has restarted most economic activities, the chief minister, however, said that the state will wait for some more time before restarting tourism activities. Sawant said that the state has already received aid from the PM Cares fund and that they have requested for more. In April 2020, the state had written to the PM urging him “to bring about reforms in the mining sector” saying that that “till then the mining situation will not change in the state”. “We are hoping for a positive response,” Sawant said. In the letter, Sawant had sought an amendment to the relevant law that will allow mining operations in the state to continue till 2037. The state government has urged the Union mines ministry to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Mining activities in the state came to halt on March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court in its February 7 order quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Governor Satya Pal Malik had also written to home minister Amit Shah asking him to intervene to ensure early resumption of mining activities. In the letter to Shah, Malik recalled the meeting between him and Shah over resumption of mining in Goa. “You may be aware that mining and tourism are the two mainstays of Goan economy. Mining in the state came to a complete halt, which resulted in loss of revenue to the tune of more than Rs 2,000 crore,” Malik had said. He had pointed out that with the tourism industry also being severely dented in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic the state’s economy has been brought to near collapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-again-raises-mining-resumption-issue-with-modi/articleshow/76414909.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers protest at Tirupur collectorate||Coimbatore: More than 50 guest workers, including 15 women, from Arunachal Pradesh protested at the district collectorate in Tirupur on Monday night demanding that they be sent back to their home state immediately. On Monday evening, 180 guest workers from Arunachal Pradesh were sent to Chennai from Tirupur district collectorate in government buses to board a shramik special train to the state scheduled to leave Chennai on Tuesday. Hoping to board the same train, the 50 guest workers from Arunachal Pradesh gathered at the collectorate in Tirupur on Monday night demanding to be sent back home. All guest workers were employed at industrial units at Sulthanpet in Coimbatore, Avinashi and Veerapandi in Tirupur district. On hearing about their protest, revenue department officials and Tirupur police officials held talks with them and assured them that necessary steps to send them home would be taken at the earliest. Later, the protesters were dispersed. The officials claimed that over 200 guest workers from Arunachal Pradesh would be sent to their home state by the special train soon. The officials added that as many as 33 Shramik special trains were operated from Tirupur to Bihar, Odisha, Assam, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand and around 52,000 guest workers have already reached their home states by these special trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-protest-at-tirupur-collectorate/articleshow/76414388.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan lifts interstate travel regulations||JAIPUR: The state government has lifted the interstate regulations on the movement of people in the state on Tuesday. The regulations were imposed for seven days from June 10. The order issued by Rajeeva Swarup, additional chief secretary, home department, stated that "there will no longer be any requirement for any person to obtain a pass or NOC for the purpose of entry or exit into or out of Rajasthan". The order cited the stabilising of new daily cases of Covid-19 as the main reason for lifting the regulations. They were imposed due to the sudden spike in the number of positive cases from June 1 to 10. The order says that the free movement of people is subject to the condition that all persons entering and exiting the state should be screened at the point of entry and exit. “The check-posts set up will continue for the purpose of screening,” says the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-lifts-interstatetravel-regulations/articleshow/76414403.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Surat||Three of family electrocuted while hanging wet clothes||Surat: Three members of a family, including two women, were electrocuted when one of the deceased was hanging wet clothes on a steel wire tied with an electricity pole at the Khund village in Navsari’s Chikhli taluka on Tuesday. The incident took placed at about 12.30 pm when Kalpana Nayka (40), a resident of Naikiwad Khada in Khund village stepped out of the house in the middle of a farm to hang washed clothes on the steel wire in the courtyard. Little did she knew that the clothesline had turned into a livewire as it was fixed to the same iron pole from where the power cable was going into her house. As soon as Kalapna hanged the first wet cloth, she received a jolt and got stuck to the steel wire. Seeing this, Laliben Nayka (80), who was sitting in the courtyard rushed to her help and that she too got electrocuted. Lalibe is grandmother of Kalpana’s husband Umesh Nayak. However, seeing both the women struggling for their lives, Bachhu Nayka (60), Kalpana’s father-in-law, rushed to help but he too got electrocuted. According to the complaint registered by Umesh, due to monsoon, the electricity has started flowing through the steel wire used to hang washed clothes, which the deceased was not aware of. M B Konkani, police sub-inspector of Chikhli police station said, “All three died on the spot while trying to saving each other.” According to Konkani, the bodies of the deceased were sent to the civil hospital in Navsari for postmortem. The police has registered a case of accidental death and investigations was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-of-family-electrocuted-while-hanging-wet-clothes/articleshow/76412350.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Pvt channels may screen lessons in remote areas||Pune: The state education department, waiting to make use of Doordarshan and Aakashwani to reach students in rural areas without devices for online studies, has begun looking elsewhere. “We wrote to the chief minister requesting the use of Doordarshan. He said he will talk to the I&B minister Prakash Javadekar. We have two educational channels ready to give us slots__Tata Sky and Jio. We are trying to get Doordarshan too for a wider reach,” education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Tuesday. Surveys by teachers from rural areas and the zilla parishad indicate that some students from remote areas do not have access to smart devices and would remain out of the online classes effort. Gaikwad said teachers took to cellphones and other online devices to teach from Monday and many students connected with them through cellphones, laptops and desktops. The state government is using e-learning content developed by the Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training which will be sent to schools, she added. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the State Council of Education Research and Training, said the state is waiting for a word from Doordarshan for daily slots. “We had sent a proposal for a dedicated educational TV channel, but the talks were suspended due to lockdown,” said Patil. In Kerala, where online lessons are more organised, the content has been developed by the Kerala State Council of Education Research and Training, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education, Samagra Shiksha Kerala and Kerala State Institute of Educational Technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-channels-may-screen-lessons-in-remote-areas/articleshow/76414380.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Karur GH docs help woman with rare disorder deliver baby||Karur: After suffering multiple miscarriages, a 35-year-old woman from West Bengal with an acute disorder successfully delivered a baby boy on Monday at the government hospital in the district. According to doctors, Poonam Ram has been staying with her husband in Karur district for the past three years. She delivered a baby a few years ago in West Bengal after undergoing c-section, but the baby died in a couple of months. She became pregnant again a few months later but suffered miscarriage. Poonam who became pregnant a third time was admitted to a private hospital in Karur. Seven months into her pregnancy, she was referred to the Karur government medical college hospital from the private hospital a couple of days ago. She was diagnosed with placenta percreta, a condition in which the placenta penetrates deep into the uterine wall and attaches to the urinary bladder. The condition can cause serious complications during delivery. The woman was in a critical state as she had developed labour pain and excessive bleeding because of placenta percreta. A surgery was performed to save mother and the child and the woman delivered a boy baby weighing 1.28 kg. Further, doctors operated on her to set right the placenta percreta. After being kept on ventilator for eight hours, she was shifted to the ward. Karur medical college dean E Theranirajan said that the operation was performed free of cost. He said that such operations would usually cost over Rs 1.5 lakh in private hospitals. About 4-5 people from every thousand suffer from placenta percreta, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-gh-docs-help-woman-with-rare-disorder-deliver-baby/articleshow/76414907.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Kannada organisations in Middle East supplement flights||Mangaluru: With the ministries of external affairs and civil aviation prioritising Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights, individuals and companies have taken the lead to repatriate Indians stranded in different parts of the world, including the Middle East, through chartered flights. Latest in this ongoing endeavour was the Qatar-Bengaluru flight flown by Karnataka Sangha Qatar (KSQ) in association with other Karnataka-related organisations in Qatar. With guidance and cooperation from Indian Community Benevolent Forum (ICBF) under the aegis of Indian Embassy in Qatar, the chartered flight that landed on Monday had 180 passengers, including six infants. The second batch to have returned to Karnataka in a month had those who, among other issues, had to be evacuated due to lack of jobs, medical issues, low-living standards and temporary visas. It was Subramanya Hebbagelu of ICBF and their team, who in coordination with local elected representatives like Mangaluru MLA U T Khader, senior bureaucrat Ravi Kumar, additional chief secretary to the chief minister, made the repatriation flights possible. In an email, Subramanya said: “We were able to send back these people, including those from Dakshina Kannada, to Bengaluru due to some concerted efforts.” D V Sadananda Gowda, Union minister in charge of VBM flights for Karnataka, told TOI that Air India Express (AIE) and Air India (AI) have announced a detailed list of such flights that connect Mangaluru through various cities like Bengaluru, Chennai and Kozhikode. Not discounting the efforts that organisations such as KSQ, ICBF and individual businessmen have taken to arrange the chartered flights, Gowda said it is all about due diligence for the government. “We have people wanting to come to India for various reasons,” he said, adding it takes time to work out the logistics. BOX Twitter campaign for more flights Thousands of expats who are stranded in Saudi Arabia due to the non-scheduling of Vande Bharat Mission flights to Karnataka, stormed Twitter with #SaudiKannadigasNeedFlights. A few hours of tweeting spree saw thousands of tweets appealing to the state and central governments to arrange more repatriation flights. NRIs blamed that Centre’s alleged step-motherly attitude towards Kannadigas stranded in the Gulf countries in general and Saudi Arabia in particular. This is the second such campaign in the recent past. Some weeks ago, Twitterati had launched a campaign to bring back Kannadidags stranded in Saudi Arabia. A variation of the hashtag #SaudiKannadigasNeedFlights trended from 4pm on Monday to put pressure on the authorities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kannada-organisations-in-middle-east-supplement-flights/articleshow/76412337.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Tiger Safari all set to beat the heat||Ludhiana: The tiger safari, which is situated on the outskirts of Ludhiana, is ready to beat the heat. This summer season the authorities concerned are prepared and have provided more facilities to the animals in the zoo. Talking to Khushwider Singh Gill, divisional forest officer (DFO), said, “There are two black bears and both of them are being provided 150 kg of ice on daily basis to fulfil the requirement of ice every morning. A person has been specifically allotted to procure the ice for the bears so they can lay near the ice and sleep peacefully as it is really important for the bears to feel pleasant during the summer.” “The two tigers in the zoo are also getting the best treatment to beat the heat this summer as they have been provided with proper supplements in the water. Because of the summer mostly glucose in water is mixed every time they are given drinking water. There are also coolers installed for the tigers to make them comfortable. The artificial ponds are filled with water, so whenever they wish to enter and lay there, they can do so,” he said. “For other animals like jackals, deer, porcupine, etc. mostly glucose is mixed in there drinking water and moreover, vegetables and fruits like cucumber and their favourite sugar cane are given to them to eat. To birds like parrots, emu, ducks, etc., we give them juicy and watery vegetables and fruits in summer like cucumber, grapes, mangoes, papaya, etc. to eat and fulfil the need for minerals and vitamins to bear the summer heat. Besides, water is provided to them for drinking and their ponds are also filled with water,” Gill maintained. He said for the protection of animals their check up was also being done. “Everything is observed, from their drinking water to what they are eating and how much they are eating to urine passage,” he added. Besides, adoptions are still going on and if anybody wants to adopt any animal or bird, they can call Gill or Narinder Singh, assistant in-charge, Ludhiana zoo, at 8054753777 New birds were going to be here in the zoo but because of the Covid-19 right now, it’s impossible to transfer them. “We wanted to do it in March, but now we will get them after everything is fine. Birds like cranes and junglefowl will be our new members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tiger-safari-all-set-to-beat-the-heat/articleshow/76413529.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Trichy||CM lays stone for memorials of 5 personalities||Trichy/Madurai: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday laid foundation stones for five memorials to honour various leaders, social reformers, poets, artists and scholars who brought fame to the state, through videoconferencing. The memorials will be built with life-size statues of Perumpidugu Mutharaiyar, Justice party leader A T Panneerselvam and M K Thyagaraja Bhagavathar in Trichy. Memorials will also be built for Kavimani Desiya Vinayakam Pillai in Thovalai in Kanyakumari district and Allala Elaya Nayagar in Namakkal. The three memorials in Trichy city will be constructed at a cost of Rs 1.85 crore at a site identified near central bus stand. The memorial for Perumbidugu Mutharaiyar and library will come up on 3,484 square feet with the library an added attraction to be built on 1,184 square feet. The total cost of construction is estimated to be Rs 99.25 lakh. A revered king, Perumbidugu Mutharaiyar represented mutharaiyar community which has a majority in the central region. The memorial for the Thanjavur-born Sir A T Panneerselvam will come up on 1,722 square feet at a cost of Rs 43.40 lakh. Panneerselvam, known for his political acumen also, had served as minister of home and minister of finance of Madras presidency in British India. Son of the soil, thespian M K Thyagaraja Bhagavathar, will also have a memorial on 1,722 feet at a cost of Rs 42.69 lakh. It would be in recognition of his contribution to cinema and music. Kalaiarangam – a theatre-turned-marriage hall had also been named after Thyagaraja Bhagavathar and inaugurated by former chief minister MGR in 1970s. The memorial for Kavimani Desigavinayagam Pillai who lived from July 27, 1876, to September 26, 1954, will have a full size statue built at an outlay of Rs 92.27 lakh. The state government’s special representative in Delhi N Thalavai Sundaram said the memorial will also house a library as announced by the CM under Rule 110 in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-lays-stone-for-memorials-of-5-personalities/articleshow/76414908.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Trichy||‘Non-accredited college degrees may not be valid abroad’||Trichy: Stressing the importance of accreditation of an institution, Dileep N Malkhede, advisor - I, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) said that degrees from non-accredited institutions may not be valid in overseas universities and for employment outside India. Malkhede said that accreditation of institutions was linked to the future of students.Malkhede was speaking at the inaugural function of the six-day national online workshop (NWOBE - 2020) organised by National Institute of Technology (NIT), Trichy on Tuesday. The workshop focuses on the theme ‘perspectives of teaching and learning of engineering sciences for outcome-based education’.NIT-Trichy was granted mentor status to guide 14 engineering institutions in Trichy region in 2018 under the Margdarshan (Share and Mentor Institutions) scheme - an initiative by AICTE to guide and disseminate knowledge to mentee institutions.Malkhede said that the faculty members from engineering institutions attending the workshop can benefit from it as it can enable them to prepare for National Board of Accreditation (NBA). The workshop will cover areas such as submission and processing of pre-qualifier and submission of self-assessment report (SAR) for NBA. It will cover topics like role of ICT in teaching and learning, overview of accreditation, formulation of course outcomes, rankings, perception and contribution of stakeholders in accreditation.Mini Shaji Thomas, director, NIT-Trichy, said that online mode of content delivery and online platform-based interactions is the way forward. She mentioned the importance of perception and outcome-based education in various ranking forums.More than 110 participants from 14 mentee institutions from Tamil Nadu and institutions in Maharashtra is taking part in the workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/non-accredited-college-degrees-may-not-be-valid-abroad/articleshow/76414902.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot wants all homes to be covered under door-to-door drive||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed all district magistrates and elected representatives to cover every single house under the door-to-door Jagrukta Abhiyan for spreading awareness against coronavirus and detecting positive cases across the state from June 21. Gehlot termed the campaign as the biggest measure against the infection in the state, involving workers from different departments.  The directions were given during a video conference with MLAs, district collectors and other officials on Tuesday by the CM. The message should reach every village, hamlet and colony during the 10-day campaign, Gehlot said. “The larger aim is to see people taking safety measures such as frequent hand washing, maintaining two-yard distance, not going out without face mask and not spitting in public places a part of their lifestyle,” said Gehlot.  Public representatives, officers, employees, social organizations and personnel at the grassroots level are expected to make the campaign a success by doing their bit.  An official statement says that a strategy has been prepared to make the campaign a grand success as awareness would be created through audio-visual material, newspapers, TV advertisements, radio jingles, outdoor hoardings, posters, banners, signboards, digital wall painting, vinyl postings on the buses, pamphlet distribution and through social media. Folk artists, who earn their livelihood through street plays, folk songs, puppeteering, etc., would also be roped in for the campaign.  Chief secretary D B Gupta said that awareness would be spread among 1.93 crore people linked with Jan Aadhaar on their mobile phones. “Public representatives at the district, block and panchayat levels would also be associated with this campaign along with the personnel at the grassroots,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-wants-all-homes-to-be-covered-under-door-to-door-drive/articleshow/76414399.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Corona creation: Student develops sanitizer tunnel in UP||GORAKHPUR: A Gorakhpur mechanical engineering student developed a sanitizer tunnel at half of the market cost, during lockdown. Mudit Mittal of Shahpur area in Gorakhpur is third year mechanical engineering student at Kalinga University in Orissa and was at Home due to lockdown. Mudit said, “I was sitting idle at home due to lockdown and to make good use of the time I made hand sanitizer machine and many other things related to protection against coronavirus and at last I thought of developing a low cost sanitizer tunnel/chamber so that anyone who passes through it is automatically sanitized as many people like milkman, vegetable sellers, delivery man used to come to my house and sanitizing them properly was a challenging issue in front of us.” “Within three days I developed a sanitizer tunnel/chamber with movement censor and anyone who enters the chamber is sanitized with automatic spray for 6 minutes which is sufficient to make a person sanitized.” “It cost me around Rs 22,000, almost half of the price of sanitizer tunnels available in the market. If it is be produced in bulk the cost will come down by 10-20%. At present I installed the prototype in front of my house.” About the chemical he uses for sanitizer spray he said, “I use sodium hypochlorite concentration in 0.02 – 0.05% as this ratio is under permissible safety limits, as per the CSIR-NCL directions” he said. His father Alok Mittal, who is a businessman, and mother Rachna Mittal said with the sanitizer tunnel they are feeling safer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-student-develops-low-cost-sanitizer-tunnel/articleshow/76412339.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Private firm staff robbed of Rs 1.96 lakh||PATNA: Three bike-borne criminals looted Rs1.96 lakh from two employees of a microfinance company near Ghurdaur Road under Rajeev Nagar police station in the state capital around 3pm on Tuesday. Anshu Kumar Sinha, the relationship executive of the firm named Vedika Credit Capital Limited, told this newspaper at the police station that he along with colleague Gaurav Kumar was going to deposit the money in the Indian Overseas Bank branch on Boring Road when the criminals intercepted them at road number 25-A in Rajeev Nagar. “Gaurav was carrying the money in a bag on his bike. I was on another bike behind him. Two armed criminals on foot suddenly came in front of us near a narrow T-shaped turning of a bylane,” he said. Sinha said Gaurav fell down while trying to stop the bike. “One of the criminals opened fire in the air and snatched the bag containing cash. One of their associates was waiting on a bike just a few feet ahead in the narrow turning,” he said. Sinha said both the criminals sat on the bike and the three fled while firing another round in the air. “We informed the office as well as police about the incident,” he said. Sinha said the money was monthly instalments collected against group loans on Tuesday only. Another staff of the firm said cash was looted from one of their employees at Rajeev Nagar in 2016. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said efforts were on to identify the criminals involved in the loot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-firm-staff-robbed-of-rs-1-96l/articleshow/76413590.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation to use property tax mop-up to pay doctors salaries||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to utilise the amount collected through property tax and other resources for paying salaries to doctors at six hospitals for the month of March, as per Delhi high court’s direction. “The salary for the month of March amounts to Rs 8 crore and we are checking our financial sources, including property tax to pay them latest by June 19 — the date prescribed by the high court,” standing committee chairman Jai Prakash said. He also visited a group of teachers at a primary school in Sultanpuri, who are on a nine-day strike for non-payment of three months’ salary. To pay the doctors salary for April, the civic agency has been pursuing Delhi government to release the due funds immediately (Rs 140 crore) so that the amount could be disbursed by June 24, the deadline set by the court. “We expect the government to release the funds soon. The amount will also be used for payment of salary to sanitation workers and teachers,” Prakash added. Doctors at Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals have, meanwhile, decided to put their decision for mass resignations on hold till June 24. “Now that the court has intervened, we have decided to wait till June 24 for the civic agency’s response,” said a resident doctor at Hindu Rao Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-to-use-property-tax-mop-up-to-pay-doc-salaries/articleshow/76414402.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Paddy seeds to be given to farmers under Azhiyar irrigation scheme||COIMBATORE: With water from Azhiyar Dam released for cultivation in the Old Ayacut areas earlier this month, the agriculture department is set to start distributing subsidised paddy seeds for cultivation in around 800 hectares in the region. R Chitradevi, joint director of agriculture, Coimbatore, said in a release, water from the Azhiyar Dam was released on June 7. “This would benefit a total of 6,400 acres in Old Ayacut regions, which include Anamalai, Odayakulam, Kaliyapuram, Thensangampalayam, and Kottur,” she said. Paddy crop was being cultivated in around 800 hectares. For cultivation in the current season, 10 metric tonnes of Co-51 paddy seeds would be available from the Anamalai regional agricultural extension centre. “Seeds would be given to farmers from the region at 50% subsidy under the National Agriculture Development Programme,” the JD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/paddy-seeds-to-be-given-to-farmers-under-azhiyar-irrigation-scheme/articleshow/76414398.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid case-doubling rate has increased, says Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government said on Tuesday that it has been able to slow down the spread of Covid-19 in the state. A figure that the government trumpets is Gujarat’s Covid-19 doubling rate. It denotes the number of days it takes for cases to double. The government says the rate has gone up. The state’s doubling rate is 31.47 days, which is way higher than the country’s average of 19.6 days. The neighbouring Madhya Pradesh has a doubling rate of 39 days while Rajasthan’s is 28 days, Kerala’s is 21 days, and Delhi’s is approximately 14 days. Another metric that the government cites is the compounded growth rate. The government says that the rate has reduced by over 70% since May 1. The compounded growth rate was 7.7 on May 1. By June 15, it came down to 2.3. Other encouraging signs have been the number of calls made to the 104 Fever Helpline. Coronavirus-related calls reduced from 1,720 from March 18-24 to 326 by June 13. But the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) among Covid-19 patients is still worrying. Gujarat’s CFR figure is among the highest in the country, even among states that have registered more than 10,000 cases. The CFR of Gujarat was 6.25% as on June 16. Maharashtra has a CFR of 3.73%; Rajasthan’s figure is 2.31%; Delhi’s is 3.27%; and Kerala’s is 1.26%. District-wise, most of the Covid-19 cases are concentrated on the state’s four major cities and their surrounding areas, according to the state government. Ahmedabad has reported the highest number of cases. The case positivity rate (CPR) for Gujarat is 8.23% while that of the neighbouring Maharashtra is 16.5%. The Gujarat government on Tuesday said that its patient discharge rate was 69.17%, which it says has been impressive compared to the rate of many states in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-case-doubling-rate-has-increased-says-govt/articleshow/76413704.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Two cops give away ration kits in villages||Pune: Two constables from Pune city police used their savings to buy dry ration kits and distribute them among the residents of remote hamlets and villages at the foothills of Rajgad Fort in Velhe taluka. Constables Rahul Uttarkar and Dinesh Bhandurge decided to help out the villagers, especially those staying in the remote parts of the taluka. Uttarkar is posted with the Special Branch while Bhandurge is posted with the Faraskhana police station. They reached out to families in Sakhargaon, Wanjale, Chirmodi and other villages. Some of the hamlets are located in the hills but that did not deterred the two cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-cops-give-away-ration-kits-in-villages/articleshow/76414391.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Case against DMK man for drunk driving, misbehaviour||TRICHY: A DMK functionary in Pudukottai district was booked for misbehaving with a woman traffic inspector in an inebriated state on Tuesday. Adaikkalamani, 50, the party’s union secretary of Ponnamaravathi south, arrived in his car near Valayapatti when police stopped him for routine vehicle check on Monday night. Police said he was driving in an inebriated state for which a fine of Rs 2,500 was imposed by traffic inspector Francis Mary. Adaikkalamani questioned this and also manhandled the inspector when she intended to take the key from the car. Though he left after paying the fine, police on Tuesday filed cases under five sections apart from section 4 (1) (j) of Tamil Nadu prohibition act 1937 imposed on Monday night. He was booked under section 294b for using abusive language, 147 for rioting, 353 for preventing government servant from discharging duties, section 4 of Tamil Nadu prohibition of harassment of women act 1998 for harassing the woman inspector and 51b of disaster management act for not following law during the lockdown. Adaikkalamani’s wife Sudha is incumbent union chairman of Ponnamaravathi. Thirumayam DMK MLA S Regupathy condemned the police action against Adaikkalamani saying he was threatened with the case for questioning police excesses. He said in a statement that police have been imposing exorbitant fines on motorists making life more lockdown, affecting them further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-against-dmk-man-for-drunk-driving-misbehaviour/articleshow/76414911.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan girl protests against marriage over no toilet in hamlet, video goes viral||ALWAR: Almost three years after Akshay Kumar-Bhumi Pednekar starrer Bollywood film Toilet Ek Prem Katha hit the screens, a 22-year-old gir Reena Singh Gurjar’s video protesting against her marriage in a house which does not have a toilet has gone viral. She did not even hesitate appealing to prime minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to help her in getting the marriage cancelled. “The village does not have any bathrooms and washroom, which are basic rights of a girl. One has to defecate in the open. I do not want to get married in the village until I get a job,” the girl, a resident of Churla village in Mundawar area, said. A science graduate, the girl is daughter of a police sub-inspector posted in Dholpur. After the video went viral, Harsaura police reached her house and requested her parents not to get her married off. The family of the girl Reena Singh Gurjar is settled in Jaipur. “My mother brought me here in Churla village where I was forced to get engaged to a man on May 20 against my wish. The marriage has been fixed for July 1,” she said complaining that her family did not ask what she wanted. In the video, she is heard expressing dissatisfaction with her proposed marriage. “I was not even told about the man and what does he do,” she said. “I will not get married and will not let my sister also to get married until we get jobs,” she said adding that the place where she is getting married does not have any rights for women. “They go to defecate in the open. There is no status of education for girls,” she said in the video, which she filmed secetely because she was apprehensive that her family might confine her or beat her if they come to know about it. Harsaula police station’s sub-inspector Satya Narayan said he had received information about video from police control room. Acting on it, he went to the village and gathered details related to it. “We have taken in writing from the family that the marriage which was to take place on July 1 has been cancelled,” said Narayan. Watch No toilet, no marriage! Rajasthan girl posts video, seeks help from PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-protests-against-marriage-over-no-toilet-in-hamlet-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76414407.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Agra||63 test positive for Covid-19 in six western UPdists; Meerut crosses 700-mark with 33 fresh cases||Meerut/Agra/Bareilly: At least 63 people tested positive for Covid-19 in six western Uttar Pradesh districts on Tuesday, with Meerut crossing the 700-matrk with 33 fresh cases. As many as 33 new Covid-19 cases, highest since the outbreak, were reported in Meerut on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 706, including one found in Kanpur. The death toll in the district was, however, 54 as on Tuesday, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer (CMO). With five people testing positive on Tuesday, the tally in Bijnor went up to 211, of which 67 are active cases, while four more people succumbed to Covid-19 in district. According to Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, the four patients are from Haldaur, Kiratpur and Sahaspur areas, while family members and contacts of the patients are being quarantined. In Agra, at least 18 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced till Tuesday evening, increasing the district tally to 1,098 with 134 being the active cases. The 18 cases include an MBBS student of a private college, a Class IV employee of SN Medical College, an outsourced computer operator at the Income Tax office, a RBS College staffer and three patients suffering acute respiratory infection. Meanwhile, 10 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 1,098 cases reported in the district, 83.11% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 134 active cases in the district. However, three people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Budaun and one in Shahjahanpur. In Bareilly district, three people tested positive late on Monday, taking the district tally to 143, with 91 being active cases. On Tuesday, however, all samples turned out to be negative in the district. No samples were sent to IVRI for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/63-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-six-western-updists-meerut-crosses-700-mark-with-33-fresh-cases/articleshow/76412355.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada area under kharif likely to increase||Aurangabad: Timely arrival of monsoon this year is expected to increase the area under kharif sowing across Marathwada. The region has an average 48 lakh hectare area under cultivation in Aurangabad and Latur divisions. All eight districts of Marathwada continued to witness widespread showers encouraging farmers to undertake kharif sowing. D L Jadhav, joint director with Aurangabad agricultural division, on Tuesday said that area under kharif sowing may increase by around 10%. “Around 20% sowing has so far been taken place in the division, which is more than last year. If conducive conditions continue for next few weeks, the sowing area is bound to go up,” he said. T N Jagtap, joint director with Latur division of agriculture, said, “The division has reported 3% sowing due to relatively low rainfall. The sowing is expected to pick up.” Meanwhile, six revenue circles from Marathwada, including four in Jalna and one each in Aurangaba and Parbhani reported heavy rainfall (over 65 mm) between Monday and Tuesday morning. An advisory issued by Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University asked farmers to refrain from sowing if rainfall less than 75 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-area-under-kharif-likely-to-increase/articleshow/76412354.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Case against DMK man for drunk driving, misbehaviour||Trichy: A DMK functionary in Pudukottai district was booked for misbehaving with a woman traffic inspector in an inebriated state on Tuesday. Adaikkalamani, 50, the party’s union secretary of Ponnamaravathi south, arrived in his car near Valayapatti when police stopped him for routine vehicle check on Monday night. Police said he was driving in an inebriated state for which a fine of Rs 2,500 was imposed by traffic inspector Francis Mary. Adaikkalamani questioned this and also manhandled the inspector when she intended to take the key from the car. Though he left after paying the fine, police on Tuesday filed cases under five sections apart from section 4 (1) (j) of Tamil Nadu prohibition act 1937 imposed on Monday night. He was booked under section 294b for using abusive language, 147 for rioting, 353 for preventing government servant from discharging duties, section 4 of Tamil Nadu prohibition of harassment of women act 1998 for harassing the woman inspector and 51b of disaster management act for not following law during the lockdown. Adaikkalamani’s wife Sudha is incumbent union chairman of Ponnamaravathi. Thirumayam DMK MLA S Regupathy condemned the police action against Adaikkalamani saying he was threatened with the case for questioning police excesses. He said in a statement that police have been imposing exorbitant fines on motorists making life more lockdown, affecting them further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-against-dmk-man-for-drunk-driving-misbehaviour/articleshow/76414910.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Jewellers resent govt’s move to decriminalise cheque bounce offence||Ludhiana: The proposal by the finance ministry to decriminalise cheque bounce offence does not seem to have gone down well with the jewellers’ fraternity. The jewellers of Punjab are strongly opposing this proposal claiming that a significant portion of their business, whether retail or bulk, is being done through cheques. But if the ministry’s proposal is accepted, then there will be no fear of strict action like jail term among people in case of cheque bounce cases. According to the jewellers, this will lead to people turning into habitual offenders and rise in cases of cheating by cheques. Speaking to TOI, Anand Sikri, president of Punjab Jewellers Association, said, “There seems to be no rationale in the proposed amendments and these will lead to chaos in settlement of financial deals, both personal and business, without any deterrent of legal action or solution. The decriminalisation of economic offences, especially cases of cheque bounce will adversely affect working of business entities dealing on credit or post dated cheque basis. This move will certainly prove counterproductive as a potent and expeditious mechanism for recovery of loans through penal consequences.” He further said, “The provision was incorporated in the Negotiable Instrument Act with the objective to defeat the criminal objectives of the persons who intend to swallow the hard earned money of the investors and entrepreneurs. To promote efficiency in banking operations and to ensure credibility in transacting business through cheques was the intention beneath the objective of making cheque bounce a non-bailable offence. Judicial interpretations followed from time to time and it was repeatedly held in various judicial pronouncements that Section 138 was meant to protect bona fide creditors against unscrupulous drawers who never intended to honour the cheques issued by them, it being a part of their modus operandi to punish the guilty persons.” Sikri also added, “Despite the fact that the provision is stringent in nature, still the procedural hiccups have been coming in the way of its implementation. Past experience reveals that more than 10 lakh cases under Section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act are pending before various trial and appellate courts across the country despite the fact that in various states special courts have been formed to deal with such cases. As the creditors were still feeling that miscreants had been dilly-dallying the legal proceedings by adopting one or other legal mythologies, proceedings in a number of cases had been lying stalled on account of certain technical aspects.” He added, “Due to present lockdown, such unscrupulous persons have been considerably benefited. In case the penal provisions are taken away, it will again add to miseries of the creditors/complainants. It will further add to the tendency of usurping the hard earned money of genuine complainants, who will in turn will be compelled to withhold their liabilities to the bank and will not hesitate even if their accounts are declared NPAs. This will affect the economy. The proposal will surely result in encouraging minds of perpetrators to defraud and cheat innocent persons and there will be absolutely no fear in minds of people. The fear of criminal litigation and imprisonment is one of the most vital and paramount precipitating factor for not only making timely payments of cheques but for the judicial system as a whole as well. We therefore, request that the proposed amendments of decriminalisation of various economic offences, particularly under cheque bounce cases may be dropped. Rather, it is suggested that the provisions already framed may be made more stringent so that no one can escape the payment of dues under the Negotiable Instrument Act.” Meanwhile speaking to TOI, Ganesh Verma, a resident of Janta Nagar said, “I don’t think there is anything wrong if cheque bounce cases are decriminalised. As already there have been instances where people had to go to jail even for small amount of payment defaults. Therefore, there is no harm if the government goes ahead with the proposal, but yes at the same time to cater to the concerns of the businessmen, the government can contemplate making it a punishable offence with jail term in case of business to business transactions but not in case of micro finance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jewellers-resent-govts-move-to-decriminalise-cheque-bounce-offence/articleshow/76413544.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Trichy||Water released from Kallanai for kuruvai crop in delta districts||Trichy: Water was released from Kallanai (Grand Anaicut) for kuruvai cultivation in the Cauvery delta districts including Thanjavur, Thiruvarur and Nagapattinam on Tuesday.Ministers, officials and farmers showered flowers and paddy seeds when the water gushed out from the sluices of the Cauvery, Vennar, GA Canal and Kollidam systems. A total of 2,000 cusecs of water was released and it would be increased based on the need, officials from PWD said.The water is expected to irrigate the 3.5 lakh acres in delta districts if it would continue to flow in Cauvery and other branch canals, farmers said and appealed the state government to make sure water would reach the tail-end areas.While stressing the need to use water judiciously, food minister R Kamaraj said that after eight years water has been released from Mettur dam on the customary date of June 12. “Farmers should make use of the opportunity and try to get more yield,” the minister said.“Last year, farmers managed to get 20% more yield than previous years. A total of 24 lakh tonnes of paddy was procured through direct procurement centres (DPCs) the last year. This year farmers will set a record harvest,” he.During the event, even ministers, district collectors and officials did not maintain physical distancing and were rubbing shoulders while raising the sluices. State cabinet ministers including R Doraikannu and O S Manian, Puducherry minister Kamalakannan, MP R Vaithilingam and district collectors M Govinda Rao (Thanjavur), T Ananad (Thiruvarur) and P Maheswari (Pudukottai) opened the shutters in the presence of senior officials and farmers. Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association general secretary Mannargudi S Ranganathan was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/water-released-from-kallanai-for-kuruvai-crop-in-delta-districts/articleshow/76414914.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||A week needed to get Hindu Rao hospital Covid-19 ready: NDMC||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday clarified that it will take at least one week to develop Hindu Rao Hospital into a designated Covid-19 facility. North corporation mayor Avtar Singh said that there is paucity of resources and equipment at the hospital and unless they get assistance from Delhi government, it will be difficult to develop a full-fledged facility. The civic body’s announcement came two days after Delhi government declared Hindu Rao Hospital a dedicated Covid-19 facility to deal with the rising number of cases. The civic agency plans to ready 200 beds for Covid-19 patients in phase-1 and in phase-2, wards with 300 beds will be prepared. “But at present we have ventilators on 100 beds only. During a joint meeting with doctors, we reviewed the hospital’s infrastructure and found a shortage of ventilators, masks, PPE kits etc. The requirement has been sent to Delhi government. There is also a need to fix bathrooms and an air-conditioning systems portion. Unless things are in place, how we will be able to start the facility,” said Singh. In two days, 14 patients visited the isolation wards, including 13 suspected and one positive patient, said standing committee chairman Jai Prakash who also inspected the hospital along with medical superintendent Dr Anu Kapoor. On Sunday, as soon as the hospital was declared a Covid-19 facility OPD services were stopped at hospital. However, on Tuesday the hospital administration clarified through an official order that all OPDs and emergency services will continue till further order and only patients in emergency will be admitted. “We took the decision as people with old medical issues are still visiting the hospital for consultation. However, when the number of Covid-19 patients increases, we will shut down all other services,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-week-needed-to-get-hindu-rao-hosp-covid-ready-corpn/articleshow/76414409.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Seven Covid cases in Bopal-Ghuma, its highest for a single day||AHMEDABAD: The Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika on Tuesday reported seven cases, one from Ghuma and six from Bopal. The suburb of Ahmedabad has reported over 50 cases, nearly a third of the cases reported in Daskroi taluka. Ahmedabad district in the past 24 hours reported 22 cases, taking its tally to 627. One death was also reported, from Viramgam. The number of deaths in the district barring the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation areas is thus 42 now. Jigisha Shah, president of Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika, said that in all the fresh cases it appears that the person had gone to Ahmedabad city from where they have got infected. Majority people in Bopal go to Ahmedabad work or business. The seven fresh cases reported on Tuesday included cases from Atma Jyoti, Shivalaya Bungalows, Neelkanth Orchid, Arihant Bungalows, Binori Gloriya and Sterling City near SRV School in Bopal and one case from Ghuma at Iscon Flower, near Lal Gebi Ashram. Officials said this is the highest daily number of cases in Bopal-Ghuma. Of the 22 cases in rural Ahmedabad, there were nine cases each in Dholka and Daskroi, one in Sanand and three in Viramgam. Taluka-wise, of the 627 cases in the district excluding municipal limits, 187 are from Dholka taluka, 150 from Daskroi, 109 from Sanand, 58 from Viramgam, 69 from Bavla, 30 from Dhandhuka and 12 each from Detroj and Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-cases-in-bopal-ghuma-its-highest-for-a-single-day/articleshow/76413699.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||Man tries to move electric pole, gets jolt||Vadodara: A farmer in Chhota Udepur received an electric shock while trying to move a mangled electric pole in his farm on Tuesday morning. The farmer Hasmukh Rathwa, had to plough his field at Koliboriyad village using tractor, but as the electric pole was lying in the middle of his farm, he tried to move it with his hands. The pole had fallen on June 12 due to thunderstorm. As Rathwa touched the electric wire, he suffered a shock and collapsed after a scream. As locals heard Rathwa’s scream they rushed to his help. A woman identified as Leela Rathwa pushed away the live wire using a wooden stick. Rathwa was taken to community health centre at Gadhboriyad village where his condition is stable. Another villager Jagdish Bhil said that after the pole had collapsed, Rathwa had complained to the local office of Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd, but nobody had come to repair it, so Rathwa decided to move it himself. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-tries-to-move-electric-pole-gets-jolt/articleshow/76412390.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bereaving first casualty, Railways to take extra precautions for staffers above 55||Ludhiana: A pall of gloom descended on the Ludhiana railway station after the shocking news about the death of a senior divisional mechanical engineer of carriage and wagon department from Ferozepur division spread. he was admitted to the local CMCH hospital after getting infected with Covid-19 virus some days back. Following this, the higher authorities of Northern Railway while taking more precautionary measures have issued a set of latest guidelines to the local railway staff, which have been deputed in the work of managing heavy parcel and heavy wagon trains. Sources in the railway department have revealed that the authorities concerned are also proposing against giving field duties to railway employees above 55 years of age as a safety measure to ensure their safety.” As part of more precautionary measures for class IV employees in the cleanliness department, the railways authorities have asked the local health department officials to conduct regular medical screening of all as they were entering the station premises from different parts of the district. However, railway authorities have asked cleanliness department officials to ensure that only 50%officials work at one time for managing the cleanliness work of the station premises as only a limited trains are passing through the city station at present, so a lot of waste is not being generated at the station premises. The Railways have put restrictions on the use of lifts and escalators by the local railway officials and asked the local vendors to store masks and sanitisers for further selling these to passengers who are in dire need of these things during their travelling time. “Moreover, the railway authorities will soon provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to local ticket checking staff as the authorities have acquired these from Delhi headquarters and will soon be distributed among ticket checking staff, including railway protection force,” sources said. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The Railways have suffered a huge blow after the death of one of the employees. We have received all guidelines from Northern Railway authorities to ensure the mandatory health check-up of all railway officials who are working in different departments.” “Railway authorities are also fighting against all odd circumstances to ensure better service for all passengers because its tough time for them in managing work in every field because we have lost two officials (one a Railway Protection Force employee and another a senior railway official) from different department in just a span of one month,” the station director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bereaving-first-casualty-railways-to-take-extra-precautions-for-staffers-above-55/articleshow/76413559.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||11 more test +ve for Covid-19||Coimbatore: Eleven people, two of them contacts of the 28-year-old man who died of Covid-19 on Sunday, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Tuesday, even as 11 people were discharged from the ESI Hospital. Eight of the new patients have travel histories. Health department officials are on a drive to trace and test contacts of the new cases. The state government, however, declared only two people positive in the district and one in neighbouring Tirupur in the media bulletin, taking the district’s Covid-19 tally to 183. Among the new cases are a 17-year-old girl from Namakkal, who flew into the city from New Delhi, and three men aged 51, 33 and 40 years, who were tested at Karumathampatti check post as they had a travel history to Chennai. A 61-year-old woman from Karamadai and a 38-year-old man from Thudiyalur, both of them with a travel history to Trichy, and a 38-year-old man from Ramanathapuram with a travel history to Chennai are also among the new cases. A health department official said, “These three voluntarily went to the ESI Hospital to test for Covid-19.” The remaining cases include a 48-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram who went to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with flu-like symptoms, and two contacts of the deceased patient. “They are his neighbours in Chinniampalayam. They are suffering from fever as well,” the official said. Sources said at least four more contacts of the deceased patient might have contracted the virus, but their results were yet to be declared. A source with CMCH said, “After the death of the 28-year-old man, nine people from his area came to us saying they had met him recently and that they were having flu-like symptoms. While two of them were found to be symptomatic and positive, we are re-investigating the results of another four.” Health officials have collected samples from another 35 people, including the family members, colleagues and neighbours of the deceased, from Chinniampalayam. Meanwhile, 11 people have recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from the ESI Hospital on Tuesday. Among the discharged are two pregnant women and a cancer patient. Hospital dean Dr Nirmala said they hadn’t any critical cases even in the new batch of patients. A total of 309 patients have been recovered and discharged from the hospital till date. Dr Nirmala said while they had been seeing an increase in the number of symptomatic patients, the recovery rate was still at 100%. Referring to the 48-year-old throat cancer patient, she said, “Like all cancer patients, his immunity was expected to be low and he was treated like a high-risk patient. But his body responded well to our anti-viral treatment. He is now free of Covid-19 and can return to his cancer treatment.” He also did not require extra oxygen, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/11-more-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76414408.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||1,016 spurious sanitisers seized, one booked||Ludhiana: A team comprising officials of the drug control office conducted a raid late on Monday opposite Malhi Farm, Haibowal Kalan, and seized 1,016 bottles of spurious hand sanitisers. A case against the accused has been registered under Section 17-B of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and the matter has been referred to the police for registration of an FIR. On the basis of the complaint received from a proprietor of a firm, Ron and Baker from Ambala, regarding the sale of a spurious product, Medshield hand sanitiser, of its company. The proprietor of firm Ron Baker, Sunil Dutt, complained, “Lavish Kumar Grover of Haibowal Kalan is selling spurious hand sanitisers in the name of his company and by doing this he is spoiling image of company and earning lakh of rupees.” On Monday, Sunil Dutt while posing as a decoy customer asked for delivery of the spurious hand sanitisers and Lavish came on an SUV for delivery of the spurious sanitisers opposite Malhi Farm. Meanwhile, the team reached the site and on seeing the team Lavish managed to flee, leaving behind all sanitizers and his SUV. Two samples of the sanitisers were taken for test and analysis and a total of 1,016 units of the spurious sanitiser were seized by drugs inspectors. A joint team comprising drug control office Rupinder Kaur and Roop Preet Kaur on Monday conducted a raid opposite Malhi Farm, Haibowal Kalan, and seized the 1,016 bottles of spurious hand sanitiser. Kulwinder Singh, district licensing officer, said, “The recovered product is an imitation of the original product, Medshield, and its label bears name of company M/s Ron and Baker. But actually it is not the product of aforesaid manufacturing firm as per statement and complaint of proprietor Ron and Baker owner Sunil Dutt. A case against the accused Lavish Kumar and Rahul have been registered under section 17 B of drugs and cosmetics Act 1940 and matter referred to police for registration of FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/1016-spurious-sanitisers-seized-one-booked/articleshow/76413589.cms||Mehak Jain
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||People’s exposure to virus minimal in Coimbatore district: ICMR study||COIMBATORE: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found antibodies only in 10 of the 400 blood samples that were collected from the district in mid-May. They had collected blood samples from people living in and around containment zones to check for exposure to the virus within the community. According to the public health department, the data shows that there has been only minimal exposure to the virus in the community. Public health experts say this is also an indicator of how far away the district is from achieving the “herd immunity” target. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, confirmed that the ICMR has tested only 2.5% of the 400 samples positive. “They had collected samples from 10 locations, including Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Kuniamuthur. Some of the locations were either containment zones or had containment zones. Despite having a high number of positive cases in these areas in early April, people’s exposure to the virus has been extremely minimal. This proves that there is no community transmission.” The test results have been almost the same across the country and only 0.73% of the 26,400 people who they tested was exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They also found that risk in urban areas and urban slums was 1.09 and 1.89 times higher than that in rural areas. The low incidence of antibodies in a particular population indicates that the virus has not spread rapidly. While admitting that the low incidence could be due to the lockdown, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava says the results show that “a large proportion of the population is still susceptible”. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says the data underlines the need to continue measures against Covid-19 in a full-fledged manner. “Even among this 10, we don’t know whether any of them was an earlier detected case. So, this means most of us don’t have immunity and should continue practising strict social distancing, hand washing and wearing of masks. Contact tracing should also continue.” The 12-member ICMR team collected 400 blood samples from 10 locations - five in the city and five in rural areas – on May 16 and 17. The locations from where the team collected samples include Kuniamuthur, Pattunool, Ganapathy, Vilankurichi and Avarampalayam in the city, and Periyanaickenpalayam, Sulthanpet, Kinathukidavu, Pollachi and Mettupalayam in the rural areas. All the locations had reported Covid-19 cases before the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/peoples-exposure-to-virus-minimal-in-coimbatore-district-icmr-study/articleshow/76414419.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||20 cops quarantined as 4 accused test +ve||Ludhiana: Twenty cops were quarantined after a snatcher, a drug peddler and two ATM fraudsters tested positive for Covid-19.Of the 20 cops, four are from Janakpuri police post, one from civil hospital police post, one from Division 2 police station, six from Sahnewal police station and eight from Kanganwal police post.On June 11, eight cops of Division 2 police station were quarantined after a constable deputed there tested positive.On June 13, Janakpuri police post, which comes under Division 2 police station, had arrested the drug peddler and the snatcher. They were taken to civil hospital for a medical examination and a Covid-19 test. There, they had come in contact with another cop of civil hospital police post. Thereafter, they were kept in a lockup. Their test reports came on Monday.Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Deepak Pareek said, “Eight cops of Division 2 police station are already under quarantine. And on Monday, one more cop of the station, four of Janakpuri police post and one of civil hospital police post were isolated after two accused were confirmed to have contracted the virus. These cops — four ASIs and two head constables — are at Sigma College of Nursing, Southern Bypass, a quarantine centre only for cops.”“The police station as well as the police posts have been sanitized. They have been provided additional force, too,” he added.ADCP-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “Kanganwal police post had arrested two ATM frauds three days ago. As the duo has tested positive, 14 cops, including six of Sahnewal police station and eight of Kanganwal police post, were quarantined on Tuesday. These cops include a sub-inspector, two ASIs, constables and head constables.”After arresting an accused, the police first get his Covid-19 test conducted. He is kept in a lockup till the report is received. The Ludhiana Central Jail authorities do not take an accused whose Covid-19 test has not been conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/20-cops-quarantined-as-4-accused-test-ve/articleshow/76412391.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||17% positive on first day of scaled up tests; four more die in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday said 17% of 1,231 samples tested during the day for Covid-19 turned positive while four more persons died, raising the toll to 191. Authorities said 213 persons tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 5,406 cases. So far, Telangana has tested 44,431 samples to detect novel coronavirus cases across the state which amounts to 12% positive cases. The spread of the virus is continuing unabated in greater Hyderabad, where 165 of the 213 cases were reported. Testing on a daily basis was increased by 300 samples on Tuesday, as part of the state government’s plan to conduct 50,000 tests in and around the city. These are being conducted in 10 government laboratories at Gandhi Medical College, Osmania General Hospital, Fever hospital, Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Institute Of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Kakatiya Medical College, Warangal, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), ESIC hospital in Hyderabad and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad. With 261 patients discharged on Tuesday, the total number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 now stands at 3,027 in the state. “While the testing charges have been fixed for private sector only yesterday, we are expecting them to iron out some issues and join in testing over the next two to three days. With private facilities joining in, we will be able to test nearly 4,000 samples per day,” said a senior official from the state health department. Among the patients who tested positive on Tuesday was a banker from Manikonda, doctors and nurses at the Kondapur district hospital, doctors at the Nature Cure Hospital Begumpet and the owner of the popular Gokul Chat Centre. Each of these positive cases have resulted in 10-20 contacts being quarantined. Reacting to rumours about shutdown of Gokul Chat, a staff said, “This is to clarify that the owner and head of the family is a retired person and has not moved out of home since lockdown and has been infected via unknown source. There have been rumours spreading about our staff and other family members being infected, we wish to inform that there is nothing as such. All members have been tested and were found to be safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/17-ve-on-1st-day-of-scaled-up-tests-four-more-die-in-t/articleshow/76414917.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 17, 2020||Kochi||More denominations of church support cremation||Thrissur: Apart from Thrissur archdiocese, more denominations of the church have made it clear that they are not fully opposed to cremation of dead bodies, though burial is the preferred form of last rites. Leaders of Malankara Syrian Orthodox church and Church of the East clarified that they had endorsed cremation of dead bodies earlier itself, though Jacobite faction leaders said they would only approve burial as the accepted form of last rites. Only Thrissur archdiocese, which is part of Syro-Malabar Church, has come out in the open endorsing cremation and its stance is more radical than the positions taken by other churches. The circular issued by archbishop Mar Jacob Thoomkuzhy made it clear that the church will not oppose the conduct of last rites even inside home compounds if there are space constraints or other difficulties in church cemeteries. TOI had reported on June 9 that the objections raised by some parishes against the burial of Denny Chacko had revived the debate on burial among Christians and Irinjalakuda Bishop Mar Pauly Kannookadan had come out in the open saying cremation is not anti-Christian. The circular said that during funeral rites it must be made clear that the church prefers burial. Secretary of Thrissur archdiocese pastoral council Mary Regina and spokesperson for Catholic congress of the archdiocese CL Ignatius said the laity welcomed the decision of the archbishop. Bishop Yuhanon Mor Meletius of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church said his denomination had endorsed cremation in unusual circumstances six years ago. The bishop of the area will have the discretion to approve or reject requests for cremation after evaluating each situation, he said. Metropolitan of the Church of the East Mar Aprem said synod of the Church held in the US 10 years ago had agreed to allow cremation in specific situations. But, the church will conduct the funeral services and prayers only till the body is taken to the cemetery and family members of the deceased. Former chief spokesman for the Jacobite Syrian Church (JSC) Fr Varghese Kallappara said cremation goes against Christian faith and principles enunciated in the Holy Bible. JSC does not endorse any other form of last rites and it won’t change its stance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-denominations-of-church-support-cremation/articleshow/76412374.cms||T Ramavarman
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Relax quarantine norms, let transit travellers come home’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has requested other states – where international passengers bound for Kerala are arriving as a transit destination – to let them travel to the state immediately, without undergoing a 14-day quarantine. As central guidelines mandate that international passengers should be quarantined at their place of first arrival, most states insist on passenger quarantine before returning to their native place. The state government has assured states, including Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, where Kerala-bound international passengers are arriving in large numbers that these passengers will undergo quarantine immediately after they reach Kerala. In his letter to other states, (accessed by TOI), principal secretary (industries and Norka) K Ellangovan – also the state coordinator for international travellers –said that due to non-availability of direct flights, many passengers are landing at airports in other states and they have requested an intervention to avoid quarantine in other states. "I would like to request you to allow such passengers to board the connection flight to Kerala or proceed to Kerala by road or train on production of e-pass issued by the state coordinator for inter-state movement. They will be put in quarantine in Kerala as per the existing health advisories," the letter said. As per MHA guidelines, whenever an international flight with passengers from other states arrives in any city, the authorities in that state should arrange quarantine facility for such persons at their place of arrival. Only after undergoing quarantine for 14 days, they will be allowed to travel to their home state. However, the state’s request will be applicable only to those passengers who have registered their name and details at ‘covid-19 jagratha’ portal and secured clearance to come to Kerala. The state also clarified that those who don’t have its entry passes should undergo quarantine at their place of arrival. "Norka department and state Covid control room have been receiving numerous requests from international passengers, especially from non-Gulf sector. International flights from other countries fly to other cities. Passengers are requesting that they would like to come home at the earliest as Kerala had said that home quarantine would suffice," said government sources. In phase-III of Vande Bharat mission that began on June 13, 534 flights have been given clearance by the Centre to fly to various airports in the country. Of this, 83 flights are set to land in Kerala and 58 are from Gulf countries like UAE, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain. The remaining flights from other countries are flying to other major airports in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/relax-quarantine-norms-let-transit-travellers-come-home/articleshow/76412361.cms||KP Saikiran
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Severe malaria cases in Ahmedabad a concern: Study||AHMEDABAD: Just as monsoon sets in, vector-borne diseases become a worry. But a new study has pointed to a new concern for malaria, one of the most common mosquito-caused diseases in the city. A yearlong study published in the journal ‘Virulence’ on June 3, has found evidence of increasing prevalence of “severe malaria” cases in Ahmedabad. The study found that severe malaria cases predominantly affected adults of the age group of 22 to 32 years. The study reasoned that the prevalence must be because of “decrease in immune development” against severe malaria. The five institutions involved in the study — Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), National Institute of Malaria Research, Delhi; Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York University; BJMC Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad; and Department of Infection Biology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK — have now collectively called for better surveillance of severe vivax malaria cases, vector-control measures and serological evaluation for such cases. The study closely examined the symptoms of 30-odd patients, of whom 16.7% had a history of fever or malaria. All patients presented a variety of symptoms such as chills, headache (96.7%), vomiting (76.7%), and abdominal pain (73.3%). Among the blood parameters, platelet counts were recorded for only 80% of patients, 58% of the patients had thrombocytopenia or their platelet counts were less than 1,50,000 per microlitre, and 29% of the patients had severe thrombocytopenia where platelet counts were below 50,000 per microlitre. Then there were 12 patients who had acute kidney injury and one patient who had developed jaundice as a co-infection. The study also observed that the prevalence of severe malaria was greater than that of falciparum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/severe-malaria-cases-in-abad-a-concern-study/articleshow/76413766.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Pharma, telecom gained during crisis’||AHMEDABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic not only disrupted lives but also severely impacted governance and stock markets. What helped some companies remain afloat and why did some have their market share washed out? A study carried out by Prof Joshy Jacob from IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and Prof Balagopal Gopalakrishnan from IIM-Kozhikode (IIM-K) looked for answers. The studied involved Avijit Bansal and Pranjal Srivastava, doctoral students at IIM-A. It was carried out under the aegis of IIM-A’s Misra Centre for Financial Markets and Economy. The study, titled ‘When the market went viral: COVID-19, stock returns, and firm characteristics’, examined 500 firms in Indian stock markets in 25 categories from January 1 to May 29. The study assessed their success or failure on multiple parameters. The study said that the pharma sector gained about 23% and telecom 12%. Whereas all other sectors — 22 of the 24 taken into consideration — reported a decline in market value. The decline ranged from 1% in sectors such as electronics and agriculture to more than 50% in hospitality (50%), real estate (55%) and tourism (56%). “Seven industries of the 24 have lost at least a quarter of their market capitalization in the five-month period,” mentioned the study. The study argued that in the limited outbreak period, high market volatility was experienced but unlike the US market, the response was rapid in India. “Generally, markets are accurate in forecasting what is going to happen. But the pandemic was unprecedented,” said Prof Jacob, adding that the government stimulus had a positive impact on the market. What will change for companies in the phase of ‘living with the virus’? Prof Jacob said that the industries have sent unambiguous signals that they are very much focused on improving efficiency and shedding flab. “They are bracing for possible disruption in operations. Like humans, firms must survive to enjoy the benefits,” he said. “Areas like digitization of processes and supporting the supply chain are under focus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-telecom-gained-during-crisis/articleshow/76413694.cms||Parth Shastri
June 17, 2020||Agra||22 Covid-19 patients died in 15 days, most above 50 years||Agra: Twenty-two people who tested positive for Covid-19 have died in Agra district in the past 15 days. On an average, three Covid-19 patients are dying every 48 hours since June 1. So far, 64 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. According to the health department, the majority of the Covid-19 patients died due to comorbidity and around 85% were above 50 years of age. Those suffering from respiratory ailments, diabetes, heart and kidney problems are at high risk. In June, around 50% of people who were admitted because of breathing issues tested Covid-19 positive and later died during the course of treatment. The impact of novel coronavirus is such that these patients suffer from acute respiratory distress syndrome. According to the doctors at SN Medical College (SNMC), most Covid-19 deaths are of patients with comorbidities. They were admitted under critical conditions. Majority of the deaths occurred within 48 hours of admission to the hospital. Some of the patients tested positive after death. Principal of SN Medical College Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The number of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 after being admitted under severe conditions has significantly increased in the past 15 days. Patients with breathing troubles are given oxygen support. Our doctors are trying hard to save lives.” Appointed by the state government as Covid-19 nodal officer for Agra, secretary (power department) M Devraj has directed the health department to conduct regular checkups and compile data of all the people above 50 years of age in the areas marked as Covid-19 hotspots. During a review meeting with district administration and health department officials, he also expressed concern over the increasing number of deaths of Covid-19 patients. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “We are conducting screenings of all the family members of the people who tested Covid-19 positive. Samples of those showing symptoms are being sent for lab testing. Pool testing is also being conducted to identify all the infected people and send them to the isolation facility. People suffering from any health problem, children below 10 years of age, senior citizens and pregnant women should not step out of the house except for medical reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/22-covid-19-patients-died-in-15-days-most-above-50-years/articleshow/76412427.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Upset with kin, man cooks up police apathy tale to gain their sympathy||Ludhiana: A tweet of Naval Kishor of Gurugram — stating that his brother has been detained by Ludhiana Police for having flu-like symptoms and they were not allowing him to talk to anyone for the past three days — ruffled the khaki feathers in the city. But the case took a curious turn on Tuesday. The police found that his brother was upset with his family over property and monetary disputes and had concocted a story to gain their sympathy. Nand Kishor, 36, who hails from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, has been living in city’s Prem Nagar for many years and works at a flour unit on Tibba Road. Talking to the TOI on phone, Naval Kishor, his brother, said, “On June 11, Nand talked to his family in UP. In the afternoon when the family called him up again, there was no response. As their several calls went unanswered, they got worried. Late at night, Nand called back and said cops had detained him as he had flu-like symptoms and were calling him a Covid-19 patient. He said cops took Rs 3,000 from his employer and then allowed him to talk to his family. We thought the police would send Nand to hospital for treatment. So, the next day we called him up, but there was no response. For two more days we kept calling him up, but all calls went unanswered. We got worried as we did not even have his employer’s contact number. I had no other option but to tweet.”On June 14, he tweeted to the Punjab Police, seeking help. “On June 15, I received a call from a Ludhiana cop, who asked for some details of Nand,” Naval added. When the TOI approached Nand’s employer, he said, “Nand had gone back to his hometown in a Shramik train, but returned about 15 days ago after a fight with his brothers and sister over monetary and property issues. He is fine and working here. He had concocted this story as he was upset with his family.” When the TOI called up Nand Kishor, he said, “This is my personal matter. I do not want to talk to my family members. That is why I lied to them. I never thought they would approach the police.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “The man was upset with his family, so he fabricated the story to gain their sympathy. The police are not taking any action in this case.” Twitter to your aidIf you want any assistance of Ludhiana Police or even want to lodge a complaint, just tag Punjab Police or Ludhiana Police in your tweet to get an instant reply. Ludhiana Police has a separate media cell that operates its official Twitter and Facebook accounts. At times, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, too, operates the Twitter handle. Agarwal said, “People are active on social media and considering the pandemic, we want to encourage people to approach police while sitting at home. We have a team that operates the social media accounts of Ludhiana Police. Anyone who approaches police is contacted by the team. After talking to them, necessary action is taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/upset-with-kin-man-cooks-up-police-apathy-tale-to-gain-their-sympathy/articleshow/76412420.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||As factories start running, bizmen fly back workers||Ludhiana: City businessmen are leaving no stone unturned to get their workers back from their home states. Some industrialists have tied up with bus operators to ferry back their workers, while others have booked rail tickets for them. A few have even bought air tickets to get their workforce back to the industrial town. Srikant Kumar, one such worker who was brought back to Ludhiana by air from Bihar by his factory owner, said, “I, along with several other workers, had left the city in May as my family back home in Aurangabad was getting worried for me due to the pandemic. After sitting idle for a month, I contacted our factory owner and requested him to have me back. Since no other means of transportation seemed to work for reaching Ludhiana, he sent me an air ticket from Patna to Delhi and Delhi to Ludhiana. On June 1, I returned to work. Similarly, nine more workers were brought back and our owner has not even charged a single rupee from us.”Bobby Jindal, president of Ludhiana Dyers’ Association who has sponsored the tickets of his workers, said, “My workers have been with me for more than 15 years and stood by me through all odds. So, sponsoring their air tickets was a very small thing I could do in return. We have facilitated the return of several of our workers via trains as well. Close to 50 more workers will be brought back to Ludhiana.”Kulpreet Malhotra, former office-bearer of the United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Factories have resumed production in almost all sectors, and there is shortage of labour. So, businessmen are trying their best to facilitate return of their workers. We have tied up with a bus operator to bring back our labourers from Uttar Pradesh and some have arrived. The expenditure incurred on the buses will be borne jointly by us.”Dinesh Kalra, president of the Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “For the past few days, we were getting many calls from our workers, who were at their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They wanted to return. So, we got train tickets booked and also arranged for their return in a systematic way. So far, 20 workers have come back. We are hoping as the situation returns to normal, more workers will join us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-factories-start-running-bizmen-fly-back-workers/articleshow/76412408.cms||Mohit Behl
June 17, 2020||Agra||Action against Mathura cop for claiming to cure Covid-19||Agra: A head constable in Mathura on Tuesday was transferred to Police Lines, after a video of him claiming to be able to cure Covid-19 within two days went viral on social media. In the video, head constable Ram Sevak Yadav, who was deployed at Govind Nagar police station, can be seen urging the government to give him an opportunity to cure the infection, as Lord Krishna has directed him to do so.“I’ll save every person who has been infected by the disease,” he said, adding that if he can’t cure patients, he’s ready to face any action. Earlier, a fake godman in Lucknow, who had claimed to have a cure for the deadly infection, was arrested by police. The fake godman, Ahmad Siddiqui, had put up a board outside his shop in Daliganj area, claiming he had a cure for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/action-against-mathura-cop-for-claiming-to-cure-covid-19/articleshow/76412402.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Tourism activities banned in Radhanagari during monsoon||KOLHAPUR: The onset of monsoon amid the Covid-19 pandemic has forced the Radhanagari tehsil administration to ban all tourism activities for the entire rainy season. A meeting in this regard was held on Monday and it was attended by the tehsil, police, revenue and forest officials along with local villagers. This trend is likely to be followed by other tehsils as well. Radhanagari is a tourism hotspot during monsoon as it is home to a forest, several dams and waterfalls. Meena Nimbalkar, tehsildar of Radhanagari, said that strict action will be taken against those who defy this rule. “The footfall of visitors increase during monsoon. We have taken the step to prevent Covid spread,” she said. Samrat Kerkar, founder of Bison Nature Club, said, “There are around 30 hotels and 50 small eateries that depend on tourists. Many livelihoods will be affected, but we welcome this move.” Umakant Chavan, an environment researcher, said, “The number of people visiting Radhanagari during monsoon is huge and many of them consume alcohol and cause littering. Now, with all these places being shut, the environment will be saved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tourism-activities-banned-in-radhanagari-during-monsoon/articleshow/76412401.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru diners happy as hotels usher in contactless service||MANGALURU: A small café and grill near St Aloysius College has replaced its regular card menu with a QR code menu. Post lockdown, to contain the spread of Coronavirus, food joints and hotels in Kudla are taking utmost precautions and are devising novel ways for contactless service. “The dining experience is completely transformed. There is a sea of change in every restaurant in the city to stop the spread of Covid-19,” said Shiva Prasad Shetty, a marketing consultant. Some of the changes adopted by every food joint and hotels with accommodation are frequent sanitisation of premises, sterilised cutlery, QR code menus and check-ins, use of basic PPE kits by staff and others. “We are trying our best to implement contactless service. These circumstances call for stringent hygiene protocols in view of the safety of our employees and guests. We are leaving no stone unturned for safety,” said B N Girish, vice president, The Ocean Pearl. Explaining some of the measures, Girish said that apart from going digital in menu cards, hotels soon will roll out digital check in and out. “The guest has to fill up all details and send necessary documents through email. “ Girish said food to guests is delivered in a disinfected trolley with a person wearing basic PPE. Cutlery will be one-time-use kind. Some of the steel cutlery and plates will be sterilised after each use. “The same safety steps are taken at dine-in facilities too. In order to educate staff and stress on safety protocols, the management briefs them for half an hour every day,” he added. Peter Nirmal, general manager of The Gateway Hotel, said that the facility has been opened partially with skeletal staff. “Despite not many walk ins, we sanitise our place every 45 minutes. All staff wear PPE kits and the hotel has withdrawn buffet service as a safety measure for sometime,” said Peter. Even small food joints, including some of the city’s oldest hotels frequented by Mangalureans are adhering to safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-hotels-usher-in-contactless-service/articleshow/76412400.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 104 Covid-19 cases in Punjab, 48 have no contact, travel history||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded fresh Covid-19 cases in three figures for the second day on Tuesday as 104 people were found infected, taking the overall tally to 3,371. The casualty count due to the virus also rose to 72 as a death was reported from Ludhiana. Five more deaths, three in Amritsar and one each in Ferozepur and Sangrur, were also reported, but these were only confirmed by district authorities and not by state officials. Of the 104 new patients, 48 neither have travel history nor contact with a positive case. There has been rise in number of such cases as they point to community transmission, leaving health authorities worried. Among the remaining cases, 23 are contacts of positive cases, 12 cases are of influenza-like illness (ILI) and source of infection in 14 cases is outside Punjab. A police official and two jail inmates also tested positive for the virus. Jalandhar reported 31 new cases, including 30 in which infected people did not have travel history or contact with a positive case. Ludhiana reported 22 cases, while nine cases each were reported from Amritsar and Patiala. Six cases were from Pathankot, four cases each from Mohali, Kapurthala and Sangrur, three from Fazilka, and one each from Ferozepur, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib. A total of 18 patients were discharged after they recovered. In Ludhiana, a railways officer posted at Ferozepur railway division died due to Covid-19 at Christian Medical College and Hospital. Raj Kumar, senior divisional mechanical engineer, was referred to Ludhiana on June 11 with Covid-19 symptoms where he tested positive. His son and wife, who had reached Ludhiana from Delhi, were under quarantine. Health teams are tracing his contacts to put them under home quarantine as per the medical protocol. It is the second death due to the viral infection in Ferozepur district. Another person tested positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur district on Tuesday. The patient, who lives in Delhi, had come to the town on June 12. This death was yet to be added to the state count. In Jalandhar, a two-month-old child and seven police personnel are among those who tested positive. The persons who died in Amritsar are aged 51, 49 and 66. Of the nine new cases, seven patients had ILI. The death in Sangrur was of a 60-year-old man from Malerkotla. (With inputs from Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-104-cases-in-pb-48-have-no-contact-travel-history/articleshow/76414432.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Rider dies after 2-wheeler jumps off uneven bump||Nagpur: A biker riding rashly and without helmet was killed when his two-wheeler jumped off an uneven and cracked bump constructed across Wardha Road under the Rahate Colony Metro station on Sunday night at 11.25pm. After the fall, the rider skidded for some distance stuck with the bike on the road surface riddled with potholes. Swapnil Pathak, 23, defying repeated requests of his family not to go out as lockdown is yet to be lifted completely, likely lost control after going over the uneven surface of the bumper. The commerce graduate was out for a casual ride on his bike when the accident occurred. Swapnil’s elder brother Akash said the condition of the stretch of the road under the Metro station is bad due to the ongoing construction. “The visibility on the stretch is bad even in the day due the overhead construction. In the night, the stretch remains in dark,” he said. “A private guard who witnessed the accident said my brother’s bike lifted over the bumper and fell down. There are many accidents at the same spot as motorists and bikers have to either apply sudden brakes or are surprised by the bumper’s impact,” he said. “My brother deserves justice. The authorities must be held responsible for endangering lives,” said Akash who works with a private firm. Son of a retired NMC worker, Swapnil is the second of three siblings and was aiming for admission in a PG course. He was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital by the Dhantoli police but declared dead on arrival. “The guard had alerted the control room after seeing the accident. Police reached late,” said Akash. “The cops managed to trace our address with the help of registration number of the bike,” he said. Senior inspector DD Landge of Dhantoli police station said the offence was registered against Swapnil as he was responsible for his own death by rash and negligently driving the bike at a high speed. MahaMetro sources said the road under the Rahate Colony station would soon be taken up for repair to avoid any future accidents. “We are yet to look into the case,” they said. According to a senior government official, though Wardha road was with the National Highway Authority of India, the stretch under the station had to be maintained by MahaMetro during construction phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rider-dies-after-2-wheeler-jumps-off-uneven-bump/articleshow/76414439.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||No relief from Supreme Court for Pabubha Manek||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to grant any relief to Pabubha Manek, a senior Gujarat BJP leader, who was disqualified as MLA of the Dwarka constituency by the Gujarat high court last year. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, M R Shah and A S Bopanna dismissed the application filed by Manek in his pending petition seeking stay on the high court order. Manek moved the apex court challenging the high court order and sought a stay on it, as he intended to contest the Rajya Sabha polls slated later this month. Manek’s counsel contended before the bench that if the high court order is not stayed, then he may not be able to contest the Rajya Sabha polls, and insisted on staying the order till the disposal of the pending petition. In April last year, the apex court had directed that the Dwarka Assembly seat should not be declared vacant and admitted Manek's plea challenging his disqualification. But, the top court did not stay the April 12 high court order, which set aside Manek's election for submitting a defective nomination form and ordered a byelection for the seat. Congress candidate Meraman Goria had moved the high court challenging Manek’s victory from the Dwarka assembly constituency in 2017. Goria argued that Manek had submitted a defective nomination; as a result his election should be set aside. Goria claimed the nomination form did not have any mention about the name and number of the constituency, which was ‘82-Dwarka’. Manek is a seven-time MLA from the constituency. “Defect of substantial character as contemplated under the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951”, observed the high court. However, the high court did not accept Goria’s prayer that he should be declared the winner, as he had received the second highest number of votes in the election. ians||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-relief-from-sc-for-pabubha-manek/articleshow/76413644.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mild cases: AHNA launches its home care initiative||AHMEDABAD: As on Tuesday evening, 75.6% of the 983 beds earmarked for Covid-19 treatment at 49 hospitals in the city were occupied. The figure includes the use 54 of 64 beds in ICUs with ventilators. To reduce bed occupancy of Covid-19 patients with mild or moderate symptoms, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Tuesday launched its home care initiative with the participation of seven hospitals in the first phase. The number of hospitals will soon increase, said AHNA office-bearers. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that according to rough estimates, about 20% of current occupancy could be reduced through the initiative. “We have capped per day fees to Rs 699. Members can offer packages at even lower rates. However, additional services will cost,” he said. “The initiative is to ensure quality care for patients who do not require constant medical attention or who are not critical. We would not suggest it to patients with co-morbidities or those older than 60 years.” AHNA members said that ever since participation of private hospitals in Covid-19 care began earlier this month, bed occupancy has remained high. As cases are constantly on the rise, patient management could become a point of concern. Dr Viren Shah, secretary of AHNA, said the current plan is to include teleconsultation by physicians, daily teleconsultation by a qualified nurse, training on vitals monitoring, home visits by a nurse twice in 10 days and charting out a diet plan. “We believe that it will also have a positive psychological impact as the person will be among family,” said Dr Jigar Shah, joint secretary of AHNA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mild-cases-ahna-launches-its-home-care-initiative/articleshow/76413690.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC refuses to entertain plea against contempt notice, tells Bar chief to move Gujarat high court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea by the president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association (GHCAA), challenging the contempt notice issued by the Gujarat high court against him, after taking cognizance of his alleged “scurrilous” remarks against the court and its registry. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde heard senior lawyer A M Singhvi, appearing for GHCAA president Yatin Oza, and observed that it was not inclined to hear the plea which should be heard by the high court itself. “We are not actually inclined to hear it...we feel it should go back to high court,” said the bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna. While initiating the suo motu (on its own) contempt against Oza, the high court had said that the Bar leader made accusations against the court and its registry in his live press conference on Facebook. Singhvi said that the Bar leader commented on the functioning of the registry and not the judicial functions and moreover, the high court order has been passed in anger. The bench, however, did not entertain the plea and asked Oza to approach the high court itself. The senior lawyer then withdrew the plea. After taking note of the alleged statements of Oza, the high court had said that the “scurrilous remarks appear to have been made without any substantive basis and without any intent to know the truth as also without approaching the honourable chief justice for any inquiry as the head of the institution.” Oza, in his press conference, had made some allegations against the high court and its registry. Later, a contempt notice was issued against him by the court. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-contempt-notice-tells-bar-chief-to-move-hc/articleshow/76413635.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat suffering as govt slashed health budget: Congress leader Ahmed Patel||GANDHINAGAR: Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat and senior Congress party leader Ahmed Patel on Tuesday accused the BJP government in the state of “drastically reducing” its healthcare expenditure over the years. In a tweet, Patel cited data claiming that Gujarat is among the bottom states in terms of immunisation coverage. In 20 years,Gujarat is one of the handful of states where immunisation coverage has declinedBefore 2000, Gujarat… https://t.co/xVPKfKfiDR— Ahmed Patel (@ahmedpatel) 1592286692000“In 20 years, Gujarat is one of the handful of states where immunisation coverage has declined. Before 2000, Gujarat was spending 4.3 per cent of its expenditure on healthcare, in 2018 it was roughly 0.72 per cent. The entire state is paying a price for a flawed model,” Patel tweeted on Tuesday. Why should Covid19 testing charges in private laboratories vary in different parts of Country?It’s Rs 4,500 in Ah… https://t.co/i7yarW4qAA— Ahmed Patel (@ahmedpatel) 1592235626000The data said that Gujarat ranks 33rd out of 36 states and UTs in achieving full immunisation. Patel also questioned Covid-19 testing charges at private laboratories. In a tweet, he had asked why Ahmedabad-based private laboratories are charging Rs 4,500 when the same is Rs 2,200 in Mumbai. As of June 15, the number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat stood at 24,104 and the death toll at 1,506. Raising the issue at a press conference on Tuesday, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said, “Why is Gujarat’s mortality rate the highest in the country? Why is Prime Minister Narendra Modi not tweeting when people of his state are dying in such a large number?” It was the high court which stepped in and allowed coronavirus testing in private laboratories, said Chavda. He said it was the state government’s responsibility to ensure that rates of tests remain affordable for people. “If charges (for tests) are Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,900 in Mumbai and Andhra Pradesh respectively, why are Gujarat labs charging Rs 4,500? People are being fleeced and the government remains only a mute spectator to this loot,” said Chavda. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and the state government spokesperson was contacted, but was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-suffering-as-govt-slashed-health-budget-ahmed-patel/articleshow/76413653.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways official, Basti Jodhewal man die of Covid-19||tnnLudhiana: Covid-19 claimed two lives in Ludhiana on Tuesday. A 51-year-old railways official died at Christian Medical College and Hospital in the afternoon and a 65-year-old resident of Basti Jodhewal at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in the evening.The railways official, a Delhi resident, was posted as senior divisional mechanical engineer in carriage and wagon department of Ferozepur railway division.He was admitted to CMCH with complaints of breathlessness on June 11.The hospital medical superintendent Dr Anil Luther said, “At the time of admission, he was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness. His examination showed bilateral basal crackles in both lungs. He was shifted to the isolation ward and his sample sent for Covid-19 test. He was diagnosed with bronchopneumonia. The next day, his report came Covid-19 positive. He was intubated in view of respiratory distress. But he had a cardiorespiratory arrest and was declared dead at 1.30pm.”Ferozepur divisional railways manager Shanti Rajesh Agarwal said, “He was an outstanding officer. His son and wife had reached Ludhiana from Delhi last week and are under quarantine.”DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said, “The Basti Jodhewal man had come with complaints of breathlessness and was admitted to the hospital on June 16. He was tested for Covid-19 the same day. He had dyspnea, pneumonia and fever from the past five days. He died due to Covid-19 around 5pm.” The district toll tally has now climbed to 22, including nine from outside Ludhiana.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “All 22 who died here due to Covid-19 had comorbidities. Besides novel coronavirus, the railways official was diagnosed with bronchopneumonia, systematic hypertension, severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and type 1 respiratory failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-official-basti-jodhewal-man-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/76412396.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Educationist P C Thomas passes away||P C Thomas, educationist and founder-principal of Good Shepherd International School in Ooty, passed away on Tuesday. He was 77. Born on October 15, 1943 in Kottayam, he obtained his doctorate degree in education management from Columbia Pacific University, USA. He founded the Good Shepherd School in 1977 at Fernhill in Ooty. The school grew into an international level full time residential school, now located at an expansive campus of 188 acres at Muthurai Palada. Thomas is survived by his wife, daughter and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/educationist-p-c-thomas-passes-away/articleshow/76414428.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam led the way in door-to-door survey||BERHAMPUR: Before the state government decided to carry out door-to door survey to identify persons with symptoms of Covid- 19, the Ganjam district administration had conducted such a survey in April and launched the second phase on June 8. The second round will cover around 3.5 lakh families and will get over in the next two to three days, said district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. In the first phase, 40 lakh people were covered in the second week of April when the district was in the green zone. Though some people had exhibited Covid-19 symptoms, their test results were negative, sources said. The second phase of mass screening is important with over two lakh migrant workers returning to the district and around one lakh are in home quarantine after completing their institutional quarantine period. “The survey will help check the transmission of virus in the community,” said a health officer. The anganwadi workers, helpers and primary school teachers along with ASHA workers and health supervisors are collecting information about the health status of the people by visiting every household. They will note down answers to questions related to travel history, health status and exhibiting symptoms of influenza-like illness. They also check the body temperature through thermal screening. “We are getting very few cases with symptoms like Covid-19. The swab samples of those who exhibit symptom are being collectedimmediately,” he said. The third phase of the screening will also be launched and it will include identification of people suffering from other diseases. During the first phase of the survey, the administration detected two serious patients of tuberculosis and fever from Bhanjanagar and admitted them to hospitals, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-led-the-way-in-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/76412406.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||No difference between my thoughts and those of Sushant Singh Rajput: Gujarat cadre IAS officer||AHMEDABAD: Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide has triggered the big question in people's minds — he was successful in having money, fame, reputation and stardom, so why did he end his life? A 2013 batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer, Dr Manish Kumar (35), says he knows from personal experience that when depression strikes, no success, no money, nothing matters. “You are sinking in the ocean of one's own self-destructive thoughts, no success matters,” wrote Dr Kumar to TOI. “You start losing interest in meeting friends and near and dear ones; you begin to fear facing life. Everything seems useless and you only blame and criticise yourself. There is little difference in my and Sushant Singh Rajput's story barring the fact that I did not act on my suicidal thoughts. Else, I would not be sharing my story,” said Dr Kumar. Dr Kumar is a young bureaucrat who has a medical degree and is currently appointed Officer On Special Duty (OSD) as deputy municipal commissioner (DyMC) by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation for management of Covid-19 pandemic. “Personally being a doctor, I consider depression the most dangerous disease in terms of the dark feelings and turmoil one goes through,” says Dr Kumar. Dr Kumar recalled that his first tryst with depression happened when he was pursuing MBBS from Sardar Patel Medical College in Bikaner, Rajasthan. "People knew me as a confident and chilled out young man but something very wrong was going inside my head. I suffered a major depressive episode in my second year of MBBS. Due to social stigma, I didn't share anything with my family members and friends. Fortunately, I opened up to my `chaddi-buddy' Dr Amit Sharma who pursued me to seek psychiatric help. I took treatment and it took long for me to recover but at last, all is well now," says Dr Kumar, insisting all to have one friend with whom you can open up about everything. He says that he does get residual bouts once in a while but he is in complete charge of his nerves. While preparing for civil services, Dr Bansal explored depression beyond medical books and pursued spiritual books, teachers and depression survivors. "Medical science says depression occurs due to decrease in levels of serotonin but root cause behind the low serotonin is thoughts generated by one's brain that continuously hammers that you are insufficient or incomplete. The vicious cycle of poor or no sense of self worth takes over you," shares Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-difference-between-my-thoughts-and-those-of-ssr/articleshow/76413684.cms||Paul John
June 17, 2020||Agra||Shooter murdered by 2 after he attempted to rape their cousin||The police arrested a man — identified as Moolchand — after he allegedly strangulated a shooter-cum-history-sheeter, Devki Nandan, as the deceased attempted to rape his teenage cousin. Moolchand was assisted by his brother Manoj, but is absconding. SP Rohan Botre said, “On Monday, the duo strangulated the shooter near Maukheda area, after they confronted him of his attempt to rape their teenage cousin.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/shooter-murdered-by-2-after-he-attempted-to-rape-their-cousin/articleshow/76412457.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 scare: Untested, Kochi corporation health workers a worried lot||KOCHI: With four sanitation workers in Thrissur testing positive for Covid-19 last week, contract health workers in the Kochi corporation are worried as neither the local body nor the district administration has taken steps to subject them to sentinel surveillance yet. This is at a time when frontline workers, health and sanitation employees are considered a high-risk group. “We are worried since we heard the news of the four sanitation workers in Thrissur contracting the disease. I visit around 200 houses daily and there is no way to know if I have the disease unless I am tested. I am prone to asthma attacks and it could be dangerous if someone like me contracts the virus. I have heard that a good percentage of cases are asymptomatic,” said a health worker who requested anonymity. Mohanashwin, convener of Ernakulam District Malinya Nirmarjana Thozhilali Union affiliated to CITU, said none of the contract workers in the corporation has been tested. “When Kaloor South was declared a hotspot, the Kochi corporation collected names and phone numbers of 50 workers and said they would take steps to test them, but nothing happened,” said Mohanashwin. The union has around 370 members who work within the limits of the local body. The state has recently distributed protective gear to these workers. “They should give priority to testing people like us. We would not be able to afford testing in private hospitals because of the expenses involved,” said a worker adding that none of them have insurance. Corporation health standing committee chairperson Prathibha Anzari confirmed that none of these workers have been tested. “I will bring this to the attention of the mayor and the secretary,” said Anzari. Officials of the health department said they have been carrying out testing workers in various sectors and would soon be testing sanitation workers soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/untested-corp-health-workers-a-worried-lot/articleshow/76412395.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bogus billing racket: Seven firms raided||Ludhiana: After unearthing of a massive tax evasion network in which bogus billing of Rs 350 crore is suspected, the state taxation department’s Ludhiana unit has conducted raids at seven firms located in Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Malerkotla, and recovered Rs 1.37 crore. The department has also attached the payments made by these firms to 10 companies as they were found to be hand in glove with them. These companies executed the bogus billing and fleeced the government by availing fraudulent GST credit worth crores of rupees. Pawan Garg, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC), Ludhiana, said, “On June 12, our department conducted a major operation against 10 companies involved in the bogus billing of Rs 350 crore and evasion of taxes worth several crores in the entire process. Three persons have already been arrested and during the course of investigation, it emerged that the 10 companies of the accused had issued forged sales bill to several firms based in Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh and other locations. They in turn fraudulently claimed input tax credit (ITC) against the bills. So based upon this input, we conducted inspections at seven firms, four of which are located in Ludhiana, two in Fatehgarh Sahib and one in Malerkotla. So far Rs 1.37 crore have been recovered from these firms and investigation is under process.”“In another major crackdown, we have also attached the payments made by these firms to the 10 shady firms involved in the Rs 350 crore bogus billing network. The list of other beneficiaries is being scrutinised and tax will be recovered from every single dealer who claimed ITC against bogus purchases,” Garg added. The inspections of seven firms were conducted by officers of mobile wings of Patiala, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana-1, Ludhiana-2 and Ludhiana-3 and sales shown by these seven firms are also being verified to nab other culprits, who, too, might have made bogus purchases from these companies to avail the ITC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bogus-billing-racket-seven-firms-raided/articleshow/76412440.cms||Mohit Behl
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Banquet hall manager, langar organisers booked||tnnLudhiana: The police on Tuesday registered two FIRs against those ignoring social distancing rules.In the first case, Sadar police booked the manager of a banquet hall on Pakhowal Road for allowing more than 50 people to attend a marriage function at the venue.Sadar police station SHO Jagdev Singh said, “By the time a police team reached there, most of the guests had fled. The function was almost over by then. We have registered a case against Vinod Kumar, the manager of the banquet hall, under sections 188 (orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. In the second case, Division 2 police booked a group of people for organsing langar outside Gurdwara Kalgidhar. Division 2 police station SHO sub-inspector Satbir Singh said, “Some people had organised a langer outside the gurdwara on Tuesday despite a ban on it. Moreover, social distancing was not being maintained while serving food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/banquet-hall-manager-langar-organisers-booked/articleshow/76412450.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga swells to 18 feet||Kolhapur: Continuous rainfall in catchment areas and discharge of water from Radhanagari dam on Tuesday led to swelling of the Panchaganga river to 18 feet. Owing to the continuous inflow of water several barrages along the Panchaganga river like Rajaram, Rui, Shingnapur, Haldi and Surve were inundated. The water level of Panchaganga river is measured at Rajaram barrage and on Tuesday, the water level was increasing at a rate of one inch per hour. The alert level of the river is 39 feet, while the danger mark is at 43 feet. Prasad Sankpal, district disaster management officer, said, “We have asked all our on ground teams to be vigilant. No commuting will be allowed along the barrages that have gone under water. So far, no internal road has been inundated. If it happens our teams will divert the traffic from alternative safe routes.” Two teams of NDRF — one each for Kolhapur and Shirol — have been sought. The teams were expected to arrive on June 15, but they have not yet arrived. Once here, they will be stationed till the end of August. On Tuesday, the district recorded over 350 mm rainfall with Gaganbawda tehsil (98 mm) receiving the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-swells-to-18-feet/articleshow/76412447.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court quashes sacking of cops||AHMEDABAD: Seventeen years after their sacking, the Gujarat high court has quashed the dismissal order for two constables who failed to budge when a person was killed in a robbery near where the duo was stationed. What moved the high court to quash the dismissal order and to ask the disciplinary authority to award proportionate punishment, was the argument that the murder had taken place not on the premises they were supposed to guard, but on an adjacent premises. The rules prohibit constables from budging from the point their superior authorities have ordered them to guard. In this case, Bachu Khokhariya and Jashwant Parmar were placed at a petrol pump in Himmatnagar town to guard it from robbery on the night of October 21, 2001. A robbery took place on a truck parked outside a godown next to the petrol pump. A wounded person kept shouting, but the constables did not respond to his cries. The person later succumbed to his wounds. Following this murder-robbery, Khokhariya and Parmar were subjected to departmental proceedings and were dismissed in 2003 on the grounds that their action could have averted the offence. They challenged their termination in the HC in 2006. Before the HC, their counsel argued that if the constables had left their place of duty to protect the person and had there been a robbery at the petrol pump, they would still have been guilty of negligence. A constable is not allowed to leave his place of duty assigned by a superior authority, and there was a written order in this case asking them to guard the petrol pump. The lawyer pointed to rules and departmental circulars with regard to a constable’s duty. On hearing the case, Justice Ashutosh Shastri observed, “The court cannot overlook the specific duty assigned to the petitioners by written mandate by the superior authority and cannot un-notice the fact that the incident in question has not happened at the place where these petitioners were stationed for discharging their duty.” Justice Shastri found the punishment of dismissal from service “thoroughly disproportionate” which is “practically an economic death”. The judge ordered the disciplinary authority to fix a punishment for the constable for their negligence, but it should be in proportion to their error.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-sacking-of-cops/articleshow/76413664.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Teacher booked under PASA||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court was quick to stay the detention of a teacher who was dubbed a ‘dangerous person’. He had been ordered to be put behind bars under PASA for getting into an altercation with cops over his son not wearing a mask during the lockdown. Jesing Humbal, a teacher in Manavadar town of Junagadh district, was ordered be arrested by the collector and put in jail under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). The detention order was passed because Humbal was adjudged a dangerous person for public order and an anti-social element. This happened because he had a spat with a police party, which was scolding Humbal’s son for not wearing a mask when he came out on the road. On April 28, a police patrol party saw a youth sitting on a motorcycle outside his house and scolded him for not wearing a mask. The youth protested and his family members joined the quarrel. Though there were no fisticuffs and only verbal exchanges. Humbal was booked for violation of the lockdown, for hindering cops in their duty and under Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, under which Gujarat cops booked thousands of people in the last three months. The state has taken a strict view of attacks on frontline corona warriors. Police are considered warriors. So the district collector declared the teacher a dangerous person and issued an order for his detention under PASA. When the HC was apprised of the kind of altercation that took place over the mask, Justice Paresh Upadhyay said, “…this court finds that the petitioner needs to be protected.” Elaborating on its stay on detention, the court said, “Preventive detention order stated to have been passed by the District Magistrate, Junagadh, against the petitioner, invoking powers under the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, 1985, treating the petitioner to be a ‘dangerous person’ and consequently, an anti-social element, shall not be given effect to, till further orders.” The high court has admitted Humbal’s plea challenging the PASA order and sought the government’s reply to it by July 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teacher-booked-under-pasa/articleshow/76413686.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Lockdowns revoked in Nachinola, Aldona||Saligao: Just two days after imposing a seven-day lockdown in the village, the Nachinola panchayat on Monday withdrew the notice. The Aldona panchayat decided to withdraw a similar notice on the second day of the three-day shut down from June 14-16. The decision to observe a self-imposed shutdown in Nachinola, from June 15 to 21, was taken on Saturday, June 13, after a Covid-19 case was detected in the neighbouring village of Aldona. The lockdown at both panchayats was revoked after the panchayats received a written communication from the Bardez block development officer (BDO), Anil Dhumaskar, stating that as per the Panchayat Raj Act, such a decision cannot be taken by panchayat bodies, but only the government, under the Disaster Management Act, is entitled to take such decisions. Both panchayats had issued public notices announcing the lockdown on June 13.  The lockdown had drawn criticism from many residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdowns-revoked-in-nachinola-aldona/articleshow/76414436.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Agra||Ensure care of tree saplings for 8 yrs: Green activist||Agra: With more than 18 districts in UP, including Agra and Mathura, losing considerable forest/tree cover over the past two years, environmentalist Akash Vashishtha has written a letter to the UP government urging it to issue a notification for ensuring post-plantation maintenance and care of saplings for at least a period of eight years.Despite massive plantation drive by the state government every year, tree cover (outside forests) of Uttar Pradesh has decreased by 100 sq km over the past two years.Sources said the state government has fixed a target of planting total 25 crore saplings this year. In fact, the state had taken the initiative to plant 22 crore saplings on August 9, 2019.Against rapid depletion of tree cover, Vashishtha wrote, “The primary reason for the high mortality of the plants is the lack of maintenance and care for the tender plants. It would be in the state’s interest if the focus of these plantations and plantation targets shifts from numbers to their maintenance.”He further said that the entire range of efforts undertaken by the state government and its agencies would be much more productive, if the size of the plantations are reduced and thorough care and maintenance of the new plantations/regenerations is made mandatory throughout the state. “Strict liability must be fixed on those concerned with the plantations and maintenance,” he said in his letter to the chief secretaryAccording to the latest India State of Forests Report (ISFR) 2019, nearly 9.4 sq km of forests have been wiped out in Agra in two years since 2017. Likewise, adjoining district of Mathura has lost nearly 3 sq km of forests in the same period, the report says.As many as 11 districts, including Aligarh, Banda, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Jalaun, Kannauj, Kheri, Mainpuri, Pilibhit and Shrawasti, have recorded a negative decline, ranging between 1% and 2%, in their forest/tree covers from 2017 to 2019, states the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ensure-care-of-tree-saplings-for-8-yrs-green-activist/articleshow/76412446.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||26 more cases reported||tnnLudhiana: As many as 26 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday. With this, the district case count has surged to 417. Besides, 134 from outside the district have tested positive here to date.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of 90 pending reports received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, 21 were positive and 67 negative. One of the positive cases is from Hoshiarpur and another from Bihar. Apart from this, five positive reports were received from private hospitals.” 7 from containment zonesA 48-year-old woman, her two daughters (aged 16 and 13), a 50-year-old municipal corporation Class IV employee and a 25-year-old man, who works as a salesman at Mall Road — all residents of Chawni Mohalla — have contracted the virus. With them, more than 35 cases have been reported from Chawni Mohalla containment zone.Also, a 21-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman —both of Habib Ganj — have tested positive. The area has reported over 15 cases.5 are contactsA 50-year-old woman of Sahnewal has contracted the virus from her husband, who had tested positive on June 10. A Delhi returnee, he was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. His 48-year-old brother and 14-year-old nephew, too, have tested positive. A 39-year-old woman of Gurpreet Nagar, Daba Road, and a 57-year-old man from Islamia School Road, Division 3, have also caught the virus.5 are Delhi returneesFour of the cases are Delhi returnees: a 24-year-old woman of Chhandran village, Doraha; a 40-year-old woman and her 20-year-old daughter of Bindra Colony; a 52-year-old Shimlapuri police post sub-inspector, who is a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar; and an 18-year-old man of Model Town.4 ILI casesFour of them had influenza-like illness. They include a 22-year-old Sahnewal man; a 42-year-old man of Guru Nanak Dev Nagar, Basti Jodhewal; a 16-year-old boy of Sahnewal and a 38-year-old Gujjar Colony, Rahon Road, resident.5 cases from private hospitalsThese five include: a 60-year-old woman of Manuke, Jagraon; a 29-year-old man of DMC hostel; a 38-year-old woman of BRS Nagar; a 65-year-old man of Basti Jodhewal; and a 34-year-old man of Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/26-more-cases-reported/articleshow/76412463.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||3 teams to keep eye on Malegoan shops||Nashik: The Rural police in Nashik have formed three squads to ensure that traders and shopkeepers in Malegaon town strictly adhere to the opening/closing timings and follow the odd-even formula. Nashik Rural SP Arti Singh said each team comprises 10 police personnel who are maintaining vigil. SP Arti Singh said the cops are also ensuring that only two passengers are allowed in an autorickshaw at a time and two-wheeler riders are barred from carrying pillion riders in Malegaon. The rural police said they have taken up a week-long drive to book people who are not adhering to the relaxation orders. Additional SP Sandeep Ghuge said the impact of the policing has been good. Of late, people themselves are refraining from coming out of their homes in the evening hours and many shopkeepers said there are no customers after 5 pm and they keep the shops closed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-teams-to-keep-eye-on-malegoan-shops/articleshow/76412269.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Quepem town goes quiet on Day 1||Quepem: All shops in the Quepem town remained shut down on the first day of the six-day lockdown called for by the Quepem Municipal Council (QMC). Only medical stores and fair price shops were allowed to operate. All government offices functioned, but sources said that very few people were seen visiting them. The neighbouring Ambaulim panchayat also observed a total lockdown on the first day of the eight-day lockdown. Quepem mamlatdar Rosario Carvalho said that the number of visitors to his office was one per cent of that seen on a regular working day. Assistant director of transport Sandeep Dessai said his department saw no visitors in the evening. Since four positive cases were reported in Quepem town, mostly residents around the area stayed indoors. Around 12 staff members of the council sanitised the entire town. QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik said that three wards, including Koleamoddi, Amona and Condi, will be completely sanitized on priority. Amona and Condi will also be sanitised since family members of the positive cases visited these wards regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-town-goes-quiet-on-day-1/articleshow/76414457.cms||Johnny M
June 17, 2020||Allahabad||Mughal period coins seized in Kaushambi||Prayagraj: A joint team of crime branch and Kokhraj police of Kaushambi district arrested two men, including a jeweller, near Ajuha road on Tuesday and seized 171 copper coins dating back to the Mughal Sultanate period. Police said the seized copper coins weigh around 600 grams, are around 800 years old and worth Rs 10 lakh in the international market. Kaushmabi police have approached Archeological Survey of India (ASI) officials to collect more details about the coins. Inspector, Kokhraj, Rakesh Kumar Tiwari told TOI, “Acting on a tip-off about two men planning to sell ancient coins dating back to Mughal Sultanate period, a joint team of crime branch and Kokhraj police arrested Arjun Kumar Soni and Mukesh Puri, residents of Ward No 9 Ajuha and Saini respectively and seized the coins from their possession.” “When police quizzed Arjun Kumar Soni, he said his father Late S N Soni had obtained the coins from some unidentified persons about six years back and was going with his friend to sell them,” said Tiwari. The two were arrested near Ajuha road at around 8.40am when they arrived to meet customers. A case was registered against them under sections 411, 413 and 414 of IPC and 3/ 25 of The Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mughal-period-coins-seized-in-kaushambi/articleshow/76412475.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Patna||One more dies, Covid cases tally up to 6,810||Patna: One more death and 74 new Covid- 19 cases were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 39 and the total number of coronavirus positive cases to 6,810 in the state. Altogether 345 people were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours after their subsequent test reports came negative. With total 4,571 recoveries, the active cases now stand at 2,126. The 39th Covid death was reported from Katihar district on Tuesday. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj confirmed the death of a 44-year-old diabetic man, who died on Monday evening. The patient died on his way to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Bhagalpur. It was the first Covid death in the district, according to the press bulletin issued by the health department. Additional chief medical officer in Katihar, Dr Birendra Kumar Choudhary told this newspaper that the man tested positive on June 6, when he was at the quarantine centre in Falka block. “The migrant returned from Delhi with other family members on June 1 and he directly went to his home in Falka block, where he stayed for 2- 3 days. The medical team later on June 4 brought him and others at the quarantine centre for 14- days isolation,” he said. Choudhary added, “The man’s swabs samples were collected on June 5 after he developed some Covid- 19 symptoms. His report came positive on June 6 after which he was transferred to isolation ward at a hotel in the district.” The deceased’s health condition deteriorated on June 15, when he complained of breathlessness. The three- member special medical team in Katihar referred the man to JLNMCH, Bhagalpur. The man passed away in the ambulance on his way to Bhagalpur. The medical team has identified 24 persons who came in contact with the deceased. As per information shared by the health department, coronavirus cases on Tuesday were reported from 25 districts. Six cases were reported from Patna district, including Ramkrishna Nagar, Bihta, Phulwarisharif and Dhanrua. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said altogether 1,30,783 samples have been tested so far. He said total 4,589 migrants, who returned from other states after the lockdown, had been tested positive till Tuesday morning. Singh claimed that the recovery rate in Bihar was at 68% as 4,571 people have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-dies-covid-cases-tally-up-to-6810/articleshow/76413714.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||1,000 fined in three hours for not wearing masks||Rajkot: As many as 1,000 people across Amreli district were penalized for not wearing masks with the police collecting a total fine of Rs two lakh within just three hours on Tuesday evening. Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai said that the drive against those found without masks and spitting in public places will be made more rigorous in the coming days in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. The penalty for not wearing masks in public places is Rs 200. Of the 20 police stations in the district, maximum people (65) were caught in Amreli town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1000-fined-in-three-hours-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76412476.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: 182 local Covid-19 cases in 15 days||BHUBANESWAR: The state has recorded 182 local Covid-19 cases — that is, people who were not in any kind of quarantine or isolation when they tested positive for the coronavirus — between June 1 and June 15. This implies the source of infection in these patients is not clear. The high number of local cases indicates that the virus may have spread from primary contacts of identified patients to others in the community. As per government data, the highest number of local cases — 29 — were reported on June 12, followed by 18 cases on June 14. In May, hardly any local cases were reported. In case of Covid cases being reported from among people who are already under quarantine, it is easy to trace the source of infection. Most of the quarantined patients picked up the infection in other states. Their close contacts can also be easily traced. Local cases, termed ‘secondary contacts’, are people who are suspected to have contracted the disease from primary contacts. A health expert TOI spoke to said there was no need to press the panic button yet. “Till June 15, the state recorded 4,055 cases. Nearly 5 per cent of these are local cases,” said Binod Patro, associate professor of community medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar. “Had the local cases been found in one or two localities, that would have been worrying as it would have confirmed community spread. But these cases are spread out widely. Things are still very much under control. If more local cases come up, the government will have to take more aggressive steps to screen people,” he explained. The government has already ordered door-to-door surveillance campaign to map the health of each individual. The surveillance will run till the end of July and is expected to help reduce local cases. Two days ago, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation formed Sachetak teams for deployment across the city to generate awareness on Covid-19. The Sachetak teams, each having 30 members, will visit all the 67 wards of the corporation and teach people how to wear a mask and gloves and maintain hand hygiene. The teams have been given kits containing 25 masks and an equal number of hand gloves for demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hard-facts-182-local-cases-in-15-days/articleshow/76412453.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||Bus rams 22 two-wheelers, kills one||Rajkot: A bus which went out of control after brake failure rammed two two-wheelers and then crashed into the parking plot of Madhav Darshan Complex in Bhavnagar on Monday. One two-wheeler rider was killed in the accident. The deceased was identified as Yogesh Maniyar (51), a resident of Rupani Circle in Bhavnagar. Two persons were also injured in the incident. They were taken to Sir T Hospital.“The bus after ramming the two two-wheelers crushed 20 two-wheelers in the complex before coming to a halt. The driver, fearing the mob fury, fled from the spot,” said an official from Bhavnagar A division police station.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bus-rams-22-two-wheelers-kills-one/articleshow/76394395.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Tallest Hanuman idol in US made of Warangal granite||HYDERABAD: The tallest Hanuman idol in the US at 25 feet was carved out of a single stone of black granite from Warangal in Telangana. It was inaugurated at the Mahalakshmi temple in Hockessin, in Delaware, on Saturday. “It took us about eight months from finding the stone to bringing the idol to the US,” said Balreddy Kamireddy, a member of the board of trustees and operations manager at the Hindu Temple Association of Delaware, which manages the temple. The Hanuman idol weighs 30,000kg and it cost $100,000 to make, excluding transportation charges. Explaining how the idol found its way to the US, Kamireddy said a four-member team from the temple arrived in India in search for a stone out of which the idol could be carved. “We travelled to Rajasthan, but could not find it the appropriate stone. At last our search brought us to Warangal,” he said. Under the supervision of a sthapathi – temple architect and chief mason – and dozens of workers, the idol was completed in December. Black granite has been used in several temples in Warangal including at the famous Thousand Pillar Temple. Once finished, the idol was brought to Hyderabad where the department of archaeology gave the go ahead for it to be transported to the US. “The president of the Hindu Temple Association, Patibanda Sarma, accompanied the idol,” said Kamireddy. Transportation of Hindu idols requires local government approval so as to ensure the entire process is legal. The idol arrived in New Jersey in January. Kamireddy said that they got overwhelming support from the local administration in the US in installing the statue. Kamireddy said, “When we approached executive of New Castle County, Matt Myer, he ensured that four police vehicles were provided as a convoy to the truck carrying the idol. All signals on a stretch from Delaware Memorial Bridge to the temple, about 25km away, were turned green. There could not have been a more befitting way to honor our traditions.” Incidentally, the temple was inaugurated by current democratic presidential candidate Joe Bidden in 1996. After the installation of the idol on Saturday, a kumbha abhishekam was performed on Sunday. Devotees from all faiths will be allowed to visit the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tallest-hanuman-idol-in-us-made-of-warangal-granite/articleshow/76414932.cms||Uttara Varma
June 17, 2020||Allahabad||Outgoing SSP among 2 tested positive for Covid-19 infection||Prayagraj: Two persons including the outgoing SSP of Prayagraj tested positive for the Covid-19 infection here on Tuesday. With this, the tally of Prayagraj district has reached 156. Nodal Officer and Additional chief medical officer, Dr. Rishi Sahai told that the 39-year-old outgoing SSP, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj tested positive for Covid-19 infection. He added that the sample of outgoing SSP was taken on June 12 and he was tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Apart from outgoing SSP, a 46-year-old woman and resident of Malviya Nagar also tested positive for the /Covid-19 infection. The woman had no travel history, said the nodal officer.He also claimed that the woman, who tested positive for infection on Tuesday, had last visited a city based private hospital on June 13 for a surgery. However, as many as five patients were also discharged from Covid hospitals on Tuesday. Dr. Sahai said there are 31 active cases and a total of 120 patients have recovered and discharged till now. Five patients have died due to covid infection in city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/outgoing-ssp-among-2-tested-positive-for-covid-19-infection/articleshow/76412527.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Salem||Salem corpn collects fine worth Rs 44.47L||Salem: Officials from Salem municipal corporation have collected Rs 44.47 lakh in the last 60 days as penalty from people who were caught without face masks in public places. R Sadheesh, corporation commissioner, said officials had collected the fine amount from 49,699 people. The corporation had cautioned residents to wear face mask compulsorily when they step out. “We were fining Rs 100 if a person is found without a face mask for the first time,” Sadheesh said, adding that, he will be fined Rs 500 if he is found without a mask for the second time.SMC had set up more than 40 teams in four zones of the city to monitor the order. Among the four zones, Hasthampatty topped in fine collection with Rs 12.91 lakh, while Ammapet zone grossed Rs 11.31 lakh. “Kondalampatty zone collected Rs 10.42 lakh and Suramangalam zone collected Rs 9.82 lakh,” Sadheesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-corpn-collects-fine-worth-rs-44-47l/articleshow/76414445.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Law student, friend held in bike theft case||SALEM: A law student and his friend were arrested by Salem city police on Tuesday in connection with a bike theft case.The Kannankurichi police began an inquiry after receiving a complaint from Vinith Raj, 23, a paramedical student, of Dharmapuri district. Vinith Raj went home due to the lockdown leaving his bike parked on the premises of the building where he was staying at Kamaraj Nagar in Gorimedu, said V Thangavel, inspector at the Kannankurichi police station.The duo were lodged at the Salem central prison in judicial custody on the same evening. The police have also seized the bike from Sugumaran’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/law-student-friend-held-in-bike-theft-case/articleshow/76414459.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Snakes on a plane? Monsoon thriller at Ahmedabad airport||AHMEDABAD: A minor scare uncoiled at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport late on Monday when a snake was found curled around the wheel of a Trujet aircraft. The plane was at the parking bay at the city airport. The maintenance crew spotted the reptile. With the help of a wildlife rescuer, the crew made the snake take off and soon it was business as usual.  Well-placed sources confirmed that there were no passengers in the vicinity. The sources said that snakes are a common sight at the airport during monsoons, but fliers have no reason to worry. “In this season, snakes are often found on the huge airport campus,” said a source at the city airport. “However, they’re seldom seen at the busy spots. In fact, due precautions are always taken to ensure that snakes don’t come anywhere near the airport terminal.” The source revealed that there have been several instances of pilots reporting snakes along the runway. Despite several attempts, airport director A K Verma could not be reached for comment. A wildlife biologist, Bharat Jethwa, said: “This is the season when rats and frogs proliferate, especially in grassy areas. They attract snakes.” Also, this is the mating season of snakes. “Grass must be cut and pest control must be undertaken regularly,” Jethwa said. “These measures will keep keep frogs and rats away.” When snacks are denied, snakes don’t show up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/snakes-on-a-plane-monsoon-thriller-at-airport/articleshow/76413682.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||Agri dept seizes expired hybrid seeds worth Rs 6L||Rajkot: The agriculture department and quality control department of the Gir Somnath district administration seized a cache of 20 kg expired hybid seeds worth Rs 5.50 lakh on Monday and suspended the sale of 12.48 quintal of expired seeds worth Rs 10.46 lakh. “After we received the complaints of seeds that had crossed their expiry date being sold, we carried out inspections at 47 traders who had licenses issued by the government,” said J M Chotalia, taluka agriculture officer.“That apart we had also received complaints of traders selling ‘Pink Guard’ and ‘Weed Guard’ seeds which have not been authorized to be sold by the government,” said Paresh Goswami, another taluka agriculture officer.Goswami urged the farmers to approach the district deputy agriculture officer and other officers of the agriculture department in their villages and talukas, if they came across such illegal seeds being sold. “The use of such seeds is illegal and liable for punishment,” he said.“The farmers should ensure that the bag on which ‘fertilizer’ is inscribed is the only bag authorized to be sold by the government,” said Chotalia.Meanwhile, the agriculture department of Gir Somnath district slapped 35 traders with show cause notices after they found the samples of fertilizer, pesticides and seeds to have been below standard and spurious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/agri-dept-seizes-expired-hybrid-seeds-worth-rs-6l/articleshow/76394437.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||70 more test positive in Nashik||Nashik: Tuesday marked the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in Nashik city after 70 people tested positive for the contagion. With addition of these news cases, the city’s tally on Tuesday crossed the 800-mark. The previous highest one-day tally was recorded on Monday when a total of 65 people tested positive. One death was also reported in the city on Tuesday, taking the city’s toll to 40. In order to deal with the rising number of cases, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to open mohalla clinics in vulnerable areas to examine and treat Covid-19 suspects. The clinics are to be opened with the help of private doctors and over 20 doctors have agreed to open such clinics in areas where maximum patients are being tested. Moreover, the NMC has also decided to set up small Covid-19 hospitals to treat patients in major hotspots of the city. As part of this, the NMC is setting up a 30-bed Covid-19 hospital in Wadalagaon area which has emerged as the major hotspot with over 70 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/70-more-test-positive-in-nashik/articleshow/76412548.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 17, 2020||Chennai||‘No need for government to show fewer numbers’||CHENNAI: As Chennai and its neighbouring districts gear up for yet another lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government says it has been doing everything possible to contain the Covid spread. Amid this, Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, information technology and disaster management  R B Udhayakumar in an interview with TOI talks about the big challenges -- expanse of the capital city, congested localities and people’s negligence in following social distancing normsQ:Yet another lockdown in Chennai. What went wrong?There is nothing wrong with what the government has done so far. Section 144 was already imposed till June 30. Still, as localities are congested, ensuring social distancing and mandatory wearing of masks remained a challenge. On its part, the government has been asking people not to come out of their homes unless it is a necessity. But several people are moving around, either because of sheer negligence or lack of awareness. To prevent this, the government has taken the decision to impose the lockdown yet again. Q: The last time we had a lockdown within the lockdown, the numbers increased. How will it be different this time?It was then implemented across several municipal corporations including Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem among others. While awareness was less and due to lack of advance notice and fear of shops running out of stock, people crowded to buy essentials. Now, only Chennai is covered and that too with ample notice period. Also, shops selling provisions and vegetables will remain open for fixed hours. There is no reason for people to crowd now. Q: While lack of indiscipline among people may be a reason, did the government act right, especially with regard to Koyambedu market?It is not for want of any decision making or the lack of it on the government’s part that resulted in Koyambedu becoming an issue. The government held talks with traders several times. The traders extended their cooperation. But people’s negligence and lack of awareness to maintain social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitising created problems and these are big challenges. Even if the government puts pressure and directs certain measures, people’s involvement is a must. The traders understood the severity of the problem and cooperated with the government to shift the market. Q: Did too many officials and committees for Chennai result in confusion in managing the pandemic?It is not like that at all. This city has 200 wards, 85 lakh residents and 15 zones. The commissioner of a corporation can easily undertake and fulfil regular duties. A disaster or a pandemic requires 24X7 monitoring and directions needed to be issued round the clock. To assist him, commissioner for revenue administration (CRA) J Radhakrishnan, who has managed several disasters in the past, was posted. Further, enquiring the status in each ward takes the whole day. Hence, committees were formed by dividing the zones. Each zone has one IAS official as in-charge. All 15 zones were covered this way. In disaster and containment zones, DRO level officials were in-charge. Ministers were given responsibility for three zones each. I am handling Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Manali and Tiruvottiyur. This is not to create confusion. It is for micro-level observation and supervision. Only for the opposition, it is confusing. Udhayanidhi (Stalin) has issued a statement that even corona will get confused. He thinks he has made a humorous statement, just for the sake of hitting out at the government. Coronavirus is an unknown threat that the whole world is fighting against. The focus should be to offer solutions, not play politics. Q: Have the government and committees done enough?During times of disasters, we cannot handle a situation with just officials on routine duty. They need a team and guidance. This is part of the scientific approach to manage a disaster. We have formed support teams during all disasters. Efficient officials from other areas will be posted to disaster zones. This has been the practice. Q: Will this lockdown help bring things under control?We are all working with the hope that things will come under control. Q: There are reports that the government is concealing the number of Covid deaths. Your comment.There is no need for the government to conceal and show fewer numbers. How can one conceal a death? This is something that cannot be hidden. This is not an issue being handled by an individual. If I am providing the treatment and everything else, I can conceal. Everywhere there are different teams – from identifying those affected, to providing treatment and alerting people in case of a death. Even if the government wants it cannot conceal. Q: How is the support from the Centre?They are offering us advice and issuing orders from time to time. They have also extended some funds under disaster management. They have also agreed to extend further financial support if required and assured us about providing all other necessary help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-need-for-government-to-show-fewer-numbers/articleshow/76415457.cms||D Govardan
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||After parole, now don Gawli seeks furlough||Nagpur: After returning from over two months extended parole, underworld don Arun Gawli has again sought furlough leave. Through counsel Mir Nagman Ali, he approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court contending that his application for furlough submitted to DIG Prisons on November 30, 2019, was yet to be decided after seven months. While issuing notices to respondents, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Vinay Joshi on Tuesday directed them to reply within six weeks and kept the hearing for final disposal. “In the meantime, the respondents shall be at liberty to decide the application,” the bench said. The 68-year-old gangster-cum-politician had prayed for directives to respondents to decide on his application for furlough. His parole ended in April, but he was twice granted extension by the court owing to travel restrictions after the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-parole-now-don-gawli-seeks-furlough/articleshow/76414479.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||Jumbo nuisance: Two pose as forest officers to seek bribe, booked||Rajkot: Rajkot police booked two people including a trustee of an NGO for posing as forest officer.Anwar Ahmed Ali a resident of Juhapura area of Ahmedabad who operates a circus, registered a complaint with B division police station of Rajkot stating that a man posing as a forest officer demanded Rs5 lakh to let his two elephants, which were sick and were being taken to Jamnagar for treatment, go further. According to the FIR, after getting necessary forest department permission to ferry the ailing pachyderms, Anar and Champa, they were loaded onto a truck on June 12, along with a few caretakers. However, on the way, the truck was intercepted near Bedi Naka in the outskirts of Rajkot by one Bhavin Patel, who identified himself as forest officer. Patel demanded Rs 2 lakh threatening to seize the animals. When the caretakers refused to give him the money and showed them the permission, Patel called up one Naresh Kadiyan, who he identified as his superior, who scaled up the demand to Rs 5 lakh. The truck was then taken to the office of the forest department in Rajkot and police were also called. When cops saw the clearance from the forest department, the truck was allowed to go on June 13 morning. Ali came to Rajkot on Tuesday to file the complaint which was registered late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jumbo-nuisance-two-pose-as-forest-officers-to-seek-bribe-booked/articleshow/76412578.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mumbai||Finding beds a tough task for Covid-19 positive patients with 85-90 oxygen levels||MUMBAI: Finding critical care beds for Covid patients with oxygen saturation (SPO2) levels between 85 and 90 is emerging as a challenge in the city. With dedicated hospitals refusing patients above 85 SPO2 levels and jumbo facilities not taking in the ones below 92-93, volunteers at several ward-level war rooms are struggling to get beds for this subset. These war rooms were activated earlier this month to streamline the process of bed allocation. The dashboard meant to give live updates on available beds in private and government hospitals is yet to be fully operational, making the process tedious. In severe cases, hospitals and jumbo facilities are relaxing the SPO2 norms, but only after multiple calls, said a volunteer from a suburban ward. He added, “Arranging a bed takes anywhere between two and six hours, and on bad days, even longer. Occasionally, we are unable to get a bed for the whole day, then the senior doctor somehow manages to convince officials to get one late in the evening.” Less than 15-20% of the calls require beds. On one occasion, a jumbo facility even refused to admit a bed-ridden patient, as they did not have enough ward boys. In some cases, the delay in arranging a facility or an ambulance is proving to be fatal, said a volunteer, citing the case of a homeless patient. “It took five hours to get an ambulance.” In some cases, patients insist on beds in private hospitals. “But the data on private beds is still not available on the dashboard. Due to fear, many non-critical patients too seek hospitalization, but we have to convince them about home treatment. Volunteers are doing their best in the war rooms,” said a student. Most volunteers managing helplines are medical students or civic school teachers. “As per protocol, we don’t admit patients with oxygen saturation levels below 92-93. More so, in cases of elderly with comorbid conditions. We don’t have an ICU here,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco facility, Goregaon. She, though, said such patients are not turned away but kept in an 18-bed holding area. At the jumbo facility in BKC, a lot depends on the doctor’s judgment. Dean Dr Rajesh Dere said according to norms, a patient cannot be given more than 10 litres of oxygen without an ICU. “If a 60-plus patient with comorbidities and SPO2 of 90-92 wants to come here, we recommend another centre as we don’t have an ICU,” he said. Younger patients with no comorbidities and SPO2 under 90 have been treated at the centre though.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/finding-beds-a-tough-task-for-ve-patients-with-85-90-oxygen-levels/articleshow/76414383.cms||Yogita Rao
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deadline for forms ends, bigwigs in GCCI VP race||AHMEDABAD: It is expected to be a tough contest for the post of vice-president at the coming elections for the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), with three bigwigs in the fray. Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of BJP’s Business Cell for Gujarat, along with K I Patel, the founder of Aries Color Chem Private Limited in Vatva and Ashok Patel of Masta Bearing Housing Private Limited, have filed nominations for the post of vice-president. As the deadline for submitting forms ended on Tuesday, some 56 candidates had applied for 25 posts. The voting is scheduled for July 11 and the counting of votes will be on July 12. Current senior vice president, Natubhai Patel, will be declared president of the chamber. The contest is equally strong at the senior vice-president level, where Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) president Jayendra Tanna and Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group, are in the fray. While inner circles are abuzz with talks of Shah and K I Patel forming a panel to campaign jointly for the polls, Patel denied the claims. “There is no such decision as yet. I will be working for better representation of trade and industry, based on my past experience,” said Patel, who formerly served as president of the Vatva Industries’ Association. Meanwhile, Lakhani circulated a message seeking support to work towards the vision of PM Narendra Modi to build ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. “I have served as rural secretary, secretary and even programme committee chairman for GCCI and have good support from the board,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deadline-for-forms-ends-bigwigs-in-gcci-vp-race/articleshow/76413770.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kanpur||Bride, family quarantined as groom’s kin test corona positive||KANPUR: A ‘baraat’ returned empty-handed and a bride and her family members were home quarantined after the brother and mother of the 24-year-old groom tested positive for novel coronavirus. The incident was reported from Qwetara Dera Majra village in Hamirpur district minutes before the ‘vidai’ ceremony on Monday. “Groom’s brother and mother were tested positive before the ‘vidai’ ceremony. However, his sample tested negative,” said a district health official. The 16 members from groom’s side, who were in contact with his brother and mother, have also been quarantined in their respective homes, informed health department sources. Rakesh (name changed) of Mangalpura village of Kurara area of Hamirpur district lives in Delhi along with his mother and earns livelihood by driving an auto-rickshaw, while his father works as a daily-wager in Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. “As his younger brother’s marriage was fixed for June 14, Rakesh, his mother and father had returned to their native place four days ago. As soon as they landed in their native village, they informed the health department authorities and were put under home quarantine,” informed village sources. On Sunday (June 14), with just 18 people in the ‘baraat’, Rakesh’s younger brother left for Qwetara Dera Majra village in Hamirpur district to marry Gayatri (22) daughter of Cheda Lal Nishad. Finally, his marriage was solemnised in the simple ceremony, the same evening. However, on Monday morning, minutes before the ‘vidai’ ceremony, there was quite a sensation when a health official apprised the groom on his mobile phone that his brother and mother had tested positive for novel coronavirus. It was learnt that when the groom broke the news of his corona positive mother and brother among in-laws, they cancelled the ‘vidai’ and refused to send the bride with him leading to a mild tension. Later, a panchayat was convened which supported the decision of the bride's father. Excited to see the groom returning home with the bride, the ecstasy of the groom’s family members turned to anguish as he returned empty-handed. Girl’s father Cheda Lal Nishad said, “As a precaution, we have refused to send the girl to her in-laws house, and once the situation becomes normal, we will definitely send her to her in-laws home.” The groom's family including his parents and siblings had returned home on June 10 from Delhi and Shimla. “They had given their samples at the Community Health Centre in Kurara on June 11. Their reports which came on Monday (June 15) tested them positive for Covid -19,” said chief medical officer Dr RK Sachan. “A notice alerting people Covid -19 ‘miliye mat, quarantine kiya hua ghar,’ has also been pasted at the entrance wall of the bride’s house,” CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bride-family-quarantined-as-grooms-kin-test-corona-ve/articleshow/76414475.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa’s first baby born to coronavirus positive mother tests negative||PANAJI: The four-day-old baby girl, born at the Covid hospital in Margao last week, has tested negative for the virus in the repeat test. The state’s first baby to be born to a Covid positive mother had tested negative at birth and had since been under the care of Goa Medical College’s (GMC) paediatric ward. She was kept away from her mother to protect her from getting infected. However, doctors now say the infant will be reunited with her mother at the Covid hospital as they couldn’t find any close relatives who tested negative for the virus and who could care for her. “Most of the nearby relatives have tested positive. We couldn’t find anyone else to care for the baby. Even a relative suggested by the baby’s father has tested positive,” a doctor said. The baby was born to a mother from Mangor Hill that is now a containment zone with close to 290 positive cases. “How long can the baby be kept away from her mother? When she’s fit for discharge, she is likely to go back to the containment zone in Mangor Hill,” the doctor said. The baby is presently receiving treatment from jaundice at the GMC. The treatment will continue at the Covid hospital once she is shifted there. “The mother will wear PPE and breastfeed her baby. She will receive some protection from her mother’s breast milk. This we found was the best solution in the current situation, under the current circumstances,” the doctor said. The mother who was admitted to the Covid hospital on Friday afternoon, delivered her fourth baby via C-section at the hospital on Friday evening with doctors using full PPE and taking utmost care to ensure that the baby didn’t get infected. The Covid hospital has a special paediatric ward with its own paediatric ICU that has accommodated several children who have tested positive over the past few weeks. The youngest Covid patient till date to be admitted to the hospital has been a four-month-old infant whose mother had tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-first-baby-born-to-ve-mother-tests-ve/articleshow/76414481.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Stray dog menace grows as animal birth control programme remains stalled||Coimbatore: It has been over three years since the corporation stopped the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme held to control the stray dog population in its 80 wards. Finding a pack of dogs has become a common sight in the city and so is the dog menace.With the increasing delay in resuming the programme, the dog population would multi-fold, said experts.A resident of Ukkadam Vijayalakshmi said, “Whenever a new person enters into the locality, dogs would start to bark aloud and chase them. Sometimes, they even fall down from their vehicles.” Not just the people but also the stray dogs themselves are affected because of the raise in population, said R Swapna Rathi, founder of Snehalaya for animals. “While some dogs chase or bark at the people, some people poison it or torture it by throwing them. The only solution to prevent both the dog menace and atrocities against the dog is sterilizing them and reducing their population,” she explained.Only if the dogs are less in the street, residents would also come forward to feed and take care of them, she said and added that they had received numerous calls from the public requesting them to take the dogs off their streets. “With the dogs breeding twice a year, the delay in sterilizing the dogs mean increase in dog population. When the programme was stopped in 2017, the dog population was close to 6,000 but now it is expected to have crossed 20,000,” said Kalpana Vasudevan, honorary state animal welfare board officer. Kalpana said the dog population could be reduced significantly only if the ABC programme is implemented in fast manner. As soon as the corporation provides a shelter, the programme could be commenced immediately, she said and added that cooperation from the public is much required to implement the programme. Meanwhile, the city corporation has been constructing a dog shelter near Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) in Ondipudur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stray-dog-menace-grows-as-animal-birth-control-programme-remains-stalled/articleshow/76414477.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||At 9.3%, Dhule dist surpasses Jalgaon’s Covid-19 death rate||Nashik: At 9.3%, Dhule district has surpassed Jalgaon in coronavirus death rate in north Maharashtra as per the data available with Nashik division’s deputy director of health. Just a week ago, Jalgaon district had earned a dubious distinction of highest fatality rate at 10.4%. However, the district’s death rate has now dropped to 8.1%. Senior medical officials of the Dhule civil hospital said the death rate in Dhule was around 8% about 10 days ago, adding that the rise in the percentage has been recent. District corona nodal officer and RMO Vishal Patil said, “The figures keep changing. In the initial stage, the death rate was high. It has now dropped to 6-7%. Over the past one week, fatalities have increased again.” As per the data available with deputy director of health, Nashik division, until June 15, Dhule had 410 positive cases and 38 deaths. The death rate stood at 9.2%. Senior officials, however, said things change very fast. By June 16, the total cases shot up to 422 and deaths jumped to 42, thereby shooting the death rate to 10%. Patil said that age factor combined with co-morbidity played a major role in the number of cases going up. “Of the 42 patients, 23 are over 50 years and many of them were suffering from illnesses like hypertension, diabetes, kidney failure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-9-3-dhule-dist-surpasses-jalgaons-covid-19-death-rate/articleshow/76412586.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Elderly couple found dead in Sarsaul area||KANPUR: An elderly couple in their 60s were found dead under mysterious circumstances near a pond in Sarsaul area of the district on Tuesday. Some locals, who were working in their fields, alerted the police after they noticed the bodies lying near a pond close to Samadhi Baba temple. The couple has been identified as Badri Kushwaha (64) and his wife Shiv Pyari (60) of Salempur in Maharajpur area of the district. Police have recovered an empty bottle of liquor near the bodies. “Their son -rem stays separately in Ahirwan area of Chakeri while their married daughter Guddan lives with her family in Bhadasa area of the district. The couple used to live at their ancestral home in Salempur area of Maharajpur. They used to eke out their livelihood by doing farming at their three ‘bighas’ of agricultural land,” said police. As there were no injury marks on the bodies, it appears that the two had committed suicide apparently by consuming some kind of poisonous substance. “However, we are yet to receive autopsy report. We are questioning the son-daughter duo besides locals in the area. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said Inspector Sarsaul, Raghvendra Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-sarsaul-area/articleshow/76414485.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Stranded in Qatar, jobless Goans desperate to return||PANAJI: Ready to pay higher fares or even land in any other state and get quarantined there before arriving in reach Goa, Goans stranded in Qatar, who have lost their jobs, are desperate to return home. However, there has neither been any Vande Bharat flight to Goa, nor were they considered for any of the charter flights that arrived in India with stranded Indians. “We have been trying to get back home for the past two months. There have been 30-50 flights to India from Qatar, including under the Vande Bharat mission, but Goans haven’t been permitted on these. We don’t mind taking flights to other states and then travelling to Goa by road, but we aren’t being allowed to do this either,” Slanney Lucas told TOI. “They told us we don’t have the numbers. But if they keep waiting till more Goans lose their jobs, we may die without food and accommodation by then,” he said. Another Goan, Sawan Naik, had travelled to Qatar on a visit visa and has been stuck there struggling to meet daily expenses. He has been able to get through the past few months only with help from well-wishers. “I have no money for rent or groceries. I have been appealing to the government and embassy, but we are losing hope,” he said. The group of Goans longing to get back home include pregnant women. “I lost my job in March and have been waiting for a flight to India ever since. There’s not much support for us,” another stranded Goan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-in-qatar-jobless-goans-desperate-to-return/articleshow/76414492.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 17, 2020||Madurai||Bar association moots physical hearing at HC Madurai bench||Madurai: Citing limitations in virtual hearings, members of the Madurai Bar Association of the Madurai bench of Madras high court have suggested the commencement of physical hearing of cases.In a representation, the members stated that since the Covid-19 pandemic would sustain for a substantial period of time, there is a need to find out ways for full functioning of courts in consultation with medical experts. The present situation of closing the courts, places the litigants and their advocates in a fix.They said that the online virtual proceedings have several limitations including connectivity issues for a substantial number of advocates from the rural areas. Due to this, there is a need to restore back physical or open court hearings at the high court Madurai bench.They suggested that the advocates may be permitted to enter the court premises and they could address the judges from the public gallery inside the court halls. This would ensure physical distancing where 15ft distance can be maintained between the advocates and the judges.They also suggested that the advocates may be permitted to enter the court halls to present their cases and the judges could hear them from their chambers through video conferencing. Once the case is over, the advocate may immediately leave the court hall to avoid overcrowding.They submitted a representation to the Madras high court Chief Justice A P Sahi and the administrative judge of the Madurai bench justice P N Prakash, seeking to consider their suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bar-association-moots-physical-hearing-at-hc-madurai-bench/articleshow/76414954.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC sets aside punishment of deceased cop||MADURAI: The Madras high court has set aside the punishment order against a deceased police inspector, who was removed from service on charges of not properly investigating a case in Virudhunagar district. The court, which was hearing a petition filed by inspector P Dharmar in 2013, directed the authorities to treat the petitioner as retired on superannuation on August 31, 2013 and disburse all service and monetary benefits to his family members within eight weeks. The charges against Dharmar was that on September 27, 2012, when he was working at the Amathur police station, he received a complaint from a woman regarding assault and attempt to murder, in which 12 people were injured. Based on the complaint, a case was registered. A counter complaint was lodged in connection with this incident and he closed the same as a mistake of fact. The second charge against Dharmar is that the first accused Madhavan in the counter case was involved in commission of murder in a case registered in 2013. It was believed that the petitioner’s inaction led to the murder. The third charge was that even after the murder, the petitioner failed to conduct a proper investigation which led to subsequent crime where petrol bombs were recovered from Madhavan’s house. Based on the report submitted by the inquiry officer, an order dated August 29, 2013 was passed removing Dharmar from service. He moved the high court Madurai bench the same year, challenging the order. However, he died during the pendency of the case, and his dependants were substituted as petitioners. On perusal of the submissions, justice S S Sundar observed that Dharmar stood by his final report closing the counter case as mistake of fact as the case was a false one. The judge said that his action cannot be taken as a serious misconduct. The judge said the petitioner had explained to the second and third charges against him by stating that the deputy superintendent of police asked him not to go to the village due to emotional turbulence in the village after the murder. “It is a normal behaviour of any person from the victim’s family to complain about the inaction or inefficiency against the police official if something big happens. When serious charges are framed against the investigation officer alleging dereliction of duty, the allegations should be specific. In the present case, the allegations are too remote,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-sets-aside-punishment-of-deceased-cop/articleshow/76414952.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 17, 2020||Kanpur||17 new areas added to hotspot list||Kanpur: The district administration has decided to add 17 new areas in the hot spot list. At a meeting held here late Monday evening, the district officials after discussing spike in corona positive cases decided to add 17 new areas in the hotspot list. There were already 41 hotspots in the city but now the total number of hotspots in the city has reached to 53 while five hotspots have been shifted into green zones thus giving relief to 13000 people of the five zones from restrictions. IG police Mohit Agarwal said that it was decided in the meeting to shift Block-13 Govind Nagar, Bhairon Ghat, Parauli ,Newada, CTS Indira Nagar and Jaraila Purwa Kakwan to green zone as there no fresh case of Covid-19 case has been reported from these areas. He said I-block Gujaini, Kalyanpur Kala, Ishwari ganj and W1 Saket Nagar have been shifted to orange zone. According to a report, a gynaecologist and her husband, who run a nursing home in Lakhanpur, were tested positive for corona. The health authorities have sanitized the nursing home and quarantined its employees.  The new hotspots are GSVM medical college campus, Parmat, Kamla Tower, Maheshwari Mohal, Chhoti Juhi Parampurwa, Govind Nagar K-block, Karmachari Nagar KEM hal, Mangla Vihar -2, Girsi village Patara and Siddhahpur village Bidhnoo. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla said that the medical college lab had released results of a batch of samples in which 25 were found positive for coronavirus. The medical teams had been asked to get the corona positive patients to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-new-areas-added-to-hotspot-list/articleshow/76414494.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||‘Medical, religious tourism top priority’||Nashik: The district guardian and state minister for civil food supplies Chhagan Bhujbal on Tuesday said that he wants the city to be known for its religious and medical tourism. Bhujbal said that he has already prepared a blueprint to develop Nashik and the work on the same will start to post the conclusion of Covid-19. “The climate of Nashik district is very pleasant and hence green development of Nashik instead of bringing polluted industries in the district,” he said while interacting with Times Group journalists. Bhujbal also informed how he contained the rising cases in the district and distributed responsibilities among municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, district collector Suraj Mandhare and Nashik Zilla Parishad CEO Leena Bansod. He stated that cases once again started increasing after unlocking lockdown. “We are yet to get proper medicine and vaccines on Covid-19 and the cases will also continue to increase before the trend reverse. Hence, we should focus on taking preventive measures to curb Covid-19,” said Bhujbal. He further appealed people to comply with a three-point formula to prevent the spread by maintaining physical distancing, wearing a face mask, and using sanitizers. “The initiatives by ministry to provide food grains to people in the state through fair price shops and expansion of Shiv Bhojan Thali was also carried on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/medical-religious-tourism-top-priority/articleshow/76412612.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 17, 2020||Goa||‘Arrest Milind for violating Section 188’||Vasco: The vice-president of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) Sankalp Amonkar, has filed a complaint with the Mormugao deputy collector against urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik for addressing a press conference on Monday evening without wearing mask, thereby violating Sections 188, 269, 243 of the Indian Penal Code. Amonkar has demanded the immediate arrest of Naik and a fine to be imposed on him for not wearing mask as per the notification issued by the government of Goa to the public, and also for violating the directives issued by the Union home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arrest-milind-for-violating-section-188/articleshow/76414496.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Merces lifts self-imposed shutdown||Panaji: A day after Merces went into self-imposed lockdown, the panchayat reversed its decision. Backed by the civic body, the village had gone into a six-day lockdown from Monday onwards as a precautionary measure after reports of the coronavirus emerged from Chimbel. Sarpanch, Rufina Quadros said that the village will go into any further lockdown measures only after the Goa state disaster management authority gives them a green signal. Due to the lockdown restrictions, most of the business establishments as well as restaurants remained shut on Monday. This spilled over to Tuesday as well since villagers were unaware about the decision to reverse the lockdown. However, medical stores, clinics and fair price shops were open but received poor footfalls due to the heavy rain on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/merces-lifts-self-imposed-shutdown/articleshow/76414509.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Madurai||Case against Twitter user for trying to create unrest among CAPF||Sivaganga: The Karaikudi North police have registered a case against an unidentified Twitter user for attempting to create unrest among the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF).The Twitter user’s handle --- @RSS_FORINDIA --- appeared to imitate a pro-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) one. Sivaganga superintendent of police Rohit Nathan told TOI that the case was registered based on a complaint from the office-bearers of RSS’s Tamil Nadu unit. The case was registered on Sunday under Section of 66 (c ) (Whoever, fraudulently or dishonestly make use of the electronic signature, password or any other unique identification feature of any other person shall be punished) of IT Act and Section 505 (II) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred) of the IPC.The Twitter handle was used for campaign supporting Organised Group A Service (OGAS) for the CAPF, which is being held by IPS officers.Nathan said they suspect people from the CAPF were behind the Twitter handle. Police have written to Twitter headquarters seeking information about the person who runs the handle.“The handle appears to be in collusion with other proxies of CAPF officers, in a larger conspiracy to incite disaffection and mutiny in the disciplined forces. As external actor’s involvement in such a conspiracy cannot be ruled out, the case is being investigated in all seriousness,” Nathan said.Information pertaining to the account was sought immediately after registering the case. However, Twitter officials are yet to divulge the information sought for, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-against-twitter-user-for-trying-to-create-unrest-among-capf/articleshow/76414957.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Allahabad||UP's Ballia PPE kits clear quality checks, get govt nod for manufacturing||VARANASI: Taking a cue from the Atma Nirbhar Bharat mantra, an entrepreneur in Ballia has developed personal protective equipment (PPE) kit for Covid-19 warriors, which has got unique certificate code (UCC) from the laboratory of ordinance factory and approval for manufacturing from the Government of India. Local entrepreneur Surendra Singh Chhabra succeeded in developing the PPE kit due to the initiative, sustained efforts and encouragement from joint magistrate Vipin Jain of Ballia, considered a backward district. Jain, who is nodal officer for Covid-19 pandemic in the district, told TOI on Tuesday, “In view of the shortage of PPE kits when coronavirus cases started increasing, I studied the details about material, prescribed qualities and requirements for manufacturing.” Unit can manufacture up to 2,000 PPE kits in a weekThen I contacted Chhabra through industry department as he has a bag manufacturing unit and was keen to make PPE kits,” added Jain. Chhabra said he decided to grab this opportunity with both hands on getting this proposal from Jain. The duo worked hard in making arrangement of material as per the guidelines of textile and health ministries of Union government. They also consulted chief medical officer and authorities of hospitals in Ayushman Bharat scheme network. “Chhabra started procuring required material from Bengaluru and he also visited Noida to study the requirements for manufacturing PPE kits,” said Jain. Chhabra finally manufactured the PPE kit at his unit costing Rs 600 each, which is 50% cheaper than the kits available in market, said Jain. “On experimental basis, these kits were given to health employees to wear. After using it their health examination was conducted and it was found that the kit was safe and didn’t have any adverse impact on them,” added Jain. As per the guidelines of Union government, the Ballia-manufactured PPE kit was sent to ordinance factory’s laboratory. After testing its quality, the lab issued certificate. The central government also gave its approval for the manufacturing of PPE kit, he said. The unit can manufacture up to 2,000 PPE kits in a week, added Jain. Deputy director, industries, Rajiv Kumar Pathak said since his department had done skill mapping of migrants they provided 10 skilled workers for the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ballia-ppe-kits-clear-quality-checks-get-govt-nod-for-mfg/articleshow/76412636.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa ministers follow Pramod Sawant, say lockdowns not beneficial||PANAJI: Most of the ministers in the state cabinet are of the view that panchayats should not opt for lockdown as it won’t serve any purpose. They said the state has come out of lockdown, and hence, it cannot have another one. The ministers were reacting to the panchayats’ decision to undertake self-imposed lockdowns to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the villages. Chief minister Pramod Sawant and panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho have both opposed the self-lockdown in villages. Panchayats in Tiswadi, Sattari, Bardez and Sanvordem had declared lockdowns.  “When we get one positive case in a village, what we can do is monitor the houses around that person’s home. If the village is under lockdown, how will people access essential commodities? Lockdown means all essential commodities’ shops are closed and people have to remain indoors,” Ports minister Michael Lobo said. Lobo said that lockdown of villages is not a solution that the state is looking at. “We can ask them to take precautions in one waddo where the positive patient is detected. If this continues, one day 50% of Goa will be under lockdown,” the minister said. He also said that people have to ensure the virus does not spread further. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the chief minister has made a statement that panchayats cannot lockdown villages. “We have not asked them to lockdown the villages. People in view of their apprehensions have taken the decision to go for lockdown. The government has already said that you cannot do it. I am talking purely as far as Sattari is concerned. In Usgao, people forced the panchayat members to go for lockdown,” Rane said. The health minister said that the policy of the government is to continue with Covid-19 testing. “I am explaining to the people that let us test find out what is actually happening on the ground and accordingly we can create clusters. People have panicked. The chief minister has already said that panchayats cannot go for lockdown and even panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho has said it,” Rane said. If a person wants to keep his shop shut, then I cannot tell him to keep it open, he said. “ The CM has already made a statement on it and me making a parallel statement is not valid,” Rane said. Art and culture minister Govind Gaude said that the panchayats’ decision to go for self-lockdown is completely wrong. “Lockdown is not the solution, we have to maintain social distancing, wearing face masks...this is the way ahead,” Gaude said He said that there is no need for lockdown. “There are some smart people in a village who are supported by few more people and they pressurise the panchayat to declare self-lockdown. For how many days can a panchayat undertake a lockdown? ” Gaude asked. However, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar continued to support the villages declaring self-lockdown. He said that the villages call for say, a four-day lockdown so that people follow discipline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ministers-follow-sawant-say-lockdowns-not-beneficial/articleshow/76414498.cms||Murari Shetye
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Now, STF traces three fake Deeptis working in KGBVs||LUCKNOW: A day after the arrest of KGBV job racket mastermind Pushpendra in connection with misusing certificates of Anamika Shukla and securing jobs for nine fake teachers, the Special Task Force (STF) on Tuesday traced three others who were working in Mainpuri and Jaunpur on fake marksheets of one Deepti Singh, including Pushpendra’s own girlfriend. On Monday, STF had arrested the kingpin, Pushpendra along with his two aides — Ramnath Pradhan, principal clerk in the basic education department, Hardoi and Anand Singh, district coordinating officer — after TOI had exposed a racket in which 25 persons with the name of Anamika Shukla were found working in various KGBVs, allegedly swindling Rs1 crore as salary in 13 months. STF was tasked with the case on June 13. On Tuesday, STF said that Pushpendra’s sustained interrogation revealed that he had got fake education certificates of one Deepti Singh who is currently employed as home science teacher in Kaushambhi district and used it to secure a job for his girlfriend Ram Beti in the Mainpuri KGBV and for two others in Jaunpur and Mainpuri. A senior STF officer privy to the probe said that the three women working as Deepti are absconding. The original Deepti had been selected in 2015 and is also working. “We have written to the basic shiksha adhikaris in Jaunpur and Mainpuri to get a verification done and also lodge an FIR in the case,” said Satyasen, additional superintendent of police, STF. STF said that teams had been constituted to nab Ram Beti, who is absconding. STF said that Pushpendra, a masters in economics, has been in the marksheet racket for the past ten years. His others aides are also being traced. STF has also written to BSAs of Amethi and Rae Bareli districts to trace the teachers who have been working on the documents of Anamika Shukla. So far, STF, along with the police in different districts, has traced seven women who were working on fake documents of Anamika Shukla. A team of STF will also question the real Anamika Shukla in Gonda and Deepti Singh in Kaushambhi, officers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-stf-traces-three-fake-deeptis-working-in-kgbvs/articleshow/76414503.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Money, work dry up for Gotipua dancers||BHUBANESWAR: For 20 years now, Gotipua dancer Basanta Kumar Maharana, 35, of Raghurajpur has been dancing in front of the chariots on Rath Yatra, Bahuda and Niladri Bije in Puri every year. This year, he might have to stay away because of the Covid pandemic. Almost all the opportunities for performances at the temple, including during Chandan Yatra, have been lost to Gotipua dancers like Maharana this year. “My group and I last performed at Rashtrapati Bhawan in early February,” said the man who runs Abhinna Sundar Gotipua Nrutya Parishad in the village. The lack of work has affected Maharana’s finances. This is especially taxing as the Gotipua teachers continue to follow the gurukul system of teaching, where young boys keen to learn the art live with the masters. “We not only house them and provide them with food and clothes, we bear their school expenses. Our only source of income is the dance performances,” said Maharana, who has performed abroad and has also conducted workshops for theatre groups in Italy, France, Portugal and UK. The same is the case with the two other Gotipua dance groups active in the village. In these difficult times, the gurus cannot even send the children back to their homes. “They have to practise every day, otherwise they might forget the steps,” said Basanta Kumar Pradhan, manager of Dasabhuja Gotipua Odissi Nrutya Parishad, which was founded by the late Guru Maguni Charan Das, a Padma Shri recipient. Pradhan said his group had taken a loan to survive. There are at present 50 to 60 Gotipua dancers in Raghurajpur. Most of them are drawn from villages in Puri district. “I have 20 students from Brahmagiri, Delanga, Khurda and Baralabalingeswar living with me. Besides, there are musicians, singers, caretakers and my own family to look after. Every day, I have to provide four meals each to 35 people. The vegetables grown in my kitchen garden and the rice harvested from my field are seeing us through for now,” said Maharana, adding that nutrition was important for Gotipua dancers as the art form involved acrobatics. Some senior dancers, who have left for their villages, are now working as daily-wage labourers. Kalu Charan Baral, 24, who has been dancing for the past 15 years, is now a labourer at a construction site and gets Rs 300 to Rs 350 per day. “I don’t get work every day so I also work on our farm,” said Baral of Kantigorada village, 6 km from Raghurajpur. Sukanta Kumar Sahoo (40) of Badagaon near Nimapara has also taken to farming to feed his family of four, including a paralytic father. “We need to practise daily. This is the only trade we know,” said flautist Narendra Kumar Nayak, 66, of Rourkela, who performs with a group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/money-work-dry-up-for-gotipua-dancers/articleshow/76412610.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
June 17, 2020||Madurai||In 1962, Nehru picked Madurai over Mathurai||Madurai: The move to rename the anglicised names of many places in Tamil Nadu by the government to resemble their Tamil names has not gone down well with residents of many towns and cities, but the people of Madurai are happy as for them the new name Mathurai does not deviate much from Madurai, the name approved by Jawaharlal Nehru. Both Madurai and Mathurai were suggested by the municipality back in 1962 while effecting a name change. The GO to change the anglicised names was released recently and many of the English names underwent a drastic change, much to the disappointment of the residents in those places. Madurai is linked to the city since ancient times as ancient stone inscriptions stand testimony to this, according to advocate T Lajapathi Roy, author of the book Madurai-Mathirai on the art, culture and history of Madurai. He said that the presence of thousands of arjuna trees, known as Marudha maram in Tamil, had given the town the name Maruthai and later it evolved into Mathurai. “There are stone inscriptions in Alagarkoil hills and Sitharmalai in Annaipatti, which refer to the place as Mathurai,” he said. These inscriptions are over 2,000 years old and have reference to goldsmith from Mathirai and so on. “Even today, in rural areas, people refer to Mathirai and Mathurai colloquially,” said former Madurai district librarian Pandurangan. Due to confusion in pronouncing Madurai, many mails were directed to Madura in Uttar Pradesh. In 1962, Madura municipality chairman T K Rama of the Congress decided to put an end to it and convened discussions with educationists, scholars and religious leaders and narrowed it down to Mathurai and Madurai. A resolution was passed and sent for approval to the Prime Minister’s office. This is also mentioned in the book ‘A study on Street Names of Madurai city’ by retired teacher and researcher D Devaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-1962-nehru-picked-madurai-over-mathurai/articleshow/76414963.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kanpur||40 more persons test Covid +ve, 25 discharged||Kanpur: Cases of coronavirus continued to rise in the city and on Tuesday 40 more positive cases took the total tally of the district to 763. Meanwhile, 25 Covid patients were discharged on Tuesday. Of these, 23 were discharged from Manniye Kashiram Sayukt hospital Till date, 451 persons have been cured of Covid-19, said the district health department. In a relief to the district, no Covid death was reported on Tuesday. The total active cases of the district reached 285. The new Covid-19 cases have been reported from Medical College, Bidhnoo, Mangla Vihar, Phoolbagh, Parmat, Govind Nagar, Juhi Nahairya, Shivrajpur, Eatwah Bazar, Narwal, Kamla Tower, Keshavpurwa, Parampurwa and Nawabganj. The health teams collected 530 samples for Covid tests on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/40-more-persons-test-covid-ve-25-discharged/articleshow/76414517.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Madurai||MP’s survey finds only 30% of people in markets wear masks||Madurai: While steps are being taken to increase safety measures in the markets after Koyembedu market cluster, only 30% of the buyers and traders at the major markets in Madurai wear safety masks said Madurai MP Su Venketesan“We have been insisting on increasing Covid-19 test in Madurai and also have been asking people to wear masks in public places. This is because we do not want our markets to turn into another Koyembedu cluster,” he said. Vehicles which had come from Nasik in Maharashtra to Koyembedu are believed to be a reason for the spread of the disease.He said that after informing district collector Dr T G Vinay, they inspected the markets in Madurai city such as the wholesale vegetable market in Matuthavani and Paravai, fruit market in Matuthavani, fish market, Vandiyur market, and wholesale markets in East Masi Street. As many as 100 volunteers from DYFI had participated in the survey. They took note of safety protocols followed by the people there like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing from 11 pm on June 9 to 4 am on June 10, when intensified trading happens.Out of the 8,963 people they encountered in the markets during the survey, only 2,711 were found to be wearing masks. At Matuthavani vegetable market, of the 1,579 people who came there, only 647 were wearing their masks properly. Totally 570 of them had masks but were not wearing them properly and 362 did not have masks. Hence, 40% of the people were not wearing masks.Violations were more in the fruit market where only 330 of them were wearing masks properly, 197 were without masks, and 245 just had the masks with them. As many as 139 people out of the 225 who came to the fish market wore masks. But 37 did not have mask and 49 had it with them.In Paravai market where 11 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 had the highest number of violations. Out of the 2,537 persons encountered by the volunteers, only 637 wore masks, 2,085 did not wear any mask or protective gears and 815 people wore the masks improperly.Among the load men in East gate, only 474 of 1,941 wore mask, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mps-survey-finds-only-30-of-people-in-markets-wear-masks/articleshow/76414961.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Shimla||Breather for Himachal Pradesh: Three found infected, 13 discharged; tally rises to 559||SHIMLA: Three people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 559. Of these, two cases were reported from Kangra district and one from Mandi. Meanwhile, 13 patients, 12 from Kangra and one from Kinnaur, have also recovered, raising the count of recovery cases in the state to 356. Now, the state has 184 cases which are active, while 11 have migrated out of the state and seven have died due to the infection. One patient from Shimla died of trauma while the cause of death of another patient from Chamba is being ascertained. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said two brothers (24 and 20) from Kunha in Rakkar area of the district have been tested positive. They had travelled back from Delhi on June 12 and were in quarantine but are now being shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre in Baijnath, he said. Among the 12 recovery cases in the district, 11 are of men — a 42-year-old from Purba, 38-year-old from Lambapatt, a 27-year-old from Lambagaon, a 30-year-old Khaniyara, a 33-year-old male from Gadhran, a 30-year-old from Nagrota Bagwan, a 25-year-old from Fatehpur, a 39-year-old male from Jawali, a 52-year-old from Majranu, a 32-year-old from Mahakal and a 46-year-old from Sehal. He said they have tested negative and discharged — nine from Covid care centre,Dadh, and three from dedicated Covid care centre, Baijnath. They have been advised home isolation for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/breather-for-hp-3-found-infected-13-discharged-tally-rises-to-559/articleshow/76414530.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nashik||80% industrial migrants still in the district, says Nashik MIDC||Nashik: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) on Tuesday said that only 20% of the migrant workers across the district have left for their hometowns amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The number holds importance as in Mumbai, the financial capital of India, the figure is around 90%. Around 1 lakh migrants worked in various industries across Nashik district before the pandemic. “Of this only 20,000 have left Nashik and went to their native outside Maharashtra,” Nitin Gavli, regional officer (Nashik MIDC), said. “It should be noted that 80,000 industrial workers are still in Nashik. This is a positive news for the industrial sector. Still, owing to the lockdown, we are expecting around 30% drop in turnover of the industries for 2020-21,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/80-industrial-migrants-still-in-the-district-says-nashik-midc/articleshow/76412655.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||STF conducts raids in four districts||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF) on Tuesday conducted raids in four districts in connection with the rigging of 69,000 assistant teachers’ recruitment examination. A senior STF officer privy to the investigation said six teams carried out raids in Pratapgarh, Bhadohi, Kanpur and Kaushambi to collect evidences against the mastermind, KL Patel. Evidences suggested that many of the candidates who met Patel belonged to these four districts. Their addresses were traced through call detail records of Patel. “Patel is a government medical officer. His involvement was found in the rigging of railway recruitment examination after the police busted a gang in 2019. Patel was also involved in manipulations in other examinations,” the officer said. Patel was also lodged in Bhopal jail for 45 days in connection with Madhya Pradesh’s Vyapam scam. STF has also sought information about Patel from other districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-conducts-raids-in-four-districts/articleshow/76414525.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||70 swabs drawn from Bada Mangor||Vasco: A team of doctors from the Chicalim sub-district hospital on Tuesday collected 70 throat swabs from residents of Bada Mangor for testing. The OPD at the Mangor Sports Club premises was conducted from 10.30am to 12.30pm. The testing was carried following demands from locals that Bada Mangor be excluded from the Mangor Hill containment zone since not a single Covid-19 case had been detected here. Fredrick Henriques, a councillor who has been constantly monitoring the area, said that “based on the results of these tests a concrete report will be put up before the government for realignment of Bada Mangor”. On Monday, a mobile ATM was placed at the swab testing centre at Chota Mangor and cash was replenished in the existing ATM at Bada Mangor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/70-swabs-drawn-from-bada-mangor/articleshow/76414519.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Calls for guv, govt to resolve exam stalemate||Nagpur: The Maharashtra government has failed to end the deadlock over final year/semester examinations in the last two weeks. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and other organizations, along with many academicians, have written letters to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue at the earliest. These letters say the students and their parents are suffering immensely due to constant change of stand by the ruling dispensation regarding the complex issue. Moreover, the opposition by the chancellor to the government’s stand of cancelling all exams due to Covid-19 pandemic was adding to their woes, since no one was coming out clearly on the issue, which had taken a political colour. “In such worldwide crisis, where Covid-19 cases are spiralling with each passing day, it seems impossible to conduct the exams for lakhs of students, putting their lives at risk. At this stage, no one can predict how long this deadly virus will continue to wreak havoc. I’ve requested the chancellor to personally look into the matter,” MNS leader Hemant Gadkari told TOI. He wrote to Koshiyari to urgently convene a meeting of all stakeholders, including the CM, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, and experts from University Grants Commission (UGC), to find out a solution. Former Nagpur University Management Council member Sanjay Khadakkar wrote to the chancellor to direct universities to conduct final exams using online multiple choice questions (MCQ). “Maximum students would find it convenient to appear in such exams, which will also allow Covid distancing norms to be followed. Of course, security measures can be integrated in software to prevent malpractices. Those who’re unable to use the online facility due to various reasons, their colleges should be entrusted with the responsibility of arranging it on their campuses while following norms,” he mentioned in the letter. With no communication from the government, even university officials are in a state of confusion regarding the exams. “We’re also waiting for official word from the government in this regard. I think, the government may hold a review meeting on June 20 as mentioned in its first circular on exams, and then arrive at a decision. In any case, we’re ready with the preparations. If directives come to conduct exams, we will be ready in 20-25 days to hold them with all Covid-19 norms of the government,” Nagpur and Amravati universities vice chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar told TOI. The ABVP had already slammed the government over its declaration of exam cancellation and awarding average marks to the students based on their past performance. Probable reasons for delay * As per Universities Act, exams are mandatory for all students * After govt decided to cancel exams, Guv opposed its decision * Govt sought legal opinion from advocate general on cancellation * In all likelihood, any decision on exams will be challenged in HC * Govt doesn't want to take any chances, waiting for foolproof solution * It may take a review by June 20 & then declare its decision on exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/calls-for-guv-govt-to-resolve-exam-stalemate/articleshow/76414732.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||41 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Vadodara||Vadodara: With 41 more persons testing positive for Covid-19 since Monday evening, the total number of cases in Vadodara city and district went up to 1,651. In Vadodara city, the new cases are evenly spread now barring the western parts that are seeing isolated cases every day. The fresh cases included 11 from the eastern parts of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits and 10 each form the north and south zones. The west zone had only one person testing positive even as nine persons tested positive in the rural parts of the district outside VMC limits. The fresh cases in the city were reported from Waghodiya Road, Wadi, Bapod, Danteshwar, Tarsali, Harni, Soma Talav, Panigate, Gendigate, VIP Road, Yakutpura, Shiyabag and other areas. The cases in rural areas came from Padra, Manjusar and Jarod. These areas outside the city limits have been witnessing a steady trickle of cases since the last few days. Twenty-one persons were discharged from various facilities in the city including hospitals as well as home isolation. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 1,092. The officially declared death toll due to Covid-19 remained at 50 with the VMC not including any more deceased in the medical bulletin. The number of deceased remains far higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/41-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-vadodara/articleshow/76410394.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||NMC 1st Vid civic body to use own hospital to treat Covid patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is set to become the first civic body in Vidarbha to use its hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. For starters, this will be at the Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) at LAD Square. Apart from the IGR, the civic body has also completed all works at three other dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC). The IGR has been converted into a 130-bed centre with 16 in the ICU. Asymptomatic and moderately severe patients will be treated here. With the help of special funds sanctioned by guardian minister Nitin Raut, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar had planned the five DCHCs. Works at Pachpaoli DCHC with 100-beds (16 in ICU), Sadar Hospital (35 beds) and Isolation Hospital, Imamwada (32 beds) is also complete. Only the works at KT Nagar, the fifth DCHC, is delayed. The centre here was opposed by residents and West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre. NMC sources said that the appointment of staff at IGR is pending “as most medical workers are busy in containment zones”. Already facing shortage of staff, the NMC faces an uphill task to operate the DCHCs as its personnel are working in quarantine centres, containment zones and special camps for testing high-risk patients. After end of Covid-19, these hospitals situated in all corners of the city will become lifeline for many people from slums and other areas. Currently, Covid patients are being treated at the state-run IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. Totally, the three can treat 1,280 people. As of Tuesday, 416 are undergoing treatment. Cases are on rise in the district with 537 people testing positive in 16 days of June. After Mominpura, Satranjipura and Naik Talao-Bangladesh, areas like Tandapeth, Chandramani Nagar, Indora, Lashkaribagh among others have started to witness a large number of cases. Most are coming from newer areas, slums and congested localities. There are 58 containment zones in city now. Meanwhile, cases in Hingna tehsil crossed 50 on Tuesday with most patients coming from the chain of Isasani and Nildoh. They are connected with an industry that was closed by collector Ravindra Thakre a couple of days ago for not maintaining Covid-19 distancing and following other norms. On Tuesday, Thakre held a meeting with associations of Hingna, Butibori, Kalmeshwar and other industrial areas. He explained about the need for complying with all Covid guidelines to prevent spread of disease. He also warned that not adhering to the rules will result in shutting down of industries. Later, Thakre formed squads to make surprise visits at industries in Nagpur Rural. The number of cases in Nagpur Rural has increased to 119 with maximum coming this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-1st-vid-civic-body-to-use-own-hospital-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/76413788.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 17, 2020||Madurai||514 pvt firms set up hand wash facility in Madurai||Madurai: As per the directives of Madurai Corporation, 514 commercial establishments have set up hand washing facility in front of their buildings for public. As many as 121 government buildings have also set up water and soap. With the corporation installing the facility at 169 places, the hand washing facility is now available at more than 800 spots. Officials said more commercial establishments will set up the facility in the next few days. Covid-19 infection in Madurai city is on the rise due to the influx of people from northern Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai. While the corporation is leaving no stone unturned, it is now promoting hand hygiene aggressively to contain the spread of the virus.A corporation official said, “Most of the hotels, bakeries, government buildings and hospitals have complied with the corporation instruction on setting up hand wash facility. Zone one has the highest number of the facility at 269 places, followed by zone four at 237, zone two 151 and zone three 147,” he said. As per the order from collector T G Vinay, the corporation has doubled the fine amount to Rs 200 for not wearing mask at public places. “The intention was not to collect money from public but to make them responsible. The corporation has fined more than 3,000 people for not wearing masks, still many did not comply the directives. Hope more penalties will force people to wear mask in public place,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/514-pvt-firms-set-up-hand-wash-facility-in-madurai/articleshow/76414964.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Odhav man dies after ‘mistakenly’ drinking sanitiser||AHMEDABAD: During this Covid-19 pandemic, while hand sanitisers have become ubiquitous, a man from the Odhav area of the city “mistakenly” ingested some and died 11 days later. According to a statement from city police, 26-year-old Chirag Prajapati died on Monday evening after 11 days at the Asarwa Civil hospital. He had ingested the hand sanitiser at his home in Laljibhai Chawl in Odhav and suffered severe burns to his internal organs, which led to his death. The statement says Prajapati had been suffering from mental illness for a long time. “Instead of his medication, he had ingested sanitizer and his condition worsened,” reads the police statement. Prajapati was taken to Civil Hospital on June 4 and was admitted to an intensive care unit, where he died at around 5pm on Monday. Odhav police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation. Sources in Odhav police said the investigation will try to uncover whether Prajapati had conducted suicide or mistakenly ingested the sanitiser. “No doctor prescribes any liquid medication for his illness that looks like hand sanitizer. The hypothesis that he mistook it for his medication is unpalatable,” said a source in the police. Another police official said police cops will also investigate if the deceased drank alcohol and if he had taken the sanitiser out of an urge to get intoxicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/odhav-man-dies-after-mistakenly-drinking-sanitizer/articleshow/76413795.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Siblings self-immolate in Bantwal||MANGALURU: A man and his sister allegedly committed suicide by dousing themselves with petrol and setting themselves ablaze, in Sangabettu village, Bantwal taluk. According to police, the siblings may have taken the extreme step as both of them were battling health issues. The victims are Nilayya Shettigar,42, and his sister Kesari, 39. Police said that the siblings were unmarried and living with their relatives. At midnight on Monday, when everyone was asleep, the duo set themselves ablaze after pouring petrol on themselves, and died on the spot. Police were informed about it around 1.30am. Police added that the victims’ father and mother had died in December and February, respectively. After their deaths, Nilayya was depressed, a relative told the police. Nilayya’s brother was reportedly sleeping in another room in the house, and rushed to help them, when he heard them screaming in pain. A case of unnatural death has been registered at the Bantwal Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/siblings-self-immolate-in-bantwal/articleshow/76413298.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Covid centres identified in South Goa||Margao: The South Goa district administration has identified several government premises in all 21 constituencies of South Goa for the purpose of turning them into covid care centres. “In each of the constituencies, we have identified buildings, mostly government-owned; and they will be requisitioned for using the premises to house symptomatic covid positive patients and notified as covid care centres as and when required,” a senior administrative official said. The identified buildings also include schools in some constituencies, it is learnt. Though chief minister Pramod Sawant had on Monday said that the government college at Quepem will not be designated as covid care centre as was earlier notified, sources said that the notification was yet to be reversed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-centres-identified-in-south-goa/articleshow/76414526.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Bring down student strength in a class to 15, say teachers||COIMBATORE: The government and aided schoolteachers have suggested the state’s expert committee that has been deliberating on school education reforms to make the student-teacher ratio 15:1 when schools reopen to ensure effective physical distancing. In a charter of suggestions that the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association presented before the committee, its members also urged the state not to promote online learning, as that was creating a divide between the rich and poor students. The association said the number of students in a classroom should be brought down to 15 from the current 35 to 40. Its state auditor T Arulanandam said, “Most government and aided schools have now added buildings and classrooms. So, 15 students in a classroom is possible.” Pointing out that classrooms in government schools were 300sqft to 400sqft big, he said bringing down the number of students per class to 15 would not only help maintain adequate physical distancing but also help teachers provide individual attention to each student. “For instance, in a class of 15, if a student removes face mask, the teacher can find it out easily.” In schools that do not have enough classrooms for ensuring physical distancing, they suggested the state to conduct classes in shifts – one shift in the forenoon and another in the afternoon. Another suggestion was not to promote online learning, as that would ‘divide students into rich and poor’. Teachers said they were able to connect only 30%-40% students online. “Many students don’t have an android phone at their houses. We used to WhatsApp assignments or study materials even before the lockdown, but more than half the students could not access them,” Arulanandam said. Instead of online learning, he said, the state’s dedicated education channel - Kalvi TV – should be used to conduct classes for students, as most households have TV sets. The syllabus could be reduced by 25%, the association said. Instead of spending several crores of rupees for implementing the Right to Education (RTE) Act, under which the state would sponsor 25% seats in private schools for underprivileged students every year, it said, the state could use the money to develop government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bring-down-student-strength-in-a-class-to-15-say-teachers/articleshow/76414521.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: International flights not a near possibility yet, says Hardeep Singh Puri||NEW DELHI: International flights are unlikely to resume anytime soon and a decision may not be taken until domestic flight operations are close to normal again, Union aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Speaking at a webinar organised by GMR titled “Reposing the faith in flying”, Puri said he was receiving several queries on resumption of international flights. He said while the Vande Bharat Mission had been immensely successful, no country in the world had opened international flight operations yet without applying restrictions. Restarting of international flights would depend on a lot of factors, including how the virus behaves and the rules for travel by various countries. “We couldn’t find a single country allowing access without any conditions. Even the US said since universities are closed, students holding a particular type of visa shouldn’t come. We are currently handling close to 70,000 passengers daily in domestic operations. Once we reach close to 70% of the utilisation capacity, maybe then we can think about opening our borders for international travel,” said Puri. “Bilateral discussions need to be held before international travel can be decided. It is also not fair to set a timeline to it. We need to move towards international travel systematically without inviting a backlash,” said Puri, adding that flying was still one of the safest forms of transport, simply due to the number of precautions being taken. The aviation minister said he was also receiving queries on why different states had separate quarantine rules. “While the Centre can prescribe quarantine rules, it is the state’s decision on how it wants to implement it,” he added. Talking about Vande Bharat Mission, through which thousands of people worldwide were evacuated, Puri said those still stuck would get a chance to either return to India or fly to their destination country as the government had announced to ramp up such flights. Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director, who was also a part of the webinar, said, “We will continue to get people who test Covid-positive, so precautions with masks and hand sanitisation will have to continue. Traveling by flight is one of the safest ways to travel because a lot of precautions are in place. We are more stringent at an international level.” SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh said he expected flight operations to rise to 40% of the pre-Covid level, but it would depend on how states behaved. “If a state brings restrictions in terms of a lockdown, it will work against expanding flight operations,” he added. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said all precautions were being taken at terminals with IGI Airport ensuring sanitisation round the clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/intl-flights-not-a-near-possibility-yet-says-puri/articleshow/76413806.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||No entry for kin at June 20 IAF parade||Hyderabad: Parents and relatives of cadets at the combination graduation parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy (AFA), Dundigal, will not have the privilege of attending the ceremony as authorities have decided against allowing them due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. They can watch it live on the social media handles of the IAF and on Doordarshan. The parade will be held on June 20 to mark the successful completion of pre-commissioning training of flight cadets of various branches of IAF. Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria will be the reviewing officer of the passing out parade. During the function, he will confer the ‘President’s Commission’ to 123 graduating trainees, including 19 women cadets, of various branches. “CGP symbolises the culmination of rigorous training and transformation of a cadet into a young officer to shoulder the nation’s responsibility,” the defence authorities said. The ceremony will include presentation of ‘wings’ and ‘brevets’ to the flight cadets who successfully completed flying and navigation training respectively. Officers of Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard, who underwent flying training at AFA, will also be presented wings by the reviewing officer. The parade will be commanded by the flight cadet standing first in overall order of merit. He will be awarded the ‘sword of honour’ along with the ‘President’s Plaque’ by the reviewing officer for his achievements. The Air Chief will also present the President’s Plaque to the flight cadet who stands first in the overall merit in the ground duty branches. The parade will be followed by a fly-past by formations of Pilatus, Kiran Hawk and Chetak helicopters and an aerobatic display by Surya Kiran team. “In view of the Covid-19 situation, the cadets will get commissioned while taking all necessary safety precautions. After commissioning, the cadets will be directly moving to their respective units,” the authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-entry-for-kin-at-june-20-iaf-parade/articleshow/76414537.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||No. of people discharged more than active Covid cases in Bengal||Kolkata: The number of total discharged Covid patients in Bengal has crossed the active cases in the state. With the release of 534 persons on Tuesday, the discharge rate in Bengal crossed the 50%-mark. The number of total active cases too fell on Tuesday. It was 5,386, while on Monday, the figure was 5,515. Bengal reported 415 new Covid cases on Tuesday, 170 among them in Kolkata alone. Bengal also crossed the 3.5 lakh Covid testing mark with 3.3% of the samples tested turning out to be positive. The tests per million population on Tuesday was at 3,908. “These are encouraging stats. But we need to keep a watch to see if this trend continues say for about a week. Then only we can than say that we are reaching somewhere,” said pulmonologist Dhiman Ganguly, also a member of the state’s expert committee on Covid-19. “But what worries me is the tendency among people in past one week to come out in large numbers even if it is not required,” added Ganguly. The state government in sync with the central government and ICMR guidelines had on May 22 revised the Covid discharge policy indicating mild, moderate and asymptomatic Covid patients can be discharged without testing with a week-long self-isolation protocol. On May 23, 1,281 people were discharged in Bengal after Covid treatment. The discharge rate then was 37%. On Tuesday, the number of total discharge stood at 6,028 and the discharge rate crossed the 50% mark. In India, the discharge rate after the revised policy has also increased and on Tuesday it was 51%. According to the state health bulletin, the improved numbers of patients discharged compared to the total active cases are not reflected in Kolkata. In Kolkata, the state data says, 1,548 people have been discharged and there are 2,097 active cases. Some health experts, however, said that we should not read much into the number of patients discharged overtaking the number of active cases. In fact, they said that the two cannot be compared. “The number of patients discharged taking over the active number of cases does not mean the rate of transmission has gone down. It is good that the discharge rate is going up. But at the same time, we need to focus more on containing the disease,” said Amitava Nandi, virologist. According to the revised policy, a mild and a moderate Covid patient can be released from hospital if they do not have fever for three days and their oxygen saturation should not dip below 95%.  There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. The patients must isolate and self-monitor their health for seven days. For critical cases, patients can only be released after clinical resolution of symptoms and a negative RT PCR tests. Of the 534 discharged on Tuesday, 206 patients were released in Howrah alone. The district currently has 747 active cases. In West Midnapore, 109 patients were sent home. A total of 174 patients have been discharged in the district against 133 active cases as on Tuesday. Hooghly also figures among the districts where the discharge tally is higher than the active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-people-discharged-more-than-active-covid-cases-in-bengal/articleshow/76413807.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||642 doctors appointed in Haryana||Chandigarh: Haryana health department has issued appointment letters to 642 medical officers to overcome shortage of doctors. Health minister Anil Vij said 312 doctors were appointed in this year. So far this year, 954 medical officers have been appointed in the health department. He said the medical officers include 166 specialists and 788 MBBS doctors. The Haryana government is hoping patients would get efficient treatment because of the appointments during the Covid pandemic. The hinister said the health department had done a great job by appointing 954 medical officers in just three months. He said the appointments would help provide better services to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/642-doctors-appointed-in-haryana/articleshow/76414545.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Online classes in Punjab Engineering College from July 27||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) will start online semester classes for the existing students from July 27. This has been decided by the PEC senate on Tuesday. Members of the senate have decided that the new semester will start from July 27 and will complete in October. Now, PEC will have six-week teaching, instead of five till October. A decision has been taken that all the semesters will have three-hour online classes i.e. one hour for each subject. Considering the stress which the students are dealing with due to Covid-19, it has been decided that all the departments will teach four courses, instead of five, which they used to have in the past. The left out subjects will be covered next year by all the departments. The senate has left the decision on the departments as to which course they want to leave for the next year. Every student has to submit his/her intermediate assignments online till the classes resume on the campus. It has also been decided that if the situation doesn’t turn normal, classes for new students of M Tech will also be held online in September and for B tech in October. Dheeraj Sanghi, director, PEC said the schedule, which will be designed for online classes, will consider that students will not have to attend classes for more than three hours in a day. He said the institute will review the situation from time-to-time and take a call about amendments if required. In the meeting, student representation was also tabled which is about examination of the existing session. The senate approved a tentative examination plan if the situation will become normal by November. According to the plan, the examination for the syllabus covered from July to October will be held on November 4. The members also discussed that as the institution has not been able to conduct exams of the last semester, 2019-20, which was scheduled in March, a tentative plan has been chalked out that to conduct the exams on November 4 and then give a three-week to all the students. The faculty will hold extra classes during the break and revise the syllabus of the last semester of the 2019-20, so that examination can be conducted in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-classes-in-pec-from-july-27/articleshow/76413808.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Rath Pratistha’ gets temple nod, servitors hopeful about fest fate||BHUBANESWAR: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has asked the shrine purohits (priests) to ‘remain in readiness’ to worship the chariots for Rath Yatra on June 23 even as the mystery around who will actually pull the Raths remains. In accordance with tradition, temple purohits will consecrate the chariots (‘Rath Pratistha’) outside the shrine on the morning of Rath Yatra. The ritual is always conducted just before the placing of the sibling deities Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra onto the chariots. Temple purohit Siddheswar Mohapatra confirmed that he had received a written communication from SJTA on the matter. “We are hopeful that the chariots will be pulled. How they will be pulled is up to the government to decide. We are ready for Rath Pratistha,” he said. While SJTA refused to comment, servitors said the green signal given to Rath Pratistha had made them hopeful that Rath Yatra would be held as usual, albeit without devotees. “The government should allow the pulling of the chariots by servitors and police. Since the government is most likely to deny devotees the chance to attend the festival this time, there will be no worry about crowd control and traffic regulation,” said servitor Binayak Dasmohapatra, who on Tuesday met a few ministers in Bhubaneswar to discuss Rath Yatra. Notably, the servitors are not in favour of deployment of heavy machinery or elephants to pull the chariots, as suggested by the Orissa high court. Congress MLA Suresh Rautray, too, on Tuesday said chief minister Naveen Patnaik should clear the air soon over the form the festival would take. In another development, the Puri district administration has asked the municipality to evict roadside vendors from both sides of the 3-km-Grand Road where the chariots would be tugged (if allowed) from the Jagannath Temple to the Gundicha Temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rath-pratistha-gets-temple-nod-servitors-hopeful-about-fest-fate/articleshow/76412681.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Corona count from call centre continues to rise, 10 more +ve||Lucknow: As eight more employees of the call centre running the chief minister’s helpline and two of their contacts were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday, the number of infected people linked to the BPO reached 95 since June 5. Besides the 10 helpline-linked cases, 57 fresh cases were also recorded on Tuesday, taking city’s tally to 687. Among them were 42 PAC jawans, three journalists, an SP MLA and an auditor in Amrapali Group. The call centre director was served a show-cause notice on Monday by chief medical officer, Lucknow, for allegedly not following precautionary measures in the office. The staff had also admitted before health officers that they neglected social distancing. Another negligence also came to the fore. One of the eight employees found infected on Tuesday left the city after giving the samples for test on Sunday, despite instructions to remain in home quarantine. “The patient lived in Chinhat and has gone home to Mirzapur. We contacted CMO Mirzapur and got him admitted in a local hospital,” said CMO Lucknow Dr Narendra Agarwal. “Another employee, who commuted from Barabanki daily for work, also went home after giving samples and has been hospitalised in his home district,” he added. The remaining six lived on rent on IIM Road, in Surendranagar, Bakshi ka Talab, Husainabad and two localities in Chinhat. Two contacts of employees found infected are residents of Rajajipuram and Ismailganj. Three journalists of a local news channel based in Gomtinagar also tested positive, days after their bureau chief was found infected. Other cases included three members of a family in Alambagh, two persons from Ansal City and one each from IIM Road, Kursi Road, Thakurganj, Maulviganj, Mall Avenue and Chaupatiyan. SP MLA tests positive A Samajwadi Party MLA, a resident of VIP Mall Avenue area. was admitted to KGMU on Tuesday after diagnosed with Covid-19. His sample was taken for test when he visited RMLIMS due to difficulty in breathing on Monday soon after arriving from Janupur. “Six of MLA’s contacts are also being tested and Jaunpur CMO has been alerted to trace legislator’s contacts in his district,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. ED office closed for 3 days The Lucknow office of Enforcement Directorate will remain closed for three days for sanitization after Anil Mittal, auditor of Amrapali Group of Companies, who was in a 7-day custody of the agency for interrogation, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Four ED staff members were have also been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-count-from-call-centre-continues-to-rise-10-more-ve/articleshow/76414543.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajya Sabha elections: MLAs with Covid can don PPE and vote||GANDHINAGAR: The Bharatiya Janata Party heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday, as three of its MLAs who had tested positive for Covid-19, have become free of the infection with just three days to go for the crucial Rajya Sabha election in the state. Meanwhile, following directions from the Election Commission of India (ECI), the state chief electoral officer has ensured that even MLAs who have Covid, will be able to vote in the elections for the four Rajya Sabha seats on June 19. If an MLA has Covid, he or she will be able to vote while wearing a PPE kit. State election officer S Murali Krishna said, “According to information provided by local authorities, two MLAs, Jagdish Panchal and Balram Thawani, have been discharged from hospital after testing negative for the virus. The home quarantine period of the third MLA, Kishor Chauhan, ends on June 18. Hence, all these three MLAs can cast their votes.” He added, “However, considering the possibility of an MLA testing positive for the virus, we have made special arrangements. PPE kits, masks, sanitizers and other safety measures have been kept ready to ensure safe elections. If an MLA is Covid positive, he or she can vote after wearing a PPE kit. Once such an MLA finishes voting, we will sanitize the polling room.” All MLAs, polling staff, mediapersons and others involved in the process will have to undergo a thermal scan before the election begins. If an MLA has a body temperature higher than the permissible limits, he or she will be asked to sit in a separate room and will be able to vote only after other MLAs finish voting.  “Medical teams will be present at the venue through the day to screen people,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mlas-with-covid-can-don-ppe-and-vote/articleshow/76413811.cms||Kapil Dave
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||School to house prison inmates to thwart threat from Covid-19||Nagpur: Mount Carmel, a well-known girls’ school at Ajni square, has been earmarked as a temporary extension of the Nagpur Central Jail to house new inmates for a period of 14 days before being tested for Covid-19. It would house around 200-300 inmates till June 30. With a substantial number of Yerawada and Arthur Road jail inmates found Covid positive, it’s learnt that the pandemic threat compelled the district collector’s office to create a new facility to accommodate the fresh inmates of the Nagpur jail to stop any viral infection from spreading in the barracks, like elsewhere in the state. In the past, ‘Mangalmurti Lawn’, a hall near the gate of the jail on Wardha Road, was converted into a mini prison. Maintaining covid distancing, the jail authorities could accommodate only 30 inmates here. As the authorities ran out of space in no time, the school was provided as an alternative by the district administration. Superintendent of central jail Anup Kumar Kumre said the inmates are being brought after Covid screening by the police. They would be tested again at the school after 14 days. After that, the inmates would be shifted to the prison’s quarantine facility for another 14 days in case their samples are found to be negative. “We are taking utmost precaution to ensure that the virus does not enter the premises at any cost. So far, we have been successful in this endeavour. Anyone found positive would be shifted to the hospital from the school itself,” said Kumre, who himself is isolated with his colleagues inside the jail premises till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-to-house-prison-inmates-to-thwart-threat-from-covid-19/articleshow/76414540.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 17, 2020||Madurai||2 die in Madurai; 78 cases in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: Two people in Madurai died of Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in the last 24 hours taking the total toll in the district to six, the highest in south Tamil Nadu. The southern region recorded more than 100 cases for the fifth consecutive day. With this, the tally in the region has climbed to 2,482. Meanwhile, the central region of the state saw a steep rise of Covid-19 cases with 78 people testing positive taking its tally to 1,358 on Tuesday. A 70-year-old man from Anuppanadi died on Monday, four days after testing Covid-19 positive at GRH. The patient had co-morbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension as well as coronary artery disease. In the second case, an 88-year-old woman from Munichalai died on Tuesday morning, hardly a day after testing Covid-19 positive. The woman had no co-morbid conditions and had been admitted to GRH after suffering breathing difficulties. While the first death was recorded in the state daily medical bulletin, the second was confirmed only by district collector Dr TG Vinay. Madurai reported 20 fresh cases, the highest in the region. This included two Chennai returnees, contacts of Covid-19 patients and those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-die-in-madurai-78-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/76414970.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||New cases can be filed at dist courts||Mohali: After a three-month hiatus, work has finally started in the district court of Mohali to file new cases. Disclosing this here on Tuesday, president of the district bar association, Mohali, Manpreet Singh Chahal said all kinds of new cases could be filed now in the court, but for the time being, hearing will be held only on urgent matters. Newly filed non-urgent matters will be adjourned for the time being till the next date, he said. He said a meeting was held with the district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai and it was agreed that in view of the current situation to curb the spread of coronavirus, minimum attendance of public will be ensured under which no hearings will be held on non-urgent matters, except for anticipatory bail and stay matters. No advocate will be allowed to appear for more than two cases per day per court. Apart from urgent cases, no other case will be heard for the time being. He said in case all the parties agree, then normal case may be heard with the permission of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-cases-can-be-filed-at-dist-courts/articleshow/76413812.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ordnance Factory workers vote for strike||Nagpur: Unions in the ordnance factories have claimed to have got more than the required mandate for the strike ballot that was moved from June 8 to June 17. The unions had called for an indefinite strike against the government’s move on corporatisation of the ordnance factory board (OFB). The OFB currently is a government department, and corporatisation will make it into a public sector undertaking. Once a PSU, it will have to be self sustaining. The unions now plan to discuss the way ahead for an indefinite strike from July 2 onwards, said a joint press release issued by the three major unions, including the RSS-linked Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh There are 41 ordnance factories in the country. The decision comes at a time when there is tension on the Chinese front. The joint press release has said that the unions have got an overwhelming response for the strike ballot. The plan to corporatize the ordnance factory set up was a part of the post Covid-19 revamp moves. Last year, in August, the government had mooted the corporatisation plan after which the unions had gone on an indefinite strike following which the plans were put on hold. The government had assured that the unions will be consulted if any such step is taken in the future. If the unions go on a strike again, then it is expected to leave a major impact on the defence production. Most of the factories were already closed till June due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordnance-factory-workers-vote-for-strike/articleshow/76425318.cms||Shishir Arya
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Rs 100 crore infrastructure plans in jeopardy||CHANDIGARH: A restraint on spending Rs 100 crore disbursed in 2017 is likely to derail the infrastructure projects of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) that will complete 100 years in 2021. The UT administration had recently asked the institute not to spend from the planned budget from April 1 to June 30. Further communication about funds would be sent by July. The administration clearly mentioned that except non-plan budget, which is largely for salary of staff and contingency, the other funds should not be utilised by the institute. Dheeraj Sanghi, director, PEC, has a long list of projects for this fiscal year, worried whether the funding scenario of the institute will improve or not. He said that though the administration is claiming that the budget will be released to PEC from July, considering the central government’s cut in funding of various sectors he is not hopeful of getting the funds. He said Rs 20 crore was to be spent on hostel infrastructure and other repair work. In every budget, the institute allocates Rs 5 crore to Rs 7 crore for the upgradation or installing new equipment in four to five laboratories. In 2017, the administration had sanctioned Rs 100 crore to the institute to strengthen its infrastructure. According to the plan, the projects were to be executed in phases. The administration plan was that PEC would be ready with upgraded infrastructure on its centenary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-100cr-infra-plans-in-jeopardy/articleshow/76413809.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 47 inmates out on bail back in Tihar Jail||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has re-arrested 47 out of the 616 inmates granted bail during the lockdown to enforce social distancing on the jail premises. Almost all of them were undertrials and allegedly got involved in criminal activities again. Ever since the decision to decongest the prisons was taken at the beginning of this year, Tihar Jail has released 2,124 inmates on parole or bail, out of which 136 have been re-arrested. Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa said all police stations had been asked to form teams that would keep track of everybody released during the decongestion drive. According to Delhi Police, out of the 616 inmates given bail, 317 were from northeast Delhi, 77 from Rohini and 218 from southwest Delhi. The cops have caught 16 of them from east and northeast Delhi, 11 from Dwarka, west and outer Delhi, seven from south Delhi and the rest from other parts of the city. The jail authorities said those nearing the end of their jail term and having a good track record were offered parole while others jailed for petty crimes were granted bail on the condition that they won’t commit the same crime again. The decision to release the second category was taken as the cells housing the inmates jailed for crimes that attract a punishment of less than seven years were crowded beyond capacity. A Tihar Jail source said even after granting so many interim bail, the inmate population has come down from 175% to 150% of the capacity. Those who have been sent back to the prison will also face additional charges of violating the bail or parole conditions and get harsher punishments for committing the same crime twice, said a senior official. Their plea for bail or parole will be opposed by the jail authorities. Legal experts and the Delhi Police legal cell will be consulted to screen the inmates and consider each case individually before offering parole or interim bail, he added. Thousands of prisoners in overcrowded jails across the country have been released on interim bail or parole as part of the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/47-inmates-out-on-bail-back-in-tihar/articleshow/76413823.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress MLAs return, to stay put at hotel in Ahmedabad||GANDHINAGAR: Three days before the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections for four seats, Gujarat Congress shifted its MLAs to a five-star hotel in Ahmedabad from three resorts, in Rajasthan, Anand and Rajkot. All 65 Congress MLAs will stay put at the Ahmedabad hotel until the Rajya Sabha election. Amit Chavda, president of the Gujarat Congress, on Tuesday said, “All our MLAs will reach Ahmedabad by tonight and will stay at a hotel in Ahmedabad. The MLAs will have workshops and training on various aspects of the Rajya Sabha election from Wednesday. A mock poll will also be conducted for the MLAs before the June 19 Rajya Sabha election.” About the possibility of more resignations, Chavda said, “None of the MLAs from present strength will go to BJP like the few who surrendered to BJP’s money and muscle power.” He added that the Congress will comfortably win two of the four seats “with support of other parties and the independent MLA.” A total of eight MLAs of the Congress have resigned since March, bringing down the party’s strength in the 182-member house to 65. According to the formula, 35 votes are needed for the victory of each candidate in the RS elections. Congress claims the support of independent MLA Jignesh Mevani, two BTP MLAs and one NCP MLA. The BJP also claims to have the support of the BTP and NCP MLAs.  The Congress needs the support of at least five more MLAs if it wants to get its two candidates, Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, elected outright to the upper house of Parliament. The BJP, which has 103 MLAs, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin. The ruling party will need first-preference votes of two more MLAs if it wants to get all the three candidates elected outright. NCP MLA Kandhal Jadeja has publicly announced support to the BJP. If BJP’s claim of support of two BTP MLAs is true, the BJP will have the upper hand. In the 2017 RS election, one invalid vote cast by BJP minister R C Faldu helped Congress leader Ahmed Patel snatch a nail-biting win. The BJP still fears that a similar mistake again will harm it. The BJP is certain that if second preference votes are counted, all three of its candidates will win.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-mlas-return-to-stay-put-at-hotel-in-city/articleshow/76413816.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Monsoon in UP but rain a few days away for Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As monsoon advanced further into UP, the currents arrived at the city's doorstep on Tuesday. However, it will take another two-three days for them to make a formal entry. Weather, till then, will remain hot and sultry. State Met director JP Gupta said that a day after entering UP, monsoon has further advanced into some parts of the state. “The monsoon line on Tuesday was passing over Bahraich and Fatehpur after covering Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj regions. It is likely to remain active over these regions for 2-3 days before entering the city,” he added. A cyclonic circulation over east UP at present is driving the monsoon. However, rainfall has not been widespread and heavy. Moderate rains were reported from some parts. The highest, 51.4mm, was recorded in Varanasi, followed by Prayagraj with 19.6mm. Gorakhpur recorded 6mm rainfall. “The weather system needs some more strength to push currents further into the state including in Lucknow. The required force for further advancement will come from another cyclonic circulation likely to take shape in the next couple of days,” said the Met director. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 36.8 degrees Celsius, 1.4 units below normal, and minimum temperature was 26.5 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degrees below normal. High relative humidity made the weather sultry. Wednesday is expected to witness partly cloudy sky with maximum and minimum temperature at 39 and 28 degrees Celsius respectively,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-in-up-but-rain-a-few-days-away-for-city/articleshow/76414565.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government aims to beat Covid-19 reach with outreach to industries||BHUBANESWAR: Battling the Covid-19 crisis on one hand, the state government is trying to attract investments on the other as it tries to revive the economy and generate employment opportunities. Following the discussion between chief minister Naveen Patnaik and ArcelorMittal chairman and chief executive officer L N Mittal, more such dialogues are being planned at different level. Naveen may also directly interact with some of the industrialists in the next few months. “The state government in association with industry-partner Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) are going to hold a series of talks with various industrial houses through web platforms in the next few months. Though the engagements are being finalized, our focus is to reach out to the investors in six focus sectors,” said Nitin Jawale, managing director, IPICOL, the investment promotion agency of the state government. Tourism, food processing including seafood, chemicals, plastics and petrochemicals, electronics manufacturing, ancillary and metal downstream industries and textiles and apparels are the six focus sectors of the state government. According to a Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the state has emerged as the most attractive investment destination, attracting 18 per cent of the total investments in the county during April-September, 2019. This is a tag the state government doesn’t want to lose, especially in the run up to the third edition of Make in Odisha conclave, scheduled towards the end of the year. “If the Covid-19 situation improves, the state government may hold some promotional campaigns ahead of Make in Odisha to showcase the state’s investment climate,” Jawale said. Official sources said a new industrial policy with focus on incentives is likely to be unveiled soon by the state industries and MSME departments. With an eye on foreign direct investments, the state government has held webinars with international investor agencies like The US-India Strategic Partnership Forum and Japan External Trade Organization in May. Dialogues with industries apart, steps were also being taken to ease policies like land allotment process for tourism projects and relaxing labour laws by amending the Factories Act 1948 that increased overtime limit among others. “Several other decisions were taken to help the lockdown-hit micro, small and medium enterprises that includes instructions to all departments and government agencies to clear pending dues of all MSMEs. A panel of ministers was also constituted, headed by finance minister Niranjan Pujari, to help the MSMEs to get back on track,” said a senior official. Satwik Swain, secretary general of the Odisha Assembly of Small and Medium Enterprises said the government must come up with a stimulus package for the survival of around 3 lakh MSMEs in the state. “I have raised the issue during a recent meeting with the state industries minister, who has assured of a stimulus package that is awaiting the government’s approval,” Swain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-aims-to-beat-covid-reach-with-outreach-to-industries/articleshow/76412699.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||38-year-old man killed as bike skids||Chandigarh: A 38-year-old man was killed after his bike skid in Maloya on Monday night. Sonu, a resident of Maloya, worked as a salesman in a shoe company in Mohali. He was returning home from Mohali on his bike around 9 pm. As he reached near Satsang Bhawan in Maloya, his bike slipped and his head struck against the road. He was without a helmet. Passersby gathered on the spot and call on the 112 helpline number. The PCR reached on the spot and rushed him to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared him dead. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/38-year-old-man-killed-as-bike-skids/articleshow/76413814.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Antibody test: Kolkata municipal corporation starts process to track asymptomatic cases||KOLKATA: In a bid to map Covid-19 spread in containment zones and trace asymptomatic cases, Kolkata Municipal Corporation health department on Tuesday organised camps in city’s high-risk areas for collection of samples of blood for Covid antibody test. A serological survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies against that infection to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered. Health experts said that people who had been infected by Covid-19 develop antibody to the virus. Since many asymptomatic people especially in the containment areas are assumed to have been infected, the antibody test will help in assess the number of people who had been infected unknowingly. Doctors said that the result of the study will give a clear indication on the extent of the disease spread into the general population. “The antibody test is for epidemiological surveillance. It will find out people who had been infected earlier at certain point of time during this pandemic but who had not been detected due to reasons like being asymptomatic. If they had been infected they would have the antibody in them,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. “This will ascertain the percentage of the population who had been infected and hence give an idea on achieving herd immunity. For example, if around 70% of people are found to have developed antibody, herd immunity is achieved,” said Sumon Poddar, microbiologist at Institute of Child Health. The blood samples collected from containment zones in five KMC wards will be sent to ICMR, Chennai, for an antibody test. According to a KMC health department official, the civic body had organised the camp in association with ICMR and WHO and collected blood samples from 100 people in each ward who stay in containment areas but are asymptomatic in nature. Some of the areas from where the blood samples were collected include Hatibagan (Ward 11), Narkeldanga (Ward 28), Elliot Road (Ward 61), Chetla (Ward 82) and Panchanantala (Ward 90). According to a KMC health department official, these areas were selected as several people have been infected with Covid-19 here. “We will be using the blood samples as serological tools for detecting the antibody against Covid-19 in general population who are mostly asymptomatic,” a KMC health department official said. According to Atin Ghosh, the member of Board of Administrators (BOA) that now governs the KMC more blood samples would be collected in the city in future. Ghosh said the civic body was also planning to set up a modern laboratory for antibody test. “Also, we don’t know conclusively if the antibody in a person who had been infected once can protect him/her from getting infected again. Therefore, we could also look if this antibody is a neutralising antibody,” added Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/antibody-test-kmc-starts-process-to-track-asymptomatic-cases-and-disease-spread/articleshow/76413813.cms||Saikat Ray
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops help factories hire locals||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police, through their community policing project, have decided to get more local youths employed in industrial units here to address the serious manpower shortage following the exodus of migrant workers. The city police chief has tasked the community policing team to contact industrial houses and note down their requirements of skilled and unskilled workers. Those privy to the project said the aim is to make the best of the current crisis by bridging the gap between the industries and the local unemployed youths. The police will also get to improve their grassroot-level contacts. “We are trying to galvanize the local youths and efforts are on to bridge the gap between the industries and the local talent, skilled or unskilled,” said police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad. On Tuesday alone, 40 women were recruited by an industrial house. A list of unemployed people is being prepared along with skills and qualifications. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne, the key project coordinator, said, “During interactions with industrial houses, we were told there is demand for workmen, as the ones working here have left.” The officer said the shortage of workers is making it difficult for industrial units to resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-help-factories-hire-locals/articleshow/76412715.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Haryana on staff’s shift dispensary plea||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to the Haryana government on a plea filed by some doctors and other staff working with state health department. The petitioners expressed apprehensions of being exposed to Covid-19 due to lack of facilities at the Employees State Insurance (ESI) dispensary at Barhi in Sonipat district. “The counsel for petitioners contends that the petitioners, who are doctors and other medical staff deployed at ESI dispensary, Barhi, district Sonipat, Haryana, are working without proper infrastructure in as much as there is no proper facility for drinking water, storage of medicines etc. The place is also congested where it is difficult to maintain social distancing between staff members and patients, which has put them at risk for spread of Covid-19,” observed the HC while seeking the state’s reply on the issue by June 18. Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal of the HC issued the notices to the Haryana government through the principal secretary, labour department, director, ESI Healthcare, Haryana, Chandigarh, civil surgeon, ESI Healthcare, Faridabad and senior medical officer in-charge, ESI dispensary, Sonipat after hearing a plea filed by 14 persons, including doctors and other staff members. They have challenged the order dated March 9, whereby ESI dispensary was shifted from Murthal to Barhi in Sonipat. According to the petitioners, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, they don’t have sufficient space to work and petitioners are not able to maintain social distancing. They have sought directions to set aside the March 9 orders to take possession of the premises at Barhi and shift the dispensary. Directions have also been sought to permit them to continue in the present place till basic facilities are provided or new buildings are constructed. Petitioners pointed out that ESI dispensary was sanctioned at Industrial Estate HSIIDC, Barhi in February 2014 with one SMO and four medical officers. In Barhi however, there was no ESI building for dispensary nor did authorities take any building on rent, as per norms. Staff allocated for Barhi dispensary was posted at Murthal due to lack of infrastructure. There is a large ESI building in Murthal. “The distance between Murthal and Barhi is eight kilometres. All the staff consisting of 20 members was posted at Murthal and they were performing their duties. All the insured persons from Barhi Industrial Estate used to come to Murthal for check-up. President of HSIIDC Association wrote to the government to transfer the ESI dispensary from Murthal to Barhi as they will provide the building to run the dispensary. On pressure from president, HSIIDC Association, Barhi the government issued an order on March 9 to shift the dispensary at Barhi,” the petitioners submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-haryana-on-staffs-shift-dispensary-plea/articleshow/76414584.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Doc, lawyer monks in Belur contract virus||Howrah: Two of the senior monks of Belur Math, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission, have contracted Covid-19 and have been hospitalised. They are also the most popular faces among the devotees. One of them is a doctor and the other a lawyer. Their presence on the campus would draw hundreds for their healing touch. Belur Math authorities said on Tuesday evening that they are gradually recovering. Both the monks are nearing 80. The monk, who is a doctor, runs a charitable dispensary on campus and despite his age he has been energetically attending to the needs of the poor for many years. A brilliant scholar, he has authored many books on dermatology and some of these are still taught to post graduation students in the medical colleges of the state. “His books are in great demand even today among students and he is extremely popular among the devotees. We are relieved that he is on the path to recovery,” said general secretary of the RKM, Swami Suvirananda. The other monk was a lawyer before joining the order and is known for his disarming smile and the warmth that he radiates among devotees, it was said. He is described as a people’s monk because he has a patient ear for people’s problems and he goes out of his way to help them. Both the monks live in Arogya Sadan, which is the residential quarters of the senior most monks, away from the main of Belur Math campus. So when they contracted Covid, the authorities were alarmed. Immediately contact tracing was done and it was found that an attendant, who serves both these monks, had gone home and might got infected there. After coming back to Belur Math, he kept serving the two senior monks and they might have got infected in the process. He was asymptomatic and hence no one knew that he was a carrier of the virus. All the attendants who serve Arogya Sadan were tested and only he tested positive. The attendant was immediately isolated and sent to a hospital for treatment. He is also doing fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-lawyer-monks-in-belur-contract-virus/articleshow/76413824.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Three booked for murder of farm manager||MOHALI: The Mohali police have booked three natives of Uttar Pradesh for the murder of a 65-year-old man in Nayagaon, on Monday, who succumbed on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Balkar Singh, who hailed from Amritsar and was a manager at a farm situated in Nayagaon. The accused have been identified as Ajit Paasi, Mukesh and Manish, all belong to Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh. Ajit Singh, son of the victim, reported to the police that his father Balkar Singh, was the manager of Kahlon farm in Nayagaon from the past 36 years. The three miscreants were working under him at the farm and Balkar was their supervisor. After Balkar told them to work properly, they entered into a tussle. “Around 11.30pm on Sunday, the three miscreants attacked Balkar with a sharp weapon on his head and fled from the spot,” said the police. Sub-inspector Ashok Kumar, SHO, Nayagaon, said, “No arrests have been made yet as the accused are on the run. Hunts are on to nab them.” The police have registered a case. “Post-mortem has been conducted and the body has been handed over to the family members,” said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-booked-for-murder-of-farm-manager/articleshow/76413818.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Madurai||Local cases surge as Madurai’s mid-June count beats May’s 184||MADURAI: While only 184 Covid-19 cases were reported in May in Madurai with half of them being migrants from other states, already 194 new cases have been reported so far in June a majority of which are local cases. During the past week especially, cases have shown no signs of slowing down and there have been three deaths as per official records. The district, as of June 16, has reported a total of 464 cases, including six deaths. Of the 194 cases reported between June 1 and 16, as many as 152 are local cases or local contacts of Chennai returnees. Only four were imported cases from other states while around 35 people who tested positive were those who came from Chennai. “The rise in cases here began when more people started returning from Chennai. We have now tightened vigil at all check posts and are ensuring whoever returns from Chennai is duly screened for Covid-19 first. We are also seeing those with Influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms from containment areas and their families testing Covid-19 positive as well. We have increased testing and hence more cases are seen as well,” said a senior city health official. The most number of cases in the district in June were seen in Sellur, Anuppanadi and K Pudur. Sellur remains the most affected with as many as 22 local cases, including four children and three elderly people above the age of 60. In Anuppanadi and neighbouring Mela Anuppanadi as well, there have been 17 cases, including two deaths. In many other areas like Vilangudi, Thathaneri, Anna Nagar, S Alangulam and Samayanallur, small clusters came up with three or four in a family together testing positive. So far, as many as four people from the Paravai market and two from Mattuthavani market have tested Covid-19 positive. The Paravai market was in fact immediately closed down and shifted to another location to prevent any possible spread.  Health officials said that tracing of all contacts has also been challenging with increasing number of cases. “The public must co-operate and follow all precautions to stay safe. At the same time, despite rise in cases, the public musn’t panic. In case of any symptoms, doctors must be consulted first,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/local-cases-surge-as-madurais-mid-june-count-beats-mays-184/articleshow/76414971.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Godown, goods worth lakhs gutted in Maskasath fire||Nagpur: A major fire broke out in a multi-storey godown in congested Maskasath area of Itwari at 4.55am on Tuesday. Goods, mostly paint, nylon ropes, carpets and plastic material, worth several lakhs were destroyed in the fire. The exact cause of fire is not known, said chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake, and added no casualty was reported. Preliminary investigations by NMC’s fire and emergency services department said the godown housed in a ground plus three storey building is owned by one Ashok Nachankar’s Jangluji Dhondbaji Enterprises. The residential building was illegally converted into a godown, said Ganjipeth fire station officer Anil Gole. “Neither the owner had obtained any no objection certificate from the fire department nor any firefighting arrangements were in place,” he said. Neighbours first noticed the flames and called up the police and fire control room 101. Two fire tenders from nearby fire stations at Ganjipeth and Lakadganj rushed to the spot. The fire had already become intense by the time tenders reached the spot. The fire spread to the entire godown within a few minutes. Fire officials said nobody was present in the godown when the fire broke out. Gole said since the godown was located in a congested area, they faced inconvenience in launching firefighting operations. Eight more fire tenders from Cotton Market, Civil Lines, Sugat Nagar and other fire stations joined the operations. Though the fire was doused by late evening, the firefighters succeeded in preventing the fire from spreading to adjoining buildings. The fire department also used an excavator and demolished a portion of the building to gain access into the building. The fire department is likely to issue a notice to the godown owner for not obtaining NOC. Residents of the locality told TOI that like Nachankar many other businessmen had converted residential units into godowns and constructed multi-storey buildings. In the past too similar fires were reported in the locality, however, owners of such illegal godowns ‘manage’ to evade action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/godown-goods-worth-lakhs-gutted-in-maskasath-fire/articleshow/76414581.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 17, 2020||Goa||Speaker failed to uphold his duties: Cong||Panaji: Congress has stated that it was compelled to knock the doors of the Supreme Court after legislative assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar failed to uphold his constitutional duties. “We filed our petition before the speaker and expected our petition to be disposed off quickly But our speaker decided to keep the disqualification petition pending. He has disrespected the Supreme Court guidelines to dispose off the petition within three months,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar told reporters on Tuesday.  “The petiton was filed in August 2019 and one hearing - the last one, was held on February 13, 2020,” he said. Highlighting the SC order in Manipur assembly case, Chodankar said Congress had urged the speaker to dispose off the plea within three months. Leave disposing the petition, the speaker didn’t hold any more hearing, he said. “We had challenged the fact that the merger can only happen between two political parties and cannot happen between one organ of a party. Congress legislative party cannot merge with BJP. There are no such provisions in the tenth schedule. They completely misused the constitutional provision which says one political party can merge with another but 3/4th of the MLAs consent is required,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/speaker-failed-to-uphold-his-duties-cong/articleshow/76414976.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Citizenship row: TRS MLA gets breather||Hyderabad: Giving a breather to TRS MLA from Vemulawada Chennamaneni Ramesh, Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the Telangana high court on Tuesday posted the case pertaining to his citizenship tussle to five weeks. The MLA’s suspended Indian citizenship issue would take a back seat for now. It may be recalled following Ramesh challenging the Centre for suspending his Indian citizenship on the ground that he misled the authorities in respect of his German citizenship, the high court had stayed the Centre’s decision till further orders. Justice Abhishek said this matter needs to be heard at length in a regular court and not in a virtual court. Later, he posted the case to five weeks. According to Congress leader and Ramesh’s political rival Adi Srinivas, the former acquired a German citizenship and settled there. In April 2009, he came to Vemulawada in Karimnagar only for the purpose of contesting the election there. Srinivas alleged that Ramesh had suppressed certain information to acquire Indian citizenship in order to make himself eligible to contest the election. “Though Ramesh said he relinquished the German citizenship, he had never done that. In fact, he is still holding a valid German citizenship,” Srinivas said. The Union home ministry too found certain discrepancies in Ramesh’s version about the period of his mandatory stay in India before re-acquiring his Indian citizenship. It cancelled his Indian citizenship. Since he is a legislator, it becomes all the more important for him to state correct facts and suppression of facts in this case should be viewed more seriously, the Centre said in its cancellation order. The Centre even produced proof that Ramesh had flown to Germany in December 2019 to drive home its point that the theory of relinquishment (of German citizenship) propagated by Ramesh was wrong. Ramesh’s counsel Y Rama Rao has been arguing that the authorities are trying to make an issue out of minor discrepancies and ignoring the fact that Ramesh is a lawfully-elected legislator. Echoing the sentiments expressed by the Centre, Ravi Kiran Rao, counsel for Srinivas, felt that a legislator trying to mislead institutions is a very serious issue and hence the authorities should not take a lenient view of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citizenship-row-trs-mla-gets-breather/articleshow/76413831.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||50 health workers at RKM Seva Pratisthan test +ve||Kolkata: At least 50 health workers of Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratisthan have tested positive for Covid-19. They are undergoing treatment at different hospitals of the city, including Seva Pratisthan itself, where a separate ward has been created. RKM Seva Pratisthan said steps have been taken to quarantine everyone who had come in touch with them. A few patients in the hospital had tested last week. Two cleaning staff, who were attending to them, complained of fever and were immediately tested. Once they tested positive, the authorities zeroed in on other health workers who had come in contact with the duo. Soon, 50 workers tested positive. Asymptomatic workers were hospitalised in a special ward that has been isolated from the rest of the hospital. Others have been sent to MR Bangur, Beliaghata ID and KPC Medical College. “Most of them are doing well,” said Swami Shailajananda, hospital spokesperson. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-health-workers-at-rkm-seva-pratisthan-test-ve/articleshow/76413835.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlocked: AMC body to meet on June 26||AHMEDABAD: The municipal general board meeting, which is held once a month, will be held at Tagore Hall on the morning of June 26. This will be the first board meeting since the lockdown began. The meeting scheduled for March was cancelled due to the lockdown. Mayor Bijal Patel said that since the Epidemic Diseases Act was invoked in March, the board meeting was cancelled. Now with the unlocking under way, the corporation has started holding meetings of the standing committee meeting and various committees and it was decided that the general board meeting would be held on June 26 at Tagore Hall. She said that the venue was selected because the AMC wanted to make sure social distancing was possible, which is not the case at the present venue. Officials said that this is probably the first time the board meeting will be held outside the AMC headquarters. Officials said that in the current board room, there is hardly any distance between two chairs and walking space is also limited. The board meeting pay respects to senior Congresss councillor Badruddin Shaikh, the BJP councillor from Bhaipura-Hatkeshwar, Gayaprasad Kanojiya. AMC LOP wants all-party meetingThe leader of opposition in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, Congress’s Dinesh Sharma, has demanded that the BJP call an all-party meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Sharma said the AMC was hiding the proper picture and was tabling incorrect figures. He said that aggressive testing and quality treatment is the only way to deal with the Covid situation. He said that in the one month 9,574 cases were registered and 725 people died. He said the city is reporting an average of 319 cases and 24 deaths every day. He said that either the BJP in the AMC or the state government are not serious about tackling the Covid-19 situation in the city. He said that if Union home minister Amit Shah can call an all-party meeting in Delhi and decide to go in for aggressive testing, why can’t the state government or AMC cannot adopt a policy of aggressive testing in Ahmedabad and on its periphery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlocked-amc-body-to-meet-on-june-26/articleshow/76413834.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||17 docs among 32 PGI staffers quarantined||Chandigarh: The detection of Covid-19 in a heart patient from Kapurthala admitted for a valve replacement operation at PGI on Tuesday forced the authorities to quarantine 32 health workers of the institute. A civil hospital in Kapurthala had certified her to be a non-Covid patient on June 10. She visited PGI on June 12. She was admitted to the cardiothoracic vascular surgery ICU. Doctors said as she had cough and fever, she was tested on June 14. The result made the institute isolate 17 doctors, 11 nurses, two hospital attendants and two operation theatre technicians. Sources said most of the health workers had not put on any protective gear because the patient was admitted in the ICU as a non-Covid case. “After screening 39 health workers, 32 were found fit for the quarantine. However, there were some contractual workers who had self-quarantined in the institute as they do not have home quarantine facility.” The patient is now in the PGI’s Covid hospital. She is on nasal prong as she had come with breathlessness. According to the patient’s husband, she underwent angiography at PGI on March 19, just days before the lockdown. “It was found that her valves had to be replaced. We were given medication for a month. But no follow-up could take place owing to the lockdown.” He said, “Three days earlier, she had pain and swelling in her legs and could not walk. So, when I called up PGI, we were asked to come to the hospital with a Covid test certificate,” said the husband of the patient. 7 fresh infections in city Chandigarh registered seven new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the count to 364, with 56 active cases. Two of them are 22-year-old and 54-year-old women residents of Sector 41. They are family contacts of a patient from Delhi. A 35-year-old resident of Sector 25 working in a Punjab government office in Sector 35 is the third patient. He attended office on June 4 and has 18 workplace contacts. All were sampled, out of which seven are from Chandigarh. He has four family contacts and 10 community contacts. The next three patients are from Khuda Ali Sher. They are a 74-year-old man, a 55-year-old woman and a two-year-old boy. All of them are family contacts of a positive case who had returned from Uttar Pradesh. The seventh patient is a 12-year-old boy from Bapu Dham Colony. He is a family contact of positive case. At the same time, an 80-year-old man from Bapu Dham recovered and was discharged||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-docs-among-32-pgi-staffers-quarantined/articleshow/76413826.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||5-yr-old boy killed in Kharar fire||Mohali: A five-year-old boy was killed and 40 to 45 shanties gutted in a massive fire that broke out in a slum in Teur village of Kharar on Tuesday. The boy in a bid to save his life hid inside a hutment after watching adjacent jhuggis catch fire. The fire spread within minutes, giving him no room to escape. The boy was identified as Aditya. A woman sustained injuries too. The civil and police officials reached the spot. Four fire tenders were deployed to douse the flames. The cause of fire is being investigated. According to preliminary reports, the fire broke out from a gas stove in one of the shanties. Chief minister Amarinder Singh announced Rs 2 lakh as ex gratia relief for the family of the victim. He ordered the civil administration to assess the losses to provide relief to the victims. The administration has rehabilitated 45 families affected, claimed deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Alternate food and shelter arrangements were made for them, he said, adding the situation is under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-yr-old-boy-killed-in-kharar-fire/articleshow/76413837.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Migrants’ queue to leave Delhi thinner||NEW DELHI: The 17 helpdesks set up across the city’s districts are now witnessing only a trickle of migrants who wish to return to their hometowns via the Shramik Special trains. Initially, the nodal officers tasked with coordinating the movement of the labourers had been receiving about 1,500 requests every day, but that number has now dwindled to a mere 50. Most of the requests are for Bihar, followed by West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. The reverse migration is now in its last phase and nodal officers say new trains will be booked only when the number of applications reaches 1,400. Satish Kanojia, the nodal officer for central district at Ambedkar Stadium, said, “The number of applicants has reduced over the last few weeks. On Tuesday, only four registrations took place. It seems that most of the migrants have already left.” New Delhi district has two registration helpdesks at Mahipalpur and Naraina. An official at Mahipalpur said an average of 30 people had been registering every day. “On odd days, it peaks at 50,” he added. The government school at Sector 10 Dwarka, which is the coordinating point for South West district, is one of the few centres where the daily registrations are above 100. An official said almost the entire chunk of 150 requests received by them was from people who wanted to go to Bihar. The official supervising the registration desk of North district at Nehru Yuva Kendra in Alipur said they were still witnessing many registrations. “While 30-40 people have been approaching us every day, it is nothing in comparison with the average of 1,500 that we were witnessing in the beginning. North district is getting the maximum number of requests from people who have homes in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal,” added the official. The nodal officer at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya at Chirag Enclave, which is serving as the registration and screening centre for South East district, said, “If only a couple of applicants come, we just note down their names and send them back. However, if the numbers are 30-40, we send them to the medical screening centre where registration is done. We are getting requests from people from Bihar and West Bengal. Around 400 people registered for Shramik Special trains last week.” Registration desks in trans-Yamuna areas reported almost no activity in the last few days. Neeraj Kumar, the coordinator at the centre located at Janata Flats in Shahdara district, said, “We have not received a single request in the past few days compared with 700-800 daily earlier. It seems most of the migrants have settled down and don’t wish to leave.” Ravi Dutt, the coordinator at Dayalpur School in North East district, also reported nil registration requests. “I am getting calls from other districts, but only residents of this district can register at this centre. I have been guiding the callers to other centres. We received 14 applications three days ago and nothing after that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/migrants-queue-to-leave-city-thinner/articleshow/76413843.cms||Paras Singh
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Travel history behind Mohali case surge||Mohali: As many as 75% of the 54 active cases have arrived from other states or are their close contacts, according to civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. “Out of the 34 cases in three days, nine have travel history to other states and 18 are their close associates. In the total 54 active cases, 14 have travel history, mostly from Delhi, and 26 are direct contacts of those who have returned from other states,” said Singh. He said from June 12 to 14, 34 cases were detected in the district. Out of these cases, four patients each had come from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and one from Mumbai, while 18 were their family members or contacts. Singh said the remaining seven cases were residents of the district already suffering from influenza like illness. The process of finding the source of infection and contacts of these patients was under way. Singh said various teams of the health department screened and tested them, took them to hospital and traced their contacts. The civil surgeon reiterated his appeal to people to strictly follow the guidelines of the government and help the health department to curb the spread of the pandemic. He said if people showed negligence, the situation could get worse. He said if any person has come from any other state or place, he or she should call up the helpline number, “0172 2219506”, of the district administration. He asked people not to step out of their homes aimlessly and only do so if there is an urgent need. BOX 4 test positive Four people tested positive in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 184, with 54 active cases. Three of the had returned from Gurgaon, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they are a 22-year-old resident of Sector 127, Kharar, a 44-year-old man admitted to a private hospital with renal transplant complications, a 43-year-old man from Sante Majra and a 70-year-old man from Baltana. In another development, two patients, a 31-year-old man and a 57-year-old woman, were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, on Tuesday. As many as 127 people have been cured of Covid-19 in the district that has seen three deaths. THE COUNT Total | 184 Active | 54 Cured | 127 Deaths | 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/travel-history-behind-mohali-case-surge/articleshow/76413841.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Amid corona restrictions, gatka contest goes online||AMBALA: In the times of Covid, when sports activities have taken a hit, the Haryana Sikh Mission of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is organising an online gatka (Sikh martial arts) competition from June 18 to 24, dedicated to Miri-Piri Diwas to be celebrated on June 30. The participants would be teenagers in two categories of Class V to VII and Class VIII to X, and the entry and registration can be done up to June 18, said Haryana Sikh Mission in-charge Mangpreet Singh The competition is being organised with the efforts of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC dharam prachar (religion propagation) committee secretary Manjit Singh, Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib manager Sukhdev Singh and Mangpreet Singh. “Participants would have to register themselves on the mobile numbers8059121580 and 9416361984 via WhatsApp and send their videos of 2-3 minutes tenure of gatka performance up to June 24. The results will be declared at 6pm on June 30 and judges will be gatka experts and coaches,” said Mangpreet. “The concept of Miri-Piri was introduced by Guru Hargobind Sahib, who wore two swords — one symbolising worldly (political) authority and the other spiritual authority,” said Mangpreet. “The online competition has been conceived to indulge youth in traditional martial arts for physical fitness. Participants may send videos of performance from their respective places and no one will have to visit anywhere and the same will be judged,” added Mangpreet. Registration in-charge Satnam Singh said they had gotten 72 entries and more were expected in remaining two days. “In both categories, top five participants will be selected. They will be awarded with mementos and certificates. In the final stage, the general knowledge of participants regarding Sikh history will be checked and winners will be selected on the basis of answers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-corona-restrictions-gatka-contest-goes-online/articleshow/76414598.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt offices to go paperless in Chandigarh, Panchkula||CHANDIGARH: In what appears to be a bid to overcome challenges arising out of Covid-19, the Haryana government has intensified its measures for implementing e-Office, the state’s project for making its offices go paperless. After pilots in Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam and Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the state now decided to launch this in the offices at Chandigarh and Panchkula. Later, the system will be introduced in districts headquarters in phases. A team of Haryana chief minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) is working on this project with various agencies like Haryana unit of National Informatics Centre (NIC), HARTRON and other agencies. Sources said the state government has over six lakh manual files at all offices and the size of files increases with passage of time. “E-office will not only weed out paper work, but will also phase out unnecessary delays. As there will be digital signatures, hence the movement of files would not stop as the officer or signatory can do work even while being away from office,” said sources with the project. After undergoing special training on this software at NIC headquarters in New Delhi, the officials of NIC along with HARTRON staffers and those from technical education department have started training other employees, sources said. Referring to security of data, officials said work will be handled by government agency, nothing has been outsourced and no private agency has been involved so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-govt-offices-to-go-paperless-in-chandigarh-pkl/articleshow/76414593.cms||Manvir Saini
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||New rules for building licences in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: In a bid to make procedural formalities easier to obtain a license for commercial buildings in hill areas, the government has issued a circular stating that licence for a proposed building extending upto 15,000 sq feet can be sanctioned at AAA (Architectural and Aesthetics Aspects) committee level after obtaining an inspection report from the district collector. Earlier, all commercial building licences irrespective of area were supposed to be forwarded to HACA (Hill Area Conservation Authority) after the formal procedure at the district level committee and AAA committee. Generally, it takes more than a year to obtain a licence from HACA for commercial buildings in Nilgiris. The government circular dated February 28, comes in the wake of an announcement by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on the floor of the legislative assembly stating that the procedure would be simplified in connection with HACA licence to development activities in hill areas.  According to collector J Innocent Divya, the latest circular facilitates applicants of commercial buildings (up to 15,000 sq feet area) by minimizing the procedural formalities and the sanction at AAA level. The circular also emphasizes that shifts in land utilization (classification of lands) in areas falling under Master Plan in hill areas should be referred to HACA for permission before applying licence for any developmental activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-rules-for-building-licences-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/76414587.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for stealing cellphone from Covid-19 deceased in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Shahibaug police on Monday held a 25-year-old man, who had allegedly stolen a cellphone of a Covid-19 deceased from IKDRC on Civil Hospital campus last week. According to police, accused Jayanti Vanzara, 25, a resident of Shivshaktinagar in Memco, had stolen the cellphone worth Rs 9,000 belonging to a retired judge after the latter died of Covid-19. Son of the victim is a magistrate in a Bharuch court, said inspector A K Patel of Shahibaug police. A police official said that Vanzara was given work of sanitation in the hospital for around two months and he worked for a private contractor in the Civil hospital. Police first tried to detect the case with CCTC footage but they did not succeed in getting a proper footage. On Sunday, Vanzara switched on the phone and he was traced by the cops as soon as he reactivated the phone, said Patel. Patel said that the accused has confessed to committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-held-for-stealing-cellphone-from-covid-19-deceased/articleshow/76413861.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||UT lifts sealing restrictions from seven Bapu Dham pockets||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Tuesday ordered to lift sealing restrictions from seven of eight remaining pockets of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 except for a few affected houses. UT adviser Manoj Parida said a committee comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director health services and WHO representative examined the outbreak of coronavirus in the colony and suggested there was no need to continue perimeter control in these pockets. He said no one should claim any political mileage from the decision since the matter was decided according to a field report and expert medical advice from WHO representatives. Both Congress and BJP councillors had been demanding lifting of restrictions from Bapu Dham. Angry residents too had been holding protests. Now, only pocket number 15 remains a containment zone in the colony. The residents of this pocket on Tuesday threw garbage on a road and removed barricades in a protest for removal of the containment zone tag. The administration had already lifted sealing restrictions from 12 pockets of Bapu Dham, including pocket number 8, a containment zone. According to the orders, Manoj Parida, in his capacity as chairperson of State Executive Committee of State Disaster Management Authority, declared the removal of perimeter control from the areas but added regular screening and monitoring by medical teams would continue. Municipal authorities would regularly sanitise the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-lifts-sealing-restrictions-from-7-bapu-dham-pockets/articleshow/76413849.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Coronavirus survivor returns home with new bride||HOWRAH: Supriyo Bandyopadhyay was all smiles as he walked out of hospital with his newly-wedded wife Piyali, decked up as a traditional Bengali bridegroom. Piyali too looked like the classic Bangali bodhu in her red and gold Banarasi sari, smile hidden behind her mask and face shield. This battle of a Covid warrior who had contracted the disease himself ended on a happy note on Tuesday as the couple embarked on their journey of life together. Bandyopadhyay, a civic police volunteer (CPV) at Dasnagar police station, had married Piyali on June 2 at a hall in Howrah’s Baltikuri. A couple of days before that, on May 29, he was among those from the police station to be randomly tested for Covid-19. On June 3, soon after he returned home with Piyali, the youth had received a call from the state health department, informing him that his swab sample had tested positive. “The reception or other ceremonies could not be held and everybody at both the houses was upset. I called my boss at the police station and he told me not to worry. He assured me that all would be well. Today, I am very happy,” said Bandyopadhyay, while leaving the Sanjiban Hospital in Phuleswar, Howrah. While Bandyopadhyay was shifted to the hospital on June 4, Piyali and other relatives were put under home quarantine. The CPV was declared fit by doctors on Monday and the authorities had planned a surprise for him and Piyali for Tuesday before his release. Those from the family were surprised when Piyali was taken aside and draped in her Banarasi sari. Bandyopadhyay was also dressed in a dhoti-kurta. What followed was a small ceremony with the couple garlanding each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-survivor-returns-home-with-new-bride/articleshow/76413850.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mother saves 2-year-old girl by donating part of liver||AHMEDABAD: Hirva, a two-year-old girl from the city, became one of the youngest patients to receive a liver transplant in Gujarat when a part of her mother’s liver was transplanted on her. The transplant took place on June 11. The right portion of the mother’s liver was used for the transplant. The mother and the baby are recovering well, said doctors. Dr Anand Khakhar, who performed the transplant, said that the baby had a congenital liver disease and her elder sibling had died of the same condition. “The girl’s mental and physical growth were hampered. She was often in a coma-like condition,” he said. “Thus, the transplant became necessary. The challenge was that the mother’s blood group is O+ and the baby’s is A+. We first provided treatment to the baby so that there was no adverse reaction.” The doctors said that it was difficult to seek permission for the transplant due to the Covid-19 situation. But, they said, the state government provided necessary support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mother-saves-2-year-old-girl-by-donating-part-of-liver/articleshow/76413845.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Erode||Chennai techie helps homeless people in Erode get back on their feet||ERODE: Every time F Nayeen Khan would think of the destitute and homeless stranded during the lockdown, he would become disconsolate. The 39-year-old techie was doing all that he could to take care of 65 people stranded in Erode, providing them food and other basics from his own pocket for more than two months ever since the lockdown was imposed. But the question of a sustained livelihood for them kept haunting him.  With the support of his wife Mehtaj Parveen, 30, Nayeen has now successfully set up small businesses for 15 destitute people.“Only after ensuring that they are now on their own feet, I have a sense of satisfaction,’’ Nayeen told TOI. Born in Madurai district, Nayeen, is working in a leading technology company in Chennai as a manager, while his wife hails from Erode. She visited her maternal house in February this year and Nayeen came to take her back on March 23, the day the lockdown was imposed. Since all public transport was out-of-bounds, he was stuck at his in-laws house since then.A few days into the lockdown, the couple was moved by the plight of many homeless people who were struggling for food and shelter. Nayeen arranged food for a few people immediately. “I approached Erode municipal corporation for further assistance. With their permission, 65 homeless people were taken to a nearby government school building,’’ he said. The homeless people, between 35 to 60 years, were from various districts across the state. Since March 28, Nayeen Khan and his wife Parveen have arranged food for the 65 destitute people. It was during the course of serving them lunch one day that the question of their livelihood after the lockdown struck him. “When we asked this question, 50 of them replied that they would go back to their native villages. But the remaining 15 said they had nowhere to go,’’ Parveen said.After several days of contemplation, the couple decided to help the 15 people set up their own businesses in Erode city. “As per their skills, ability and requests, we set up small ventures like a petty shop or a watch repair shop. We have bought an autorickshaw for one person since he knew driving,’’ Nayeen said. One of the beneficiaries, S Sivaraj, 55, of Salem district, who is now the owner of a watch repair shop, told TOI that he did not know he would own a shop even in his wildest dreams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/chennai-techie-helps-homeless-people-in-erode-get-back-on-their-feet/articleshow/76414596.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||PASA on two for attacking nCov worker||Vadodara: Two persons from Dabhoi were detained under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act for attacking a staffer of Dabhoi municipality. The accused duo, Aiyaz Hussain Saiyed and Riyaz Hussain Saiyed, were asked by an employee of the municipality to pay fine for not wearing facemasks on May 23. The duo not only threatened the employee but also attacked him. The employee then registered an offence against the two accused at Dabhoi police station and they were arrested. Recently, cops from Dabhoi police station forwarded the proposal of the duo’s detention under PASA Act to the district collector and magistrate Shalini Agrawal which was approved last week. Police said that the detention was done as the two accused had attacked a frontline worker while on duty. Aiyaz Hussain will be sent to Palanpur jail while Riyaz Hussain will be sent to Bhuj jail to serve the detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pasa-on-two-for-attacking-ncov-worker/articleshow/76413719.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid delays French help in Chandigarh heritage restoration||CHANDIGARH: The coronavirus pandemic has dashed the hopes of the UT administration of receiving quick assistance from the French government to preserve and restore the Capitol Complex and other heritage items in the city. “Due to the ongoing health crisis and the travel advisories issued by India and France, the mission of Francois Goven, general inspector, architecture and heritage, ministry of culture, France, for restoration and preservation of furniture designed by Pierre Jeanneret in Chandigarh is postponed. Upon receiving more clarity on international travel, we shall ensure that the mission of a team of experts specialised in identification and restoration of Jeanneret’s furniture is organised at the earliest,” said a communication from Emmanuel Lenain, the Ambassador of France to India, to UT adviser Manoj Parida. In February, a French delegation led by Brigitte Bouvier, the director of a France-based foundation, had visited the city to hold discussion with UT officials. The team submitted a report on the preservation work done so far. No agreement was signed between the French and Indian authorities. According to the proposal, a team of experts from France was to officially visit Chandigarh in April to train UT officials/people in matters concerning identification, preservation, protection and conservation of items having heritage value. The administration was to then identify three to four places in the city wherein the heritage items could be placed. This centralised effort would aid in protection, preservation and restoration of heritage items. An expert committee was to be formed. The heritage items could then be provided with some kind of official certification, so that its misuse could be prevented. Use of technology could also be explored for this purpose, the proposal had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-delays-french-help-in-city-heritage-restoration/articleshow/76413872.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||HC lawyers won’t take part in physical hearing||Kolkata: Lawyers of Calcutta High Court on Tuesday resolved not to participate in hearings in which counsels of litigants are to be physically present in court. The lawyers, however, declared that they would continue to attend hearings through video links. The Calcutta High Court registrar-general had, on Saturday, issued a notification declaring that three types of hearings — in person or physical hearings, hearings through video conference and hybrid hearings (with one litigant’s counsel appearing in person and the other side’s counsel appearing through a video link) would be held in six benches — four division benches and two single benches — of the high court from June 17. The Calcutta High Court Bar Association — the predominant body of high court lawyers — adopted a resolution on Tuesday declaring that its members would not appear in person for hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-lawyers-wont-take-part-in-physical-hearing/articleshow/76413866.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Churches to remain closed till June 30||Chandigarh: The spurt in Covid-19 cases and the decision to allow only 20 people on the premises at a time have prompted churches to remain closed till June 30. Other religious places had opened their doors on June 8. Lawrence Malik, head, Tricity Christian Association, said, “Looking at the rise in number of the cases, and that too from different parts of the city, has made us decide to keep the churches closed until the situation gets better. It seems like a community spread. Unlike other religious places, where individual prayers can be organised, we have mass gatherings, which will not be possible now. Punjab too has declared a lockdown on Sundays, so we have decided to keep the churches closed till June 30.” He confirmed the Sunday service will continue to be held online. On June 8, churches had decided to remain closed till June 14 to secure some relief in the number of people to be allowed in one-go for Sunday mass. Church members had shared that as at a time there is a gathering of hundreds, it will be difficult for them to say no to people who come to pray. Proper arrangements for washing hands and feet and sanitisation will be made in all churches before they open. Other religious places like gurdwaras, temples and mosques are open for devotees. All precautions are being taken to contain the spread of virus. There continues to be no ringing of bells or touching idols, no “aarti” or “prasad”, entry is only limited to three to five people at a time and everyone has to cover their heads and wear a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/churches-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/articleshow/76413857.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 17, 2020||Delhi||320 Covid-19 isolation coaches ready in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Train operations at Delhi’s Anand Vihar station were halted on Tuesday with 270 isolation coaches for Covid-19 patients being stationed at its platforms. The trains marked for Anand Vihar have been shifted to Delhi Junction Railway Station. A total of 320 isolation coaches have been made functional, including those at Shakurbasti, a railway official said. The remaining locations, which will handle 180 more coaches, are in the process of being finalised, he said. Delhi will get 8,000 beds once all isolation coaches become operational. S C Jain, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Delhi Division, told TOI Delhi government would provide the medical staff to run the facilities. Till Tuesday evening, no patient has been sent to these coaches, Jain said. “We are awaiting instructions from Delhi government and as soon as they inform us, we will be ready to provide any assistance. Our aim is to make all 500 coaches operational at the earliest,” said Jain. Following a meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, lieutenant governor Anil Bijal and other senior officials in the wake of the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in the capital, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday made the announcement. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan was also present. Deepak Kumar, chief PRO of Northern Railway, said basic facilities like blankets and pillow covers would be provided by the railways. “Doctors, nurses and medical staff will be provided by Delhi government. Based on the requirement, we have enough coaches ready,” said Kumar. Northern Railway was the first to develop the prototype of an isolation Covid-19 coach by removing middle berths, combining two toilets to make a bathroom with a shower, and providing sockets for medical equipment. Curtains and partitions have also been provided to create a ‘room’, an official said. “There is also a 220V electric point in each compartment for medical equipment and air curtains,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/320-covid-coaches-ready-in-delhi/articleshow/76413873.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists decry works at lake||Hyderabad: Work on Amber Cheruvu in Kukatpally has left green activists livid. They say pipelines are being laid within the full tank level of the lake in violation of court orders. Balaswamy Gurram, convenor, Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL), said GHMC and irrigation officials have drained the lake of all water. When contacted, Narender Kumar, deputy engineer, irrigation, said the trench will be removed once sewage diversion is completed. Balaswamy, however, said once it is dug, it cannot be undone. Meanwhile, ex-convenor of SOUL Lubna Sarwath and Jasveen Jairath, founding-convenor, SOUL, have written to Chief Justice of high court to stop encroachment at Palle Cheruvu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-decry-works-at-lake/articleshow/76413880.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||HPC to hold more hearings this week||Visakhapatnam: The High Power Committee (HPC) set up to probe the May 7 styrene vapour leak at the LG Polymers Private Limited will conduct more meetings and hearings this week with the regulatory authorities concerned. As per a press statement issued by chairman of the HPC, Neerabh Kumar Prasad on Tuesday, the committee is working expeditiously to finalise the report with inputs from all members. The committee has already held a detailed interaction with several stakeholders during its visits to Visakhapatnam in May and June. It has also discussed all the facets of the accident and implications with environment engineer Sagar Dhara and scientist Baburao, based in Hyderabad, through video conference. Earlier, the committee had invited views, questions and grievances from the public. Based on these representations, the committee prepared a questionnaire and communicated it to LG Polymers Private Limited through the factories department and their response is awaited. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hpc-to-hold-more-hearings-this-week/articleshow/76413905.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Two kids with scrub typhus critical at hospital||Kolkata: While all the medical focus is on Covid-19 containment, a bacterial infection that is more deadly on children than coronavirus, has started rearing its head. Two children affected by scrub typhus are battling for life in the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) of Institute of Child Health (ICH) Kolkata. Caused by the bite of chigger mite, an infected person shows the symptoms like fever, muscle pain, cough, pneumonia, even meningitis and encephalitis in extreme cases. Parents of the two children said some hospitals had refused to admit them as they had fever. “Conditions of both the children are critical. We have put them on ventilation. By the time they reached us, both of them were in a very bad condition,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri, PICU in-charge at ICH. While one child is a 10-year-old from Murshidabad, who came with fever, respiratory distress, the other is an eight-year-old girl from Baruipur, who was admitted with fever, convulsion and coma-like features.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-kids-with-scrub-typhus-critical-at-hospital/articleshow/76413902.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Amrapali auditor tests positive after ED gets custody||LUCKNOW: Hours after the ED was given seven-day custody of Amrapali Group of Companies' auditor Anil Mittal, he tested Covid positive on Tuesday. While Mittal, who was on bail and arrested again on Monday, has been admitted to the isolation ward of KGMU, Lucknow, ED's Lucknow unit has been closed for three days. Besides, four ED officials who interrogated Mittal on Monday before his arrest have been quarantined. Earlier in the day, the ED produced Mittal before the special Enforcement Directorate ( ED) court, which granted the agency his seven-day custody. Special Judge AK Ojha passed the above order after special counsel for ED, Kuldeep Srivastav, argued that Mittal had prepared fake balance-sheets from 2008 to 2015. On the basis of these balance-sheets, company directors obtained bank loans and committed offences under Money Laundering Act. The ED had called Mittal for interrogation on Monday and arrested him. The ED had arrested Mittal last year as well, but he was on bail. Amrapali group directors are accused of siphoning about Rs 6,000 crore of flat investors by allegedly conniving with officials of Noida and Greater Noida authorities. The ED is probing into the matter on the direction of the Supreme Court. The ED sources say that Mittal was the auditor of the company since 2008 and played an instrumental role in transfer of funds from one company to another company and directly involved in money laundering. “He has to be confronted with various documents related to financial frauds. The accused had created various shell companies through which crores were transferred,” the ED officials said. The agency is probing into the multi-crore financial fraud done by the Amarpali group which included diversion of 42,000 homebuyer’s money in UP and National Capital Region (NCR). The Lucknow Zonal office of the ED had registered a case against the group under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 against the firm in July, 2019. The ED is probing the case on the directions of the apex court. The ED has already taken into custody Amrapali directors Anil Sharma and Shiv Priya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amrapali-auditor-tests-ve-after-ed-gets-custody/articleshow/76414612.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer held over Covid-19 rumour||Hyderabad: Medak police registered two cases pertaining to rumours circulating on social media about the health of Medak MLA M Padma Devender Reddy. “We found that a farmer, Nagaraju, of Rajupally village in Medak, circulated the false messages. Nagaraju has been taken into custody,” Medak DSP Krishnamurthy said. In another complaint pertaining to similar rumours on Facebook, Medak town police booked administrators of the FB page. “We are yet to obtain details of the page organiser,” the DSP said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-held-over-covid-19-rumour/articleshow/76413900.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||In a first, M S University to conduct terminal exams online||Vadodara: M S University has decided to conduct terminal exams online this year. It has become Gujarat’s first publicly funded university to take such a decision. Also, the exams will be multiple choice questions (MCQ) based, of nearly two hours duration and the university will develop its own portal to conduct the exams. Last month, the members had already decided that the university will conduct exams of only final semester students of bachelors courses and all students of masters programmes. A total of 17,666 students, currently enrolled in final semesters of bachelors degrees and students of masters degrees are supposed to appear for the exams. “We were already going to conduct online exams for foreign students and students from outside Gujarat. Parents of students from outside Vadodara had requested us to explore ways through which we can reduce the chances of infection of their wards, who are not based in Vadodara,” said MSU’s in-charge registrar K M Chudasama. “By appearing for exams online, students will not face risk of getting infected while travelling to Vadodara or while appearing at the exam centres,” he said. “We will be informing students in advance about the schedule of the exams. If for any reason, they face technical issues like power-cut or loss of connectivity, they will be compensated with additional time,” he said. While the exam season will start around July 20, those students, who for any reason, could not appear in their exam, would be given another chance to appear in online exams. “Those students who still will not be able to appear for the online exams can appear for the exams that will be held on the campus in October. Those students who appear for online exams can also appear for the exams to be held in October, to improve their score,” Chudasama said. Apart from safety of students and its staff, one reason behind the decision is also the fact that the publicly funded university is facing lot of infrastructure lacunae. Conducting exams on the campus would have meant holding them in three shifts in a day, sanitizing each of the hundreds of classrooms before and after each shift, conducting thermal scanning of each and every student, ensuring that each of them wears mask at the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-a-first-m-s-university-to-conduct-terminal-exams-online/articleshow/76413670.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||After fight with wife, man hangs self||Chandigarh: A 35-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his relatives house at Dadu Majra colony on Monday. The police said the deceased had marital dispute with his wife. The police have kept his body at the Government Multi Soecialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for autopsy. Samples for Covid-19 have also been taken for examination. The deceased has been identified as Gaurav, a resident of Dadu Majra. He was living with his wife and two children. He was without work for the past three months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Gaurav had a fight with his wife on Sunday and then he went to his nephew’s house in the same locality. Later, his nephew found him hanging from a ceiling fan and he informed the police. the police reached on the spot and rushed him to GMSH-16, where doctors declared him dead. The police said no suicide note was recovered from the crime scene. The cops have ruled out any foul play in the incident. “The exact cause of the death will be known after the post-mortem. We have regsigered a case under Sections 174 of Cr Pc and have initiated inquest proceedings,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-fight-with-wife-man-hangs-self/articleshow/76413881.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad: Nigerian fakes documents to free fraudster, held||HYDERABAD: A Nigerian woman was arrested by cybercrime cops from Cyberabad for preparing and submitting fake travel documents for release of a fraudster involved in matrimony fraud. The accused was identified as Roseline Anna Ekure from Abuja city in Nigeria. According to police, Giddy Isaac Olu, from Logos, Nigeria residing in Delhi was arrested along with three of his associates in March this year for cheating a female doctor on the pretext of marriage. “The court has granted bail to the accused, Giddy Isaac Olu and issued orders with a direction to submit two sureties for release of accused. One of the sureties, Roseline Anna Ekure visited Cybercrime PS, Cyberabad and submitted copies of documents like passport, rental agreement for verification,” said a cybercrime cop. During the verification, Roseline, from New Delhi stated to police that she visited India on a medical visa. But the officials found that her visa was forged. “Even after expiry of her original Indian visa in April 2016, she was found to be staying in the country without any valid travel documents,” the cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nigerian-fakes-docus-to-free-fraudster-held/articleshow/76414616.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Indian gaur rescued from well||Udhagamandalam: An Indian gaur was rescued from a well in Coonoor by forest officials on Tuesday. According to officials, the gaur, in search of water, spotted the well in Coonoor town around 6.30am on Tuesday. While trying to drink water, it slipped and fell into the well. The owner of the land informed forest officials, who used an earth mover to help the animal get out of the well. The rescue operation lasted for more than three hours. The gaur was released into a nearby forest area later by officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/indian-gaur-rescued-from-well/articleshow/76414614.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools arm-twisting on buying books, say parents||Hyderabad: After fees, parents are now worried about buying books as schools are reportedly charging at least 30% more than the market price. The schools are also insisting that parents buy books from schools. The parents alleged that schools were linking sale of books with tuition fee and added that books were being distributed only after the fee is cleared, failing which a few schools are not allowing students into virtual classrooms. “Even when parents are showing interest only to buy required books, the school has made it mandatory to buy the whole kit, which costs around Rs 22,500,” a parent of class 7 student, who is studying in a school affiliated to IGCSE, said, adding the same books if bought online would not cost more than Rs 16,000. Parents even took to Twitter to raise their concerns. “No Fee payment, no book distribution, but virtual classes started daily for 6 hours. Students are asked to write in books which are issued upon payment of fees only. An indirect way to force parents to pay fees,” a tweet from @nsbalakumaran said. School managements, meanwhile, said there was slight variation in the price of books when compared with those on e-commerce platforms as these sites tend to give discounts. “Almost all schools are giving an option to buy books either from school or outside,” Praveen Raju, president, Independent Schools Management Association, said, adding that books were sold at MRP at schools.Education department officials said as per the norms schools were not supposed to sell books more than MRP. “If any school is violating norms, action will be initiated,” district education officer, Hyderabad, B Venkata Narasamma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-arm-twisting-on-buying-books-say-parents/articleshow/76413912.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||9 child workers rescued, employer booked||Hyderabad: Nine child labourers from Bihar were rescued from a bangle-manufacturing unit in Balapur area on Tuesday. According to police officials, the children aged between 9 and 17 years, were confined to a room in Kothapet village of Balapur. The children were rescued and moved to a state-run shelter home. “The children all of whom are from economically poor backgrounds in Bihar were brought here. They have been working in the unit for the past six months and the owner has been paying them merely Rs 3,000 per month,” said Balapur SI, Nagaraju. “The children who were trafficked from Bihar were working in hazardous conditions during the pandemic. The owner of the unit should be arrested under PD Act,” said Achyuta Rao from non-governmental organisation Balala Hakkula Sangham, which brought the incident to light. The children were kept in close proximity and made to work without any protection even as the pandemic rages on in the state. The owner of the bangle-making unit, Mohammed Waseem, has been booked under Section 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave) of Indian penal code apart from relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and Child and Adolescent Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-child-workers-rescued-employer-booked/articleshow/76413918.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag's Korukonda Sainik school remembers Col Santosh Babu||VISAKHAPATNAM: A pall of gloom descended on the sprawling campus of Korukonda Sainik school in Vizianagaram district as the news of Col Santosh Babu’s martyrdom reached the village. Col Santosh Babu was the alumnus of this prestigious Sainik school about two decades ago. Some of the staff members remember him as an energetic young student, who excelled not only in academics but also in extra-curricular activities. Colonel Arun Kulkarni, principal of Korukonda Sainik school, which is now closed due to Covid-19 restrictions on educational institutions, told TOI that Santosh Babu was an excellent student. He was an academic topper during his stay on the campus between 1993 and 2000. He said the school feels proud of Santosh Babu, who had laid down his life for the nation. Santosh Babu was killed along with two soldiers havildar K Palani and sepoy Ojha at eastern Ladakh during a clash with Chinese troops at one of the standoff points in the Galwan Valley late on Monday night. The cadets and the faculty of the school condoled the death of Santosh Babu and offered tributes to the deceased. Colonel Arun Kulkarni said Santosh was not only the topper in the school but also good at sports. He took part in all school activities. “He was a very disciplined cadet in the school,” he said. School representatives and alumni are expected to meet the family members of Santosh Babu soon to offer their condolences. Vizianagaram District Sainik Welfare Board officer M Krishna Rao said he came to know that the martyred officer was a commanding officer of 16 Bihar Regiment, and commanding an infantry battalion at the spot. “He was a very talented officer and got many promotions in his one-and-a-half decade service in the Army. But it is sad that we lost a brave personality at an early age,” Krishna Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sainik-school-remembers-col-santosh-babu/articleshow/76413927.cms||Siva G
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Docs asked to be wary of fake sanitizer||Lucknow: Acting on an alert by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) regarding online advance payment scams and use of methanol for fake or substandard hand sanitizers, doctors’ bodies in the city issued an advisory to its members on Tuesday. On the basis of inputs from Interpol, a statement by CBI said that taking advantage of the spur in demand for sanitizer, some vendors are trying to sell cheap and harmful methanol-based sanitizer and also committing online fraud. The ‘active’ alert, issued by CBI spokesman RK Gaur, said instances of the use of methanol to prepare spurious sanitizers has surfaced in other countries. Taking a strong note of the alert, the Association of International Doctors issued an advisory against methanol-based sanitizers. “Methanol can be highly toxic and dangerous for the human body,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of the association. Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association (UP), said: “Elderly population and children are more vulnerable to exposure to methanol. While buying sanitizers and disinfectants, one should look for the presence of ethyl alcohol, ethanol or isopropyl alcohol as they are safe for human use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/docs-asked-to-be-wary-of-fake-sanitizer/articleshow/76414625.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Eye specialist tests +ve, home quarantine for 70 contacts||Hyderabad: An ophthalmologist tested positive for Covid-19 and all his patients have been traced and quarantined in Narsampet of Warangal rural district. The doctor also works with the government hospital in Suryapet and the hospital has been informed about his coronavirus positive status. “We have traced 70 contacts of the doctor so far from some of the villages,” Warangal rural DMHO Ch Madhusudan told TOI on Tuesday. The doctor felt he had symptoms of Covid-19 and went to MGM Hospital, Warangal, on June 14 and got himself tested. His results came back positive and he was admitted to the hospital on Monday. Health teams in the district fanned out into the villages, as according to records in the clinic where he had conducted eye tests for patients on June 7, as many as 71 people had visited his clinic. “All of them have been placed under home quarantine,” the DMHO said. It is learnt that the doctor runs a clinic in Warangal which comes under Warangal urban district. The information has been passed on to officials to trace patients he recently saw at his clinic. The doctor works at the Suryapet government hospital and is also actively involved in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the district. In another Covid-19 positive case, officials have identified 16 contacts. Gunman of an MLA has also tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eye-specialist-tests-ve-home-quarantine-for-70-contacts/articleshow/76413941.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||300 swab samples collected as testing begins in RR dist||Hyderabad: With hundreds of Covid-19 cases getting reported from Greater Hyderabad and surrounding areas, the Rangareddy district administration on Tuesday began conducting tests on those exhibiting coronavirus symptoms. This is being done as part of the 50,000 tests chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said will be conducted in 30 assembly constituencies in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, Vikarabad and Sangareddy districts. Rangareddy district medical and health officer (DMHO) Swarajyalakshmi told TOI that the focus was on conducting tests on people, who were contacts of those who had tested positive and were symptomatic. On the first day, at least 300 swab samples were collected from different locations. The people were asked to come to pre-designated locations for the tests. “We are focussing on locations where there has been a spurt in the number of cases,” she added. For the purpose of collecting samples, a training programme was conducted for lab technicians by authorities. At a centre in Saroornagar, samples of some people were collected on June 15 itself. On Tuesday, those identified for tests from various localities where Covid-19 positive cases were reported were asked to come to the nodal points at Vanasthalipuram, Balapur, Kondapur, Rajendranagar, Narsingi and Chevella. Rangareddy district has been a cause for concern because of the spread of Covid-19. There have been 500 Covid-19 positive cases in the district, apart from 375 in the neighbouring Medchal district and 47 in Vikarabad district. Currently, there are 44 active Covid-19 positive cases.  Officials intend to collect at least 6,000 samples in seven assembly constituencies of Rangareddy in next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/300-swab-samples-collected-as-testing-begins-in-rr-dist/articleshow/76413930.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Medical education department looks to revive 4 hospital projects in UP||LUCKNOW: Even as the medical education department is running against time to strengthen the health infrastructure to tackle the Covid challenge, four unfinished health facilities — three in Kannauj and one in Gorakhpur — are waiting for completion. Most of the construction work in these hospitals, entailing an expenditure of Rs 1,550 crore, has been finished and had they been functional they would have added to the state's response to the pandemic. Put together, these hospitals have the capacity to cater to nearly 50,000 patients. Started during the SP regime, the work on these hospitals stopped three years ago. A senior officer of the medical education department told TOI: “Funds were stopped about three years back. At a time when the Central government has alerted about a likely shortage of the medical infrastructure in the state, these projects would have gone a long way in plugging the crisis.” Now, top authorities of the medical education department are exploring ways to revive these projects which include three hospitals and a paramedical training school. Director-general, medical education, Dr KK Gupta said, “Initially, there was shortage of funds, but now we hope to take up all these projects soon.” Recently, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in a video conference with state authorities had reviewed the Covid preparedness in states in the post-unlockdown phase one. UP is among the five major states where Central authorities have underlined the need for more ICU beds and ventilators. Among the hospitals waiting completion is a 500-bed over Rs 200 crore super-specialty paediatric hospital in Gorakhpur which has been lying incomplete for over four years though over 80% work has been completed. Former CM Akhilesh Yadav had decided to set up this hospital in Gorakhpur to check casualties due to JE in eastern UP and in parts of Bihar. Similarly, work on Rs 800 crore paramedical training institute in Kannauj has been completed, but the building has been awaiting inauguration for long. Besides, a Rs 250 crore super specialty cancer hospital and a Rs 300 crore cardiac centre in Kannauj were completed in the previous regime itself and a minor fund would have made them functional. Both these hospitals also have trauma centres. These projects had been launched in Kannauj to cover the absence of big hospitals between Etawah and Lucknow. Also, Kannaunj was the Lok Sabha constituency of former CM Akhilesh Yadav's wife, Dimple Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medical-edu-dept-looks-to-revive-4-hosp-projects/articleshow/76414640.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Search for new quarantine facilities likely||Aurangabad: With schools from areas other than containment zones set to begin from July in a phased manner, the district administration may have to look for alternative options which can serves as quarantine centres. At present, around 75 educational institutions, mostly schools, have been serving as institutional quarantine facilities in Aurangabad district housing close to 700 individuals during the current pandemic. The search for new quarantine facilities assume significance amid prediction that the peak of Covid 19 pandemic is expected to get delayed till November. A total of 71 primary schools run by Aurangabad Zilla Parishad (ZP) have been reserved as quarantine facilities housing 540 individuals by Tuesday. Among other educational institutions, a couple of hostels and guest houses of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) and Government Engineering College Aurangabad (GECA) have been also serving as institutional quarantine centres housing nearly 102 and 65 people respectively. S P Jaiswal, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad zilla parishad on Tuesday said that schools serving as quarantine facilities have to be started for the academic year 2020-21 in a phased manner as per latest government directives. “The school management committees (SMCs) for each institution is the competent body which has to chart out an action plan for taking over schools serving as quarantine facilities back into possession for academic purposes. The due procedure has to be followed by keeping in loop the local health authorities and the district administration,” he said. A senior official of the district administration said the challenges in question would be addressed at proper time. “The official strategy for battle against Covid 19 has been evolving since the beginning — right from central level to the district level,” the senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/search-for-new-quarantine-facilities-likely/articleshow/76412859.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Medical education department looks to revive 4 hospital projects in UP||LUCKNOW: Even as the medical education department is running against time to strengthen the health infrastructure to tackle the Covid challenge, four unfinished health facilities — three in Kannauj and one in Gorakhpur — are waiting for completion. Most of the construction work in these hospitals, entailing an expenditure of Rs 1,550 crore, has been finished and had they been functional they would have added to the state's response to the pandemic. Put together, these hospitals have the capacity to cater to nearly 50,000 patients. Started during the SP regime, the work on these hospitals stopped three years ago. A senior officer of the medical education department told TOI: “Funds were stopped about three years back. At a time when the Central government has alerted about a likely shortage of the medical infrastructure in the state, these projects would have gone a long way in plugging the crisis.” Now, top authorities of the medical education department are exploring ways to revive these projects which include three hospitals and a paramedical training school. Director-general, medical education, Dr KK Gupta said, “Initially, there was shortage of funds, but now we hope to take up all these projects soon.” Recently, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in a video conference with state authorities had reviewed the Covid preparedness in states in the post-unlockdown phase one. UP is among the five major states where Central authorities have underlined the need for more ICU beds and ventilators. Among the hospitals waiting completion is a 500-bed over Rs 200 crore super-specialty paediatric hospital in Gorakhpur which has been lying incomplete for over four years though over 80% work has been completed. Former CM Akhilesh Yadav had decided to set up this hospital in Gorakhpur to check casualties due to JE in eastern UP and in parts of Bihar. Similarly, work on Rs 800 crore paramedical training institute in Kannauj has been completed, but the building has been awaiting inauguration for long. Besides, a Rs 250 crore super specialty cancer hospital and a Rs 300 crore cardiac centre in Kannauj were completed in the previous regime itself and a minor fund would have made them functional. Both these hospitals also have trauma centres. These projects had been launched in Kannauj to cover the absence of big hospitals between Etawah and Lucknow. Also, Kannaunj was the Lok Sabha constituency of former CM Akhilesh Yadav's wife, Dimple Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/medical-edu-dept-looks-to-revive-4-hosp-projects/articleshow/76419859.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 17, 2020||Goa||Will form ward panels in 15 days: Panaji civic body to HC||Panaji: The Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) on Tuesday assured the high court that ward committees will be constituted within a period of 15 days in accordance with law. The high court bench comprising Justice M S Sonak and Justice M S Jawalkar disposed the petition after CCP lawyer A D Bhobe stated that the process for constituting the wards is under way and will be completed in 15 days. The court had on Friday asked CCP to provide a timeline for compliance of constituting ward committees in accordance with the City of Panaji Corporation Act, 2002. During the hearing of the case, petitioner Aires Rodrigues said that the constitution of committees was mandatory. Rodrigues had filed the petition stating that the committees were not formed for the last 18 years. He said that public participation is a vital aspect of democracy and ward committees would act as link between the corporators and citizens for better planning. The ward committees have a role in determining integrated development planning, CCP budgeting and services for the public, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-form-ward-panels-in-15-days-panaji-civic-body-to-hc/articleshow/76414980.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad GMCH awaits plasma therapy equipment||AURANGABAD: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad is expected to the equipment required to carry out plasma therapy trials from the state government within eight days. The trials can begin after necessary permissions from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) are secured, the hospital said. GMCH Aurangabad is one of the 17 state-run medical colleges that have been selected by the state medical education and drugs department (MEDD) to perform the convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) trials as treatment for severely ill Covid-19 patients. The therapy uses antibodies developed in recovered Covid-19 patients to treat the critically ill. Speaking to TOI on Tuesday, dean Kanan Yelikar said the institution is waiting for the machine for CPT from the MEDD. On Tuesday, an online meeting was held by medical education secretary Sanjay Mukherjee and it was attended by officials of all government medical colleges that would be conducting the trials. Head of medicine departement Meenakshi Bhattacharya and VM Muley, who holds the charge of the pathology department at GMCH Aurangabad, also attended the meeting. Muley said there are several limitations for conducting the same. “The medical education department’s guidelines state that persons eligible for plasma donation for CPT are those have recovered from Covid-19. They should test negative for the virus 28 days after first testing positive; must be between 18 to 65 years of age with more than 50 kg weight; should be physically fit to donate blood and their blood group should match that of the recepient. Moreover, all women are excluded from donating plasma for the trials,” Muley said. Getting consent is another major step. “Often, the eligible donors initially agree to donate plasma, but later back out,” Muley said. Getting the permissions for the trials is key, the GMCH stated. “We need a separate permission from ICMR to conducting the experiment. Once we have the lab completely ready with plasmapheresis machine, deep freeze of -80 degrees, and other equipment, the FDA will conduct a lab inspection before issuing license,” Muley said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-awaits-equipment-donors-permissions-to-begin-plasma-trials/articleshow/76412888.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Get well-versed with e-learning platforms’||Aurangabad: Vice Chancellor (VC) of Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani, Ashok Dhawan has appealed to students to take the pandemic as an opportunity to get well-versed with virtual learning platforms for gaining and updating knowledge. “ As we know, the Covid-19 pandemic has carved its dark entry into the history of humankind, we have to be ready to face different grave challenges in the future,” said Dhawan. The VC, while addressing an international-level training programme on ‘Covid-19 Pandemic: Impact and Strategies for Agricultural Education’, also said that it was essential to provide actionable guiding advisory for prevention, early detection and control of the viral disease to students in agriculture institutes. The five-day event, conducted using online platforms with support from the World Bank and Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), Delhi , saw participation of nearly 450 people from 25 states of India and one each from Pakistan, Nepal and Japan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/get-well-versed-with-e-learning-platforms/articleshow/76412873.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||93 cases take Aurangabad dist’s Covid count to 2,918||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district has registered 93 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number to 2,918 even as 162 people have succumbed to the infection so far. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that 1,549 patients have been discharged from various hospitals until Tuesday morning. Among all affected places, Jawahar Colony and Shahnoorwadi were the worst hit with 11 cases being reported from each of the areas. Chikalthana and Garkheda Parisar saw four patients each. Besides, coronavirus patients were detected from Kanadgaon in Kannad, Dhudhad in Aurangabad tehsil, and Laxminagar and Waluj from outside Aurangabad city. Among those diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday were 54 men and 39 women. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/93-cases-take-aurangabad-dists-covid-count-to-2918/articleshow/76412896.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Family loses Rs 4.51 lakh in online fraud||Aurangabad: A poor family from Udgir tehsil in Latur district, who had obtained a loan of Rs 10 lakh for the medical education of their daughter, lost Rs 4.51 lakh in an online fraud. A 19-year-old youth from the family lodged a complaint with the office of the Latur superintendent of police. As per the complaint, he ordered a roti-maker online and paid Rs 1,224 through mobile valet on April 25. When the product was not delivered even after a month of placing the order, the youth dialled the helpline number provided in the e-commerce webiste on May 25. The suspect answering the call said the youth has won an SUV in the lucky draw that was held to mark the e-commerce website’s 10th year for customers who did online shopping from their website. When the youth was convinced, he was made to pay Rs 3,500 as registration fee. Soon after, the suspects kept taking money on one or the other pretext. Later, the suspects claimed that the car was not available and offered to give Rs 12.5 lakh cash, for which they asked for 5% of the total sum as bank transaction fee. On June 4, when the family started sensing trouble, they asked the suspects to return the amount paid so far. However, the suspects continued to siphon off several thousand rupees on one or the other pretext, taking the total to Rs 4.51 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/family-loses-rs-4-51-lakh-in-online-fraud/articleshow/76412915.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||NCP allots council seat to Shetti||Kolhapur: Sharad Pawar has agreed to accommodate Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti in the Legislative Council from the governor’s quota, sources in the NCP and SSS. Shetti, who met the NCP supremo in Baramati, said that during the Lok Sabha election, the NCP had promised to give one Council seat to SSS, which it has done now. “Visited various projects of Agriculture Development Trust in Baramati with Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghtana leader Raju Shetti,” Pawar tweeted. TNN & PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ncp-allots-council-seat-to-shetti/articleshow/76412908.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Once a hotspot, Bhavani Peth’s SRA building records no new case for over two weeks||Pune: A building in a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project in Bhavani Peth, which had turned into a Covid-19 hotspot last month, is on course to be declared coronavirus-free with no new case in more than two weeks.The building had reported a Covid-19 outbreak in the first week of May, following which the positive cases had touched the 100-mark by the second week. This rapid rise in cases spurred the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to collect the swab samples of over 700 people residing in the affected building, one among the cluster of five buildings. Besides, stricter measures were implemented in the area to arrest the further spread of the disease. “It was a challenging situation for the administration, but with a positive response from the local residents, elected representatives and the police, we managed to contain the virus spread. Having said that, we have not let the guard down as we are still monitoring the situation in the building,” a civic official said.Dayananad Sonkamble, head of Dhole Patil Road ward office under which the SRA building is located, said the last case from the locality was reported before May 20. “As many as 109 cases were reported from the building. The swabs of 752 people were collected for testing, of which 638 reports were negative. A separate survey of 87 residents aged above 50 and with co-morbidities was also carried out as a precautionary step. The detection of new cases has now stopped,” Sonkamble said. He said a slew of measures were taken in the locality soon after the first case was detected. “Being a densely populated locality, it was a challenge to contain the spread and keep people away from each other. Every floor of the building was sealed and people were strictly told to remain inside their homes and come out only in case of emergency. The residents were given food packets, masks and alternative arrangements were made to shift people to other vacant buildings as per requirement. People responded to the measures which proved crucial,” Sonkamble said. Special police officers appointed for the distribution of food also kept a watch on the movement of people almost around the clock. People were taken into confidence and were explained the necessity of stricter measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/once-a-hotspot-bhavani-peths-sra-building-records-no-new-case-for-over-two-weeks/articleshow/76414651.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 17, 2020||Pune||Bhor first nCoV-free taluka, Velhe has only two cases||Pune: An aggressive containment approach, including collection and testing of samples of people returning to their native villages from bigger cities such as Mumbai and Pune and better quarantine measures, has led to a noticeable drop in the nCoV cases in the district’s rural parts. “Of the 421 nCoV positive cases reported ever since the outbreak of the virus, only 98 cases are now active. As many as 308 people have been discharged after recovery,” district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. The remaining 15 patients succumbed to the contagion. Bhor has, in fact, become the first Covid-19-free taluka in Pune district, while Velhe has only two active cases whose condition is stable. Ambegaon — one of the worst-hit talukas after Haveli which covers a significant portion of Pune city — has also witnessed a significant drop in cases. Ambegaon had 44 patients, of whom one died. Only three cases are now active and the rest of the patients have been discharged post-recovery. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Tuesday, “Mortality has been very less in rural areas owing to the timely medical help. No big town or tehsil place has recorded any sudden spike in cases. Our people in Bhor and Junnar, in particular, have done good in a tough situation. Their village surveillance was excellent and, as a result, they were able to take timely decisions.” Rajendra Jadhav, sub-divisional officer for Bhor and Velhe tehsils, told TOI, “Our challenge was to test and identity those with nCoV symptoms from among the 33,000 people who had returned from Mumbai to Bhor and 16,000 to Velhe.” Bhor and Velhe are known for their hilly unfriendly terrain. “Over 100 villages do not have mobile network. To beat the communication problem, we formed village-level teams of ‘gramdoots’ comprising gram panchayat members, schoolteachers, gram sevaks and talathis. They created awareness and quarantined people. The police also helped us. We have three check points in Bhor and 16 in Velhe to check entry of each person,” said Jadhav. Ambegaon tehsildar Rama Joshi said, “About 35,000 people returned to their native places from Mumbai and many of them were from the containment areas. We managed to isolate them in time at the village level to contain the spread. At present, there are only three patients and they are not critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-first-ncov-free-taluka-velhe-has-only-two-cases/articleshow/76414654.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: RTC intra-state services see 70% ticket sales||VIJAYAWADA: Overcoming the hurdles of social distancing and seat blocking, Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has achieved 70% booking volume during ‘Unlock 1.0’ compared to the pre-Covid period. Data compiled by online bus ticket aggregator Abhibus.com showed that APSRTC stood first among all states in the country in bus operations. Andhra Pradesh was one of the first states to resume intra-state bus travel after lockdown restrictions were eased. The state-run transport corporation has tweaked seating arrangements in as many buses as possible to comply with social distancing norms. The change of seat layout works were taken up during the lockdown, in anticipation of social distancing measures after the lockdown. Madireddy Pratap, vice-chairman and managing director (VC&MD), APSRTC, has directed officials to be ready with necessary arrangements to start bus operations as soon as they get a go-ahead from the government. The preparedness of the APSRTC has paid off as it has resumed as many as 6,090 bus services connecting 137 cities and towns in the state. Of the bus services that are now in operation, Vijayawada has the highest number of bus services with 596 followed by Visakhapatnam with 383 and Nellore with 226. Apart from APSRTC, private bus operators are offering intra-state services. As many as 1,445 buses are being run by 48 private operators in the state, said Abhibus. Rohit Sharma, chief operating officer, Abhibus, said Andhra Pradesh has allowed intra-state bus services much ahead of other states. “Despite the seat blocking norm in place, Andhra Pradesh has achieved 70% ticket sales compared to pre-Covid time and became the role model for others by showing them a way for reviving the ailing bus travel industry in the country. With this kind of a traction, it seems the cautious yet necessary confidence to travel is widely seen now among commuters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-intra-state-services-see-70-ticket-sales-/articleshow/76413987.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Tiff between Hingoli police and revenue dept escalates||Aurangabad: The tiff between Hingoli police and revenue department has escalated, with the Hingoli revenue department’s gazetted officers demanding action against the PSI and threatened to go on a strike. On Saturday, Hingoli city police station’s on-duty PSI had intercepted a private car moving around with a beacon. The person in the car turned out to be resident deputy collector (RDC) and an argument ensued. Subsequently, the PSI has lodged a complaint against the RDC. Taking cognizance of the incident, Hingoli superintendent of police Yogesh Kumar ordered an inquiry, and the findings are expected to be submitted in a day or two. RDC Chandrakant Surywanshi said, “I am a magistrate and the PSI, being my subordinate, does not have a right to initiate such a baseless complaint and legal action against me.” The officer said that as he does not have an official car, he has been using this private vehicle for official work. On Saturday, he had stepped out to review the overall situation in his jurisdiction. The officer, citing sections of Epidemic Act and National Disaster Management Act, said the officials belonging to emergency services are entitled to beacon use when these Acts are enforced. Revenue department sources said the gazette officers of the department had started the strike, however, after the intervention of district collector Ruchesh Jayawanshi, they stepped back. Currently, the police officials and revenue authorities are awaiting the inquiry report. Sources in the police department said the preliminary inquiry has found that PSI had allegedly jumped the gun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tiff-between-hingoli-police-and-revenue-dept-escalates/articleshow/76412929.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||SGPGI’s society faces fund crunch as interest rates dip||Lucknow: Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences Kamdhenu Society for the Extremely Poor is facing a fund crunch mainly due to falling interest rates. “The rate of interest has declined by about 1.5% in three months causing a loss of around Rs 25 lakhs to the society. Since the society is largely dependent on interest income for its charitable endeavours, the cost is pinching,” said Dr Manoj Jain, secretary-general of the society. Now, the institute has decided to seek donations from the civil society and corporate houses. “We have issued an appeal to people to donate for the poor,” Dr Jain said adding that donations to the society fetched tax rebates for donators. SGPGI officials said that they have also sought concessions from the bank where they have opened the society’s account. Established in 1999, the society offers financial help to poor patients so that they do not face any difficulty in meeting their treatment expenses. In its 21st year now, the society has helped over 16,912 persons till March 2020. It had made a humble beginning by helping 150 persons. In the last financial year the society had extended help to 1,550 people. Patients coming from Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka have also received financial help from the society. “Our aim is to provide affordable, but best treatment to everyone. We also ensure that nobody stops the treatment midway due to lack of funds,” said Prof RKDhiman, director. SGPGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sgpgis-society-faces-fund-crunch-as-interest-rates-dip/articleshow/76414668.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 17, 2020||Pune||IMA readies care plan for at-home asymptomatics||Pune: The city branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has proposed a home treatment plan via telemedicine for Covid-19 patients who are symptom-free (asymptomatic) or pre-symptomatic. On Monday, Deepak Mhaisekar, the Pune divisional commissioner, had made it clear positive asymptomatic patients will no longer be advised institutional quarantine or hospitalization if they can keep up physical distancing and other measures at home. Earlier, such patients in the city were required to enter institutional quarantine centres or designated hospitals in the city — a deviation from state government norms which had advised isolation and treatment from home. The PMC’s logic, experts said, was relevant for patients in small houses — those living in slums and low-income neighbourhoods. But for many others, institutional quarantining and hospitalisation have proved to be expensive. Charges range from Rs 35,000 to 50,000 for a 10-day stay at designated private hospitals. These patients had no option but pay for a process that could’ve been done at home, IMA members said. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, said, “If the asymptomatic patient is a healthy adult, he or she only needs to take hydroxychloroquine and monitor blood oxygen saturation via a pulse oximeter that costs Rs 1,500. They need psychological support. But if there is a drop in blood oxygen levels, the doctor monitoring a patient — via video calls or other mediums — can immediately move him or her to a hospital.” Keeping asymptomatic patients at home can also ease strain on hospitals, the experts added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-readies-care-plan-for-at-home-asymptomatics/articleshow/76414657.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Shehnai, music bands can be among 50 guests in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Wedding halls in Kolhapur will echo to the traditional ‘shehnai’ played out by professionals or latest Bollywood numbers belted out by bands, provided the number of guests are reduced to accommodate these musicians in the list of 50 people attending a marriage. The district administration has issued permission, along with the condition, in this regard following a representation by band operators and an appeal by Kolhapur MLA Chandrakant Jadhav that musicians were finding it difficult to make ends meet due to the lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic. For the last couple of weeks, many weddings have taken place in the district with limited number of guests. The 50 attendees of a wedding include the priest and caterers. Shehnai or Wajantri bands were not allowed. Bands get the contract for playing traditional music in marriages during the arrival of the groom and when the bride leaves for her in-laws’ house from the marriage hall. Chandrakant Jadhav had urged district collector Daulat Desai to allow musicians as they were without unemployed and did not have any other means of sustenance during the lockdown. Moreover, the wedding organisers were seeking permission to play the Shehnai band as without it, they felt an essential component missing from the marriage function. “A specific community called ‘Ghadshi’ has the honour to play shehnai in marriages. However, they were out of work due to the restrictions. The administration has now allowed the band to play in marriage functions with conditions, including social distancing. The district administration has saved the livelihood of band workers and also upheld traditions,” Jadhav said. The legislator said that wedding organisers have to ensure that not more than 50 people, including musicians, are allowed in marriage function. “Now that bands are allowed in weddings, there will be restrictions on the ‘baraat’ (groom’s wedding procession) as it may not ensure social distancing,” added Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/done-can-cut-copy-from-belowshehnai-music-bands-can-be-among-50-guests/articleshow/76412941.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Facing fund crunch, old-age homes in Hyderabad struggling to take care of inmates||HYDERABAD: Crowded homes and fewer volunteers meant that old-age homes in the city struggled to provide care to inmates during the lockdown. Under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, every district in a state should have at least one old-age home with a capacity of 150 members. “However, there are only two such government-run old-age homes in the state. One in the city, which has around 30 inmates, including disabled persons and senior citizens. Another is in Karimnagar district, which has 40 members,” said Shyam Kumar, advocacy officer for HelpAge India (Telangana). According to Kumar, there are over 200 old-age homes in the city, and most of them run on charity. “There are a few paid elderly homes in the city. However, the free of cost homes struggled a lot. While ration was not an issue, maintenance cost was,” said the officer. Similar was the situation of Good Samaritan India, an NGO that works for the welfare of senior citizens. “We have over 70 inmates currently in two homes, including nearly 30 who were rescued during the lockdown. We had enough food and essentials and the district welfare officer and collectors provided a hostel for the rescued elderly. But there were hardly five people to take care of these many inmates,” said George Rakesh Babu, the founder the NGO. George and his wife were among the five caretakers in the home. “As many as 20 of the inmates are bed-ridden and needed constant care and attention, he said. “Many of the old-age homes struggled to pay the rents and salaries of the caretakers during the lockdown. The government provided the homes with essential items but more than ration, financial assistance was required,” said Shyam Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/facing-fund-crunch-old-age-homes-struggling-to-take-care-of-inmates/articleshow/76414617.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 17, 2020||Pune||Four booked in Narayangaon||Pune: The Narayangaon police in rural Pune on Monday registered an offence against four shop owners for operating without maintaining social distancing. Assistant inspector Arjun Ghode Patil of the Narayangaon police told TOI that during Monday’s patrolling he noticed four shops — a grocery, a photo studio, a cellphone outlet and an electronic goods store — on Khodad Road with more than five customers at a time. “The shop owners were without masks and did not have sanitizers,” Ghode Patil said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-booked-in-narayangaon/articleshow/76414674.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||One lakh saplings to be planted atop Chamundi Hills||MYSURU: Forest minister Anand Singh along with district minister ST Somashekar, MLAs and officials inspected the Chamundi Hills on Tuesday where the forest department has decided to plant one lakh saplings of native species to increase the green cover. After discussing with the forest officers, Anand Singh said that the Nilgiri trees, which have grown in around 310 hectares, will be removed and native fruit-bearing trees will be planted in the place. “Under MNERGA scheme, job card holders will be given jobs to dig pits to plant saplings. The Nilgiri trees will be removed and only the native saplings will be planted. Following the Infosys model, we are planning to treat the sewage generated from residential area atop the hills and use it for watering plants. The project will start from next year,” he said. Later ministers and officials visited Daivi Vana near Tavarakette where the forest department has planted native species by removing Nilgiri trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/one-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-atop-chamundi-hills/articleshow/76413090.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Model agreement likely to make home buying hassle free||BENGALURU: There’s an old proverb in Kannada — ‘Mane katti nodu, maduve madi nodu’ — which literally translates into there is nothing that is more challenging than building a house and conducting a marriage. This implicitly also holds true for those who buy homes from developers – from endless project delays, unrealistic promises, poor-quality construction to legal hassles, the list of concerns is long. All these uncertainties a homebuyer faces stem from a lack of model agreement for sale (AFS). But not any more. After three years of dilly-dallying, the Karnataka government has finally notified the model AFS that is expected to make home buying hassle free. “The new sale agreement will benefit both homebuyers and builders. It will also help the government earn some revenue in these tough times, since now agreement for sale has to be registered at the sub-registrar office once the builder receives 10% of the project cost from the buyer,” said KS Latha Kumari, secretary, Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority. “Earlier, the agreement for sale was being done on stamp paper, but it wasn’t registered. Now, we have made it compulsory to make both parties accountable,” she added. MS Shankar, general secretary, Forum for Peoples Collective Efforts, said the model agreement notified by the government was one of their long-standing demands and though it got delayed they are happy since it was as per AFS rules notified by the Union ministry of housing in 2016. The notification clearly states that if a builder/promoter fails to give possession of the property within the agreed time, they are liable to pay monthly interest until the property is duly handed over. Or in case the builder/promoter decides to return the total amount, they should do so with an added interest component as mentioned in the sale agreement. Another gripe homebuyers had was to do with the quality of construction. The new agreement stipulates five-year quality assurance from the time of possession on all projects. “In case of any defects in workmanship, quality, or structural issues, as per the sale agreement, homebuyers can bring the same to the notice of the builder/promoter within a period of five years and the same shall be rectified at no extra charges within 30 days,” officials said. More importantly, a homebuyer has to pay only for the carpet area (area within the walls), and not for the super built-up area. “The developer/builder cannot make changes to the plan that had been agreed upon without the written consent of the buyer,” the officials added. However, developers don’t seem to be happy with this move. “The government should have waited for the Covid cloud to clear to bring in such reforms. Instead of helping us recover from the crisis, it is finding ways to earn revenue, which is unfortunate,” said a reputed builder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/model-agreement-likely-to-make-home-buying-hassle-free/articleshow/76413489.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs impose restrictions in absence of isolation norms||HYDERABAD: After much deliberation, Arvind Kumar (name changed), landed in the city on May 28 from New Delhi. Being asymptomatic, he was cleared by the airport authorities and was asked to self-monitor. However, upon reaching his apartment, he was told to be under 14 days of home quarantine by the residents welfare association (RWA). “The moment I reached the apartment gate, the security guards questioned me about my travel history. On informing that I have returned from Gurgaon, the RWA president asked me to be under 14 days of home quarantine. When I argued that there is no such rule by the Telangana government, they informed me that it was for the larger benefit of people,” said Arvind, a resident of Nallagandla. There are many others like Arvind who had to face home quarantine norms self-imposed by RWAs in absence of any clear guidelines by the government. “My friend had returned from Kolkata and was asked to be under 14 days home quarantine. He was told that the security guards will help him with all deliveries and groceries during the quarantine period. He decided to return to Kolkata as he stays alone in Hyderabad and had no other alternative,” said Amit P, a resident of Gachibowli. Residents say many apartments have such rules. “The RWAs have drafted their rules and by-laws when it comes to home quarantine, permitting maids and other such activities,” said Saicharan Singh, a resident, who is now planning to file a writ petition in court seeking clear guidelines on RWAs. RWA members have attributed recent spike in number of Covid-19 cases to quarantine rules. “We still have some residents who have to be reminded about basic norms such as wearing a mask while stepping out and maintaining social distance while jogging in open areas. We don’t want any returnee, who could possibly be a Covid-19 carrier, to spread the virus resulting in declaration of entire society as a containment zone,” said Vinay Prasad, general secretary of a society in Gachibowli, adding that the RWA extends all possible support during the quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-impose-restrictions-in-absence-of-isolation-norms/articleshow/76414559.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||Goon uses ‘distancing’ to escape from police station||Vadodara: In a major embarrassment to the police, a notorious criminal, who was detained on Monday, managed to escape from the police station. Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo simply walked out of the Wadi police station in presence of cops late on Monday night. The police have formed teams to track down Ajju who was booked for extortion and criminal conspiracy by Wadi police. According to the police, Ajju, his brother Iqbal and Wali Mohammed Qureshi were accused of threatening a man, demanding money and a flat from him. The cops picked up Ajju and Wali on Monday. As per mandatory norms, the duo was taken to SSG Hospital for Covid-19 tests Monday evening before arresting them. The police said that after the tests, they were brought to Wadi police station for further questioning. At about 1 am, Ajju casually walked out of the police station right under the nose of the cops and disappeared in the dark. The Wadi cops realised that he was missing after some time and began search for him. “Ajju was detained for questioning in an extortion case. He and the other accused were asked to wait at the police station. But now Ajju has escaped,” said S G Patil, ACP. Senior police officials insist that Ajju didn’t flee from its custody as he wasn’t arrested but admit that the police station staff should have kept an eye on him. The police said that Ajju was showing symptoms of Coronavirus as he was coughing. His uncle and cousin brother were infected with Covid-19 and he too was staying in the red zone. After being picked up, the cops had kept distance from him fearing that they may get infected too. Ajju has over 35 offences including , extortion, attempt to murder, loot, rioting and assault registered against him at different police stations in the city. He has been detained four times under the Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA) in the past and even externed twice. He was an accused in the communal riots that broke out in the old city in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/goon-uses-distancing-to-escape-from-police-station/articleshow/76410426.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Does tiles store cause pollution, asks Telangana HC; tells civic body chief to train officials on GHMC Act||HYDERABAD: Wondering how GHMC officials came to the conclusion that a tiles godown is causing pollution and why a bus painting unit and an iron and steel scrap godown are shown as pollutants, the Telangana high court has asked GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar to first train his officials on the GHMC Act itself. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy wanted the civic body officials to know the source of power for the show-cause and closure notices they issue to various industries, traders and others. The bench is being flooded with pleas from Sastry Nagar and Tatanagar in Rangareddy district challenging the closure notices issued by GHMC and TSPCB. As these are a fallout of an order of the high court in a PIL that questioned the pollution caused by plastic, chemical and other polluting industries in Sastry Nagar and Tatanagar areas, the bench earlier summoned the GHMC commissioner seeking to know from him the reasons for the widespread discrepancies in the notices. The commissioner, however, could not appear before the court due to a high-level meeting on Covid-19. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the bench about the inability of the GHMC commissioner to attend the court. The bench, which was hearing scores of pleas filed by Mohammed Taufiq Ahmed and others, told the AG that the show-cause notice from GHMC clearly said that a reply should be given within seven days. “But, they (GHMC) issue a closure notice within just three days and without giving time to reply to the show-cause notice. They say polluting industry in the show-cause, but issue a notice to a tiles godown man. They also claim that the godown man is burning tiles. Which tiles trader will burn tiles,” the bench asked. One of the judges even raised a doubt whether the incorrect notices too were part of a strategy. To this, Prasad said the discrepancies need to be set right. The bench told him to inform the GHMC commissioner to maintain a distinction between the reasons for show-cause notices. “If you (GJMC) feel there should not be any trading activity in a residential area because that violates the master plan, say so in your notice. But, do not show any wrong reasons in it,” the HC said, while disposing of the petition filed by Taufiq.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/does-tiles-store-cause-pollution-asks-hc-tells-civic-body-chief-to-train-officials-on-ghmc-act/articleshow/76414676.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Beer bars to run as retail shops; liquor in malls soon||LUCKNOW: Even though they have not been allowed to open up yet, UP government has given beer bars permission to operate like retail shops till they are able to clear their stock. Microbreweries will be able to sell beer in kegs. The decision was cleared by the state cabinet on Tuesday. Officials said that beer bars had been facing huge losses and beer is liable to spoil over time. “To help bar owners make up some of their losses, we will now allow them to sell their beer at MRP. However, no consumption will be permitted within the premises and all precautions like social distancing will have to be followed. Similarly, draught beer can also be sold in kegs but on the condition that a chemist certifies the beer fit for consumption,” said Sanjay Bhoosreddy, principal secretary, excise. Beer bars which do not want to sell directly are also being given the option of transferring their stock to a retail shop. Alcohol will also soon be available in departmental stores in malls with the excise department having received several applications already. The cabinet on Tuesday determined a licence fee of Rs 12 lakh per shop. Availability of good quality imported liquor has also been assured after the government lifted the cap on setting up bond houses for distribution of imported liquor. Till now, there was a cap of five bond houses for each brand. The government has also waived duty if a liquor vend has been unable to pick up its allocated minimum guaranteed quantity of liquor during the lockdown. This is especially beneficial for those shops that have been located in containment areas and not allowed to operate at all. A software has been created for applicants to watch the entire e-lottery process via videoconferencing. The excise department is going to continue using this system even in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/beer-bars-to-run-as-retail-shops-liquor-in-malls-soon/articleshow/76414682.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||Abandoned suitcase triggers panic in Mysuru||MYSURU: An abandoned suitcase, which was found in the heart of the city, caused panic among the people, forcing the police to summon the bomb squad on Tuesday. The suitcase was found near a prominent textiles showroom located on New Sayyaji Rao Road near Agrahara Circle. The people who noticed the suitcase in the morning, informed the police, who rushed to the spot with the bomb squad. Barricades were erected around the suitcase, and police diverted traffic and prevented people from going close to it. The bomb squad personnel used metal detectors to examine the suitcase, but found no explosives in it, and then took the suitcase to the jurisdictional KR police station. Meanwhile, textile merchant Srinivas Gowda from Bengaluru approached the police, claiming that the suitcase belongs to him. He told the police that he had come to Mysuru with two suitcases containing garments, in a car, for business. He had got down to eat breakfast at Mylary Hotel in Agrahara, and that while he was about to return, he got a business call. He got immersed in the phone call, and kept only one of the suitcases in the car, but forgot the other one on the road. After he travelled for a few kilometres, he realized about the missing suitcase, and returned back to the place. There the public informed him about the incident, and directed him to go to the nearby police station. The police officers who heard the businessman’s plea, took an undertaking from him, and returned the suitcase to him, after issuing him a warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/abandoned-suitcase-triggers-panic-in-mysuru/articleshow/76413246.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Shops in Peth areas to reopen today with safety measures||Pune: Nearly 90% of the shops in Peth areas would reopen on Wednesday with precautionary measures, three months after they were closed because of the coronavirus contagion. The shops would be able to resume function because the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday decided to create micro-containment zones in Covid-19-hit areas instead of sealing entire localities. Mahendra Pitaliya, the secretary of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), said, “We have asked all the traders to keep an oxymeter at the store to check the oxygen levels of all staffers and customers. Asymptomatic patients can be identified through their low oxygen levels. So, keeping oxymeters at the stores has been made mandatory as a safety measure.” He said a joint committee comprising PMC officials and FTAP members had been constituted. “The committee members will conduct surprise checks at various shops to check if all precautionary measures and guidelines were being followed. If any shop is found flouting the rules, action will be taken.” Pitaliya said, “Some of the areas that will reopen following the fresh orders are the entire stretch of Laxmi Road, Sonya Maruti Chowk, Guruwar Peth utensils market, Budhwar Peth, Timber Market and Bohri Ali, among others.” The president of FTAP, Fatehchand Ranka, said all closed wholesale markets would reopen now. “The gold market, metal and steel market, electrical gadgets market, bicycle market, second-hand two-wheeler market, timber market and many others markets will be able to reopen as per the fresh order. Except for shops on the road from Dulya Maruti Chowk to Nana Peth and the area surrounding Nana Peth, most other shops are set to open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-in-peth-areas-to-reopen-today-with-safety-measures/articleshow/76414671.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||...but revenue falls post lockdown||Visakhapatnam: The APSRTC is earning less than 10% of what it used to before the lockdown. As per the data available of the earnings of the Vizianagaram zone — one of the four zones — the corporation used to earn Rs 3.25 crore per day against the current Rs 25 lakh per day by plying services across the four districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari. RTC Vizianagaram zone executive director C Ravi Kumar said Vizianagaram zone is the only unit which has registered the highest earnings when compared with all other zones. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/-but-revenue-falls-post-lockdown/articleshow/76413999.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 17, 2020||Pune||Pune records second highest death & case tally in 24 hours||Pune: The Covid-19 cases surged by 442 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, the second highest rise in daily tally after 459 recorded on May 25, taking the total case count to 12,685. Besides, 16 people succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Tuesday, the second highest death toll recorded in a day after 22 reported on June 2. With this, the casualty count in the region has risen to 527.Of the fresh cases, 279 were added in Pune municipal limits, 97 in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas and 66 in the rural and Cantonment areas in Pune district.Among the casualties, five were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 73-year-old man from Shivajinagar, a 76-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 70-year-old woman from Sayyadnagar, a 61-year-old man from Yerawada and a 70-year-old woman from the Baramati area. The patients who died at private hospitals included a 60-year-old man from Guruwar Peth, a 57-year-old man from the Dandekar bridge area, a 56-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 68-year-old man from Nana Peth, an 89-year-old man from the Magarpatta area, a 31-year-old man from Ramekdi and a 72-year-old man from Kondhwa.PMC health officials said 2,547 swab samples were collected and sent for testing on Tuesday. The district health office said 3,220 swab samples were tested on Tuesday against 2,698 on Monday. A total of 4,033 patients were being treated in PMR, of whom 294 were at critical stage. Besides, 203 patients were discharged on Tuesday after declared cured, taking the discharged tally to 8,125 in the region so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-records-second-highest-death-case-tally-in-24-hours/articleshow/76414665.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli records 5 cases, 1 death||Kolhapur: As many as five fresh Covid-19 cases, all above 50 years of age, were reported from Sangli district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 259. Meanwhile, a woman who recently returned from Mumbai to Sangli tested positive for the contagion after her death on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the district to nine. Of the six cases reported on Tuesday, three were from Mandur village which has turned into a major hotspot. Health officials said that the fresh cases that were being reported were of people either returning from Mumbai or of those who have come in contact with people who have returned from the state capital. Over 200 people have been quarantined and all those above 50 years of age are being thoroughly tested. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district did not report a single case for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Of the 725 positive cases reported in the district, 67 are active cases. Officials attribute the drop in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported to a dip in the number of people coming from red zones. The administration has appointed three officials to grant daily passes to the employees working in industries, banks and educational institutes in Kolhapur district but live in nearby Sangli and Satara districts. District collector Daulat Desai has made it mandatory for the workers to get a letter from the employer and provide identity and residential proofs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-records-5-cases-1-death/articleshow/76412954.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||PMC taps medical students to join nCoV fight||Pune: Medical students are on the radar of the civic administration to meet the shortage of healthcare personnel, if any, because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reached out to medical colleges for allowing its students to aid the control and mitigation of the coronavirus outbreak. According to the PMC officials, they have approached allopathic, homeopathic and ayurveda medical colleges, among others. “The civic administration has interacted with the heads of such medical colleges. The students willing to come forward voluntarily will be asked to participate in the initiative,” a senior PMC official said. He said the students would be assigned duties in line with their speciality and areas of interest. The official said the newly recruited doctors would help in the smooth functioning of the flu clinics set up by the civic administration, among other duties. The students would be asked to work at these facilities. The PMC officials stated that the students agreeing to provide their services would be assigned various tasks, including primary screening and creating awarenesses about the virus and precautionary measures. Some of them will be asked to assist the senior doctors involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The civic officials claimed that the increasing number of positive patients and heightened workload had led to a surge in the demand of doctors. Given the shortage of workforce, the PMC has decided to add more staffers to the health department, including core medical personnel as well as paramedics. Some of the staffers have been recruited, but finding and employing the specialist doctors as per the requirement turned out to be an uphill task, the official said. “The PMC needs around 500 doctors and the process to recruit over 180 of them has been started. The civic administration needs to follow the procedure to recruit medical practitioners. The approval for the appointment of doctors needs to be taken from the general body. The meeting could not be conducted because of lockdown for the past couple of months. The doctors and other staffers had been appointed on a temporary basis. Roping in medical students will help us to minimise the pressure on the health system,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-taps-medical-students-to-join-ncov-fight/articleshow/76414660.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Retailers in Hyderabad witness surge in demand for WFH consoles||HYDERABAD: Furniture retailers had expected a dip in sales following the coronavirus outbreak but what many did not foresee was a surge in demand for work from home (WFH) units. Dealers across the city say they are seeing a surge in demand as companies continue to prefer a majority of their employees working from home. “We have seen about 1,000 orders being placed over the past three to four weeks for WFH stations,” said Bijoy Babu, partner at InnoDesk, which works in the office furniture segment. He said he expected the demand to continue with the market size for the quarter being around 10,000 orders for tables and chairs. Babu said the demand for WFH stations is of three kinds: corporate bulk orders, individual orders and corporate-funded orders where individuals pick what they require. Vinay Gone, founder, Softouch Enterprises, said: “We received about 500 orders in the past one month.” He said most customers were software professionals who have been given a stipend from their companies to make purchases for WFH stations. Software professionals confirmed that they have been receiving sums to make these purchases. One techie, on condition of anonymity, said: “We have received Rs 35,000 to set up an ergonomic work space at home. This includes a table and chair, wi-fi connection as well as laptop for our children’s online classes.” Several top companies in the city are giving employees close to Rs 10,000 just for purchasing WFH stations including a chair and table.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retailers-in-city-witness-surge-in-demand-for-wfh-consoles/articleshow/76414653.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chennai||India-China border tensions: Tamil Nadu soldier chose duty over housewarming||RAMANATHAPURAM: Havildar K Palani, 40, the soldier from Ramanathapuram who died in a clash with Chinese forces in Ladakh on Monday night, had skipped his birthday party and housewarming ceremony on June 3 to guard the country’s border. On Wednesday, his mortal remains will reach his modest home which he so painstakingly built but did not live to see. “We are being moved (to the border), so you won’t be able to reach me … don’t worry,” Palani had told his wife Vanathidevi over phone on June 1. Two days later, on his birthday which also happened to be the housewarming day, Palani spoke to his wife for the last time. The call, as usual, lasted four minutes. “He listened to the mantras during the Ganapathi homam over the phone,” recalled Palani’s father-in-law Nachiappan. “My daughter was worried. I consoled her saying normalcy will return and that the two countries will come to terms,” he said. At 9am on Tuesday, Palani’s brother Idhayakani, 25, a clerk in the Army in Rajasthan, broke the news to the family that his soldier brother is no more. Vanathidevi fainted. Relatives and friends who gathered to console the family said Palani’s son Prasanna, 10, and daughter Divya, 8, took a while to realise what had happened to their father.“We don’t know if he was shot dead or stoned to death. Shocked we are, but we are also proud of his martyrdom,” said A Anand, a relative. The eldest of three children of farmhands Kalimuthu and Logambal in Kadukalur village in this southern hinterland, Palani joined the Army at the age of 18. “His parents earned very little,” said a family friend. “So, after Class X he couldn’t study, so he joined the Army.” While in service, Palani continued his studies to complete Class XII and did a BA degree through distance education. His wife Vanathidevi, 33, is a clerk in a private college. Palani, who encouraged youngsters to join the Army, last visited his village six months ago, on a 15-day leave to lay the foundation stone on a small piece of land he had bought. Friends said he was busy running around to get a housing loan. “A house was his dream,” said a friend. “He pledged his wife’s jewellery to make the initial payment for the house. He wanted to retire from service in a year and repay the loans with his settlement amount. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami condoled the soldier’s death and announced a solatium of ₹20 lakh to the family and a government job for a family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/india-china-border-tensions-tamil-nadu-soldier-chose-duty-over-housewarming/articleshow/76414675.cms||M K Ananth
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway launches automated boom barrier to prevent Covid-19 risk||Nagpur: After launching the automated ticket checking and managing access (ATMA) system at Nagpur railway station, the Central Railway went a step ahead by launching automated boom barrier gate (ABBG). Nagpur division of Central Railway under DRM Somesh Kumar was first in the country to launch a contactless ticket checking and boarding protocol mechanism on June 5. “The ABBG is ATMA’s version II,” says senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil. ATMA prevents community infection of Covid-19 with features like remote verification of ticket, body temperature and face mask for passengers entering the railway station. The facility is equipped with technology that can scan body temperature of passengers by people manning the booth. On getting a green signal about temperature that is within limits, the traveller shows ticket that too is scanned without touch. The cameras installed at the booth will check ID proof and ticket of the person. “We have now integrated it with automated boom barrier gate for making the system more robust and useful. The on duty ticket checking staff once satisfied with the parameters of ticketing, body temperature and mask shall open the remotely operated gate with timer,” said Patil. This facility shall reduce exposure of on duty RPF and commercial department staff for suspected infection. Earlier, the efforts of commercial department led by Patil regarding innovative ATMA system was highly appreciated by railway minister Piyush Goyal and senior railway officials. Patil said these platform screening gates integrated with ATMA system will allow only asymptomatic confirmed ticket passengers inside. “Passenger and staff shall have minimal exposure which shall help prevent community transmissions,” he adds. “Another advantage is that it will help only genuine passengers accessing the ticketing area and prevent spread of the pandemic. Besides, automation will also minimize staff deployment,” says SG Rao, assistant commercial manager (ACM). “Nagpur railway station is probably the first to integrate an automated remotely operated access system for passengers across Indian Railways,” said Patil. When asked about cost, Patil said, “This is most cost-effective solution considering the staff deployment cost and present pandemic threat. For two gates to get integrated with ATMA system we spent Rs1.8 lakh only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-railway-launches-automated-boom-barrier-to-prevent-covid-19-risk/articleshow/76414011.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 17, 2020||Pune||Demand for liquor licence fee waiver for a few months||Pune: People from the restaurant and liquor industry have demanded the excise department waive off the liquor licence fee for a few months.A city-based restaurateur said, “We want the government to charge the fee on a pro rata basis.” The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India had asked the government for a waiver of 15% rise in annual excise licence fee. “We have waived off 15% increase for those who paid before June 1. There is also an option to pay in instalments,” a state excise department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-liquor-licence-fee-waiver-for-a-few-months/articleshow/76414678.cms||Neha Madaan
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Cong tribal leaders: Not getting representation in RS and council||Nagpur: All is not well within the Congress party. A section of its veteran leaders have written to the high command complaining of not getting proper representation for the scheduled tribes (ST) in the Rajya Sabha as well as the Legislative Council.The grand old party’s ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government are already unhappy because they are being “sidelined” in the decision making process by partners Shiv Sena and NCP.With the MVA government starting the process of filling up 12 nominations for the council, the veteran tribal leaders, most of whom have faded into the oblivion after defeats in general and assembly elections, are now fancying their chances of grabbing a seat.The letter, addressed to president Sonia Gandhi, ex-chief Rahul Gandhi, his sister Priyanka Vadra, senior leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Balasaheb Thorat, claimed that despite having a huge population of over 1.05 crore in the state, tribals hardly get nominated to both the upper houses.“Tribal leaders from the Congress party get representation only when there is a constitutional provision for reservation. But where there is no reservation like in the Rajya Sabha and the Legislative council, not a single ST leader has been nominated in the last six decades,” stated the letter signed by a host of disgruntled community leaders.The list included former social justice minister Shivajirao Moghe, former deputy speaker and education minister Vasantrao Purke, former minister Padmakar Valvi and former MLA Namdeo Usendi among others.“Not only the Congress, the other political parties, too, have never nominated any tribal to the upper house where there is no reservation. Every other community like the SCs and the Muslims have got representation at both national and state level without any reservation,” Usendi told TOI.Though the Gandhi family has an inclination towards the tribal community, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) have always ignored it, the ST leaders mentioned in the letter.“There are various commissions and corporations under the central and state governments. They include the SC/ST commission, MPSC, UPSC, and various other boards, but not a single tribal leader has been appointed as chairman or committee member,” said the leaders.They added that even for plum positions within the party like the AICC, MPCC, District Congress Committee (DCC) and Congress Working Committee (CWC), none of the tribal leaders from Maharashtra has ever found a place. “It’s a humble request to all senior and junior leaders of the party to look into the injustice being meted out to the tribal community,” the letter said.LIST OF GRIEVANCES* Despite over 1.05 crore population in the state, no nomination in Rajya Sabha & Legislative Council* Get representation only when there is a constitutional provision of reservation to ST community* No political party nominated any tribal to upper houses where there is no reservation* Other communities like SCs, Muslims & others got representation in these houses* No tribal was made chairman/member in SC/ST commission, MPSC, UPSC & various other boards* No plum postings in AICC, MPCC, CWC & DCC in 60 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-tribal-leaders-not-getting-representation-in-rs-and-council/articleshow/76434524.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 17, 2020||Business||Bank of Maharashtra sets aside Rs 150cr for Covid-19 package provisions||Pune: State-owned Bank of Maharashtra has set aside Rs 150 crore provision for the Covid-19 regulatory package in FY 2020 that was announced at the end of March and came into effect from March 1, 2020. The bank said it was against a mandatory provision of Rs 38 crore as required by the RBI. The bank said 40% of term-loan customers had availed of the moratorium so far. The 3+3 month moratorium offer has sparked fears of loans turning bad across the banking system. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) at the bank decreased to Rs 12,152 crore at the end of March this year from Rs 15,324 crore a year ago. As a share of advances it reduced to 12.81% against 16.40%. Gross advances at the bank grew 1.52% to Rs 94,889 crore, whereas deposits grew 6.69% to Rs 1,50,066 crore. In the Q4 ended March 2020, the bank said it earned a net profit of Rs 58 crore against Rs 72 crore in the year ago period. However in the full year, the bank with a net profit of Rs 389 crore managed to perform better than the previous year when it reported a loss of Rs 4,784 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-maharashtra-sets-aside-rs-150cr-for-covid-19-package-provisions/articleshow/76414689.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body to ready ward offices for swab collection||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to provide swab collection facility at all its ward offices. People, who suspect they have symptoms of Covid-19, can benefit from the facility. The decision to set up the swab collection facility was taken at a recent meeting between civic officials, a group of elected representatives and the city mayor. “It will be possible to detect positive cases and enable early treatment if the facility is made available at every ward office. Currently, we need to take suspected patients from one part of the city to another just to collect swab samples. This hassle can be reduced with the new arrangement,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol. He added that the civic body is focusing on reducing the fatality rate among Covid-19 cases, for which a number of initiatives have been planned. According to Mohol, swab collection will be free of cost. Symptomatic patients and people, who have been told by doctors to get the test done, will be prioritized. Further, any other citizen wishing to take the test out of health concern can avail the facility during working hours. “Our aim is to start the centres as soon as possible but it will need a week’s time,” Mohol told TOI. As per PMC officials, Covid-19 tests are being conducted at government health facilities as well as private laboratories. The civic body has increased the number of tests being carried out in municipal areas from 700 tests per day in April to 1,500, per day, in May. PMC’s plan also includes increasing the number of ambulances in municipal areas. Each of the five zonal offices will get three ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/free-collection-of-swab-for-ncov-tests-at-ward-offices/articleshow/76414673.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur city sees 18 new cases, 4 deaths||Kolhapur: Solapur city on Tuesday registered 18 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,672 even as four people succumbed to the infection. With this, the fatality count of the city has gone up to 143. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that the reports of as many as 170 swabs samples are being awaited. At present, the city has 657 active patients while 872 have already been discharged from various hospitals. Meanwhile, Solapur rural has reported six new cases, taking the total count of patients to 139 with 11 fatalities. As many as 60 people have been discharged from various hospitals so far. At present, Solapur rural has 68 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-city-sees-18-new-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/76412962.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||Cong a ‘squeaky old cot’, but govt stable, says Sena||MUMBAI: Days after Congress functionaries expressed discontent over being “neglected” in the decision-making process in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamna’ described Congress as a “squeaky old cot.” The paper also said CM Uddhav Thackeray should be prepared to tolerate such noises while running a coalition government and claimed there was no threat to the Uddhav-led government. State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, however, expressed displeasure over the editorial and said it was “based on incomplete information.” Congress members and ministers in the MVA government Thorat and Ashok Chavan, among others, had last week held a meeting, after which Thorat had said Congress had been sidelined in the Thackeray government and was not being consulted on key decisions. Saamna stated, “Congress is like a squeaky old cot, but with a historical legacy. Two ministers seated on the cot wanted to meet and discuss issues with CM Thackeray. Petty issues like transfers and asking for one’s favourite officers will go on in any government. The issue of repeated extensions to chief secretary Ajoy Mehta can be discussed as complaints have been raised over it,” the editorial stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-a-squeaky-old-cot-but-govt-stable-says-sena/articleshow/76415500.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 17, 2020||Pune||PMC redraws containment zones to start wholesale business in Peth areas||PUNE: The civic body on Tuesday redrew the containment zones across its limits, paving the way for wholesale markets such as the timber shops in the Peth areas to open for business with effect from Wednesday. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration also decided to extend the time for opening of shops outside the containment zones. The shops can now stay open from 9am to 7pm instead of up to 5pm. The containment zones have been increased to 73 as against the 66 declared on June 2. “The number of zones is more because we have bifurcated them into smaller spots. It does not necessarily mean that the restricted area is larger. New zones have been created in such a manner that they will help in restarting business activity in the core city areas where the main markets are located,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. The PMC has reduced 24 zones and added 32 more. Its order stated that the areas removed from the containment zone list should not be barricaded. . On June 2, the PMC had allowed shops to operate in the non-containment zones from 9am to 5pm. Now, the shops can stay open for two more hours. The PMC had declared relaxations for the first time in the “Unlock 1” phase on June 2. No other changes have been made in the way shops would function in the containment and non-containment areas. All other directives will be same as per that order. Only essential services were allowed in the containment zones and that too between 9am and 2pm. The zones, however, were changed drastically. The PMC had added 28 new localities, mostly in the densely populated Hadapsar, Parvati, Satara road, Shivajinagar and Kothrud areas. It excluded 27 localities with no new cases in the last fortnight of May. Areas such as Kothrud-Bavdhan, which had few cases till mid-May, were added to the containment zone list after a spurt in the cases. The first phase of “Unlock 1” started on June 3, the second on June 5 and the third on June 8. ( With inputs by Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-redraws-containment-zones-to-start-wholesale-business-in-peth-areas/articleshow/76414691.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Cabinet allows borrowings of up to 5% of GDP||Lucknow: The Cabinet on Tuesday created provision for the state government to have more funds at its disposal by allowing borrowing of up to 5% of the state GDP. The provision was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the Centre’s financial package in light of Covid-19 pandemic. Till now, states have been able to borrow up to 3% but due to shortage of funds in light of the lockdown, this was increased to 5%. Accordingly, the UP Cabinet on Tuesday officially allowed the state to increase its borrowings. Meanwhile, the Cabinet also gave its nod for a memorandum of understanding, memorandum of association, article of association to be signed between UPNEDA and Tehri Hydro Development Corporation India Ltd (THDCIL) for setting up of a joint venture for establishment of an ultra-mega renewable energy park in the state. As per the MoU, the joint venture will have a maximum share capital of Rs 50 crore of which UPNEDA’s share will be 26% while THDICL’s share will be 74%. Initially, a solar park with a capacity of 600 MW will be set up. To promote electric vehicles, the cabinet has allowed amendments to the UP Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Policy-2019. Among the first 1 lakh vehicles manufactured in the state, two-wheelers will get 100% rebate on road tax while four wheelers will get 75% rebate. Amendment has also been made to the UP Self-Financed Independent School (Fee Regulation) Act. Under this, an authority has been constituted at district level to handle issues pertaining to fees. In case of an appeal, one had to approach the state authority. Now, the commissioner has been appointed the appellate authority. Meanwhile, to provide greater speed to the Gorakhpur Link Expressway and Purvanchal Expressway construction, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has proposed some “out of the box” solutions. F or the Purvanchal Expressway for instance, schedule H is being amended for eight months which will allow the contractor to be paid at every 1 km of road laid, instead of every 3 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cabinet-allows-borrowings-of-up-to-5-of-gdp/articleshow/76414693.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: As deaths continue to rise, experts question fall in Tamil Nadu’s case count||CHENNAI: As deaths soared to 49 on Tuesday, epidemiologists and healthcare activists questioned how there could be a sudden decline in the number of fresh cases as Tamil Nadu logged 1,515 and Chennai 919 after reporting at least 500 cases more daily for weeks. Minutes after the state released the bulletin, National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur tweeted: “Chennai’s epicurve — sudden unusual decline in cases — hard to interpret in the absence of day-wise testing and percent positive trend for city…” For the last three days, the state has stopped releasing data on number of persons being tested each day. Instead, the bulletin offers information on the number of samples tested – which could include repeat samples on the same patient. Another NIE scientist tweeted: “Sudden increase could be due to sudden outbreak among larger population (eg Koyambedu market). How can there be a sudden drop? Only possibility – sudden outbreak in a closed setting without spread to outside world has come down. But there is no such theoretical outbreak in TN.” Senior officials at the directorate of public health said they were “asked to remove number of people tested” from the daily bulletin. “As a policy we don’t do exit tests on patients any more. They are declared cured if they show no symptoms. This means most people undergo only one test. There may be no big difference in the number of people and number of samples tested. We choose to give number of samples tested,” a senior official said. On Tuesday, the state recorded two deaths that happened at private hospitals in Kancheepuram on June 9. There were three deaths on June 13, 18 deaths on June 14, 25 deaths on June 15 and two on June 16. With this, 112 people have died between June 12 and June 15 across the state. The reconciliation committee appointed by the Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam has completed analysis of 250 death summaries. Names of patients are expected to be added to the state covid registry on Wednesday. Among the deceased there were 31 people above the age of 60 and the youngest was 22-year-old woman with Downs Syndrome. Of the 1,515 new cases in the state, 1,451 were from within and 61 were people who returned from other countries and states. Districts adjoining Chennai – Tiruvallur (52), Chengalpattu (88) and Kancheepuram (47) -- together logged 187 cases. Ranipet had 76 cases, Nagapattinam had 43 and Tiruvannamalai recorded 65. Of the 2,15,443 passenger who had entered Tamil Nadu by road, rail, flight or sea so far 2,221 have tested positive for the viral infection. At least 25 people who travelled to various parts of the state from Maharashtra tested positive on Tuesday. There were 10 others from Rajasthan and five from Karnataka. As many 1,438 people were discharged on Tuesday taking the total number of people cured to 26,782. There were 20,706 active cases in the state including 15,257 in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-deaths-continue-to-rise-experts-question-fall-in-tns-case-count/articleshow/76414700.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 17, 2020||Pune||Retired IAF officer duped of Rs 21.2 lakh||Pune: A cyber police team on Monday arrested four Nigerian nationals, along with their Mumbai-based woman aide, for duping a Lohegaon-based retired Indian Air Force officer of Rs21.23 lakh by luring him into a herbal oil trade deal with promise of handsome returns. The 58-year-old complainant had come in contact suspects through a cellphone dating application. “The woman lured the retired officer into transferring Rs21.23 lakh for investing in the herbal oil business in March,” a cyber police station officer said. “We arrested the woman, Radha Nelson Caston (36), on Sunday in Wakdewadi. The other four — Guess Francis (38), Okoko Nwamama (38), Alex Ilechukwu Arinze (33) and Kalu Ilechukwu (27), all from Nigeria — were nabbed on Monday from Kharghar,” inspector Santosh Barge told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retired-iaf-officer-duped-of-rs-21-2-lakh/articleshow/76414701.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 17, 2020||Kochi||Have enough evidence against Franco: Govt to HC||Kochi: The state government on Tuesday informed the high court that enough evidence exists to continue with the case against bishop Franco Mulakkal for allegedly raping a senior nun in a convent at Kottayam.In addition, the nun’s statement and statements given by four others also support the case, government submitted. The court is considering a petition filed by the bishop questioning the decision of a sessions court at Kottayam declining to discharge him from the case.The bishop has contended at the high court that the statements of the witnesses are contradictory and that there is not enough material to allow continuation of the case against him.Prosecution has told the high court that police filed a report after being convinced about the circumstances warranting continuation of the case. Secret statements of the nun and the four other witnesses were recorded before a magistrate. Prima facie, the case against the bishop is sustainable. The present petition by the bishop is an attempt to delay the case, prosecution has contended. The court will hear the case in detail on June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/have-enough-evidence-against-franco-govt-to-hc/articleshow/76412987.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||For first time, Covid-19 patient recoveries more than active cases in Maharashtra||PUNE: Maharashtra, which carries the burden of the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, on Tuesday had more patients who had recovered from the infection than active cases. The medical education and drugs department said the total number of recovered patients in the state as on Tuesday was 56,049 as against 50,554 patients who were taking treatment at various medical facilities. The trend of more patients who had recovered vis-a-vis those being treated for the infection was common in major cities in the state, including Mumbai. On Tuesday morning, Mumbai had 30,125 patients who had recovered as against 26,910 who were being treated. “Most patients are asymptomatic and have mild treatable illness. They are recovering well. We have stepped up our testing and will get more cases as the lockdown is relaxed. There is no need to panic. We are controlling the outbreak,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state government. Salunkhe said the focus on containment zones and testing had helped identify patients early and this was, in turn, helping in recoveries. In 80% of the cases, patients had such mild symptoms that home quarantine, and not hospitalisation, was sufficient. Salunkhe said their focus now was to ensure a reduction in the number of critical patients and deaths in the state. “There are enough ICU beds and facilities available to handle the cases coming in right now. Measures are being taken to augment the facilities in the event of any increase of cases during the monsoon,” he added. Only five districts and three municipal corporations within these districts in the state had more active cases than patients who had recovered. Only cities and districts that have seen a recent spurt in Covid-19 cases, such as Solapur and Jalgaon, have more active cases than recoveries. Mumbai’s neighbouring district of Thane, which also covers the municipal corporations of Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi and Ulhasnagar, also had more active cases than recoveries. Dr Ajay Sankhe, director of Bhaktivedanta Hospital in Mira Road, said early detection, even in those patients who have co-morbid conditions, is key to recovery. “It is important for people to disclose even mild cold, cough or fever. At that stage, the disease is still treatable. There is no need to hide symptoms or fear going to quarantine facilities. The narrative now should be that if you come in early, you can recover,” he said. Dr Sankhe said 66% of the 157 patients they have treated so far were asymptomatic. “Now, most patients are testing negative within a week of the treatment. Only in some cases, the treatment is continued for 14 days, depending on the viral load of the patient. Apart from medical treatment, counselling has played a huge role in comforting and treating patients who stress over getting infected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-first-time-patient-recoveries-more-than-active-cases-in-maha/articleshow/76414692.cms||Swatee Kher
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nadda: Kerala will gain from Aatma Nirbhar Bharat plan||Thiruvananthapuram: BJP national president J P Nadda on Tuesday said the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat initiative launched by the Modi government offered immense opportunity for Kerala to make big strides in tourism, agriculture and handloom sectors. Nadda was addressing BJP workers and leaders after inaugurating the ‘Kerala Jan Samvad Rally’ (virtual rally) in New Delhi.“Aatma Nirbhar Bharat is not just a package, but a meticulously prepared roadmap the Modi government has rolled out to convert the corona-induced crisis into an opportunity for the country. Kerala can very well explore opportunities in tourism sector. Being the biggest producer of pepper, natural rubber and spices, Kerala stands a good chance to utilize the opportunities thrown open by the initiative. The thrust on local products could give an impetus for diversification and better reach of Kerala’s handloom sector,” he said.Nadda said the Modi government was practising cooperative federalism in letter and spirit in its fight against the Covid pandemic. “In the last three months, Modi has addressed chief ministers of the country five times. Regardless of the political interest, every decision is made by taking all chief ministers into confidence,” he said. The party president said the government was proved right by announcing the lockdown at the right time to slow down the spread of coronavirus.“The doubling of positive cases happened every three days during the pre-lockdown period. Now the cases double every 14 days. When the country went under lockdown, there was not a single PPE manufacturing unit in the country. Now, we manufacture 4.15 lakh PPE kits per day. Similarly, we have produced 24,000 ventilators during lockdown,” Nadda said.Nadda admitted that the Union government did not expect migrant workers insisting on immediate travel arrangements back to their homes in the middle of the lockdown. “We made provisions to feed the workers. But there cropped up an emotional issue. Then the government made arrangements for their transportation,” he said.Earlier in the evening, BJP state president K Surendran delivered the presidential address here with other leaders attending the function, adhering to social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nadda-kerala-will-gain-from-aatma-nirbhar-bharat-plan/articleshow/76412997.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||UP tourism to build three signature gates at PTR||Pilibhit: UP tourism plans to build three signature gates to advertise the diversity of wildlife in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) in order to attract tourists for jungle safaris. It will also develop new tourist spots with rest houses in areas around PTR in coordination with the forest department following National Tiger Conservation Authority's directive to all tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries in the country to phase out night stay facility for tourists in core forest areas. Giving details, regional tourist officer, UP tourism, BP Singh said one gate would be constructed at the junction point of Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 and Bareilly-Haridwar national highway 74, just ahead the bridge over river Devha. The second would be near Mustafabad forest guest house, the gateway to Chuka tourist spot, and the third, on Pilibhit-Mahof forest range road. “We will highlight PTR’s biodiversity through these gates to promote eco-tourism," said Singh. After repairs of tourist huts at Chuka is completed, UP tourism and PTR officials would finalize 3-4 picturesque sites around PTR to develop into tourist destinations with state-of-the-art facilities, Singh added. This venture, hoped PTR authorities, would ensure compliance with NTCA's directions as also help generate revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-tourism-to-build-three-signature-gates-at-ptr/articleshow/76411606.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Man held for robbing techie in ’19||Pune: The Khadki police on Monday arrested a history-sheeter on the run from October last year after robbing a software engineer of valuables when the latter was returning to Hinjewadi from the city airport. The arrested suspect, Tarun Pillay (20) of Khadki Bazaar, and his seven aides, had robbed the techie’s cellphone, tablet, cash and other valuables, collectively worth Rs79,000. The Khadki police team led by inspector Shafil Pathan took the suspect Pillay into custody from his house at Khadki Bazaar based on a tip-off. Pillay has five cases registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-robbing-techie-in-19/articleshow/76414702.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Former minister Usgaonkar no more||PANAJI: Former minister and ex-MLA of Pale constituency Achyut Kashinath Sinai Usgaonkar, 92, passed away at the Goa Medical College and Hospital in Bambolim on Tuesday early morning. According to his family sources, Usgaonkar was taken to GMC for age-related ailment. Born on September 15, 1928, Usgaonkar was a leader of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and part of the very first Goa legislative assembly. He was appointed as the deputy speaker. He was a prominent person in 1960s and 70s, being appointed in the cabinet of Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar and later serving as a minister under Bandodkar’s daughter, Shashikala Kakodkar. Usgaonkar then held the agriculture portfolio. Survived by three daughters, he is the father of Bollywood actress Varsha Usgaonkar. Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited Usgaonkar’s residence at Miramar and offered his condolences. “Saddened by the demise of Shri Achyut Kashinath Sinai Usgaonkar, former Goa minister, who passed away today morning. His contribution to state and people of Goa will always be remembered. My deepest condolences and sympathies to the bereaved family,” Sawant tweeted. Leader of opposition Digamber Kamat said that he was deeply pained by the demise of the former minister and offered condolences to the bereaved family. “He was a down to earth, simple and kind-hearted person. I shared a personal bonding with him and his family,” said Kamat in his message. Former minister Sadanand Malik remembered him as an honest person committed to the development of Goa. Usgaonkar was the first MLA of Pale assembly constituency, which comprised of present Sakhali constituency and part of Mayem constituency. He represented Pale for three consecutive terms from 1963 to 1977. Final rites were performed on him at the St Inez crematorium on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-ministerusgaonkar-no-more/articleshow/76414986.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Plan housing for workers: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to private developers||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has invited proposals from private developers and industrial authorities for providing housing to workers, saying that the government will provide exemption in FAR for such projects. Addressing industrialists and entrepreneurs during a webinar on Tuesday, the CM spoke about UP’s achievements under ease of doing business, adding that the state had been improving on its ranking each year. “The state government has set up an effective organization ‘Invest UP’ to address problems related to investors in a time bound manner. We have started cyber police stations to equip the police with technology, forensic labs at range level, while a police and forensic university is also on the cards,” the CM said. The CM added that over 35 lakh workers had returned to the state during the lockdown and they would have an important role in UP’s development. “Today, there is neither shortage of work nor workers in Uttar Pradesh. To promote handicraft, the government started the one district-one product programme and we are providing cities with infrastructure that will help in promoting the handicraft. Meerut is the manufacturing hub of sports goods and has been selected to get a sport university,” he said. Similarly, he added, Saharanpur is famous for its handicraft and once the corona crisis was over, the city would be given air connectivity. The CM told entrepreneurs that a provision has been made in the PM’s relief package for providing residential facilities for workers and students. The government was also willing to give concessions in FAR if an industry built hostels for its employees. Stating that the UP exported goods worth Rs 1.16 lakh crore in 2018-19 which is a record in the country, the CM added that the government was open to development of industrial parks not only in the government sector but also in the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plan-housing-for-workers-cm-to-pvt-developers/articleshow/76414705.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt approves additional undergraduate/PG seats||Thiruvananthapuram: Anticipating a considerable spike in the number of candidates seeking admission to undergraduate and post-graduate programmes in various arts and science colleges in the state this year, state higher education department has issued orders approving additional seats in these higher education institutions.The order issued to this effect said the department was expecting unprecedented demand for undergraduate and PG programmes in 2020-21 academic year as a result of the peculiar situation following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. “It’s expected that there could be a considerable increase in the number of applicants. The better performance of state universities in NAAC, NIRF rankings too would nudge students to opt universities (in Kerala),” the order said. The possibility of a section of students not opting for higher education in colleges outside the state following the pandemic was what prompted the government to increase the seats, the order explained to substantiate the decision.As per the government decision, colleges may increase seats up to 70 for undergraduate programmes. For PG science, the numbers can go up to 25 and for arts the ceiling can be 25. At present, seat strength for undergraduate courses ranges up to 60. For PG courses, currently there is no uniformity in the number of seats as it ranges from 12 to 20, depending on the course and college. The government, however, made it clear that increase in number of seats should be made without inviting additional financial burden to the government.Universities would have to evaluate the infrastructure facilities and academic capacity before approving additional seats. There are 71 government, 197 aided and 600 unaided arts and science colleges in the state. It would be up to the colleges concerned to decide whether they need to add new seats.However, there were criticisms from academic circles about the government decision to announce the seat increase, which according to them was a decision to be taken by the respective universities only. “It’s strange that state government has no qualms in issuing orders that undermine the autonomy of universities. If the government wanted to fulfill its social obligation, it should have better requested or recommended universities to consider the option of seat increase. If this practice continues, our universities would soon metamorphose themselves into mere sub-offices of the government department,” said a former vice-chancellor, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-approves-additional-undergraduate/pg-seats/articleshow/76413018.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kochi||Director Sachy critical after suffering cardiac arrest||Thrissur: Script writer and director K R Sachidanandan, popularly known as Sachy, was admitted to Jubilee Mission Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, after suffering cardiac arrest on Tuesday. The 48-year-old director’s condition is critical and he is on ventilator support, said the medical bulletin issued by the hospital officials. He had undergone a total hip replacement surgery. “Currently he is being treated in a critical care unit with mechanical ventilation and other supportive measures. A multi-disciplinary team is involved in his care. He is presently neurologically obtunded. CT scan is suggestive of hyproxic brain damage,” stated the medical bulletin. The medical bulletin also said that his condition can only be prognosed after 48-72 hours of observation. Sachy’s latest film Ayyappanum Koshiyum starring Prithviraj and Biju Menon is one of the biggest hit movies this year. Sachy started his film industry career as a script writer with Sethunath (Sachi-Sethu). The Sachi-Sethu combo’s first film Chocolate, starring Prithviraj, Jayasurya, Remya Nambeesan was a super hit. The duo worked on other films Robinhood, Make-up Man and Seniors. But after the flop of Doubles they stopped the collaboration. Sachy’s directorial debut Anarkkali was released in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/director-sachy-critical-after-suffering-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/76413008.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Raj Cong to honour corona warriors on Rahul’s b’day||Jaipur: Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee has decided to celebrate the birthday of Rahul Gandhi on June 19 by felicitating corona warriors. Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot said Congress workers would distribute PPE kits, masks etc to doctors, nurses and para medics at block and district hospitals. He said every year, the Congress party celebrates the birthday of party former president Rahul Gandhi with much fanfare. “Medical personnel are supporting all of us in fighting the coronavirus pandemic, so it becomes our responsibility to honour their services,” Pilot said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cong-to-honour-corona-warriors-on-rahuls-bday/articleshow/76414712.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Trash woes return after lockdown relaxations||Jaipur: With relaxations in lockdown, garbage generation in the city has increased. During complete lockdown, the garbage generation had gone down from 1,400 ton to 900 ton as no public place was open. From June 1, with relaxations in lockdown rules and slowly opening up of public places, garbage generation has increased, as on an average, 1,100 ton garbage is collected every day by the door-to-door garbage collection vehicles. According to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) officials they are expecting that it will be back to normal as restaurants and public places open again. However, residents on the outskirts of Jaipur city say that this record is just on paper as garbage collection vehicles are not coming to their areas regularly. In Kho Nagoriyan, for last six months, no garbage vehicles have come even after repeated complaints by the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trash-woes-return-after-lockdown-relaxations/articleshow/76414714.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad begins online submissions for MPhil and PhD students||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) introduced online submission of dissertations/theses for those pursuing MPhil or PhD. “To cut short the time required for evaluation and more importantly to make the whole process paperless, UoH has decided to process MPhil and PhD dissertations and theses only in the online mode w.e.f. June 1, 2020,” read the press release. “The research scholars will now be able to complete their evaluation process smoothly and efficiently and in a much shorter time. From submission to award of the degree, it used to take on an average of six months which we would like to bring down to three months by this process to benefit our MPhil/PhD students,” said Prof Appa Rao Podile, VC, UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-begins-online-submissions-for-mphil-and-phd-students/articleshow/76414716.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||5 persons commit suicides in Bareilly & Lakhimpur Kheri districts||Bareilly: A 25-year-old man who was separated from his wife was found hanging in his room in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday morning. The victim’s parents said that their son was “depressed” because of the rift with his wife. Amit Kumar was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room in Ramnagar locality of Lakhimpur Kheri city. Amit’s wife was living with her parents and had lodged an FIR against him. Police have recorded the statement of Kumar’s parents. In Bareilly, Raveena (22), who was married to Mohammed Nazim two years ago and was six months pregnant, was found hanging in her house in Izzatnagar area on Tuesday morning. The autopsy report confirmed the reason of death as hanging. Her brother Sher Ali alleged that Nazim used to torture Raveena for dowry which is why she took this extreme step. Police were in a process of registering an FIR under the sections of dowry death at the time of filing this report. While in Kheri’s Korara Kanchanpur village, Reena Devi (23) hanged herself to death after a tiff with her husband Sohanlal. Sohanlal had gone into the neighbourhood when Reena locked the room from inside and ended her life. In Kheri district’s Laxminagar locality, Monu Shukla (22) who was preparing for competitive exams committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room. He was found dead by his brother Govind on Tuesday morningand a suicide note was recovered from his wallet. Police said that Monu was depressed and ended his life. In Kheri’s Ginhona village, 30-year-old Mohammed Usman hanged himself after having a tiff with his wife on Tuesday morning. ASP Kheri Shailendra Lal said, “Police have sent the bodies for autopsy and an FIR would be registered if we receive any complaint from the families and autopsy reports indicate any foul-play.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-persons-commit-suicides-in-bareilly-lakhimpur-kheri-districts/articleshow/76413019.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Further fee waiver not possible: CNI schools||Kolkata: It will not be possible for 13 schools under the Church of North India (CNI) to function with just tuition fees and waive off other fee components, says a letter sent to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday by Bishop Paritosh Canning, the head of the Diocese of Kolkata. The letter iterates the fact that all the CNI schools have already decided not to hike school fees this academic year keeping with the request of the state government but further waivers were not possible because of hiked expenses and limited funds. The letter says that despite the decision to not hike fees this year, all the CNI schools have not gone back upon its earlier decision to implement sixth pay commission scale for the teachers. The increased expense due to this was budgeted in the proposed fee hike, which has now been stalled after two written requests from the state government (dated April 10 and 22). A written commitment by the CNI schools for not hiking fees was earlier sent to the CM. According to the letter, the buildings of the schools in question are anything between 150- and 225-year-old and need regular maintenance that entails huge expenses. They have all sustained damage due to the recent Amphan and this will add to the cash outflow. That apart, the latest sanitization-driven expenditures are add-ons. After complying with the government request and still going ahead with the salaries of teachers and staff at an enhanced rate and the routine infrastructural expenses, any further waiver may lead to non-disbursement of salaries and ultimately the closure of schools, the letter has stressed. On Tuesday, Bishop Canning called a meeting of principals of all the nine CNI schools that are members of the Association of Heads of Anglo-Indian schools and allowed them to rejoin the body, but with a rider. He has debarred all CNI principals from becoming a part of any other committee of the Association. They can just be ordinary members. Till the dispute happened, principals of two CNI schools — St James’ and La Martiniere for Girls — were part of the executive committee. “We don’t want any more controversies,” Bishop Canning said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/further-fee-waiver-not-possible-cni-schools/articleshow/76413014.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||Surjewala questions ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ call after Chinese firm bags project of Delhi-Meerut RRTS||Bareilly: With a Chinese multinational civil construction firm -- Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC) -- bagging the Rs 1,126 crore contract for a project of Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS), senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala questioned Central government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ call. The firm, STEC, has emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction of 5.6 km underground section of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor between New Ashok Nagar to Sahibabad. Indian company Tata Projects Ltd in collaboration with a Korean company SKEC JV was among the five bidders for the contract.The bid was invited in November last year by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation Ltd (NCRTC) and the financial bid was opened on June 12. According to NCRTC, among five multinational companies, Chinese company STEC had quoted the lowest bid while the other four bidders included L&T (Rs 1,170 crore), Gulermak (Rs 1,326 crore), Tata Projects Ltd (Rs 1,346 crore) and Afcons Infrastructure Ltd (Rs 1,400 crore). The technical bid was opened on March 16, 2020.Sources said that after issuance of the letter of acceptance by NCRTC, the Chinese company will have to complete the tunnelling work on the stretch within three years.The China-based company STEC has been engaged in engineering and tunnel design, laying railway tracks, constructing roads, and other infrastructure projects. NCRTC said that tunnelling work between New Ashok Nagar to Sahibabad stretch will be carried out through cut-and-cover method.Besides, global tenders were already invited by NCRTC in February 2020 under contract package-8 for construction of 4.5 kilometre underground section in Meerut from Brahmpuri to Begumpul. In Meerut three stations, including Meerut Central, Bhaisali and Begumpul, will be constructed underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/surjewala-questions-atmanirbhar-bharat-call-after-chinese-firm-bags-project-of-delhi-meerut-rrts/articleshow/76411631.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 17, 2020||Agra||UP: After a fight over sweets, ‘drunk’ groom kills bride’s 9-year-old brother||AGRA: A row over serving of sweet dishes at a wedding function took a bloody turn when the “infuriated and inebriated” groom, 26, allegedly killed the bride’s 9-year-old brother and ran over his SUV on three women while fleeing, leaving one of them seriously injured and the other two with fractured bones. The wedding mayhem unfolded on Monday evening in Farrukhabad’s Shamshabad area. The groom, Manoj Kumar, a resident of nearby Atsaini Paharpur village, had come with ‘baraat’ to Govindpur Ahdullahpur village. The initial gaiety disappeared when the groom and his friends started quarelling with the bride’s side over “bad food arrangement”, especially of the sweets. “The groom and the ‘baraat’ arrived at 8:30pm. After that we served snacks and water to them. But the groom, Manoj Kumar, and his friends, expressed unhappiness over the food arrangement. They were inebriated. When our elders intervened, they fired a shot toward my maternal uncle Ram Kumar from a country-made pistol,” said 19-year-old Punit, the elder brother of the deceased. “My younger brother, Pranshu, 9, who was serving water to Manoj and his friends, was taken away by them in an SUV. While fleeing, they ran over their SUV on three women leaving them with serious injuries. We made several calls to Manoj to return along with Pranshu, but he refused. At 3am, he left my brother’s body in the village and again fled,” added Punit. “Pranshu was murdered. There was a strangulation mark around his neck and his face was disfigured,” he said. The injured women, Vimla, 50, Mithlesh, 35 and Sapna, 17, were taken to Lohia district hospital of Farrukhabad. Doctors there said that the condition of Mithlesh was serious. According to the FIR filed by Rampal Jaatav, the father of the bride, “Manoj Kumar drove over a speeding SUV on people standing on the roadside, injuring three women relatives. My nine-year-old son was also killed.” When contacted, circle officer of Kamayganj, Rajveer Singh Gaur, said, “Initial investigation suggests that men from both the sides were engaged in a heated argument. However, no fistfight happened. But the accused groom drove an SUV over three women and possibly also on the boy. The victim’s body has been sent for post-mortem examination. The report will tell if the child was run over by the vehicle or was strangled to death.” “Our team is searching for the accused and his relatives. Soon, we will arrest them,” the policeman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-a-fight-over-sweets-drunk-groom-kills-brides-brother-9-drives-suv-over-3-women-while-fleeing/articleshow/76409196.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Most ICSE, ISC students likely to take remaining exams in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Most of the city schools have set a June 19 deadline for parents to inform about their children’s choice for appearing — or not — in the ICSE and ISC examinations. Many of those who have already reverted are in favour of taking the exams. The Heritage School has sent an email asking parents to inform their choice by Friday. “We would collate the details and send to the CISCE immediately,” said principal Seema Sapru. While some schools are asking parents to email their decision, there are others who are making telephone calls to individual candidates, seeking their decision. Another set of schools are asking parents to send letters to inform schools about their choice. Devi Kar, director of Modern High School for Girls, has given a deadline of June 17. Kar added that the school authority is exercising extreme caution while collecting the inputs. “We have to verify and only then upload the choices since even one mistake will be expensive,” she pointed out. At Modern High School for Girls, the Council has requested the authorities to accommodate five additional students from the Hills schools who have requested to change their examination centres. Some of the school principals on Tuesday were inundated with phone calls from anxious parents seeking information about the results of the pre-board examinations. “Though they know their results, yet some parents are calling up to ask for advice,” said the principal of another school. Several parents said their children will select the exam option because pre-boards scores were not up to the mark. It has been traditionally observed that most parents in Bengal prefer their kids to take exams. Even when CBSE had offered a choice for those appearing in Class X exams, it was noticed that many parents were keen to make their kids take the tests.  Tejas Doshi, father of Harshika, who is taking the ICSE from Modern High School For Girls. “The school internal exams have stringent marking. If grace marks are added, it’s unfair to those appearing for the exams under such difficult circumstances. And we can’t run away from the bitter truth that in our country it’s the marksheet that matters most,” he said. However, entrepreneur Ruby Ray had a different take on making her son, Ronit, take his boards. “His pre-board marks are good, but he must go through the entire final exams and gain confidence.” What about the transmission risk? “Building a resilient attitude is important,” she said. Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas has sought letters of confirmation from parents within June 19. “We will have to make the necessary arrangements once I know the exact number of exam-takers. Social distancing will have to be maintained,” Biswas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-icse-isc-students-likely-to-take-remaining-exams/articleshow/76413005.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||Social distancing goes for a toss as DL seekers assemble at RTO||Bareilly: With the transport department allowing driving licence seekers to apply for the licence at the Bareilly Regional Transport Office (RTO), which was suspended for almost three months due to the Covid-induced lockdown, adherence to basic rules of social distancing seems to have gone for a toss. The applicants assembling at the DL counter ignored the Covid-19 guidelines and did not follow physical distancing. People formed queues and many were spotted without masks. At the driving licence counter, people stood very close to each other while waiting for their turn. Most of them were partially covering their mouths using handkerchiefs or stoles. A few even removed them so they could have a conversation with others standing in the queue. The regional transport authorities, however, claimed that adequate measures were being taken by the department to ensure Covid-19 guidelines were being followed and people wearing protective face masks were only being permitted to enter the premises. Bareilly’s senior assistant regional transport officer (ARTO) RP Singh said, “All kinds of services were suspended since the lockdown came into force, but following Unlock 1.0, a few services were resumed. Only those who had already applied for a permanent driving licence before the lockdown and whose learning licence got expired have been allowed entry. Limited people are being allowed to enter, but each day 180-200 people are turning up to get a permanent DL. The online DL software is not functioning properly at present.” “People are being checked for face masks at the main gate. They are given sanitizers and have been undergoing screening. Additionally, to ensure that the people do not come in huge numbers, we have divided the day in three shifts — from 10 am-12 pm, 12.30 pm-2.30 pm and 3 pm-5 pm. Only 10 people at a time are allowed to stand near the DL counter while maintaining physical distancing,” the ARTO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-dl-seekers-assemble-at-rto/articleshow/76411642.cms||Maria Khan
June 17, 2020||Pune||Temporary jail escapee nabbed||Pune: The Wakad police on Tuesday arrested undertrial prisoner Akash Pawar (21), who had escaped from a temporary jail in Yerawada on June 13, along with another prisoner. The other prisoner was nabbed the same day. A police team, led by assistant inspector Harish Mane, took Pawar into custody from Kalewadi following a tip-off. In the early hours June 13, Pawar and one more inmate, Arshad Sayyad, escaped via the washroom window. The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch had arrested Sayyad the same day but Pawar was on the run. “We have handed Pawar over to the Yerawada police,” Mane told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temporary-jail-escapee-nabbed/articleshow/76414713.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Pune||Police slap Rs 5 lakh fine on 2 constables||Pune: The Pune city police on Tuesday fined two constables Rs 5 lakh after a court inquiry report revealed that they had kept a man in confinement for five days in 2012 when they were posted with the crime branch. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale on Tuesday issued orders to this effect. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-slap-rs-5-lakh-fine-on-2-constables/articleshow/76414711.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools split on HRD’s two-hour class advice||KOLKATA: The MHRD suggestions to restrict online classes to two hours during weekdays, keep them suspended on weekends and keeping scheduled vacation dates unchanged have led to a confusion in several city schools. “We have started online classes since May. Our classes last three and a half hours everyday. How can I curtail the duration now?” questioned a principal. He added: “We have invested a lot of money to set up infrastructure and purchase the licences. So we are not in a position to reduce the time of online teaching. We also need to finish the syllabus. Virtual classrooms can’t compensate in-person teaching. Yet, we are trying to offer the best-possible solution.” Principal of the Heritage School, Seema Sapru, however, is planning to introduce asynchronous learning along with the synchronous pattern of teaching. “In an asynchronous learning, students are allowed to study at their own pace. All the required material will be sent to them on a link that they have to access and prepare,” Sapru added. Some schools are now banking on the state government to give out a directive on the duration of online classes. “CISCE has always insisted that we follow all instructions given by the state governments. We shall abide by the rules only when the school education department accepts the HRD suggestions,” pointed out another school principal. Vivekananda Mission School principal Sarmistha Banerjee said the school allowed regular breaks during online teaching. “We offer online classes for three weeks and then give a break when students prepare the lessons on their own. This does not create any unnecessary pressure on students,” she said. Aniruddha Maiti, consultant and retina specialist, cautioned against continuous staring at the screen. “The natural blinking process is hampered, which will lead to dryness of eyes. The thumb rule is: take a 20-second break after every 20 minutes nd look away fromthe screen. Students should keep washing their eyes. The laptop should be kept at the eye level,” he advised. Spending long hours on the computer could be stressful for youngsters who are yet to get used to this method of learning, felt psychiatrists. Most find it difficult to concentrate for a long time and poor connectivity has made it even more stressful, said psychiatrist J Ram. “It has been a struggle for students who are having to deal with snapped internet connections. Frequent interruptions don’t let you teach or learn smoothly and online teaching can never be a substitute for real classes. It is better to restrict it two hours,” said Ram. Psychologist Soumya Mukherjee felt even two hours of online teaching was too much for junior school students. “They tend to get restless and lose concentration if they are forced to stare at a screen for a long period. Focusing on lessons is much more difficult on a small screen than in a classroom environment. Also, it puts a lot of strain on the eyes,” added Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-split-on-hrds-2-hr-class-advice/articleshow/76413029.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jagatpura apparel park units urge RIICO to convert zone into general category||Jaipur: With financial distress piling up each passing day and demand outlook hardly cheering, textile units in Jagatpura have written to RIICO for converting the product-specific industrial cluster into a multi-products zone. Textile units in the Apparel Park Mahal Yojna said, “Huge amount of finished goods and under process shipments have already been cancelled by top brand retailers in the country. Many of the buyers have started asking for large, unsustainable discounts. As we foresee no revival of the textile business in the near to medium term, we request you to covert this park into general category which will legally allow us to explore new business opportunities for our survival.” All 133 units were working in almost full capacity employing more than 15,000 workers before the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. As exports have been sluggish for the past few years, most of the units were catering to domestic MNCs like Reliance, Max Life Styles, Westside, Big Bazaar, Anita Dongre and many more smaller brands and wholesalers. Hero Ravjani, general secretary of Apparel Park Manufacturers Association (APMA), said, “Most of the orders are either cancelled or put on hold. Units are running under 20% capacity as tailors from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have left for their respective states. Job losses, erosion in purchasing power due to reduced incomes and absence of manpower in a labour-intensive sector like garments have clouded the outlook. That’s why many entrepreneurs are looking at diversifying from garments manufacturing to other businesses where they can have quick revival.” He said that either RIICO or the state government has not availed any central grant or subsidy for the project. That’s why the conversion into a general category will not be difficult. “Because of the slump, both state and the Centre are losing revenues. By starting other industrial activities, revenues will slowly start flowing. While planning new businesses, entrepreneurs will keep in mind the kind of labour available in the state. What we have proposed would be a win-win situation for both the stakeholders,” added Ravjani. Even though RIICO invited applications for the apparel park in 2003 offering rates of Rs 400 per sqmtr, the project finally saw light of the day in 2015. While land disputes between RIICO and JDA delayed the project, the 133 applicant had to pursue the case all these years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jagatpura-apparel-park-units-urge-riico-to-convert-zone-into-general-category/articleshow/76414721.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police warn of fraud via e-commerce sites||Thiruvananthapuram: The state police have warned netizens to be wary of fraudulent e-commerce websites that offer attractive prices for electronic gadgets of leading brands. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, ADGP (headquarters) and State Police CyberDome nodal officer Manoj Abraham said that these websites have names similar to reputed e-commerce websites and they advertise their fraudulent schemes through social media to attract their preys. They also lure preys through links sent via email and messengers such as WhatsApp. These websites are thriving because people are increasingly relying on e-commerce websites ever since the lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic came into effect in the country.Such websites can be identified by checking their web address carefully. But often the victims click the links as soon as they see the attractive advertisement. The police had issued warning against such websites in the early stages of the lockdown itself. The ADGP also said that cyber frauds keep on finding innovative ways to dupe unsuspecting victims. Following the social media pages of the state police and State Police CyberDome will help to keep track of the evolving trends in cybercrimes. Awareness messages are also being disseminated through the mobile phone app of the police, Bsafe.  Social media users are requested to alert the cybercops or the official pages on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter whenever they come across any such suspicious websites on any of these platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-warn-of-fraud-via-e-commerce-sites/articleshow/76413028.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Udaipur||Job losses in hotels rise up to 80%, employees face over 50% pay cut||JAIPUR: With hopes receding for revival any time soon, many hotels in the city have laid off large number of employees and slashed salaries of existing executives including general managers by over 50%. Many senior executives in the industry, preferring anonymity, said layoffs or leave without pays and salary cuts have been severe in foreign brand hotels compared to leading domestic chains. “We are on the payroll of the local hotel owners. Their decisions, though taken in consultation with the brand, prevail over the latter. So, they have the power to lay off employees. Had the property been owned and operated by foreign chains, the situation would have been different,” said a senior executive of a hotel. The owners virtually call the shots when it comes to revenues and profitability and the global brands have acceded the power to them in their quest for larger footprint. Sources said retrenchments in some hotels are as high as 80% and salary cuts are over 50% for those who still manage to hang on. In contrast, layoffs and salary cuts in hotels chains, owned and operated by established Indian hospitality groups, have just started. “After June, we will know more about what is in store for us. But certainly, some jobs will go and salary cuts will also be there. Our properties have better staying power than the builders who have given their hotels to global chains under management contract,” said another executive in a hotel. The pressure to retrench employees has been marginally less severe for hotels that are offering quarantine stays to people coming from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission. “Our hotel has laid off a number of people but not as much as others. The quarantine business has saved some jobs of employees like me. But we don’t know how long the quarantine window will remain open. If the travel industry does not start soon, we are very much likely to be told to take leave without pay or resign,” said a front office staff of a star hotel in the city. He said there are no visitors now and the situation is unlikely to change soon. People in the state government engaged in bringing back Rajasthanis trapped overseas said they expect around 1,200 people to come in the coming days but all of them will not be spending mandatory 7-day quarantine in hotels. “So far, around 3300 people have come back to Rajasthan. Among them, some are workers who preferred to stay in the free-quarantine facilities set up by government. Out of the 1,200 expected returnees, some will go to the free facilities and the rest will stay in the hotels. So the scope is limited for the hotels now,” said a government official. The government has empanelled 33 hotels in the city for quarantine where the returnees can opt to stay and also fixed a tariff of Rs 1,500 per room night inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. There is one hotel where the tariff is Rs 2,500 per room night. “From profitability point of view, it is minuscule. The only benefit is that some employees are engaged and the hotel is operational. There is not enough volume to make profit. Power consumption due to centralised AC, staff expenses and food cost come nearly Rs 1500. The margin could be Rs 200 at best. But the only satisfaction is some staff have saved their jobs,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/job-losses-in-hotels-rise-up-to-80-employees-face-over-50-pay-cut/articleshow/76417448.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 17, 2020||Ajmer||Job losses in hotels rise up to 80%, employees face over 50% pay cut||JAIPUR: With hopes receding for revival any time soon, many hotels in the city have laid off large number of employees and slashed salaries of existing executives including general managers by over 50%. Many senior executives in the industry, preferring anonymity, said layoffs or leave without pays and salary cuts have been severe in foreign brand hotels compared to leading domestic chains. “We are on the payroll of the local hotel owners. Their decisions, though taken in consultation with the brand, prevail over the latter. So, they have the power to lay off employees. Had the property been owned and operated by foreign chains, the situation would have been different,” said a senior executive of a hotel. The owners virtually call the shots when it comes to revenues and profitability and the global brands have acceded the power to them in their quest for larger footprint. Sources said retrenchments in some hotels are as high as 80% and salary cuts are over 50% for those who still manage to hang on. In contrast, layoffs and salary cuts in hotels chains, owned and operated by established Indian hospitality groups, have just started. “After June, we will know more about what is in store for us. But certainly, some jobs will go and salary cuts will also be there. Our properties have better staying power than the builders who have given their hotels to global chains under management contract,” said another executive in a hotel. The pressure to retrench employees has been marginally less severe for hotels that are offering quarantine stays to people coming from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission. “Our hotel has laid off a number of people but not as much as others. The quarantine business has saved some jobs of employees like me. But we don’t know how long the quarantine window will remain open. If the travel industry does not start soon, we are very much likely to be told to take leave without pay or resign,” said a front office staff of a star hotel in the city. He said there are no visitors now and the situation is unlikely to change soon. People in the state government engaged in bringing back Rajasthanis trapped overseas said they expect around 1,200 people to come in the coming days but all of them will not be spending mandatory 7-day quarantine in hotels. “So far, around 3300 people have come back to Rajasthan. Among them, some are workers who preferred to stay in the free-quarantine facilities set up by government. Out of the 1,200 expected returnees, some will go to the free facilities and the rest will stay in the hotels. So the scope is limited for the hotels now,” said a government official. The government has empanelled 33 hotels in the city for quarantine where the returnees can opt to stay and also fixed a tariff of Rs 1,500 per room night inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. There is one hotel where the tariff is Rs 2,500 per room night. “From profitability point of view, it is minuscule. The only benefit is that some employees are engaged and the hotel is operational. There is not enough volume to make profit. Power consumption due to centralised AC, staff expenses and food cost come nearly Rs 1500. The margin could be Rs 200 at best. But the only satisfaction is some staff have saved their jobs,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/job-losses-in-hotels-rise-up-to-80-employees-face-over-50-pay-cut/articleshow/76417451.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Ration cards: Moradabad division benefits most in UP||LUCKNOW: Moradabad division, which has a sizeable population of Muslims and Dalits, has received the maximum benefit of ration card distribution in the state, according to latest data of food and civil supplies department. Over 6 lakh migrants were covered under ration card distribution plan by the government during lockdown following coronavirus pandemic. The data, accessed by TOI, shows that Moradabad district, which has 50% Muslim population, saw the maximum 92,587 people getting benefited by ration card scheme which provides subsidized as well as free distribution of food grain under PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana. Data show that a total of 3,386 ration cards were issued in Moradabad. Distribution of ration card scheme was also meant for free home delivery of food grain in containment zones. Likewise, Mau district, which also has a significant Muslim population, bagged the second spot with 55,825 people getting benefited by the scheme. At least 13,992 ration cards were issued in the district. Officials in the food and civil supplies department said the number of beneficiaries depended on the number of family members on a single ration card. “More family members got registered on ration cards in Moradabad as compared to Mau. As a result, Moradabad saw higher number of beneficiaries,” an official said. Azamgarh division, which also comprises Mau and is the parliamentary constituency of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, bagged second spot among all divisions in the state in terms of ration card beneficiaries. The division recorded 72,060 beneficiaries. Gorakhpur division, which also houses Maharajganj which received maximum number of over 7 lakh migrants, saw only 48, 023 people getting benefitted by new ration cards. In Maharajganj district, only 10,658 people got the benefit of the scheme. Food commissioner Manish Chauhan said migrants in many districts already had ration cards. “We ensured that more people get covered under the scheme,” he said. According to officials, many migrants also got benefitted by the ration portability wherein ration card issued in other states worked in UP too. Data show that out of top 10 divisions, six were from the east UP while four were from west UP and Rohilkhand. After Moradabad and Mau, Siddharthnagar in east UP recorded issuance of 24,021 ration cards, followed by Prayagraj (21,996). In Ambedkarnagar, which has a sizeable population of OBC and Dalits, 3,476 ration cards were issued to cover 12,318 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ration-cards-moradabad-div-benefits-most-in-up/articleshow/76414725.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Job losses in hotels rise up to 80%, employees face over 50% pay cut||JAIPUR: With hopes receding for revival any time soon, many hotels in the city have laid off large number of employees and slashed salaries of existing executives including general managers by over 50%. Many senior executives in the industry, preferring anonymity, said layoffs or leave without pays and salary cuts have been severe in foreign brand hotels compared to leading domestic chains. “We are on the payroll of the local hotel owners. Their decisions, though taken in consultation with the brand, prevail over the latter. So, they have the power to lay off employees. Had the property been owned and operated by foreign chains, the situation would have been different,” said a senior executive of a hotel. The owners virtually call the shots when it comes to revenues and profitability and the global brands have acceded the power to them in their quest for larger footprint. Sources said retrenchments in some hotels are as high as 80% and salary cuts are over 50% for those who still manage to hang on. In contrast, layoffs and salary cuts in hotels chains, owned and operated by established Indian hospitality groups, have just started. “After June, we will know more about what is in store for us. But certainly, some jobs will go and salary cuts will also be there. Our properties have better staying power than the builders who have given their hotels to global chains under management contract,” said another executive in a hotel. The pressure to retrench employees has been marginally less severe for hotels that are offering quarantine stays to people coming from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission. “Our hotel has laid off a number of people but not as much as others. The quarantine business has saved some jobs of employees like me. But we don’t know how long the quarantine window will remain open. If the travel industry does not start soon, we are very much likely to be told to take leave without pay or resign,” said a front office staff of a star hotel in the city. He said there are no visitors now and the situation is unlikely to change soon. People in the state government engaged in bringing back Rajasthanis trapped overseas said they expect around 1,200 people to come in the coming days but all of them will not be spending mandatory 7-day quarantine in hotels. “So far, around 3300 people have come back to Rajasthan. Among them, some are workers who preferred to stay in the free-quarantine facilities set up by government. Out of the 1,200 expected returnees, some will go to the free facilities and the rest will stay in the hotels. So the scope is limited for the hotels now,” said a government official. The government has empanelled 33 hotels in the city for quarantine where the returnees can opt to stay and also fixed a tariff of Rs 1,500 per room night inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. There is one hotel where the tariff is Rs 2,500 per room night. “From profitability point of view, it is minuscule. The only benefit is that some employees are engaged and the hotel is operational. There is not enough volume to make profit. Power consumption due to centralised AC, staff expenses and food cost come nearly Rs 1500. The margin could be Rs 200 at best. But the only satisfaction is some staff have saved their jobs,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/job-losses-in-hotels-rise-up-to-80-employees-face-over-50-pay-cut/articleshow/76414720.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Testing, tracing, isolation: How Madhya Pradesh slid down the Covid-19 table||BHOPAL: From being the state with third highest number of cases in the country to being the eighth in a matter of 60 days, Madhya Pradesh has gained ground in the battle against coronavirus. As of now, the state’s recovery rate is 72% — second only to Rajasthan which has a recovery rate of over 75%. MP’s doubling rate, i.e. the number of days in which positive cases are doubling up is also best in the country. The doubling rate of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh is 34.1 days while it is 18 plus days when taken nationally. Officials attribute these positive changes to multi-pronged strategies involving rigorous contact tracing, isolation, testing and surveillance. “What is important in containing the spread of Covid-19 is breaking the chain of the virus spread. We are focusing on identification, isolation and testing,” said additional chief secretary health, Mohammed Suleman. “First, rigorous contact tracing of the positive patients is done on an average 10 contacts of the positive patients. In cities like Bhopal and Gwalior, this has been more extensive. Then what we did was surveillance for identification of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients. Till date, we have completed the surveillance of the entire state two times. Under this surveillance, ASHA and other health workers visits families to find out if there are any SARI patients. If these types of patients are found in large number in any areas, then proper detailing is done,” he said. “Now we have also started fever clinics where people can voluntarily come out and get themselves screened if they have symptoms similar to Covid-19,” the additional chief secretary said. Then the third aspect is isolation of the patients. In cities like Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain, we have been able to isolate the affected people appropriately and have been able to contain the spread, like in areas of the state capital like Jatkhedi, Jehangirabad. We controlled the spread and managed to isolate people on time, he added. “Then there is sampling. We have increased our sampling capacity 100 times from 60 to more than 7,000 a day. There are certain myths related to sampling of patients. There are two type of tests, one is the test of those people who meet the criteria laid down by ICMR — doing this test is mandatory and it is being done for free by the government. Even in the time when our capacity was less, but there were large number of samples which met the criteria of ICMR. We flew the samples to Delhi or other cities for testing. But there are several cases where people voluntarily want to get tested for their own satisfaction. For this, they could approach the laboratories and get themselves tested. There is no restriction, but these voluntary tests are not free,” Suleman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/how-mp-slid-down-the-covid-curve-in-60-days/articleshow/76413030.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Wall construction graft in Ranthambore: Two suspended||Jaipur: The forest department on Tuesday suspended a range officer and a forester for alleged irregularities in the construction of a protection wall at the Ranthambore National Park (RNP). The issue was raised by Congress MLA Danish Abrar following which the state government handed over the inquiry to principal chief conservator of forests G V Reddy. In the preliminary inquiry report, it was witnessed that serious irregularities in construction of protection wall in Hiraman Doongri area situated in Kundera range. The report suggested an inquiry at two other points in the same range where wall has been constructed. During suspension they will report at headquarters in Kaurali. Forest staff meekly protested over the move and claimed the suspensions were just as eyewash as no action has been taken against senior officials and contractors whose accountability was higher. A range officer on condition of anonymity said, “The department has not black-listed the contractor who has constructed the wall. The influential contractor is member of a eco-development committee. Decision to expel him from the committee was taken. The employees at lower rank follow the instruction of seniors. They should be held responsible too. The inquiry is partial to pacify the matter,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wall-construction-graft-in-rbore-two-suspended/articleshow/76414726.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Job losses in hotels rise up to 80%, employees face over 50% pay cut||JAIPUR: With hopes receding for revival any time soon, many hotels in the city have laid off large number of employees and slashed salaries of existing executives including general managers by over 50%. Many senior executives in the industry, preferring anonymity, said layoffs or leave without pays and salary cuts have been severe in foreign brand hotels compared to leading domestic chains. “We are on the payroll of the local hotel owners. Their decisions, though taken in consultation with the brand, prevail over the latter. So, they have the power to lay off employees. Had the property been owned and operated by foreign chains, the situation would have been different,” said a senior executive of a hotel. The owners virtually call the shots when it comes to revenues and profitability and the global brands have acceded the power to them in their quest for larger footprint. Sources said retrenchments in some hotels are as high as 80% and salary cuts are over 50% for those who still manage to hang on. In contrast, layoffs and salary cuts in hotels chains, owned and operated by established Indian hospitality groups, have just started. “After June, we will know more about what is in store for us. But certainly, some jobs will go and salary cuts will also be there. Our properties have better staying power than the builders who have given their hotels to global chains under management contract,” said another executive in a hotel. The pressure to retrench employees has been marginally less severe for hotels that are offering quarantine stays to people coming from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission. “Our hotel has laid off a number of people but not as much as others. The quarantine business has saved some jobs of employees like me. But we don’t know how long the quarantine window will remain open. If the travel industry does not start soon, we are very much likely to be told to take leave without pay or resign,” said a front office staff of a star hotel in the city. He said there are no visitors now and the situation is unlikely to change soon. People in the state government engaged in bringing back Rajasthanis trapped overseas said they expect around 1,200 people to come in the coming days but all of them will not be spending mandatory 7-day quarantine in hotels. “So far, around 3300 people have come back to Rajasthan. Among them, some are workers who preferred to stay in the free-quarantine facilities set up by government. Out of the 1,200 expected returnees, some will go to the free facilities and the rest will stay in the hotels. So the scope is limited for the hotels now,” said a government official. The government has empanelled 33 hotels in the city for quarantine where the returnees can opt to stay and also fixed a tariff of Rs 1,500 per room night inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. There is one hotel where the tariff is Rs 2,500 per room night. “From profitability point of view, it is minuscule. The only benefit is that some employees are engaged and the hotel is operational. There is not enough volume to make profit. Power consumption due to centralised AC, staff expenses and food cost come nearly Rs 1500. The margin could be Rs 200 at best. But the only satisfaction is some staff have saved their jobs,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/job-losses-in-hotels-rise-up-to-80-employees-face-over-50-pay-cut/articleshow/76417449.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 17, 2020||Indore||Testing, tracing, isolation: How Madhya Pradesh slid down the Covid-19 table||BHOPAL: From being the state with third highest number of cases in the country to being the eighth in a matter of 60 days, Madhya Pradesh has gained ground in the battle against coronavirus. As of now, the state’s recovery rate is 72% — second only to Rajasthan which has a recovery rate of over 75%. MP’s doubling rate, i.e. the number of days in which positive cases are doubling up is also best in the country. The doubling rate of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh is 34.1 days while it is 18 plus days when taken nationally. Officials attribute these positive changes to multi-pronged strategies involving rigorous contact tracing, isolation, testing and surveillance. “What is important in containing the spread of Covid-19 is breaking the chain of the virus spread. We are focusing on identification, isolation and testing,” said additional chief secretary health, Mohammed Suleman. “First, rigorous contact tracing of the positive patients is done on an average 10 contacts of the positive patients. In cities like Bhopal and Gwalior, this has been more extensive. Then what we did was surveillance for identification of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients. Till date, we have completed the surveillance of the entire state two times. Under this surveillance, ASHA and other health workers visits families to find out if there are any SARI patients. If these types of patients are found in large number in any areas, then proper detailing is done,” he said. “Now we have also started fever clinics where people can voluntarily come out and get themselves screened if they have symptoms similar to Covid-19,” the additional chief secretary said. Then the third aspect is isolation of the patients. In cities like Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain, we have been able to isolate the affected people appropriately and have been able to contain the spread, like in areas of the state capital like Jatkhedi, Jehangirabad. We controlled the spread and managed to isolate people on time, he added. “Then there is sampling. We have increased our sampling capacity 100 times from 60 to more than 7,000 a day. There are certain myths related to sampling of patients. There are two type of tests, one is the test of those people who meet the criteria laid down by ICMR — doing this test is mandatory and it is being done for free by the government. Even in the time when our capacity was less, but there were large number of samples which met the criteria of ICMR. We flew the samples to Delhi or other cities for testing. But there are several cases where people voluntarily want to get tested for their own satisfaction. For this, they could approach the laboratories and get themselves tested. There is no restriction, but these voluntary tests are not free,” Suleman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/how-mp-slid-down-the-covid-curve-in-60-days/articleshow/76418763.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||40-year-old mill worker dies at work, family alleges murder||Pilibhit: The younger brother of a 40-year-old worker at a flour mill in Pilibhit on Tuesday filed a written police complaint alleging that his elder brother has been murdered at work. The worker had got seriously injured under mysterious circumstances while working at the mill early morning on Monday, and later died. Police have sent his body for autopsy and are waiting for the report to ascertain the actual cause of death, before lodging an FIR. According to Ram Das, resident of village Naugvan Pakadia under Sungarhi police station, his elder brother Mohan Lal was employed at Santosh Flour Mill on Pilibhit-Bisalpur road under the same police station. IN his complaint, he said the mill management had informed them that on Monday morning, his brother had suddenly collapsed on the floor while at work in the mill, and sustained severe injury on the nose. He was first taken to Pilibhit district government hospital, from where he was referred to a higher medical facility at Bareilly. He died at 6.30pm on Monday during his treatment, said Das. SHO Atar Singh said police would take further action following disclosure of the autopsy report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/40-year-old-mill-worker-dies-at-work-family-alleges-murder/articleshow/76411660.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chennai||More Covid-19 deaths ‘missing’ from Tamil Nadu health department’s bulletins||CHENNAI: Deaths due to Covid-19 continue to go missing from the state health department’s bulletins. TOI has details of five patients — two from Cuddalore, two from Chennai and one from Salem — whose deaths have not been added to the state bulletin over the past two weeks. While the bulletin issued on Tuesday lists only one death in May in Cuddalore, as per data confirmed with the collector of the district, there were two more deaths in June in the district. Cuddalore collector V Anbuselvan said three people have died so far due to Covid-19 in the district. A 49-year-old woman from Lalpettai died of the infection on May 12, an 87-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 infection on May 29 died on June 4, and a 58-year-old man died on June 8. Anbuselvan said the district administration has been sending reports to public health and preventive medicine directorate and health and family welfare department on a daily basis. When asked about the discrepancy in data, the officer said the directorate may be in the process of reconciling records. Only a handful of the 236 virus deaths recorded by the Chennai corporation have been added to the state’s list by the health department so far. Director of public health department T S Selvavinayagam said an expert panel is still working on reconciling records. “We will check about the Cuddalore deaths. We have nothing to hide. We are reporting deaths whenever we get information,” he said. Apart from the 236 cases, deaths of a 38-year-old at Omandurar hospital on June 6 and that of a 69-year-old on May 31 at Stanley hospital were yet to be added. TOI spoke to relatives of these patients and they said the victims were cremated and buried as per Covid-19 protocol. In Salem, a 45-year old sanitary worker who was admitted to the district government hospital’s isolation ward died on Sunday, marking the first coronavirus death in the district. Neighbouring Krishnagiri, too, reported its first virus death on Sunday after test results of a 65-year-old man who died on Saturday returned positive. While the Krishnagiri death was recorded, the Salem death was yet to be added to the bulletin. When asked whether the discrepancy was due to miscommunication or lack of coordination, senior officials denied it. “There is a procedure. Though lab report may show the patient to be positive, an expert panel will decide whether the patient died of Covid-19 or other ailments. Cause of death is different from the incidental lab report. A person may have many viruses and bacterial infections. But the cause of death will be determined only by an expert,” an official said. Patient reports accessed by TOI, however, show the reason for deaths as Covid-19. Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam said the health department continues to cover up deaths in government hospitals as well. “Earlier they said private hospital delayed information. Now, these deaths were all reported in government hospitals and the hospital report to the health department. The accountability for not reporting them is squarely with minister C Vijayabhaskar and health officials,” he said. There are also complaints of delay in responding to patients as the 58-year old in Cuddalore died after waiting for nearly six hours for an ambulance. Though the collector denied the charge, the patient’s daughter told TOI that her father was quite well when he got into the ambulance. “We have not received any such complaint. We have daily media briefings and we release vital statistics on Covid-19 infection every day. We have nothing to hide. Ambulances carrying corona patients need to be disinfected after every trip. A few minutes' delay could have been caused because of the disinfecting process, ” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-covid-19-deaths-missing-from-tn-health-depts-bulletins/articleshow/76414715.cms||Komal Gautham
June 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to set aside plan for widening 6m-wide roads||PUNE: The state government has decided to set aside the civc administration’s proposal to widen 103km road length. The BJP-led standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had approved the proposal to call people’s suggestions and objections for the widening plan, despite opposition from all other parties. PMC sources said 323 roads, which were 6m wide, were proposed to be widened up to 9m. A source said the ensuing increase in the transfer of development rights (TDR) and floor space index (FSI) along the roads, mostly located in the peth areas, would have encouraged construction and redevelopment activities. “The proposal was against the law. Only small changes can be done through the Mumbai Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act’s provisions,” said NCP’s Hadapsar MLA, Chetan Tupe.  “The state government’s decision was conveyed through verbal directives to PMC officials during a video conference. The written order will be issued soon,” said Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre, a participant at the meeting. A PMC official said, “A group of elected members approached the government on the issue. The state authorities ordered set ting aside of the standing committee decision.” “The standing committee had approved the proposal just to call suggestions and objections on the likely road widening. The claims made by opposition party leaders, about state governments’ directives to scrap the standing committee’s decision, are confusing and conflicting. We will wait for the official order,” standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-set-aside-plan-for-widening-6m-wide-roads/articleshow/76414719.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bareilly||‘Body shaming’: Labelled as ‘transgender’ by friends, Class X boy ends life in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 16-year-old boy, a student of class X, was found hanging in his house in Subhash Nagar area of Bareilly district on Monday night, leaving behind a note which read, “I’m depressed as a few people call me ‘kinnar’ (transgender) because of my look,” said police. “The news of actor Sushant Singh committing suicide served as an immediate trigger, driving the traumatic mind to rest in peace forever,” said the victim’s younger brother. “A day before ending his life, my brother had said when an actor like Sushant Singh could commit suicide, then he too could do it too,” he said. The victim’s mother had died four years ago and the father — who runs a mobile store in Uttarakhand’s Champawat — has been living with the children in Bareilly since the lockdown was imposed. The boy — second among two brothers and one sister — committed suicide when his father had gone to the market while his younger brother, 13, a student of class VIII, was studying in another room. His elder sister is married locally. Police recovered the suicide note lying on his bed, which was addressed to his father. “Papa, I’m sorry as I couldn’t be a good son. I can’t earn like you. I have girl-like features and even my face is like them. People laugh at me. Even I have started feeling as if I am a 'kinnar' (transgender). My life will darken your life and that is the reason why my death is necessary. Please bless me that I take birth as a girl. If a girl is born in our family, then you must believe that I have returned.” The victim’s father told TOI, “My son was very close to his younger brother and would take good care of him. He used to cook food in my absence. He was fond of cooking. He was very shy and would apply makeup and dance like a woman. He used to say that he wanted to exhibit his singing and dancing talents. My son was normal, but a few people, including my relatives, misunderstood him and used to pass absurd comments at him and would make fun of him.” Additional superintendent of police (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “The autopsy report has confirmed that the boy committed suicide. We have also recovered a suicide note. The family doesn’t want legal action against anyone.” Subhash Nagar SHO Harishchandra Joshi said that the body was handed over to the family after autopsy. “As the family has not sought action against anyone, an FIR has not been registered. If the family approaches us with a complaint, we will take appropriate action under the law,” added the SHO. Psychologist Shailesh Sharma said, “Society doesn’t accept people with such behaviour and people often criticise them. Often, there are no opportunities for them to grow in our society. They are unsure about their identity and often get depressed as they don’t see a respectful life. We need to understand that they are born with such nature and accept and respect them the way they are.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-shaming-labelled-as-transgender-by-friends-owing-to-his-appearance-class-x-boy-ends-life/articleshow/76411674.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 17, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus remains largely unknown and throws many surprises||O ver the last three months, a wave of Covid-19-related hospital admissions has hit Chennai. In early March, we identified our first patient – a senior citizen with a travel history and symptoms of fever and sore throat. He tested positive for the novel coronavirus – at that time, it wasn’t even named Covid-19. Since that day, I have entered Covid zones of the hospital in gloves, overalls, N95 masks and face shields. I see some patients struggling to breathe, some in prone (upturned) position, and some others unconscious. Amid the hiss of oxygen and beeps on the monitor, I peer through the parameters jotted down by staff nurses. Most of the time sweat pours down, my glasses turn foggy, but there is very little I can do because my hands are contaminated. And I do not complain because my staff nurses have been in their PPEs for six hours, delaying water and bio-breaks. All of us have been seeing, discussing and thinking of the virus all the time – most often at the micro level inside the hospital and at a macro level when we help law makers strategize prevention and management. Every day, we have stories unfolding. Most people, who were very sick, have recovered and have returned to their families. But there are a few patients including doctors we have lost to the pandemic. In the last 24 hours, I have not been able to take my mind off a senior citizen who crashed in the Covid ICU. She was brought to the hospital in a wheelchair more than 10 days ago with breathlessness. Her family said she had fever for nearly a week and was tested positive for Covid 19 at a private lab. Her oxygen saturation was 88% and she had to be ventilated as soon as she was moved to the intensive care unit. A day later, we put her in a prone (on her stomach) position. After nearly 48 hours, when we turned her upright, her saturation had improved. Three days later, she developed a bacterial infection, but with appropriate medications, she recovered. On Monday, all her parameters were normal. By this time it was nearly two and a half weeks since the onset of symptoms and I was confident she would have been cured. I told her family members that she was showing signs of improvement. I still remember the relief and smile on their faces. An hour later, I received a call from the staff nurse. For reasons we still haven’t figured, she deteriorated. Despite aggressive intervention we couldn’t revive her. In less than six hours we pronounced her dead. The most frustrating thing about the virus is that it remains largely unknown and throws many surprises. On my way home, I see people walking on the streets and crowding market places without face masks. I cannot but think of a famous quote by Marlon Brando: “If we are not our brother’s keeper, at least let us not be his executioner.” (The writer is an infectious diseases expert, Apollo Hospitals)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-remains-largely-unknown-and-throws-many-surprises/articleshow/76414037.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||JMRC will auction land to raise funds for expansion||JAIPUR: To cope with the operational losses, cash-strapped Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) is exploring alternatives to fill its coffers. For future expansions and maintenance of existence infrastructure, the corporation has begun an exercise to create a dedicated Metro fund by selling its land. According to JMRC officials, the corporation has appointed Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to auction its land prime land. E-auction for the scheme named as ‘Metro Enclave’ has already started and will continue till June 26. A senior official said, “JMRC’s approximately 1.5-lakh sqm land near B2 Bypass is under the process of being auctioned. The amount received will be deposited in the dedicated Metro fund. The JDA will auction the land on behalf of JMRC. The amount will be transferred to JMRC’s account that will be used for expansion of projects,” said a JMRC official. Plans are afoot to create a Metro dedication fund under which money will be collected under three heads. “ For the Metro dedicated fund, the corporation had proposed to levy entry tax on heavy vehicles, selling land and providing premium floor area ratio (FAR) along the Metro corridor. An official source at JMRC said, “These three heads are discussed at the higher level. However, the government was hesitant to levy entry tax on heavy vehicles as it might invite huge protests. The proposal is being considered again. Once approval is given, a notification will be released and a committee will be constituted to monitor the funds.” As per the (JMRC) assessment, the project is staring at an annual operational loss of Rs 41 crore for the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmrc-will-auction-land-to-raise-funds-for-expansion/articleshow/76414730.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Plaster falling off, our lives at risk: Atharva residents||Gurgaon: Hundreds of residents of Raheja Atharva project in Sector 109 continue to live under fear due to poor construction quality. Unable to get relief from government agencies, the residents have now approached Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh, seeking action against the developer. In the past few months, there have been around five to six incidents when residents, who got possession five years back, had a narrow escape as plaster chunks fell off the ceilings and balconies of the flats, they wrote to the local MP, demanding registration of an FIR against the developer. “We demand immediate repair of the entire society. There are many other issues like non-functional sewage treatment plant, solar panels and domestic electricity connection, for which Raheja developers has not yet applied despite having taken money from us,” the residents complained. Anita, a resident, told TOI that she and her family had a narrow escape on Sunday. “Plaster chunks from the ceiling fell off as soon as we entered our bedroom last night. Fortunately, none of us sustained any injuries,” she said. Sandeep Choudhary, another resident, said in another incident, a huge chunk of plaster fell from his flat’s balcony on the society ground recently “Fortunately, no one was injured,” he said. When contacted, Union minister and Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh said, “I will speak to the authorities concerned and take up the matter.” However, Anjan Deveshwar, another resident, demanded that the builder be arrested immediately and his licence be cancelled. “Our lives are at risk in this society,” he said. A spokesperson for the developer has promised prompt action. “The work was done by one the best contractors in the country and the project was handed over to us in 2015. We are making sure that these small problems do not arise again,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/plaster-falling-off-our-lives-at-risk-atharva-residents/articleshow/76409239.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Agri budget proposes more market yards, cold storages||Vijayawada: Reiterating the government’s commitment to the farm sector, minister for agriculture Kurasala Kannababu tabled the 2020-21 agriculture budget which included Rs 11,981 crore for agriculture and Rs 11,805 crore for irrigation and water resources sectors. The minister said in the past year, the state government had paid Rs 6,534.07 crore to 46.69 lakh farmers, which included tenant farmers. He said the YSR Congress had promised an annual payment of Rs 12,500 to every farmer per year but had enhanced the amount to Rs 13,500 and paid it in three instalments in order that the payment be used for crop investment. Kannababu said the government had enacted the AP Crop Cultivator Rights Act 2019 to protect the rights of farmers to their land. The Act will also allow tenant farmers to receive financial assistance from the government, he said. This year, the government has allocated Rs 6,885.60 crore as financial assistance for farmers and tenant farmers. The minister also announced an allocation of Rs 3,000 crore towards the price stabilisation fund and promised marketing intervention to farmers through market yards and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. He said agriculture produce would be procured at the village level for which farmers would have to register their crop at the village secretariat. The government had announced its 196 market yards and 120 sub-yards as permanent agriculture produce centres. The minister also announced the construction of cold storages and godowns, and the establishment of janata bazaars and rythu bazaars in every village to assist farmers in selling their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agri-budget-proposes-more-market-yards-cold-storages/articleshow/76413525.cms||Gopi Dara
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC driver and mobile shop owner test positive||Thiruvananthapuram: Hinting at possibilities of contracting infection from silent carriers within the community, a 28-year-old mobile shop owner and a 40-year-old KSRTC driver at Pappanamcode bus depot were tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 30-year-old woman and her two-year-old baby, who are from Varkala, were also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. They came from Chennai on June 14. The KSRTC driver came from Thrissur on June 3 and he was on duty for five days. He stayed in the staff room along with five other employees in the remaining days. He was deputed in the bus service that ferried incoming passengers from railway station to institutional quarantine centres and had ferried persons to Tamil Nadu border as well. A few staff at the depot have been asked to go into quarantine. The epidemiological investigation team faces a stiff task ahead as there are reports of him running line service to certain routes as well. The only option to trace the passengers who would have travelled in those routes would be to seek information from such persons based on the time and route in which the bus would have operated. With no probability of anyone remembering the bus number, that is the only way to trace the passengers, the officials said. He developed symptoms of fever on June 14 and he was taken to hospital for swab testing. The mobile shop owner, who hails from Malappuram, ran a mobile shop at Manacaud along with his partner. Both of them stayed in an apartment at Pettah. When the youth developed throat ache, cough, headache and fever, he went to Fort Taluk Hospital. He was subjected to preliminary screening there and he was referred to General Hospital where samples were collected. He has now been admitted to General Hospital. His partner is also under observation at General Hospital. The surveillance team has learnt that both of them have not travelled to Malappuram in recent times. The source of infection could be the customers at the mobile shop. It needs to be checked whether they had compromised on use of gloves, masks and sanitisers while interacting with customers and handling gadgets, health officials said. In both the cases, contact tracing is going to be a humungous task as the mobile shop owner has reportedly told the officials that every day 50-70 customers would have frequented the shops for various needs and it would be impractical to track all of them over a span of 14 days. Isolation procedures are being initiated in nearby hotels where he went, the juice shops he visited, the apartment he stayed and the taluk hospital where he was presented with symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-driver-and-mobile-shop-owner-test-positive/articleshow/76413043.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors discover marker for critical Covid-19 cases||Hyderabad: In what might be a life-saver for Covid-19 patients in low resource setups and rural areas, a baseline ‘marker’ of critical Covid-19 cases has been identified. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) have come up with markers to identify red flag cases based on in-house studies and inputs from various other institutes and hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The marker ‘neutrophils- lymphocyte ratio’ is indicative of a high load of infection and can be assessed through a basic blood test, which might mean that a high risk suspected Covid-19 patient can be assessed at even primary health centres and other rural setups with a basic blood test which is routinely available. This key red flag indicator has now been incorporated into the ‘treatment protocol of confirmed Covid- 19 hospitalised patients’ at NIMS. “We are using this marker for Covid-19 patients to know the progress of management and symptoms. If we are following some treatment protocol, we need to see whether the patient is improving or not and this maker is used for the purpose. While clinically there might be some symptoms, this is a marker in the blood test. If the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio goes beyond 3.5, it means there is increased infection and inflammation in the patient’s body,” said Dr Srilatha Monigini, additional professor, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, NIMS. The marker, which can be used in the absence of Covid-19 tests, is especially useful in reducing mortality and morbidity in emergency cases. It is found to be very useful in assessing pregnant women where delay due to RT-PCR swab test can be dangerous. “This will work as a marker for any new Covid patient as well and can be helpful in assessment in the rural set-up too. Since the basic blood test is a simple and daily procedure in most healthcare setups, it can be widely used,” added Dr Monigini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-discover-marker-for-critical-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76414738.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP Cong chief Lallu gets bail||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Tuesday granted bail to UP Congress chief Ajai Kumar Lallu, who was in jail since May 21 for allegedly producing forged documents to deploy buses sposored by his party ferry migrant workers. The court directed that he be released forthwith on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties to the satisfaction of court concerned. The court, however, directed the UPCC chief not to misuse the bail and remain present before the trial court during proceedings. A bench of Justice AR Masoodi passed the order on the bail application moved on behalf of Lallu. In his order, Justice Masoodi said, “It is disturbing that the government and a political party having some representation in Uttar Pradesh are at loggerheads on an issue which has no legal sanctity.” Lallu was arrested on May 20 on allegations that he provided false documents of buses. He was arrested twice in two days — first in Agra for staging a dharna to protest against the state administration for not granting permission to the buses, arranged for migrants by the Congress, to enter the state. He was granted bail by an Agra court and released, but was arrested again in Agra the next day in connection with the bus controversy case filed in Lucknow regarding forgery in documents of buses. He had moved the HC as the MPMLA court had turned down his bail plea on June 1. Allowing the bail plea, the HC said, “The trial court on the strength of reasons assigned seems to have erred in rejecting the prayer for bail .” The HC, however, condemned the act of offering buses by a political party to the state government during lockdown. “It is true that prime minister of India and chief ministers while pursuing their executive responsibility to control the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic solicited monetary support from public, but there was no appeal for any transport service,” the HC said. “Thus, there was no occasion for any voluntary organization or a political party to offer transport services or any other service not solicited by the PM or CMs,” added the judge. Earlier, Supreme Court lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi assisted by Satyendra Singh pleaded for granting bail to Lallu. Additional government advocate Anurag Verma vehemently opposed the bail plea arguing that the investigation was at the nascent stage and he should not be granted bail. Considering the nature of accusation and more particularly Covid-19 pandemic which is threatening the human life even in safer zones, the HC ordered release of Lallu with observation that in criminal administration of justice the freedom of life and liberty of a person is the main concern of judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cong-chief-lallu-gets-bail/articleshow/76414749.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Garbage collection hit 2nd day too over staff stir||Nagpur: The door-to-door garbage collection in half of Nagpur city, including Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar zones, remained hit on Tuesday. Workers of AG Enviro struck work for the second consecutive day. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) solid waste management department issued a show cause notice to the firm and also warned it to resume work else face penalty as per the agreement. AG Enviro employees have been on strike protesting salary deduction by the company. According to the workers, as per rules they should get two days leave every month. The firm was allegedly denying this benefit to workers. The agitating workers claimed their salary is being calculated on the basis of 26 days, deducting four weekly offs. In just two days, half of the city has turned into a dumping ground. Heaps of garbage were seen lying in many commercial areas. A sanitation worker attached to the firm said they don’t want to create inconvenience to the residents but they are helpless as they are fighting for their rights. “Our protest will continue unless the firm accepts our genuine demands,” said the workers. Meanwhile, a delegation of agitating employees of the firm met mayor Sandip Joshi and sought his intervention to resolve the issue. Joshi has called for a meeting on Wednesday (June 17) with the civic administration, agitating employees and representatives of AG Enviro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-collection-hit-2nd-day-too-over-staff-stir/articleshow/76414054.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 17, 2020||Chennai||Saw death from close quarters, then I squeaked past it||I was on deputation to Doordarshan. The studio was always bustling with activity. We did everything live; did not depend on technology much. On May 19, I felt a soreness in my throat besides fever. I had paracetamol and Erythromycin for four days. I had difficulty getting paracetamol at pharmacies. I continued to go to work. It was hectic. I never had time for my family. One day I felt so exhausted, I slept in the deputy director’s office. That was when the first alarm bells rang. On the morning of May 23, I was compelled by a friend to go to the Omandurar government multi-specialty hospital to test for Covid. By the time I filled out the form and turned to give my swab, I found 50 others waiting for their turn. Many of them had come with their travel bags. At 6pm on May 26, I got a call saying I had tested positive. I thought someone was playing a prank. The fever refused to go. I had uncontrolled diabetes, I had BP and I was on anti-depressants. I was wheeled into the five-bed ICU in Tower Block 3 in Omandurar at 8.30pm. By 10pm, the beds were all occupied. One woman, who was heavy, kept shouting in pain. At 3am, I went to the rest room and returned. There was silence. She was dead. The white squad arrived. Four men, wearing white PPE suits and carrying a blue body bag. A man with a disinfectant can followed. This was to be a familiar scene for the next four days. Every day, I saw several deaths. As one patient died another would take his or her bed. There were many women. The white squad would remove their nose studs and ear studs, some of them diamonds, before stuffing the body into the bag. There was no one to grieve for them. Sometimes I would turn away from the sight. I was fast sinking into depression. Two days later, the nodal officer had informed my family I was critical and that I would not survive as 78% of my lungs was affected. I saw death at close quarters and then I squeaked past it. My wife, two sons, my brother, mom and friends were upset with me as I would keep my phone switched off until 11pm. But I couldn’t speak to them. My colleagues, bosses and friends were constantly in touch with doctors to get an update on my health. On May 30, on the instructions of Dean of MMC and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital Dr R Jayanthi, I was shifted to the GH. I was started on Remdesivir, the ICMR’s trial drug. Soon, I began to feel better. With insulin, my hunger returned. On June 11, I literally fled from the hospital. I am grateful to the doctors, particularly Dr Jayanthi, who saved my life. I promised myself I will give more time to my family, friends. (The writer is senior editor at Yojana, Tamil, publication division of the ministry of information and broadcasting)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/saw-death-from-close-quarters-then-i-squeaked-past-it/articleshow/76414042.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Low footfall at malls, but shoppers keep sales ticking||BHOPAL: One week after shopping malls opened in Bhopal, both mall managers and visitors seem to be happy — the reason being a considerable decline in footfall. Not only does this help shoppers at the mall feel safer, it becomes easier for the staff to manage moderate crowd without any breach of norms. Besides, mall managers are also happy that footfall in the shopping malls might have declined, but they are getting sure-shot revenue. “The mall may not be looking crowded, but let me tell you, now only those who are serious about buying something are visiting malls. I am not saying the volume of business has gone up, but earlier, if 100 people coming to mall used to buy goods worth Rs 1 crore in a day, now only 10 people are buying goods worth Rs 50 lakh, which is good enough in Corona times, when there has to be equal attention on making malls a safe place for shoppers as on the volume of business,” said a manager at DB Mall in MP Nagar. “People as of now have stopped going to malls for outing or dating. The fun area is closed, multiplexes are closed. So, the crowd going there for purpose other than shopping have no business to be there. Food courts, too, are closed in a couple of malls and even where they are open, they are not attracting so.much crowd as they used to in the pre-lockdown period. It is good to see the malls less crowded and better managed,” said Santosh Vaidya, who had come to DB Mall for the first time after it opened after the lockdown. Rahul Kumar of C-21 mall also said that footfall in malls might have dropped considerably, but the ‘conversion rate’ has gone up drastically. “If 10 out of 100 visitors were giving you some business earlier, now it is 9 out of 10,” he said. “People are coming predetermined as to what they have to buy or which store they have to visit. No beating around the bush. And, it is good for us in a situation like this when safety of people is of paramount importance,” he said. The food court at C-21 mall is closed as of now and is likely to open next Monday or Tuesday. Aura mall in Trilanga is smaller than the two malls - DB mall and C-21- and the crowd is also far lesser, but they, too, are paying ample attention towards precautionary measures as prescribed for the malls. However, the district administration’s decision to keep all markets closed on weekends has not gone down well with the mall managers. “It is these two days when people like to go to places like malls. As it is, malls are closing down at 8.30 pm, we don’t expect people to reach home at 7 pm and rush to a mall. This is not fair. We had closed the mall this Saturday and Sunday, but would like to let our problem be known to the administration this week,” said Rahul Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-footfall-at-malls-keeps-shoppers-safe-cash-registers-ticking/articleshow/76413045.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Congress mastered art of elephant trading, says national BJP leader||Jaipur: Taking a dig at the Congress for accusing BJP of horse trading, the party’s national general secretary Murlidhar Rao said the state government had mastered the art of elephant trading. Addressing party MLAs at the meeting held at BJP headquarters here on Tuesday, Rao said, “The Congress has been engaged in horse trading and now they are fully engaged in elephant trading.” He was referring to the merger of six BSP MLAs into the Congress in 2019. The central leader is also an observer for the Rajya Sabha polls for the BJP in the state. Of the 72 MLAs, five missed the meeting including former CM Vasundhara Raje who had informed the party in advance that she would to join them on June 18. Other who didn’t make it were Bikaner MLA Siddi Kumari whose mother died recently, Soorsagar legislator Suryakanta Vyas (82) and Shahpura MLA Kailesh Meghwal (86) both expressed inability due to some personal work and Kota North MLA Kalpana Devi. While addressing the MLAs, BJP state president Satish Poonia cautioned them that there should be no room for mistake. “Party will never forgive any mistake,” said Poonia, who took a dig at Congress MLAs accusing them of partying at a five-star resort playing cricket, football and entertaining themselves. “For BJP, it is a training camp for its MLAs. Here we will learn yoga and discuss on how to make people live better,” said Poonia. All 67 BJP MLAs along with three RLP MLAs checked into a hotel on Tonk Road in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mastered-art-of-elephant-trading-says-natl-bjp-leader/articleshow/76414740.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Plot owners wary of high rates of PRN lease deeds||Jaipur: Residents of Prithvi Raj Nagar (PRN) Scheme are showing helplessness in procuring lease deeds after the rates were increased recently. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) received 20 applications for regularisation on the second day of organising camps and issued demand of Rs 63 lakh. However, the applicants fear that they won’t be able to arrange the funds at the time of Covid-19 which has badly affected their earnings. Giraj Singh, a resident and president of Sangasrh committee, said, “At the increased rate, the regularisation fee for a 200 square metre plot has reached approximately Rs 3.5 lakh. The JDA should allow plot owners to deposit regularisation charges in installments as their livelihood was seriously affected during the lockdown,” Agreeing to the fact, an official source at JDA said, “The owners, who have big plots on which commercial establishments, including marriage gardens are set up, will take lease deeds. Middle segment people are facing a bit of problem at present. However, like other colonies, they also have to pay for development,” he said. The civic body has set a target to issue lease deeds to all the PRN plot holders till November 2020. Residents who will fail to procure lease deeds on time will have to pay double development and regularisation rates to regularise their plots. For a 100 square-yard plot, JDA will charge Rs 300 regularisation charge (per square yard), which will include allotment rates. Similarly, for plot size between 101 and 300 square-yards, JDA will charge Rs 480. The agency will charge regularisation rates of Rs 720 (per square yard) for plots bigger than 301 square yards and up to 1,000 square yards. Owners having a plot of more than 1,000 square yards will have to give 1.5 times regularisation charges. For regularising a marriage garden in the scheme, which has been developed on a plot size above 2,000 square yards, the JDA has fixed Rs 1,500 (per square yard) regularisation charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plot-owners-wary-of-high-rates-of-prn-lease-deeds/articleshow/76414761.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Meerut||Ex-pradhan, also a history-sheeter, shot dead by armed gunmen in UP's Bulandshahar||MEERUT: A former village pradhan, also a notorious history-sheeter, was gunned down by unidentified assailants in posh Yamunapuram colony in UP's Bulandshahar district on Monday night. The incident took place near former minister Hitesh Kumari’s residence under Kotwali police station area. According to the police, the deceased gram pradhan Sanjay Chaudhary was travelling in his car when it was ambushed by an SUV. "Armed gunmen opened indiscriminate fire at former pradhan, killing him at the spot. Several cases of murder and extortion are lodged against him and he is a history-sheeter. We're trying to trace the attackers," Bulandshahar senior SP Santosh Kumar Singh said. More than nine bullets went through the front windshield of the car and the deceased is claimed to have sustained several bullet injuries in the incident. Sources in the police department claim that the murder could be linked to the panchayat elections which are due this year. However, the police are yet to land on any conclusive evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ex-pradhan-also-a-history-sheeter-shot-dead-by-armed-gunmen/articleshow/76414064.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Doctors, too, outraged by ‘profiteering’ by hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The exorbitant rates for Covid-19 treatment in some of the big hospital chains in Delhi have drawn criticism from doctors across India who are distancing themselves from such “rapacious” charges, hastily pointing out that they have nothing to do with the fixing of prices in hospitals. Doctors are at pains to explain that they get only a fraction of what is charged and say patients must look at doctors and the management separately. On June 4, Delhi government ordered all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to put details of rates for treatment in the public domain. Most hospitals have not complied with the order and a few have done it partially. Max Hospital was one of the first few to put out its rates — Rs 25,090 for a day in the general ward, Rs 53,000 for ICU — charges which included several things (as clarified by Max later) and excluded many others. These rates have evoked outrage not just among the public but even among doctors. “I can’t even begin to tell you the outrage I am feeling about this as a medical professional. It is unfair to my patients, to anyone in this country. I protest against this profiteering because it really is profiteering and is unacceptable,” said a doctor who has worked in ICUs in several big private hospitals. What has added to the outrage among doctors is the fact that this comes at a time when many of those employed by hospital chains have had to suffer a cut in their salaries. For many of them, this is also a time when they are overworked and exposed to greater risks than normal. Doctors have also pointed out anomalies in the rates declared by hospitals. One asked why after saying that charges for a medical officer and senior consultant were included in the room charge, there was a separate charge of Rs 1,700 for taking a patient’s history. Another doctor commented that many tests which did not need to be repeated every day were being shown as inclusions in daily rates for beds. “Which doctor will repeat these tests on a daily basis and how can they be shown as inclusions in a daily package?” asked the doctor. “We ‘normal’ doctors are as fed up with these big hospitals as everyone else. They spoil the relationship with patients for everyone in the profession. All the anger is then directed at small clinical establishments,” tweeted another doctor reacting to the Covid-19 rates. Several doctors have vented on Twitter and when some among them tried to defend the rates, a cardiologist countered saying, “Doctors can stop voicing out for corporate biggies. They have excellent PR and legal teams to take care of themselves. Can’t we just concentrate on improving our work environment & patient outcomes?” A junior doctor working in a trust hospital told TOI that though intensive and critical care required a lot of expenditure, it “does not negate the fact that many corporate hospitals have taken this opportunity to charge exorbitant costs without any level of transparency”. He added that public needed to be aware that doctors were only the face of the hospital, but were not driving the price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-too-outraged-by-profiteering-by-hospitals/articleshow/76414066.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Birthday hungamas, the new challenge for cops in Unlocking 1.0||Nagpur: Birthday parties seem to have brought about a new challenge for the police department in the first phase of unlocking. After a so-called ‘biryani party’ at Naik Talao became a controversial issue for both police and civic departments as a possible reason for spreading Covid-19, contentious birthday parties are now keeping the cops on toes. The birthday bash of an east Nagpur goon’s wife at Sonegaon on June 7 went unnoticed, but two other parties prompted police action. On June 9, 21-year-old Sanket Kamble cut his birthday cake with a sword at his residence in Rameshwari and kept that image as his display photograph. The image reached senior inspector Anil Takshande of crime branch who had zeroed in on the youngster after two days. Within two days of his birthday, Kamble was booked under the Indian Arms Act and placed behind bars for showing off his sword to cut his cake, creating a legal hassle for him. In another incident, Sameer Khan and his group were celebrating his birthday in the midnight of June 10 at New Babulkheda, when they got into a fracas with a senior citizen and his family. Khan — who has two offences of grievous hurt and rioting in his name — and his friends assembled on the road in front of his house to cut the cake, just a couple of days after the containment zone restrictions at Babulkheda were lifted. Miffed by the audacity in the backdrop of Covid threat, when senior citizen Kishor Shitole and his family objected, Khan and his accomplices — some of them having criminal records — attacked Shitole and his son Vijay after a heated argument. Vijay was injured in the scuffle as one of the accomplices of Khan used a knife to assault him. Cops from Ajni police station had to rush at the spot after Vijay alerted the control room about the goon. Senior inspector Santosh Khandekar of Ajni police station said six persons, including Khan, were arrested immediately. “After their bails, we have also taken preventive actions against Khan and others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/birthday-hungamas-the-new-challenge-for-cops-in-unlocking-1-0/articleshow/76414757.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Corp forwards Rs 1.6cr bills to DDMA||Thiruvananthapuram: Bogged down by the expenses related to Covid management in the city for the past three months, the city corporation has submitted bills to the tune of Rs 1.6 crore to district disaster management authority (DDMA). The bills have been submitted as two separate requests. The city corporation has borne a major chunk of expenses related to Covid management in the district, especially with regard to running community kitchens and institutional quarantine centres. While the number of inmates in over 30 Covid-care homes came down by half following the directive of district collector that inmates can opt for home quarantine based on proper investigation of requisite facilities by the concerned local body, the civic body continues to receive inmates who do not have proper facilities at home. Besides, some of the centres, which have been functioning as Covid-care homes, are being returned to parent institutions since the authorities concerned have cited various needs to get it returned. The state executive committee of Kerala state disaster management authority had declared nCoronavirus outbreak as state specific disaster and approved the norms for relief assistance in April. It was directed that funds provided by KSDMA to DDMA shall be utilized by the chairperson of DDMA for the matters deemed appropriate for Covid-19 response. The norms and scale of assistance declared and approved by the SEC of KSDMA will be followed for providing relief assistance to victims of state specific disaster in the state. While corporation has forwarded bills that run into crores, the civic body doesn’t expect a full reimbursement of the amount being requested. The city corporation has so far spent Rs 6.5 crore in the past three months as part of various measures for Covid management. A major part of the amount has been spent in running community kitchens. Disinfection measures, rehabilitation of destitutes, setting up and maintenance of Covid-care centres and identification of first-line treatment centres are the other components which made corporation shell out a substantial sum. The city corporation’s allocation for running community kitchens in the city had crossed Rs 1.6 crore in the first week of April as it distributed 2.61 lakh food packets within eight days of launching the initiative. The city corporation has been able to ride on tax collection measures which were implemented in the past few years to meet rising needs due to the disease outbreak. The health team of city corporation has to take care of the requirements of around 30 Covid-care centres that have been set up in the city. Right from making bed to arranging essential items numbering 22 in personal kits, the team has also set up a storage centre at Medical College health circle office where articles are sorted out based on number of persons being housed in each Covid-care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-forwards-rs-1-6cr-bills-to-ddma/articleshow/76413050.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Finally, ‘sulking’ minister Meena shows up at hotel in Jaipur||JAIPUR: ‘Sulking’ food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena finally showed up at the hotel where Congress legislators have been camping for the last one week prior to the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The MLAs were shifted to a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur on allegations of horse-trading by the BJP. But Meena had been defying the orders of the party leadership. Meena reached the hotel on Tuesday at around 4pm. Talking to media outside the hotel, he said, “I had some demands in general and some issues related to the people. I have apprised it to the party leadership and the same has been conveyed to the Central leadership.” However, he refused to disclose those issues. “I will tell you when the demands are met.” Replying to a question on horse-trading and big money being offered to legislators, Meena said, “I am not aware of such offers.” Meena, who belongs to Sachin camp, has been complaining of sidelining by the chief minister and domination of bureaucracy in their departments. The Congress leaders have been maintaining that they were in touch with the minister who refused to shift to the hotel on the directions of the party leadership. Party observer and deputy chief minister of Chhattisgarh T S Singh Deo had warned the minister of not to breach the line. Meanwhile, for the MLAs, it is a time for education and entertainment at the hotel. On Tuesday, noted journalist and writer Piyush Babele took lessons on the contributions of Jawaharlal Nehru and Patel and their cordial relations unlike it is being propagated by the Sangh Pariwar. In the evening, they played cricket and football followed by cultural programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/finally-sulking-minister-meena-shows-up-at-hotel/articleshow/76414748.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Meerut||14-tyre truck falls down from bridge in Meerut, two hurt||MEERUT: A 14-tyre truck fell down from Maliyana bridge in Meerut on Tuesday after its driver lost control of the wheel. The truck crashed on the railing and fell down on the road below before catching fire. The fire was doused immediately. Two people -- on a scooter and an e-rickshaw -- who were nearby, sustained minor injuries. The truck driver fled from the spot after the accident. The truck caught fire immediately and locals rushed to throw water on it from their terrace. Later, firemen reached the spot and doused it. Dinesh Chandra, station house officer, TP Nagar, said, “Nobody was crushed under the truck. Efforts are on to find the truck driver." A video of the truck breaking the Maliyana bridge railing and falling down is being circulated on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/14-tyre-truck-falls-down-from-bridge-in-meerut-2-hurt/articleshow/76414043.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Meerut||23-year-old girl who eloped four months ago & got married, dies mysteriously at parents’ home||MEERUT: A 23-year-old girl, who had eloped with her lover and married him in February this year, mysteriously died at her residence in Salarpur village in Hapur’s Simbhawali area on Tuesday morning. Her body was allegedly cremated in haste by family members. The locals were suspicious and alerted the police. “The family had cremated the girl’s body by the time police reached the spot. The forensic team has collected samples from the remains of the body. The family members of the deceased claimed that the condition of the girl deteriorated on Tuesday morning following which they rushed her to higher medical centre in Meerut, but she died on the way," Hapur’s assistant superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said. According to sources, the girl, Babita, who married her lover Dinesh Lohia, 23, at an Arya Samaj temple in Meerut, and later got it registered in court, was brought back to the family after her parents convinced them that they have accepted their relationship, and wanted a proper marriage to solemnise it. "We got married on February 3 this year. My in-laws later convinced her that they had accepted our relationship and wanted to organise a proper wedding. They took my wife along with them on February 22. When I later contacted my in-laws, they refused to send her back and threatened me of dire consequences," Lohia said. On a complaint filed by the husband of the deceased, an FIR under section 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Simbhawali police station. The police have started the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/23-yr-old-girl-who-eloped-4-months-ago-got-married-dies-mysteriously-at-parents-home/articleshow/76414057.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chennai||Temples in Tamil Nadu may not distribute prasadam, vibhuthi till year-end||CHENNAI: Devotees visiting temples in Tamil Nadu will not get prasadams or vibhuthi and kumkum at least till the year end as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. Though no decision has been taken to reopen temples in any part of the state, sources in HR&CE department told TOI that temples in rural and semi-urban areas will be reopened and they will function according to a standard operating procedure (SOP). "We are working on an SOP for temples, but broadly we will see that devotees above 65 and children below 10 are not allowed inside the temples. Pregnant women will be barred from entering any temple," said a senior HR&CE official. All temple entrances will have hand sanitizer dispensers and provisions for thermal screening. "Only asymptomatic people will be allowed on the premises. People will be allowed entry only if they wear a mask. Before entering a temple, devotees will have to wash their hands and legs," the official said. "No physical offerings like prasad distribution or sprinkling of holy water will be allowed inside the religious place. No group singing or recital of slokas will be permitted. In several temples, groups of devotees sing during monthly festivals, these will be barred," said the official. The temple premises will have to be sanitized at regular intervals. "Frequent cleaning and disinfection must be done by the management of the temple. The floors should be cleaned multiple times," he said. There are several temples in Tamil Nadu in which the sanctum sanctorum is air-conditioned. "We will follow the guidelines of CPWD on air-conditioning. Mainly the guidelines say that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degree Celsius, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate," said the official. Some temples are frequented by tourists and the department is working on a local SOP for them. "We have received several suggestions from various big temples across the state. These temples are big in terms of space but managing the crowd in the sanctum sanctorum is what we are looking at. Discussions are on about how to prevent crowding at a time. Various suggestions have come from temples and we are collating them," said the official. The department may allow devotees only from a single entrance and devotees may have to leave the temple from another gate. Shops, stalls and cafeteria outside and within the premises will be instructed to follow social distancing norms at all times, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temples-may-not-distribute-prasadam-vibhuthi-till-year-end/articleshow/76414056.cms||B Sivakumar
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||MSRTC to carry goods too, modifying 3k buses||Nagpur: With lockdown badly affecting revenues of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), the state’s biggest passenger transporter is diversifying into goods transport. “MSRTC has a target to convert 3,000 old buses into goods carrier. To start with, 310 buses are being modified. There are 31 divisions in the state and each one has been given a target of modifying 10 buses. We already have a fleet of 250 trucks,” said divisional controller Nilesh Belsare. Sanjay Ramteke, mechanical engineer (operations), said, “Buses that are either 10-year-old or have completed 6.5 lakh km travel are being modified. Nagpur division has 52 such buses whose condition is still good. We have modified four buses till now and more will be done with better staff strength once lockdown norms are relaxed.” Ramteke said, “We have workshops at taluka level besides trained staff and requisite infrastructure that makes our job easy. The buses are modified in such a way that these can be reconfigured for passenger transport.” Belsare said, “With coronavirus here to stay, passenger numbers will shrink. It is time we diversified into transportation of goods. We are very optimistic as our rates are competitive at Rs 32 per km while market rates are Rs 55 per km. We are transporting materials safel and punctually being a government organization. We have our own operating staff that is not utilized fully and hence we are in a win-win situation.” Belsare informed Nagpur division had already transported about 100 tonnes material in last 15 days and earned Rs 70,000. “We are even ready to operate for short distances of 100-150km. The flow of goods is slow as many units are not operating fully. We are getting inquiries from several firms. We will also go for marketing to draw customers,” he added. “In Marathwada region, MSRTC is getting good business and industries are even ready to sign annual transportation contracts. In Vidarbha region, though the business is slow due to lockdown, there is huge potential in goods transportation,” Belsare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-to-carry-goods-too-modifying-3k-buses/articleshow/76414789.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 17, 2020||Meerut||Meerut crosses 700-mark with 33 fresh Covid-19 cases||MEERUT: As many as 33 new Covid-19 cases, highest since the outbreak, were reported in Meerut on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 706, including one found in Kanpur. The death toll in the district was, however, 54 as on Tuesday, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer (CMO). With five people testing positive on Tuesday, the tally in Bijnor went up to 211, of which 67 are active cases, while four more people succumbed to Covid-19 in district. According to Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, the four patients are from Haldaur, Kiratpur and Sahaspur areas, while family members and contacts of the patients are being quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-crosses-700-mark-with-33-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76414078.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hundreds of migrants waiting to leave, system at fault, say volunteers||BENGLAURU: Less than 20% of the six lakh migrant workers in Karnataka have managed to get on Shramik Special trains to head home. Thousands are still waiting for their turn, says a six-page open letter to the government of Karnataka from Bangalore With Migrants, a group of volunteers. The group has criticised the lack of proper communication with migrants yearning to return home. The filling up of details on Seva Sindhu app is often a herculean task for most migrant workers, who aren’t internet savvy and some locals have even been charging a fat sum to do the job for them.  Lack of coordination between state agencies and civil society organisations has hit migrants’ transportation. “Through the letter we want the public to know about the situation on the ground and what are the flaws that are causing hardships for migrants,” said Vandana Srivastava, a representative from the group. The letter cited two instances: Over 6,000 migrants from Odisha and more than 4,000 from Assam thronging Palace Grounds on May 23 and June 12, respectively and waiting for hours without food and water. In both instances, they came to know of their trains at the last moment, it was alleged. On Tuesday, the BBMP launched the Migrant Workers Helpline (94806 85888). “Like a merry-go-round, the callers are being diverted to another line with options of Kannada and English, when most migrants only speak Hindi,” said Swathi Seshadri,a member of Bangalore With Migrants. Numerous calls to the new helpline went unanswered and, at times, the line was disconnected at the receiver’s end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hundreds-of-migrants-waiting-to-leave-system-at-fault-volunteers/articleshow/76413106.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Meerut||Woman mauled to death by leopard in Amroha||AMROHA: A 40-year-old woman was attacked and killed by a leopard in Sultanpur area, under Amroha's Hasanpur police station, on Monday evening. The victim was identified as Sharda Devi of Phoolpur village. She had gone to irrigate her field when she was attacked. When she did not return home, her family and villagers launched a search. They found her body in a mango orchard, where the big cat had dragged her. The region has been on alert following several leopard sightings over the past one week. A big cat had attacked three people on June 11. Villagers suspect that Sharda Devi may have been mauled to death by a leopard that had been spotted prowling about in the area. A leopard was also sighted in the mango orchard. After the June 11 attack, a leopard was caught by villagers, who handed it over to forest authorities. They now believe that another big cat is lurking in the area. A forest team rushed to the spot and launched a search operation to catch the big cat. Neeraj Kumar, Hasanpur station house officer, said, "We were informed by villagers that a woman was mauled to death by big cat. A joint team of police and forest officials rushed to the spot and combed the area. Efforts are on to track the leopard."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-amroha/articleshow/76414087.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Transgender tests +ve for Covid-19||MYSURU: A transgender, perhaps the first in Karnataka, has tested positve for Covid-19. The 54-year-old had been  to Mumbai, and had been quarantined in a hotel. She came voluntarily for testing, following illness. She has been shifted to the Covid hospital. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the individual came from Mumbai a few days back. She had travelled in a train from Mumbai, and then took a bus to Mysuru. Sources said that she had come in contact with four people known to her, and that contact tracing is under way for her. WB youth violates home quarantineAlert residents of Mysuru tipped-off police, after a youth with home quarantine stamped on his hand, was found roaming freely near a bakery in Kuvempu Nagar on Tuesday. He has been quarantined. Customers and residents panicked after they noticed the stamp on his hand near a bakery near JSS Law College. He was roaming freely, and visiting places. Kuvempu Nagar police said the youth is from West Bengal and was under home quarantine, following his arrival. Since he has violated the quarantine norms, he was shifted to institutional quarantine. The MCC disinfected the bakery premises and its surroundings, where he was found roaming. Nanjangud becomes hotspot again Nanjangud town has again become a Covid-19 hotspot, with three fresh cases being reported on Tuesday. Of the four positive cases reported, three are from Nanjangud alone. Two relatives of a patient who had returned from Mumbai a week ago, have tested positive. This has brought the focus back on the place, and has kept officials on their toes. Sources claimed that the authorities are planning to impose restrictions for entering revenue and registrar offices in Nanjangud, to curb the spread of the disease. Discussions are under way to implement a token system of entry for these offices. The total positive cases have touched 120 in Mysuru, out of which 106 patients have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/transgender-tests-ve/articleshow/76411757.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Petition challenging ASO exam dismissed, petitioner penalised||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court dismissed a petition challenging the assistant statistics officer (ASO) recruitment exam 2018 and its result for 209 posts stating it was baseless and without facts. The court also asked the petitioner to deposit Rs 1 lakh as cost. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma issued the order while dismissing the petition by Sanjay Sharma and 19 others. The court said the petition cannot be sanctioned on the basis of assumptions and presumptions and the allegations made in the petition have no factual basis. Candidates who have scored more marks in the examination are not related to any one examination centre or any particular place as was alleged by the petitioner. The petitioners challenged the 2018 ASO recruitment examination and the result released on May 14 this year in the high court, stating that there was a discussion of its paper being out. This fact was proved after the exam as there was a huge difference in marks of selected candidates though it was alleged that many selected candidates passed by grace in the 10th and 12th examinations. The petitioner also alleged that candidates belonging to a particular caste had also passed more in the examination. SN Kumawat, counsel for the selected candidates, said there was no complaint of paper leak before or after the examination. He said on the basis of the selection of a particular caste in the examination or the academic record of the selected candidates, the entire recruitment process could not be questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petition-challenging-aso-exam-dismissed-petitioner-penalised/articleshow/76414782.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Amateur snakecatcher bittenby reptile hecaught, dies||Thiruvananthapuram: An amateur snake catcher died in the district after he was allegedly bitten by a snake that he had caught. Sakeer of Sasthavattom near Chirayinkeezh is the deceased. The incident happened on Sunday night at Navaikkulam under Kallambalam police station limits. According to police, Sakeer was an amateur snake catcher and he was bitten while he was posing for the cameras with the reptile had he caught from a house at Navaikkulam. Though he was rushed to the hospital, he could not be saved. The snake was later caught by snake catcher Vava Suresh, whom the locals summoned following the incident. Kallambalam police said the body of the deceased was handed over to the family on Tuesday after postmortem. Meanwhile, the state government has reportedly taken a decision to control the activity of unauthorised snake catching in the state by making license mandatory for snake catchers. An order in this regard is expected to be issued within a few days. Sources in the forest department said the government decision was not influenced by the death of Sakeer. In fact, a proposal in this regard was sent to the government three days prior to the incident. The idea was mooted in a meeting of senior forest department officials convened by chief conservator of forest on Friday. “The decision was influenced by the developments in Uthra murder case in Kollam, in which an unauthorised snake catcher was involved,” said a source in the department. Snake catchers were supposed to hand over snakes they caught to forest department or leave them back in the wild. Often, most snake catchers chose to keep the reptile with them and in rare cases, these snakes end up in the hands of people with malicious intentions,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amateur-snakecatcher-bittenby-reptile-hecaught-dies/articleshow/76413085.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||SC/ST lawyers’ body seeks HC CJ support for role in judiciary||Jaipur: Lawyers belonging to SC/ST advocates organizations on Tuesday submitted a joint memorandum to Rajasthan High Court chief justice Indrajit Mahanty asking him to review the names from the advocates quota and the district & sessions judge quota for filling vacant posts of judges in the high court by the Rajasthan High Court Collegiums’ meeting held on May 30 for giving due, fair and adequate representation to the SC/ST communities. They pointed out that not a single SC/ST lawyer has been elevated from 1949 to 2019 out of 202 judges (retired & sitting) appointed so far. Only a judge from the SC category from judicial services quota has been elevated recently in the Rajasthan High Court in the last seven decades of the establishment of the HC. Similarly, one judge of ST category was elevated in 1990. It is crystal clear that only 0.9% (Only 2) has been elevated so far after the establishment of the HC and there is disproportionately very small number of judges belonging to the SC & ST category. While the representation of judges belonging to the SCs and STs on the Rajasthan High Court is deplorable, the representation of judges belonging to the SCs & STs is very low all over the country. They pointed out that there is serious lacuna in the composition of the high court and the first step should be taken while filling up at least 10 vacancies of judges out of 25 vacant posts. The High Court Collegium should as a first step select at least 10 names belonging to SCs and STs, fulfilling prescribed qualifications, and recommend their names for elevation to the HC’s bench immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc/st-lawyers-body-seeks-hc-cj-support-for-role-in-judiciary/articleshow/76414801.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Cured Covid patients close to 10k in Rajasthan, spike in active cases||JAIPUR: Seven persons died and 235 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday taking the positive count tally to 13,216 and casualty figures to 308. Districts which reported new cases are Bharatpur (69), Jaipur (41), Udaipur (20), Jodhpur (18), Alwar (13), Sikar (11), Jhunjhunu (10), Pali (10), Dausa (7), Bikaner (6), Tonk (6), Bhilwara (4), Sirohi (4), Jhalawar (3), Dungarpur (2), Jalore (2), Rajsamand (2), Barmer (1), Ajmer (1), Dholpur (1), Karauli (1), Nagaur (1) and two from other states. As many as 177 patients have been cured, taking the figure of such persons to 9,962. Active cases once again have increased to 2,946. In Jaipur, 28 places reported 41 cases. Areas which reported new cases are Jaisinngpura Khor (3), Chomu (2), Vijaypura (2), SMS hospital (2), Tulsidas Marg (2), Fern Hotel (2), Vidhyadhar Nagar (2), Mansarovar (2), one each case was reported from Kotputli, Kanak Ghati, Jal Mahal, Bas Badanpura, Nayla, Ramganj, Madhuvan Vatika, Somani Bhawan, Brahmpuri, Vaishali Nagar, Kanota, Ghat Gate, Holiday Inn Jaipur city centre, Lal Kothi, Jagatpura, Suraj Pole, Civil Lines, Adarsh Nagar, Kartarpura, Tonk Phatak and four from other states. Highest number of active cases were reported from Bharatpur (519), followed by Jaipur (486) and Jodhpur (469). The number of migrants who tested positive has increased 3,762.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cured-patients-close-to-10k-spike-in-active-cases/articleshow/76414799.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur resident’s body found in Bundi 2 days after he went missing||Kota: The body of a 65-year-old man, who had gone missing from his Jaipur home on Sunday night, was found near Bundi Government College on Tuesday morning. Police conducted the postmortem and handed over the body to family members. Investigation into the death has been initiated under Section 174 of CrPC. The deceased was identified as Girish Saxena (65), a resident of Malviya Nagar in Jaipur. He had retired from the mining department. Ashok Sharma, sub-inspector, Bundi city police station, said, “According to the family members, Girish was in a state of depression for last several years and was undergoing traetment. He was under constant watch of the family members but even then he went missing from his house on Sunday night. The family members lodged a missing report on Monday in Jawahar Nagar police station of Jaipur.” The body was found on Tuesday morning behind CAD office in front of Bundi Government College on Kota road with froth coming out of his mouth, he said. Prima facie, he committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance, he said. Tracing the mobile location of Girish, two of his relatives and police officers reached Bundi, where his body was found, Sharma said. “No suicide note was recovered from his possesion,” he said. The police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Tuesday noon. A case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC has been lodged for further investigation, Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-residents-body-found-in-bundi-2-days-after-he-went-missing/articleshow/76414794.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||43-year-old home guard dies of Covid||Hyderabad: A 43 year-old home guard working at a police station in Old City died of Covid-19 on Monday after undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital for two days. On Friday, the home guard reported that he was unwell and was sent for medical screening. “On Saturday, the home guard tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at a corporate hospital in Malakpet,” said a Dabeerpura police official. On Monday morning, on the advice of the hospital staff, the family shifted the home guard to Gandhi Hospital for treatment as they could not afford the medical bills. “His condition was very critical and he was declared brought dead at Gandhi Hospital,” said a police official. Dabeerpura police said that the home guard had performed Covid-19 lockdown enforcement duties and had heart-related comorbid conditions. About six cops who were the home guard’s primary contacts at the police station have been sent for testing and his family members have also been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/43-year-old-home-guard-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76414804.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer: Dargah-run school begins yoga classes for immunity||JAIPUR: To combat Covid, the Dargah Committee (DC) of Ajmer has launched a programme to boost people’s immunity through yoga. Titled ‘Yog kariye, corona se surakshit rahiye’ (practice yoga, stay safe from corona), the programme being organised in its institute Khawaja Model School, is open for all. The DC is a constitutional body that comes under the Union ministry of minority affairs. Shakil Ahmed, Nazim (CEO), Dargah Ajmer said, “It is an established fact globally that yoga improves your immunity which is the only way to the fight the virus. So, we decided to provide a platform open to all by paying a nominal fee to take advantage of our ancient practice,” said Ahmed. He added yoga was part of the shared culture and its benefit should reach to everyone. The first batch started practising on the premises of the school from June 14. The attendees include staff from the school and from DC. Due to fear of a pandemic, the takers for the programme is few ut the school hopes that once the situation becomes normal, they will find the good number of takers for the programme. Pradeep Sen, physical teacher of the Khawaja Model School who is also the trainer of the programme said, “Those attending it are finding it refreshing and worthful. Our one-hour class begins at 6am with Surya Namaskar followed by important practices or aasanas like Dhanu, Bhujang, Sarwang, Vaksh, Trikone, Chakra and Pawan Mukt. It takes care of all physical and mental problems,” said Sen. Sen said yoga had gained popularity in the school since the introduction of International Yogay Day. He said several school staff have expressed interest in attending the programme but due to the present situation, they were not able to attend it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dargah-run-school-begins-yoga-classes-for-immunity/articleshow/76414813.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Soon, portal to register details of guest workers||KOCHI: Labour department and IT Mission will develop a web portal, which can later be converted into an app, for registration of guest workers who are willing to return to Kerala. The portal will also become a documentation registry for the state. Workers, who left for their respective states following lockdown, expressed their willingness to come to Kerala as the wheels of economy have restarted since relaxations came into effect. The portal will record details such as address, phone number, Aadhaar number of the worker, his skill, previous employer, the district he prefers to work and so on. The contractor, who gets licence from the department, will get a login ID to enter details on the need for workers. “There are three types of interstate workers. One is working under contractor, the second is under agents and the third are independent ones. The department will give approval to registered workers to return. We will verify the details entered with Awaaz health insurance scheme,” said joint labour commissioner (planning) Arun B. “If he is coming to work under a contractor or an employer, they should arrange quarantine facility for the worker. As many as 2,89,704 guest workers left Kerala from May 1 to June 15. Many are willing to return as they won’t get better job in their states. Right now, we need workers here,” he said Director Chithra S said IT Mission is developing a web portal now and attach it as sub-domain on Kerala.gov.in site. “App will be developed later. We will have content in Malayalam and English. Later Hindi, Bengali and Odisha can be included. We have learned that other states have started registration of workers willing to move to other parts of the country for work. We can collect that info too. Kerala does not have exact details about guest workers and their skills. Registration of workers who work under contractors is mandatory,” she said. Builders Association India (BAI), Kerala chapter officials said they have already started feeling the pinch of manpower shortage. “Around 2,000 guest workers used to work at a project site in Smart City in Ernakulam. Now, only 300 are working there. We feel there is a shortage of 50% of the workforce and it will further increase once construction sector becomes operational in full scale. Though many Keralites returned home, we have not received requests from skilled labourers among them. Guest workers adapt to any work despite being skilled. But, Keralites are rigid and don’t adapt. We also need more unskilled workforce which will be guest workers. Once they start coming back, we need an exclusive protocol regarding their quarantine,” said secretary of BAI – Kerala George Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/soon-portal-to-register-details-of-guest-workers/articleshow/76421647.cms||T C Sreemol
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand women & child welfare minister promises jobs, skilling to acid attack victims||DEHRADUN: The state women and child welfare minister Rekha Arya on Tuesday began taking stock of the condition of acid attack victims in the state via a videoconferencing meet with all victims in the state. The meeting lasted for around two hours, in which all victims unanimously spoke of financial worries before the minister. In early January, the Uttarakhand government had earned widespread praise after it announced a pension scheme for acid attack victims to lead a dignified life. But till date, there had been no further movement on the topic. Hence, today’s meeting was being seen as a huge moral boost for the victims, after the minister assured all of them with promise of job opportunities. She added that the pension would be exclusively for those victims who have been physically disabled by the acid attack, based upon their educational qualification and extent of disability. आज प्रदेश की एसिड अटैक से 11 महिलाओं से जूम एप पर उनकी जीवन व आर्थिक स्थिति का हाल व किन वजहों से यह ऐसी अमानवीय घट… https://t.co/tmHJxJkxhx— Rekha Arya (@rekhaaryaoffice) 1592302158000Speaking to TOI, one of the victims present at the meeting, Gulnaz from Udham Singh Nagar, told TOI, “The minister has assured us of a job opportunity. We’re hopeful she’ll fulfill our requirement, as we’re in desperate need of money since the lockdown, which has made us finding jobs doubly difficulty.” Gulnaz aspires to join the media industry someday. She was attacked by her lover when she was 18. Thereafter, she pursued higher studies in Chennai with the help of a state government scholarship. Other victims said they have been waiting for over 2-3 years to receive a ‘medical certificate of disability’ from the state government, which they said is essential for availing pension or other assistance. “In 2018, my uncle, under the influence of liquor, threw acid on me, leaving me 65% disabled. I need a medical certificate from the health department to get further support from social welfare department,” said Neema Devi of Almora. Like her, two other victims from Almora district also claimed they have been waiting for their medical certificates for years. Upset over the delay in delivering these certificates, the minister reprimanded department officials and directed them to coordinate with the social welfare department to facilitate all victims. Speaking to TOI, Rekha Arya said, “We have decided to provide jobs to those women victims who are educated. Those who are illiterate will first be skilled-up, and then given opportunity of self-employment. And those left physically disabled by the attack will get medical pension. District officers have been directed to ensure that their medical certificates are made on top priority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-women-child-welfare-minister-promises-jobs-skilling-in-first-ever-videoconference-with-acid-attack-victims/articleshow/76411803.cms||Shivani Azad
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Labour panel set up for jobs, security of workers||Lucknow: To address issues like employment and social welfare of labourers and other daily wage workers, Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday paved the way for setting up Uttar Pradesh Labour (Employment Exchange and Job) Commission. The commission will not just link workers with industries within the state but also play the role of facilitator between workers and other states and countries which raise a demand for skilled labour. To be headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the commission is the first of its kind in a state and follows from the CM’s promise to set up a commission for migrant workers in the backdrop of over 30 lakh workers and their families returning to UP during the Covid-19 lockdown. Government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said that the objective of the commission is to provide employment to workers in private and non-government sectors as per their skill and employment opportunities. “This will strengthen the economic and social security of workers. Workers will not just get access to employment opportunities but the state’s economy will also gain momentum,” he said. On the commission’s link between workers and foreign countries, Singh added that till now the ministry of external affairs would send a list of requirements raised by other countries for certain kinds of skills but states would only advertise the position and not pursue the issue any further. Now, he said, based on the requirements, the state would ensure skill training as per demand so that people get an opportunity to work in other countries and states as well. Indicating the significance of the Commission, the CM or a minister nominated by him will be the chairperson of it. Ministers for industry and MSME will be the vice-chair while the labour minister will be the convenor. The main task of the commission will be to ensure that workers get jobs, for which it will act as a link between industries and labour. The state government has already prepared an exhaustive list of workers and their skill sets, focussing on those who have returned to the state recently, and will use this data to identify jobs in various sectors. The commission will also conduct skilling programmes to meet the demand of the industry. This could be in the form of apprenticeship in industrial units as well. For those placed away from their homes, the commission will provide facilities like housing, social security and insurance. A portal will be set up in collaboration with the employment exchange in the department which will contain details of workers and their availability at any given point. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner (IIDC) will be the member secretary of the commission while its members would include ministers for agriculture and rural development, agriculture production commissioner (APC), additional chief secretary or principal secretary, labour and employment exchange, representatives of industrial and labour organisations nominated on behalf of the CM, five representatives interested in the development of industries and workers nominated on behalf of the CM and a special invitee. A board will be established for the implementation of the programmes under the commission. This will also be headed by the IIDC and have 14 other members including the APC as co-chairperson, principal secretary or additional chief secretary of industries, agriculture, panchayati raj, public works department, irrigation, urban development, rural development, MSME, industry and food processing and skill development. Principal secretary for social welfare, labour and employment exchange will be its member secretary. The board will meet every 15 days while the commission will meet once a month. Committees will also be formed at the district level to implement the commission’s work. These will be headed by the district magistrate who will hold weekly meetings. The CM will report to the area MLA and minister in charge about the activities being carried out. MLAs and ministers will have to review work every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/labour-panel-set-up-for-jobs-security-of-workers/articleshow/76414819.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Soon, portal to register details of guest workers||KOCHI: Labour department and IT Mission will develop a web portal, which can later be converted into an app, for registration of guest workers who are willing to return to Kerala. The portal will also become a documentation registry for the state. Workers, who left for their respective states following lockdown, expressed their willingness to come to Kerala as the wheels of economy have restarted since relaxations came into effect. The portal will record details such as address, phone number, Aadhaar number of the worker, his skill, previous employer, the district he prefers to work and so on. The contractor, who gets licence from the department, will get a login ID to enter details on the need for workers. “There are three types of interstate workers. One is working under contractor, the second is under agents and the third are independent ones. The department will give approval to registered workers to return. We will verify the details entered with Awaaz health insurance scheme,” said joint labour commissioner (planning) Arun B. “If he is coming to work under a contractor or an employer, they should arrange quarantine facility for the worker. As many as 2,89,704 guest workers left Kerala from May 1 to June 15. Many are willing to return as they won’t get better job in their states. Right now, we need workers here,” he said Director Chithra S said IT Mission is developing a web portal now and attach it as sub-domain on Kerala.gov.in site. “App will be developed later. We will have content in Malayalam and English. Later Hindi, Bengali and Odisha can be included. We have learned that other states have started registration of workers willing to move to other parts of the country for work. We can collect that info too. Kerala does not have exact details about guest workers and their skills. Registration of workers who work under contractors is mandatory,” she said. Builders Association India (BAI), Kerala chapter officials said they have already started feeling the pinch of manpower shortage. “Around 2,000 guest workers used to work at a project site in Smart City in Ernakulam. Now, only 300 are working there. We feel there is a shortage of 50% of the workforce and it will further increase once construction sector becomes operational in full scale. Though many Keralites returned home, we have not received requests from skilled labourers among them. Guest workers adapt to any work despite being skilled. But, Keralites are rigid and don’t adapt. We also need more unskilled workforce which will be guest workers. Once they start coming back, we need an exclusive protocol regarding their quarantine,” said secretary of BAI – Kerala George Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soon-portal-to-register-details-of-guest-workers/articleshow/76413136.cms||T C Sreemol
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Seven, including four contract killers, hired to kill BJP functionary held in Bazpur||RUDRAPUR: As many as seven people, including four contract killers, were held by Udham Singh Nagar police on Tuesday. They were allegedly hired to kill Kulwinder Singh Kinda, former zila panchayat member and senior BJP functionary from Bannakhera village in Bazpur. The cops recovered five country-made pistols, fifteen live cartridges, two bikes and Rs 23,000 cash from their possession. The shooters were hired by a history-sheeter Kuldeep Singh alias KD, said Udham Singh Nagar's Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh. The police, acting on a tip-off, raided Hotel Kahlon, located at Nainital Road, and arrested four contract killers — Sukhraj Singh, Harpal Singh, Prince Pal Singh and Yodveer Singh — all residents of Punjab. The accused were taken to Doraha police outpost and upon interrogation, they confessed that they had come to Uttarakhand to kill Kinda.“They had come to the state without any prior permission and were helped by Harcharan Singh, a resident of Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh. They stayed at his farm house in Bilaspur. We have also arrested Harcharan and two of his aides — Harsh Deep Singh and Jagjeet Singh,” informed SSP Singh. “The accused told that they were hired by KD. They were given Rs 50,000 in advance. They were given arms by Harcharan and his accomplice. KD, a resident of Gudiyamani village of Bazpur, is at large and police teams have been formed to nab him at the earliest. He is a history-sheeter and a bounty of Rs 20,000 has been put on him,” added SSP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seven-including-four-contract-killers-hired-to-kill-bjp-functionary-held-in-bazpur/articleshow/76411793.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Farmers float WhatsApp group for info on locusts||JAIPUR: Locust attacks have become one of the major concerns for farmers of the state. To save their crops from the flying pests, villages are making collective efforts to fight back. Om Prakash Bhambhu, a farmer from Manyada village in Bikaner, said villagers had created a WhatsApp group to inform people whenever locust attack occurs. “All educated people are on this group. Whenever swarms of locusts arrive in our village, we put it on our groups. The information goes viral and people gather in their respective fields with utensils and dhol to drive away the insects. In the last six months, locusts have been seen in our village once a week,” said Bhambhu. Hastimal Rajpurohit from Itwaya village in Barmer said a WhatsApp group – Tiddi Satarkta — has been created for all nearby villages to inform everyone about the directions locusts are flying. “When one village is attacked by locusts, we put it in our group and all the nearby villagers become alert. We start banging utensils in our village and when locusts start moving away next village, people over there become ready,” said Rajpurohit. Locusts are active in 12 districts and have already caused damage to crops. Authorities arrive whenever they get information regarding locusts presence and spray chemical to kill the locusts. However, farmers complained that authorities do not respond to their calls by deploying spraying machines on time. Om Prakash Saini from Nagaur said authorities are usually late in responding to their calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-float-whatsapp-group-for-info-on-locusts/articleshow/76414812.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Unlock 2.0: Karnataka to seek more relaxations from PM||BENGALURU: Notwithstanding the spike in its Covid 19 cases, Karnataka will bat for further relaxations and seek the Centre’s permission to open up more economic activity. If granted the nod, it plans to resume operations of Namma Metro, theatres, gyms, swimming pools, bars and restaurants and pubs. Ahead of the 6th Centre-states interaction through video conferencing scheduled for Wednesday, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said he will seek from Prime Minister Narendra Modi leeway from lockdown guidelines. “I will ask for more relaxations as we have no plans to reimpose the lockdown,” he added. Modi On Tuesday launched the two-day video interaction with CMs to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. Unlike other states, Karnataka has unlocked partially since June 7 to revive economic activity in non-containment areas as it has been able to limit the pandemic’s spread. Claiming that Covid-19 situation is under control despite the recent spike, Yediyurappa said cases were rising because of returnees from other states, especially Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Medical education minister K Sudhakar said they will specifically seek the PM’s permission to restart Metro service in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, representatives from liquor associations appealed to the government to allow reopening of bars and restaurants, pubs and clubs. While quoting guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs for Unlock 1.0, official sources said the Centre is expected to allow opening of educational institutions in Unlock 2.0, which begins in July, but is unlikely to grant nod for reopening of theatres, gyms, swimming pools, pubs and Metro service, which may be allowed only under Unlock 3.0. Though the Centre may allow Karnataka to open educational institutions, the state doesn’t seem to be keen due to pressure from parents and teachers to delay the reopening till August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unlock-2-0-karnataka-to-seek-more-relaxations-from-pm/articleshow/76413183.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Satpal Maharaj’s gardener, 75, who tested Covid-19 +ve along with minister, dies||DEHRADUN: The 75-year-old gardener who worked for Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 31 along with the minister and his contacts, died on Tuesday. He was discharged from the hospital six days ago, in keeping with the latest protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The elderly man had no kin and his body lay unattended for over 12 hours as policemen were apprehensive about coming in contact with it, fearing coronavirus transmission. The health department, on the other hand, has maintained there is no need for a postmortem to ascertain the cause of death as the deceased didn’t have any influenza-like symptoms. The gardener was discharged 10 days after being admitted to the hospital, without testing negative for the virus, even as the tourism minister and his wife stayed in the hospital for 16 days. Sources at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh confirmed that both the minister and his wife had been tested before being discharged. Police said local residents had informed them about the gardener’s death early on Tuesday. His last rites were not performed till the filing of this report. “He was found dead around 5am. The policemen refused to touch him, even as the health department maintained there was no need for a coronavirus test or a postmortem,” said an eyewitness. “He must have collapsed and died. It may have been due to a myocardial infarction (heart attack). There have been 3,43,092 cases of Covid-19 in India so far. If any of them dies after being discharged, there is no need for a test or an autopsy,” said chief medical officer (CMO) BC Ramola. According to Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer of Covid-19 at Government Doon Medical College, the deceased was admitted in Doon hospital on May 31 and was moved to a Covid Care Centre (CCC) on June 5. “He was discharged from the CCC on June 10 and had been in home isolation since,” he added. While Satpal Maharaj couldn’t be contacted after repeated attempts, his personal secretary Satendra Sajwan told TOI that the administration had informed the minister about the cremation and Maharaj had offered all possible help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satpal-maharajs-gardener-75-who-tested-covid-19-ve-along-with-minister-dies/articleshow/76411825.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||DK records single biggest spike of 79 cases, Udupi 7||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district recorded its biggest one-day spike of 79 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. This incidentally was also the highest number of positive cases recorded in any district in the state on the day. Udupi on the other hand recorded seven positive cases with the coastal districts accounting for 27% of the total 317 positive cases recorded in 20 districts of Karnataka. Out of the 296 samples tested on the day, 217 were negative for the virus, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said. The active cases in DK now stands at 201 against 368 positive cases. Out of the 79 patients, 75 had returned from Saudi Arabia on June 5, 7, 8, 11 and 12 respectively. Three patients had returned from Maharashtra, while one case was categorised as influenza like illness (ILI). Four of the 79 who tested positive are women in their various stages of pregnancy, she said. The district also saw the discharge of 11 patients from district Wenlock Hospital, the designated covid hospital for the district, taking number of those discharged to 169. The condition of P-6282, a 70-year-old male diagnosed with diabetes and pneumonia continues to be critical and is being treated in the ICU along with P-6283, a 52-year-old male. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said all the seven patients had returned from Maharashtra and includes four male, one female and a boy and a girl. With 885 patients out of the 1,035 positive cases the district recorded being discharged as on date, the district has 147 active cases in three covid care centres and one patient is in ICU. The district has recorded one fatality so far, DC said. Mask defaulters fined Taking its drive to sensitise public on the perils of not observing social distancing and wearing masks, deemed effective tools against the pandemic, Udupi city municipal council authorities imposed fine on people for not observing these norms. Anand Kallolikar, commissioner, Udupi CMC said civic body collected Rs 27,500 as penalty from 275 people including Rs 26,600 from 266 people who did not wear mask and rest for social distancing violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-records-single-biggest-spike-of-79-cases-udupi-7/articleshow/76411808.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||Ayurveda clinical trials on Guj Covid-19 patients soon||Rajkot: Jamnagar-based Gujarat Ayurved University is set to begin clinical trials of testing the efficacy of Ayurvedic medicines on Covid-19 patients.The university has got the permission from the Institution Ethics Committee (IEC) of M P Shah Medical College and has completed the registration with Clinical Trials Registry, India (CTRI) for this study.As many as 60 Covid-19 positive patients will be short-listed for the trials that will be done at the state-run GG Hospital in Jamnagar. The study titled ‘Efficacy of ayurveda intervention as add on therapy in Covid-19 patients: An open-label randomized controlled trial,’ is fully funded by the union Ayush ministry at five institutes in Jamnagar, New Delhi and Nagpur.With no scientifically proven medicine available for Covid treatment till now, the patients at various hospitals are being advised to follow ayurveda remedies. However, there is no scientific data to prove the curative powers of Ayurvedic medicines against Covid. Hence, it necessitated a clinical trial to check its efficacy to contain the contagion. Vice-chancellor of Gujarat Ayurved University, Dr Anup Thakar, said, “Of these 60 patients, 30 will be administered ‘Ayush 64 medicine’ as an add-on therapy along with current standard medical treatment. Their progress will then be evaluated on day-to-day basis vis-a-vis the other 30 patients who will not be given any Ayurvedic medicines.”Dr Thakar said they hope to complete the study in two months after which the analysis of the data will begin. Patients who get discharged from GG Hospital are accommodated at the Ayurved university, where 50 beds have been reserved for seven-day quarantine. During this period, patients are given a combination of various ayurveda drugs to boost their immunity besides a fixed diet chart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ayurveda-clinical-trials-on-guj-covid-19-patients-soon/articleshow/76411843.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 210 Covid-19 cases in Malappuram, over 100 in six districts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday reported 79 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 1,366. As many as 60 patients recovered from the infection on the day in line with the trend of more patients testing negative for the virus in the past three days. The total number of recoveries in the state so far is 1,234. Seven districts in the state have more than 100 active cases now, with Malappuram (210 cases) topping the chart. Thrissur has 150 cases, followed by Palakkad (143), Kannur (132), Kozhikode (102), Pathanamthitta (101) and Alappuzha (100). Of the new cases, 47 persons came from abroad and 26 from other states. Six more persons, including a health worker in Pathanamthitta, were infected through contact. Thiruvananthapuram (2), Malappuram, Kannur and Palakkad (1 each) are the other contact cases. Malappuram (15) had the highest number of cases on Tuesday, followed by Ernakulam (13), Thrissur, Alappuzha and Kannur (7 each), Pathanamthitta and Palakkad (6 each), Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam and Kozhikode (4 each) and Kasaragod (2). The government will launch 19 mobile surveillance units in the state in the wake of reports of monsoon-related ailments being reported in large numbers in certain parts of the state. Kerala to get 19 mobile surveillance unitsOf these, two units each will be deployed in Kasaragod, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur and Malappuram while one unit each will be deployed in the other districts. Each of these units will have a doctor, a nurse and a lab technician. They will tour areas with no health centres and places where people have to travel far to reach the nearest health centre. Besides providing preliminary care for people at their doorsteps, these mobile units will help shift patients to the nearest health centre. At present, 1,22,143 people are under surveillance, of whom 1,20,157 are under home/institutional quarantine and 1,986 admitted to designated isolation facilities. In the past 24 hours, 4,003 samples were tested in the state. Till date, 1,18,893 samples (including repeat and private lab samples) have been sent for tests, of which the results of 4,081 are pending. Besides, 31,093 of the total 32,534 samples taken from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance also tested negative. Of those who recovered on the day, 14 are in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Palakkad, eight in Kasaragod, seven in Malappuram, five each in Alappuzha and Wayanad, four in Kottayam, three each in Pathanamthitta and Thrissur and one each in Ernakulam and Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/210-cases-in-malappuram-over-100-in-six-districts/articleshow/76413169.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kochi||Srikanth still studies in light of kerosene lamp||Alappuzha: Like many other students, Sreekanth, a Class X student, and his sister Sreelakshmi, pursuing a dialysis technician course, were till now participating in traditional face-to-face method of learning. When their institutions closed, the siblings were supposed to continue their studies online. But the students, coming from a poor scheduled caste family in Kanjikuzhy, have not been able to attend a single online class till now. Reason? Their house doesn’t have electricity and they don’t have a smartphone too. “I am very sad. My mother reminds me every day that I am in Class X and I have to take my studies seriously. We have knocked at several doors for getting a power connection,” said Sreekanth, a student of Government HSS SL Puram, Kanjikuzhy. Sreekanth’s father Satheessan Unni, a carpenter, bought five cents to build a house from his friend in January 2019. “But I could not pay the full amount. So, the registration of the land could not be done. But my friend allowed me to build a small house and we began to stay there. After about a year, I paid the full amount. When we approached the sub-registrar office for registering the land in my name, the officials said the land had once come under revenue recovery process after my friend failed to pay a bank loan,” he said. Though the loan was cleared, they haven’t still received a certificate from the taluk office excluding the land from revenue recovery process, which is mandatory for conducting the registration, Unni said. Kanjikuzhy KSEB sub-engineer Suresh Kumar said in order to get power supply, they have to give the applicant’s Aadhar card, a no-objection certificate of local body, and the land owner’s consent. “If they give all these documents, we can give the connection in an hour,” said the officer. “Though we have approached panchayat authorities many times, they were not ready to give their consent,” said Jyothi, Satheessan’s wife. When contacted, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat president M G Raju said they would make all arrangements to provide power supply to the family as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/srikanth-still-studies-in-light-of-kerosene-lamp/articleshow/76413171.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Govt doubles fin aid for martyrs’ kin to Rs 50 lakh||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government increased the financial assistance to the families of martyrs from the three defence services and paramilitary forces on Tuesday, doubling it from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. The state cabinet cleared the proposal of doubling the compensation for families of defence and paramilitary personnel killed in the line of duty, which will be applicable from April 1, 2020. Government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh said families of personnel who belong to UP and were living in UP would be eligible for the compensation. As per the rules, if a martyr is married and either one or both parents are alive at the time of his death, then Rs 35 lakh will be given to the wife and children, and Rs 15 lakh to parents or parent. If the parents are not alive, then the entire amount is will be given to the wife while if the martyr is unmarried, Rs 50 lakh will be given to the parents. In another decision, the UP cabinet approved the proposal to transfer land to central government for setting up a central school in Mirzapur. Central schools cater to children of transferred personnel, including those from paramilitary forces and defence services. The government will transfer 6.50 acre land in Devri Tappa village of district Mirzapur to the Centre for the school at no cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-doubles-fin-aid-for-martyrs-kin-to-rs-50-lakh/articleshow/76414828.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Police cracks Roorkee robbery case: Three accused held, money recovered||ROORKEE: A day after two officials of Farmer Services Society (FSS), a leg of District Cooperative Bank (DCB), were robbed of Rs 23 lakh in Jhabreda near Roorkee, city police on Tuesday cracked the case and recovered the looted money. It was found out that one of the robbed officials orchestrated the crime in connivance with three others. Police have arrested three accused while the fourth one remains at large. The looted cash was also recovered. The three arrested accused, all in mid-twenties, are residents of Jhabreda police station jurisdiction. They have been identified as — Aashu Kumar Gujjar, Sunny Chaudhary Gujjar, and Pankaj Gujjar. “Upon interrogation, Aashu, one of the FSS officials who was robbed, confessed that he had contacted Pankaj and Dharmender to stage the crime. Another FSS official Sunny also helped them,” said Jhabreda police station in-charge Ravinder Kumar, who took Aashu into custody. Inspector Kumar played a pivotal role in solving the case within just 12 hours. Notably, bike-borne Pankaj and Dharmender looted the money from FSS officials — Aashu and Ramesh — when they were going to deposit the money in a DCB branch of Jhabreda. No involvement of Ramesh was found in the crime. “We have arrested Aashu, Sunny, and Pankaj but Dharmender is still at large. We have also recovered the looted Rs 22,76,820 cash,” said Hardiwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S while presenting the accused before mediapersons on Tuesday at Roorkee Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-cracks-roorkee-robbery-case-three-accused-held-money-recovered/articleshow/76411850.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris admin warns against unnecessary visits||Udhagamandalam: After two people who visited the Nilgiris tested positive on Tuesday, the district administration warned off strict action against people travelling unnecessarily into the district. The cases were cross-notified to their respective district. While one person had come to the hills on an official visit, other person, a woman, 52, came to attend a function. Samples of their throat swabs were lifted on June 12 when they entered the district. “Public are requested not to make trips to the hills unnecessarily. The government has eased the restrictions of the lockdown only to facilitate office-goers and workers to carry out their duties with no difficulties. It is not for attending social and cultural events. The public cannot take this opportunity for granted,” collector J Innocent Divya said. A criminal action will be taken against the woman (who attended a function here), a resident of Sivanandha Colony in Coimbatore, under the Public Health Act and the Epidemic Act, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-admin-warns-against-unnecessary-visits/articleshow/76414155.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: RWAs start dengue awareness drive||DEHRADUN: Several resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city have launched dengue awareness drives to ensure that locals remain safe from the mosquito-borne tropical disease. The move comes after the Dehradun district administration had called upon the RWAs to join the awareness drive against dengue. Meanwhile, the locals have demanded the city’s civic body to repair the stretches with potholes saying that these pits get inundated with rainwater during monsoon season and become breeding places for mosquitoes. “The RWA’s are trying to do their collective bit in the drive against dengue but potholes have become a challenge. We can only clear the compounds and surroundings of our residential societies but it is the responsibility of our municipal body to repair roads at the earliest,” said Mahesh Bhandari, resident of Dalanwala and president of Doon Residents Welfare Front. Another local Harish Mehta, a Shiva Enclave resident, said “A water pipe line was laid here about two years ago but the damaged part of the road was never repaired. The city has already received pre-monsoon showers inundating the potholes. These potholes pose a threat to commuters and become breeding places for mosquitoes.” Echoing the sentiment, Ishwar Chawla, a resident of Ashirwad Enclave, said “The residents are motivated and have been cleaning their compounds and surroundings but the potholes cannot be fixed by us. The civic bodies will have to take care of them before monsoon hits the city.” When queried, Jagmohan Chauhan, executive engineer at Public Works Department, told TOI, “We are already in the process of repairing roads across the city. The roads which are being constructed under the smart city projects will be managed differently but the remaining stretches will be free from potholes before the advent of monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rwas-start-dengue-awareness-drive/articleshow/76411840.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Not-so-disciplined Kolkata falls in line to beat coronavirus||KOLKATA: While crowds on Kolkata buses has been providing fodder to memers on social media over the last two weeks, a group of office-goers are painting a different picture of the city. They have decided to bring in self-discipline, patience and communication to circumvent the chaos plaguing public transport and avoid spreading the novel coronavirus in the ‘new normal’ era. Office-goers, who were strangers to one another till a few days ago, have now come together to beat commute pangs by maintaining queues and waiting for their turns to board buses — a practice of discipline seldom observed in Kolkata. “For the first few days it was chaotic. Some women and elderly people even got hurt while trying to board the bus,” said Sagarika Ghosh, a resident of Kalindi near Lake Town, who takes a Ruby-Lake Town bus every day from the Dorina crossing in Esplanade. “This continued for a few days, during which none of us could board buses despite coming here early. One day, a few of us decided that the only way to bring order was to introduce some discipline in queues.” Passengers on several other routes have replicated the strategy. “When the situation did not improve we decided to introduce the first-come-first-served rule. Now, every evening, we form a queue in front of the Hare Street Police outpost, from where buses leave for Barrackpore,” said Kamaleswar Haldar, a Sodepur resident. In the morning too, commuters from Lake Town, Kalindi, Bangur, Dakshindari and Sreebhumi walk to Lake Town to board 47B. “The buses can leave every few minutes, so the wait is really short,” said Prem Tibrewal who gets down at MG Road and walks to his office on Strand Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/not-so-disciplined-kolkata-falls-in-line-to-beat-corona/articleshow/76414171.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 17, 2020||Kochi||KSIDC yet to clear any loan in Q1||Thiruvananthapuram: Despite government claims of supporting micro, small and medium industries, especially during the pandemic, Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation’s (KSIDC) first quarter is coming to a close without fresh loan sanction till date. As part of its image makeover to a more investor-friendly organization, it had made the highest loan sanctions in its history during the previous financial year. While KSIDC sanctioned Rs 312.57 crore in 2019-20, loan sanctions for the preceding three years were Rs 85.8 crore, Rs 145.9 crore and Rs 120.66 crore. But, KSIDC is yet to take an aggressive posture at a time when MSMEs, that forms 70% of the total industrial sector in state, are under immense stress. The report of the government’s high-level committee led by former chief secretary KM Abraham said that MSMEs have depleted their working capital lines considerably to keep themselves afloat during lockdown. "Studies have shown that the working capital gap – even prior to the Covid pandemic – was widening significantly since 2015. Today MSMEs account for over 6% of the manufacturing GDP and nearly 25% of the service sector GDP employing around 12-crore people. It is necessary to extend a strong and easily accessible lifeline to them," the report said. After registering profits for years, KSIDC posted a loss of Rs 71.46 crore in the first-half of the last financial year. The balance sheet for the first-half showed that 54.61% of the assets of the company were non-performing assets. The government had then appointed MG Rajamanickam as the new MD from the last quarter of the previous financial year, who decided to bring in a host of changes, the most important one being the decision to create a business development division. "This was created so that KSIDC came out of its comfort zone to reach out to the market to attract business instead of existing practice of doing business with only those who have been approaching it," said KSIDC sources. Also, it actively considered business proposals and sanctioned Rs 211.79 crore in two board meetings in the last quarter of the previous financial year, taking the total loan sanction to Rs 312.57 crore in 2019-20. KSIDC also made its highest recovery of loans last year, when it recovered Rs 90.50 crore in terms of defaulted loans. After the officer was shifted from KSIDC in five months, the government is yet to appoint a full-time MD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksidc-yet-to-clear-any-loan-in-q1/articleshow/76413206.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Burrabazar survivors tell cops of ordeal||Kolkata: The Burrabazar police on Tuesday moved a step closer to ensuring that the evidence against Shiv Kumar Gupta — the 55-year-old man arrested for allegedly flinging a one-and-half-year-old and a seven-year-old boy from a fourth-floor balcony on Sunday evening near Nandaram Market — is infallible.Cops said that the seven-year-old — who survived the attack and was recovering at a hospital — was able to recall the incidents of that evening. His statement will now be registered before a magistrate. The third child — a six-year-old girl who escaped unhurt — told cops that Gupta did not rebuke them. He just caught hold of the victim and immediately flung him down.Cops said that they had tracked more witnesses in the case. Forensic experts visited the scene of crime on Tuesday. “The primary objective is to prove that the railing of the balcony is such that no child could have accidentally tipped over and that the spot, from where the deceased child was recovered, clinches the fact that he had been flung from the fourth floor,” said a forensic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-survivors-tell-cops-of-ordeal/articleshow/76414180.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Works put on fast track with eye on Greater Hyderabad civic body polls||HYDERABAD: With Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections likely to be held in December or January 2021, works under strategic road development plan (SRDP), development of Musi river and construction of 2-BHK houses have been put on the fast track. In the GHMC elections held in 2016, TRS had won 99 of 150 seats, while AIMIM secured 44, BJP four, Congress two and TDP a single seat. After multiple delays, the cable-stayed bridge on Durgamcheruvu is expected to be operational by August, while the steel bridge at Panjagutta might be inaugurated within a month. The Bio Diversity flyover (level 1) has already been inaugurated in May. Biodiversity flyover-II, Shaikpet elevated corridor, Botanical Garden elevated corridor, Hi-Tec City MMTS road-under-bridge and Bahadupura flyover are some other major projects underway. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao has announced that by August, 50,000 houses would be handed over to beneficiaries. In Erukula Nancharamma Nagar, LB Nagar, 154 beneficiaries have been handed over the houses this week. Over a lakh 2-BHK houses were being built in the city under the state government’s flagship housing scheme and 80% works pertaining to remaining 50,000 houses have been completed according to the minister. A TRS source said the government is planning to hand over house keys to the beneficiaries on Dasara day in October, two to three months before the elections. “The government will meet the deadline and the poor will get a decent shelter by Dasara. Keys will be handed over to the beneficiaries before the elections,” the source added. Junction improvement, construction of box drains and injection borewells (to control urban flooding), developing lung spaces and laying 300 km of new cement concrete roads in GHMC peripheral areas were the other works which have been paced up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/works-put-on-fast-track-with-eye-on-ghmc-polls/articleshow/76414836.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Locked-down parks rob kids of open spaces, add to stress in cramped neighbourhoods||KOLKATA: The murder of the one-and-half-year-old toddler, who was flung off a fourth-floor balcony for playing in a common space, might have been an isolated incident of a barbaric act, but it highlighted the struggle for open spaces for kids even for simple games during the Covid-19 lockdown. The struggle is the worst in congested residential clusters, like those in Burrabazar, Posta, Jorasanko and Bowbazar, that have limited open spaces. Tiffs over extremely minor issues have also been on a steady rise during this period, said locals. “There is no space to play on the building premises. The neighbourhood kids used to play in the KMC parks or local playgrounds, all of which have been sealed now, forcing the children to run around the buildings’ corridors and landings, which often creates problems for others,” said Bhola Shankar, a resident of a Burrabazar chawl. The banks of Hooghly still have a number of chawls where several families — mostly small-time traders and labourers — share common balconies, toilets, terrace and staircases. Here, people fight over issues like the use of toilet, fetching water from the common roadside tap and drying clothes on the common balcony. “In our area, tiffs over blocked corridors and balconies is a daily affair. During lockdown, most of us were forced to stay inside our small homes for days and without jobs, the tiffs increased manifold. Only last week, there was a brawl between two families over the issue of kids playing on the terrace during which some furniture was damaged,” said Ranjit Shaw, a resident of Amratala Lane. Officers at Burrabazar, Posta and Jorasanko police stations said they were aware of troubles among families from these areas, but very few resulted in formal complaints. “Most of the troubles were resolved without our intervention. But Sunday’s incident is beyond explanation,” said a central division officer. Local councillors said that the lockdown had left a deep impact on residents of these areas. They are mostly small-time traders or odd-job workers and the lockdown had pushed them into depression that led to an increase in tiffs among neighbours. “Even we had to intervene at times to resolve small fights between children that could have escalated into something big with their families getting involved. But we are appealing to everyone to keep calm and be patient while dealing with this situation,” said Parvez Iqbal, a senior Trinamool Congress leader and the husband of Ward 43 councillor Shagufta Parveen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locked-down-parks-rob-kids-of-open-spaces-add-to-stress-in-cramped-neighbourhoods/articleshow/76414185.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Man who stole gold chains from elderly women at CMCH held||Coimbatore: A 37-year-old history-sheeter from Madurai was arrested on Tuesday for stealing gold chains weighing 10 sovereigns from three elderly woman, one of them a retired staff nurse, from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) premises in 2019. Police have recovered from him the stolen gold chains and returned them to the victims. The Race Course police identified the accused as P Chithiraivel, of Ellis Nagar in Madurai. A police officer said the accused had made away with the gold chain from 70-year-old A Muniyammal, of Karupparayan Temple Street, Puliyakulam, when she visited CMCH in June 2019 to get medicine for diabetic and blood pressure. “He approached the woman with an offer to help her get money under a central government scheme. He asked her to remove gold chain, saying officials won’t consider her for the scheme if she met them with wearing the same. She handed him over her chain weighing three sovereigns and he fled with that.”The woman’s son A Kannan lodged a complaint with the Race Course police, who registered a case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code.By using the same modus operandi, Chithiraivel stole gold chain weighing three sovereigns from 74-year-old N Nallammal of Selvapuram in February 2019 and another one weighing six sovereigns from retired staff nurse Mallika, 61, in December 2019. Both the incidents took place on CMCH campus. Race Course police inspector PS Sujatha and team collected CCTV footages from CMCH premises and traced the whereabouts of the accused to Maduarai. The team arrested him on Tuesday and recovered all the three gold chains from him. The official said even as a child Chithiraivel was involved in theft cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-who-stole-gold-chains-from-elderly-women-at-cmch-held/articleshow/76414164.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||No entry to Chamundi Hills on Ashada Fridays||MYSURU: This season, devotees cannot witness the special pujas at Sri Chamundeshwari Temple atop the Chamundi Hills on Ashada Fridays as the district administration will close the hills to the visitors. The move is aimed at preventing the virus spread. During a meeting at Dasoha Bhavan atop the hill on Tuesday, district minister S T Somashekar discussed the matter with forest minister Anand Singh, MLAs G T Devegowda, S A Ramadas and L Nagendra and DC Abhiram G Sankar. Ashada Fridays will be celebrated on June 26, July 3, July 10 and July 17, while the vardhanti of the presiding deity is on July 13. Considering the opinions of officials and the locals, Somashekar said that that pujas will be held at the temple, “but devotees will not be allowed to the hill on Ashada Fridays and on July 13”. “All roads and steps leading to the hills will be blocked. The administration has already banned the entry of visitors on Saturdays and Sundays. The decision has been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus, especially in massive gatherings — nearly one lakh devotees visit the temple on Ashada Fridays,” he said. However, Somashekar said, devotees can visit the temple on other days by strictly following the social distancing and hygiene norms. The DC said that all the pujas and rituals will be held as per tradition on Ashada Fridays and the vardhanti. “But there will be no darshan for devotees. The government is taking necessary measures to contain the virus spread, and visitors should cooperate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-entry-to-chamundi-hills-on-ashada-fridays/articleshow/76413182.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt staff dupe 15 people of Rs 25L, held||Coimbatore: Two former district collectorate staff members have been arrested for duping at least 15 people of Rs 25 lakh, by promising them government jobs. The city crime branch police identified the accused as VL Prabhu, 43, of K Vadamadurai near Thudiyalur, and S Suresh Babu, 49, of Ramanathapuram. Prabhu was working as a superintendent at the office of the public relationship officer (PRO) and Suresh Babu was the PRO’s car driver. An investigation officer said the duo had collected around Rs 25 lakh from 15 people by promising them government jobs. “When they failed to deliver on their promises, the victims asked them to return the money. Meanwhile, Prabhu was transferred to Chennai and Suresh to Dharmapuri.” The victims lodged a complaint with the city crime branch police, who registered a case against the duo. The preliminary inquiry revealed that the two had received money from the victims by promising them jobs with the public health department, city municipal corporation, education department, judiciary and the district collectorate. The two were arrested on Monday and produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody. They were subsequently lodged in Avinashi sub-jail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-staff-dupe-15-people-of-rs-25l-held/articleshow/76414179.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Surat||Once nCov-free, Daman has 8 positive cases now||Surat: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the union territory of Daman reached eight on Tuesday with two more testing positive.Health officials said that the two males aged about 25 years, who tested positive, were already kept under quarantine in the containment zone of Vijaybhai Bar and Restaurant building in Dabhel area. The patients have a travel history to Mumbai and they had returned to Daman few days ago. The duo were kept under quarantine as they had mild symptoms. It was after the symptoms aggravated, their samples were taken and that they tested positive.Daman is the most sought-after watering hole for people from south Gujarat. In Diu too, there are three active Covid cases, all being patients who had come from outside.Meanwhile, Ummar Noor Apartment in Nani Daman, Vijay Bar and Restaurant in Dabhel and Dilip Empire in Nani Daman have been put under containment zone and the health teams have started the door-to-door survey of the residents.After unlock 1.0, the Daman administration had started issuing e-passes to the persons coming for work in the territory and to those going out of the territory. Recently, the administration announced that the visitors in Daman will have to book a hotel room to enter.Director of Medical and health services of UT, Dr VK Das said, “All those entering Daman for the first time, be it residents or workers, have to compulsorily remain in home quarantine for 14 days. All Covid-19 positive patients in Daman are the workers employed in the local industries, who are staying in Gujarat.” Dr Das added, “There are many workers who are staying in chawls in Dabhel and Nani Daman. We are doing the terminal screening of all the workers and those found symptomatic are further tested for coronavirus.”About 51 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/once-ncov-free-daman-has-8-positive-cases-now/articleshow/76411892.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar administration starts survey to prevent Covid-19 transmission||HARIDWAR: The district administration on Tuesday launched an integrated survey to identify those people who are at high risk due to Covid-19 outbreak. The drive will cover each family living in the district, said officials. During the survey, the data of elderly, people with pre-existing medical conditions, Tuberculosis patients, kids below five years of age, malnourished children, and pregnant women will be collected. Reportedly, ASHA and Anganbadi workers will conduct this survey before June 30. According to district administration, around 21 lakh people live in Haridwar and most of them live in rural areas where cases of Covid-19 are increasing steadily post lockdown. The district shares boundary with Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, and Bijnor districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experts say that the risk of community transmission in Haridwar is high as several positive cases, who have no travel history, have surfaced in the district. However, officials have maintained that there is no community transmission in the district at present. C Ravishankar, Haridwar district magistrate, told TOI, “We have a large population. TB patients, pregnant women, malnourished children, and elderly living in the district are at high risk. To save their lives and prevent community transmission of Covid-19, we have started a mega survey to collect data of all these people. All departments will work jointly under the supervision of the health department. Each team will survey at least 25 houses daily and this drive will be completed within 15 days. We have given training and protection kits to ASHA and Anganbadi workers. They will be our Corona Warriors. We have also held several meetings with religious scholars in the district to help the survey teams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-admin-starts-survey-to-prevent-covid-19-transmission/articleshow/76411877.cms||MS Nawaz
June 17, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers wanted: Organic unit in Mandya offers jobs to those interested in agriculture||MYSURU: The Covid-19 crisis has compelled industries and various private companies to lay off employees, reduce salaries and adopt other such drastic measures in order to remain viable. However, Grassroots Organic, a group dedicated to farming in Mandya, is offering employment to those keen to work in one of the world’s oldest professions: Agriculture. What is more, the pay they are offering is by no means modest – starting from Rs 10,000, those selected can earn up to Rs 30,000, with free boarding and food into the bargain. Grassroots Organic was started by a group of six professionals in the technical sector. Kamalesh M, one of the founders, said that they were currently in need of 30 people who had a passion for farming. “The job will entail cleaning the farm, ploughing, sowing and marketing too,” he said. Emphasising the need for an innate passion for farming, and affinity to the land among candidates, Kamalesh said that the salary would be decided based on the applicants’ skillset, and the responsibilities one is willing to shoulder. Grassroots Organic has been active for the past two years, and has enlisted the assistance of locals, including women self-help groups. Cold-pressed oils extracted from groundnut, coconuts, safflower and sesame are among the products they are involved in the preparation of. “We use a gaana driven by a bullock. The gaana is in Nelamane village in Srirangapatna,” Kamalesh said. The cold-pressed oil, Kamalesh said, was being supplied to more than 800 households in Bengaluru and other towns across the state. “We are planning on diversifying our products by bringing out dairy products and preservative-free food products soon. The highlight is that we will be taking our products directly to the customer,” he added. Organic farmer Honnur Prakash of Yalandur taluk in Mandya, said, “Farmers will incur no losses if they take to organic cultivation. They will be able to market the produce themselves, which will drive up their profit margins.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-wanted-organic-unit-in-mandya-offers-jobs-to-those-interested-in-agriculture/articleshow/76413255.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hubballi||Robbers target high-end phones put for online sale||HUBBALLI: Think twice before putting your cellphone to sale on online platforms, for you may become the next target for robbers. Going by their modus operandi over the last three months, the robbers are literally snatching the to-be-sold cellphones from the owners. Miscreants, on the pretext of buying phones, summon the owners to a certain place, only to snatch the gadgets and flee the spot on bikes. The gang has been targeting the sellers of only high-end cellphones. Interestingly, the miscreants ask the owners to bring along bills and warranty cards of the cellphones. While snatching the gadgets, they also get hold of the documents. According to police one such case is reported in Malamaddi area, two in KCD Circle, one near NTTF (where a phone worth Rs 75,000 was robbed), one on Sattur Double Road, two in APMC, one at Desai Cross. Police are expecting more cases as the gang is still active. Police said handsets worth Rs 2.80 lakh have been robbed so far. Requesting anonymity, a police official said that they target iPhones, Samsung Galaxy Series, Vivo V series, Y series and other phones sold at a premium in the market. “Keeping an eye on such postings, the miscreants call the owner and summon them to a certain spot on the pretext of buying their phones. Seeing an opportune time, they push the owner and get away with cellphones and documents,” the officer said. DCP (crime and traffic) R B Basaragi said this is a new modus operandi. “Police are actively investigating the cases. Equipped with clues, we are confident of arresting the miscreants at the earliest. People also should be cautious and not fall prey to such tricks. They should opt for a safe and easy mode to sell mobiles, instead of using such platforms.” Meanwhile, APMC/ Navanagar police arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in cellphone snatching crime on Sunday evening. Eight celllphones worth Rs 2.86 lakh and two bikes used in the crime have been recovered from the duo, identified as Akash Madliyar, 20, of Patil Chawl, Hubballi, and Akash Mule, 20, of Shettar Layout Hubballi. The police team was led by inspector Prabhu Surin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/robbers-target-high-end-phones-put-for-online-sale/articleshow/76413463.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress threatens to launch agitation||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress on Tuesday decided to launch a statewide agitation against the Centre’s amendments in the Agricultural Marketing Act from June 19. State president Sunil Jakhar announced this after presiding over a meeting of ministers, MPs and a group of MLAs and other office-bearers. He said the Centre had recently enacted three new ordinances regarding marketing of crops. All these tantamounted to locking up agriculture and it will not be possible for agriculture sector to continue with the changes, he said. Jakhar said the party would launch a state-wide campaign to create awareness among farmers and other sections about adverse effects of laws on the economy of Punjab. The agitation that will start from Fatehgarh Sahib and would be followed by similar small gatherings at all district headquarters to spread awareness about the adverse effects of the ordinances on farmers, he added. Party leaders will brief people in detail about the agenda items of BJP and Akali Dal’s studded silence on the issue, he said. He said the Centre was trying to abolish MSP for crops. “If this happens, not only farmers, but also arthiyas, transporters and other stakeholders in the sector will suffer. It will prove fatal to the interests of states. In order to ensure food security of the country and the interests of farmers, it is imperative to maintain MSP,” Jakhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-threatens-to-launch-agitation/articleshow/76414191.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||CM Amarinder Singh’s opposition to farm ordinance farcical: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Tuesday that Congress government in Punjab had already included provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance, 2020, in the state Agriculture Produce Markets Committee (APMC) Act by amending it in 2017. Sukhbir said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should not indulge in “farcical opposition” to the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance 2020. He asked Amarinder to clarify why Congress had amended the APMC Act to allow creation of private markets, direct marketing, electronic agricultural marketing and single unified licence for the state in 2017. “Congress government was party to the passing of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance 2020 as it not only participated in the consultative process but also gave feedback to the Centre that it had already amended the state APMC Act to enable implementation of the proposed ordinance,” he asserted. The SAD president said the Punjab chief minister should explain under which logic he was demanding withdrawal of the ordinance when he had paved the way for making it a reality by amending the APMC Act and notified the same on August 14, 2017. Instead, Sukhbir said the chief minister should not try to divert attention and should roll back the steep increase in value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel if he was really worried about the welfare of farmers and the common man. Petrol and diesel prices had been increased by Rs 2 on May 6. Punjab government had effected an increase of Rs 1.20 per liter on petrol and 0.53 paisa in diesel on June 15, said Sukhbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cms-oppn-to-farm-ordinance-farcical/articleshow/76414196.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Amritsar||5,000 Sikh farmer families in UP face eviction from prized land||AMRITSAR: As many as 5,000 Sikh families settled in various Uttar Pradesh villages claim facing eviction threat and are looking for help from SAD and ruling Congress in Punjab to help. Sikh Sangathan, UP and Uttarakhand, president Jasbir Singh Virk said Sikh families, mainly in the districts of Bijnor, Rampur and Lakhimpur Kheri, face displacement from their homes and lands. Virk, who spoke to TOI on Tuesday, said that on May 15, 28 and in the first week of June, UP Police teams in Rampur, Champatpur and Ran Nagar had tried to evict the Sikhs from their houses. It had led to scuffle between Sikhs and police in Ran Nagar, he said. Besides, the forest department had lodged a police complaint against Sikhs on June 5, but decided against proceeding in the matter two days later. He said after they approached SAD through former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, the party had set up a three-member committee to take up the matter with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Yesterday, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh called and sought details of the issue,” he claimed. “I believe both the Akalis as well as Congress will help us by rising above their political considerations,” he added. According to Virk, Sikh farmers had settled in UP after the Partition in 1947 and converted the forest and barren land into rich, fertile and productive farms. Between 1948 and 1951, several Sikh families had settled down in Champatpur village of Nagina tehsil of Bijnor. While some had purchased the land in village, others were allowed to till the land by then state government. He claimed all this was done by word of mouth and there is no written evidence. Ever since, the Sikh families have been cultivating those lands and have water and electricity connections in their names.  “A large number of Sikh families have already purchased lands while others have had verbal agreements with the previous governments, so they should not be displaced. Instead, the land should be allotted to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/5000-sikh-farmer-families-in-up-face-eviction-from-prized-land/articleshow/76414199.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Love’s labour lost? Pandemic leaves couples and banquets in a quandary||LUCKNOW: The pandemic may have thrown up valour stories of couples defying hurdles to consummate their love, but most suitors were stranded before they could tie the knot. Varun and his fiancee were to get married in April. They made bookings with vendors, caterers and a five-star hotel for a grand reception. Everything went on hold when the lockdown came into force. Three months on, they are still struggling to secure a full refund of their advance payment. “Service providers are requesting us to extend bookings to a later date without extra charge, but we are in a dilemma. If we go ahead, it will just be an inexpensive and close-knit affair. But the money paid in advance is huge and we don’t know when the crisis will end. In such a scenario, we want our money back,” said Varun. Hotels and banquet halls grappling with lockdown-induced losses are now scrambling for clarity on guidelines to reopen the hospitality sector. Most banquet owners said they are yet to recover from losses and forced to pay refund due to cancellations. “Many couples and tourists have deferred plans. All seminars, weddings, social events were put on hold. We had two options, either to refund or give credit vouchers to consumers. We refunded a few advance bookings and provided credit vouchers to others,” said Joyjit Chakravarty, general manager of a five-star hotel. General secretary of Uttar Pradesh Hotel and Restaurant Association Garish Oberoi said that most hotels and banquets are refunding consumers despite cash crunch. “Due to sudden cancellations of events, we are refunding clients. If not, they are giving credit vouchers which allow customers’ money to be adjusted for holding any future event. There’s a long way to go to win back trust,” he added. Event planner Andita Singh said, “The hospitality sector is following safety protocols, but still awaiting clarity in guidelines. With most vendors having left the city, banquet places are unsure about ways to manage the workforce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/loves-labour-lost-pandemic-leaves-couples-banquets-in-a-quandary/articleshow/76414840.cms||Aditi Singh
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||81-year-old continues to be +ve for over a month||Mangaluru: The case of an octogenarian Covid-19 patient, being treated at the designated hospital in Mangaluru, has baffled the health authorities. The family of three, including the 81-year-old, had landed here in the first flight from Dubai on May 12, and were found infected. While his wife and daughter were discharged, the elderly man continues to be positive. Doctors are in a confusion as he is asymptomatic. All the six tests conducted on his samples in the past one month have tested positive, because of which the doctors have not sent him home. Meanwhile, another 76-year-old man, who arrived here with his wife from Dubai on May 18, also got infected. The couple is asymptomatic but positive. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that they are yet to decide on treating the 81-year-old patient in isolation — at his house — as a special case. “It is a sensitive issue as he is aged 81. Leaving him alone at house is risky as he may fall and injure himself. Also, people in the neighbourhood may oppose his shifting there. We are doing our best to cure him. Normally, tests are done once in 72 days. We will wait for one more week and hope for the best,” Dr Bairy said, adding that the lack of immunity is the only reason for the delay in recovery. “The elderly patients are looking healthy, but they are feeling down due to isolation,” the DHO explained. Dr Prashanth Bhat, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Udupi, said that there are only 2-3 patients who continue to be positive for 21 days in the district. Most of the patients have recovered within 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/81-year-old-continues-to-be-ve-for-over-a-month/articleshow/76411876.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Recoveries again higher than fresh Covid-19 cases in MP||BHOPAL: For the third consecutive day, recoveries outnumbered people testing corona positive on Tuesday. 249 patients recovered and were discharged from the Covid hospitals, while 134 new people were tested positive. The state’s total Covid-19 count now stands at 11,069. On the other hand, 11 deaths were reported in MP on the same day—Indore (4), Raisen (2) and (1) each in Bhopal, Ujjain, Ratlam, Barwani and Katni districts. The new casualties pushed up the state’s death toll to 476. Districts accounting for new cases in double digit are— Bhopal (48), Indore (21) and Neemuch (10). On the brighter side, 249 people who were admitted at Covid hospitals across the state were discharged, owing to their recovery. Total recoveries stand at 8,152. Thus, 73% of the total infected people have recovered from the disease. Currently, there are only 2,441 active patients in the state. Meanwhile, the state has announced 1,091 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement here is strictly prohibited. Madhya Pradesh government has established 1,197 fever clinics, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being collected, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recoveries-again-higher-than-fresh-covid-cases-in-mp/articleshow/76413249.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 infection on decline, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Tuesday that Coronavirus infection in Madhya Pradesh was on a decline. Growth rate of Coronavirus infection in the state was half the national average. Coronavirus active cases in the state has come down to less than 2500. He said fight against Coronavirus should become a public campaign and people should be involved in the efforts to end the Coronavirus pandemic. Addressing officials from across the state through video conference in the review meeting over Covid-19, he said that health survey should be conducted in all the wards of Bhopal, Coronavirus suspects should be identified and treated. He said Coronavirus infection growth rate in MP was 1.82 % as against national growth rate of 3.67%. The doubling rate of patients was 38.43 days as against 19.23 days at the national level. There are 2,455 Coronavirus active patients in the state. On Tuesday, 148 new patients were detected while 249 persons being treated for the infection went back home after recovery. It was informed during the meeting that Ujjain now has a recovery rate of 80 %. Chief minister emphasised on contact tracing to tackle the infection. It was further told that out of 819 infected persons in Ujjain, 103 are active patients while 645 people have recovered. The chief minister further said that medical stores should be asked to inform about people who come to buy drugs for fever, cough and cold. Chouhan said that focus should be on reducing the death rate due to Coronavirus infection. He said free treatment was being provided to Coronavirus patients in the state in all the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-infection-on-decline-says-cm/articleshow/76413245.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Surat||58 more cases in Surat||Surat city reported 58 fresh cases on Tuesday which included 21 from 'Covid-19 hotspot' Katargam zone. SMC officials said that they have increased the number of health surveillance teams in Katargam, central zone and Limbayat. "There are a total of 761 Covid-19 active cases in the city of which 157 patients are at private hospitals, 396 patients at government hospitals and 46 patients are taking treatment at their home as per ICMR guidelines,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/58-more-cases-in-surat/articleshow/76411927.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Indore||Recoveries again higher than fresh Covid-19 cases in MP||BHOPAL: For the third consecutive day, recoveries outnumbered people testing corona positive on Tuesday. 249 patients recovered and were discharged from the Covid hospitals, while 134 new people were tested positive. The state’s total Covid-19 count now stands at 11,069. On the other hand, 11 deaths were reported in MP on the same day—Indore (4), Raisen (2) and (1) each in Bhopal, Ujjain, Ratlam, Barwani and Katni districts. The new casualties pushed up the state’s death toll to 476. Districts accounting for new cases in double digit are— Bhopal (48), Indore (21) and Neemuch (10). On the brighter side, 249 people who were admitted at Covid hospitals across the state were discharged, owing to their recovery. Total recoveries stand at 8,152. Thus, 73% of the total infected people have recovered from the disease. Currently, there are only 2,441 active patients in the state. Meanwhile, the state has announced 1,091 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement here is strictly prohibited. Madhya Pradesh government has established 1,197 fever clinics, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being collected, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/recoveries-again-higher-than-fresh-covid-cases-in-mp/articleshow/76418750.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Private lab in Bengaluru offers immunity tests; experts advise caution||BENGALURU: A private lab in the city is offering an immunity check package tapping on mass anxiety in the times of Covid-19. The offer from SRL Diagnostics comes with a tagline — Strong immune system reduces the risk of infection. Experts, however, say the package is an attempt to cash in on the fear over coronavirus and people must be careful. The check-up costs Rs 3,299 and covers tests for general health and infection, immunity, diabetes, heart disease, kidney, liver and level of electrolytes in the body. “I got a message from the lab about the test. It’s a worrisome trend. Why is the government silent about private labs encashing on public fear?” wondered a resident from Jayanagar. Several doctors TOI spoke to said liver function tests and cardiac assessments are done when there is a problem or during annual health checks. “This has got nothing to do with one’s immunity. It only encashes on someone’s fear,” they said. “Multiple labs and test aggregators are offering such immune checks, monetising on the corona anxiety. Though technically no laws are being broken, marketing of these packages could be misleading. They are yet another money-making scheme during the pandemic,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor, All India Drug Action Network. Aisola added that a lab in Gurugram has offered an immunity check at Rs 1,299. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, said the public must not be misled by such offers and just adhere to precautionary measures like hand washing, physical distancing and maintaining hygiene. “We will look into the matter,” he added. The lab, however, refused to reveal data on how many individuals took the test. “SRL Diagnostics has been at the forefront of promoting preventive healthcare. Understanding the current need of the people to assess their immunity level better, we have launched an Immunity Check Package that helps an individual keep a check on immunity levels against existing infections. With Unlock 1.0 in place, the idea is to give people the confidence that they can return to work amid the pandemic. Keeping a healthy immune system can help prevent or reduce risks of infections or diseases; one can adopt healthier habits such as consuming nutritious food, exercise and getting enough sleep to promote immune health,” said Vikram Ahluwalia, marketing director, SRL Diagnostics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-lab-offers-immunity-tests-experts-advise-caution/articleshow/76413248.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 17, 2020||Vadodara||Wary of Covid, Gujaratis skip blowing candles on birthday cakes||VADODARA: Tejas Patel, an Ahmedabad-based builder, didn’t miss blowing out the candles on his birthday cake on April 24. He ritualistically closed his eyes, made a wish and then shocked everybody with his innovative idea. “He used a hairdryer to blow out the candle as he didn’t want to risk passing bacteria from his mouth on the cake. We took precautions due to the coronavirus outbreak,” his wife Preeti Patel explained. Even Ram Shitole didn’t have candles on his birthday cake, celebrated a fortnight ago. Instead, the Barodian, who works as food and beverages manager, lit a traditional earthen lamp beside the cake and had sumptuous dinner with his family. Nobody knows who, how or why this piquant ritual started, but a birthday in modern times is incomplete without the customary blowing out candles on the cake. However, in June 2017, researchers at Clemson University including Paul Dawson, reported that this act also deposited a large number of bacteria on the cake — a theory that Covid-wary Gujaratis are totally agreeing to. The study done by the South Carolina varsity revealed that blowing out candles increases the level of bacteria on the cake by 1,400%! “I didn’t want to risk the health of my family and well-wishers. I cut the cake directly amid loud cheers and it was as tasty,” Ram told TOI, with a chuckle. “Birthdays are always special and blowing out candles make it extra special. But this time I skipped the tradition due to Coronavirus scare. We didn’t want to take any chances,” said Class XI student, Tanisha Lister. “We have always provided designer candles with our cakes. But since the pandemic outbreak, people have not been asking for candles any more. Many clients have stopped the ritual of blowing out candles altogether,” said Disha Naik, a pastry chef from Vadodara. Jugal Thakkar, who stays in Ahmedabad, didn’t even cut a cake on his birthday on May 11 as he wanted to avoid bakery items prepared in shops to stay safe. “Amid the threat, I didn’t want to risk anyone’s health in my family,” he said. “Some of my clients have switched to more safer cake options. Priyanka Patel, a customer, celebrated the birthday of her twin brothers earlier this month by simply cutting the cake and then sending cup cakes over to their friends,” said Kiran Amin, who runs a patisserie in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wary-of-covid-gujaratis-skip-blowing-candles-on-bday-cakes/articleshow/76413306.cms||Tushar Tere
June 17, 2020||Hubballi||146 Covid cases at JSW steel plant; DC issues fresh guidelines||BALLARI: A spurt in the number of Covid-19 infections linked to JSW Steel, Vijayanagar in Ballari, has the district administration on its toes. On Tuesday, DC S S Nakul observed that in the last one week, there has been a spate of cases in the industrial unit of M/s JSW Limited and persons in contact with the employees of the company. The total positive cases linked to the plant stands at 146 while primary contacts placed under quarantine are 633. Expressing concern over the possibility of coronavirus spreading inside the campus leading to a health crisis in the district, the DC also issued fresh guidelines to Jindal plant administration to curb the spread of the virus. The new order comes into effect from June 18 to 30. “The plant had been functional on minimal staff for a period of five days. However, experts worry the employees may spread Covid-19 further on their return to their villages and towns,” he said adding fresh guidelines have been issued to prevent the scenario. As per the guidelines, all employees (direct or contractual) required for work at the M/s JSW Steel Limited must be housed within JSW Township itself. The management will select the required employees while keeping in mind their possible co-morbidities. The selected employees are banned from moving to their villages and will stay within the township. Their movement will be restrict between the township and factory from June 18 to 30. “Management will identify their teams to ensure proper supply of food, grains and other essentials on payment basis or which the management deems appropriate. Management must also ensure health care facilities if need arise,” it said. “Only movement of goods vehicles (empty / carrying load) shall be allowed from factory premise. The management must try to test their employees and immediately report all ILI and SARI cases recorded in the township to the OPJ fever clinic. It should stick to Standard Operating Procedure on preventive measures to contain spread of the virus,” DC said in his fresh order. “As per DC’s fresh order, we have started relocating employees required for emergency works in our plants to our township. Only the employees who are required will be made to stay at townships. We have already asked many employees to stay at home. We have taken all precautionary measures as per the SOP to curb the spread of the virus,” said JSW senior vice president Manjunath Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/146-cases-at-jsw-steel-plant-dc-issues-fresh-guidelines/articleshow/76411941.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 17, 2020||Surat||Five test positive in Bharuch||Bharuch district too recorded five fresh cases, taking the total in the district to 99 on Tuesday. Sources said that three new Covid-19 positive cases were registered from Bharuch town, including Busa Society, Samruddhi Bungalows and Swapna Shruti Society, while two were reported from Jambusar taluka. All the patients have been shifted to the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-test-positive-in-bharuch/articleshow/76411939.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman alleges threat from neighbours for feeding strays||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old woman living at Dharani Nagar colony in Kukatpally has alleged that she was harassed by her neighbours for feeding stray dogs in the area. The woman, Kande Shanti, has been feeding the community dogs since the past 11 years, also alleged that the neighbours went to the extent of threatening her of dire consequences if she continues to feed the dogs. Speaking to TOI, Shanti said, “I have been feeding these dogs. I got them spayed and vaccinated so they don’t become a threat to anyone in the colony. Since the past few days, five men have been harassing me over feeding these dogs.” She also stated that the police are not registering an FIR despite her filing a complaint against the five men. Colony president Mahender Reddy, whom TOI contacted, had a different take on the issue. He said, “The issue arose after one of the dogs destroyed a car cover and the neighbours alleged that the woman attacked a five-year-old child with a small stone after he tried to hit one of the dogs. There was no harassment. We have only requested the woman to stop feeding the dogs for a few days so that they go somewhere else.” He added, “The dogs bark all night and try to attack people who pass the area.” A complaint has been filed by both the parties at Jagadgirigutta PS. However, no FIR has been registered yet. “We have received counter-petitions from both parties. We gave them the receipt and are enquiring about the case. The FIR will be registered after we discuss the case with the CI,” said K Lingam, inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-alleges-threat-from-neighbours-for-feeding-strays/articleshow/76414848.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Surat||Diamond exports fall by 80% in April-May: GJEPC data||Surat: The extended lockdown and the global pandemic has taken sheen out of the diamond industry. The export of polished diamonds between April and May fell by 80% in majority of the diamond consuming markets around the globe including US.According to the latest data published by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the export of polished diamonds decreased to $389 million compared to $1.8 billion during the same period in previous year. The overall gross export of gems and jewellery declined by 84% to $572 million during April-May 2020 as compared to $3.5 billion in corresponding period last year. A leading diamond polishing firm seeking anonymity said, “The market in China is recovering, but the fresh protests in Hong Kong has disturbed the trade. Hong Kong is the gateway to China for diamonds. We have exported the diamonds to Hong Kong, but shipping them to China is a big question.” Industry sources said that the US, which is the largest diamond consumer market with annual sale of $45 billion worth of diamond jewellery, is still under turmoil due to the Covid-19.India exports about $10 billion worth of polished diamonds to the US every year. About 60% of the monthly export from India is destined to the US market. Chairman of GJEPC, Colin Shah told TOI, “The polished diamond exports has been affected due to the lockdown globally. However, the demand in China, Europe and Australia is recovering as the Covid-19 situation has improved and the markets have reopened.”Shah added, “Industry is recovering slowly but surely with all the safety norms. It will recover faster if there is credit availability and more quicker progress made on the ease of doing business front.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-exports-fall-by-80-in-april-may-gjepc-data/articleshow/76411968.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ironing kills virus on clothes’||Q: If clothes are given to a washer man for ironing, what precautions will be required? | Mansoori Lal Kesarwani A: You should take necessary precaution of face mask and social distancing while dropping your clothes off in a laundry. Heat from ironing kills the virus if it is present on clothes. Take precautions while receiving the bundle of clothes as well. Q: We want to visit my daughter living alone in Dehradun. Will we be required to be in quarantine in Dehradun and in Lucknow after we return? | Rajesh Agarwal A: You will have to adhere to Uttarakhand’s guidelines and quarantine there. Once you return to Lucknow, you will have to quarantine yourself here too. Answers by TN Dhole, veteran virologist, SGPGI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ironing-kills-virus-on-clothes/articleshow/76414846.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Seasonal tariff for mining sector unviable: Power dept||Panaji: The electricity department has declined to offer a separate ‘seasonal tariff’ to the mining industry. In its latest tariff order, it has stated that a distinct seasonal tariff for the mining industry is not viable on a commercial basis as the department has no control over power generation to meet the seasonal demand of the mining industry. The department has stated that there is currently no such category classified under the existing tariff order and added that Goa doesn’t have its own power generation. “…hence power has to be procured from Central Generating Stations of NTPC and the department has to pay 85% or as per actuals, whichever is higher, of the capacity charges for drawing power from ‘long-term agreement’ power stations,” the department has stated. The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), which controls the power sector in Goa and the Union Territories, had asked the department to submit information of energy sales, connected load and number of consumers falling under the seasonal category of consumers along with its next tariff petition. “If the stakeholder (mining industry) has higher contract demand, the consumer may get its load decreased in accordance with the provisions of the Supply Code Regulations notified by JERC,” the commission had suggested. Stakeholders in the mining industry had requested the commission to approve and define a ‘seasonal consumer’ in the tariff order and assign the mining industry under this head. They had demanded that distinct methodology for billing of demand and energy charges for seasonal consumers be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seasonal-tariff-for-mining-sector-unviable-power-dept/articleshow/76414878.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Over 9% of primary contacts tested in June Covid positive||BENGALURU: Of all tests conducted on primary contacts of Covid-19 patients in Karnataka in the first two weeks in June, more than 9% returned positive, adding nearly 500 new cases to the tally, while only one secondary contact was infected, keeping the positivity rate of secondary contacts to 0%. The government tested 5,513 samples from primary contacts between June 1 and 14, of which 499 or 9.1% tested positive. The most tests and positives among primary contacts were reported from Bengaluru Urban, with a positivity rate of 5.3% in this category. The capital city reported 113 cases from 2,149 tests conducted. As for secondary contacts, the government tested 6,992 samples, of which only one was positive in Bengaluru, where 2,411 samples were tested. However, in the first two weeks of this month, more than 2.5% of all samples tested returned positive — 1.4 lakh tests were conducted of which 3,594 tested positive — which is more than double the overall positivity rate (1.2%) in the state. While the spread appears under control in Bengaluru where 292 or 1.1% of the 27,285 samples tested positive, the positivity rate was higher in Kalaburagi where 564 (3.4%) of 16,441 showed an infection. Yadgir saw 493 (4.4%) of 11,144 samples returning positive, while it was 121 (0.9%) of 12,982 in Vijayapura and 178 (1.6%) of 11,161 in Bidar. However, in absolute numbers, domestic travellers, asymptomatic carriers and pregnant women, a category classified by the government, accounted for the most number of cases although they weren’t as high in terms of percentage when compared to primary contacts. Of the more than 1 lakh samples tested in this category, 2,887 (2.8%) showed they were infected. While no break-up of each of these categories is immediately available, an official said: “Most of them are travellers who showed no symptoms and there aren’t many pregnant women.” Of the 3,414 samples from health workers tested, only 0.4% or 14 cases returned positive, despite this category being on the frontlines of the battle against the pandemic. And as reported on Tuesday, 83 from more than 6,500 samples taken from ILI patients tested positive as did 1.6% or 30 cases from 1,828 samples from SARI patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-9-of-primary-contacts-tested-in-june-positive/articleshow/76413261.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Three burglars arrested in Telangana, jewellery recovered||HYDERABAD: Three burglars, including a woman, were nabbed by Rachakonda police on Tuesday at Thorrur crossroads on NH-65. Cops recovered Rs 21 lakh worth valuables, including 28.5 tola gold ornaments, from the trio. The trio — Ponnala Shiva Shankar (37), Indla Soma Shiva Shankar (35) and Ambala Nagamani (40) — from Secunderabad were involved in 26 similar cases across the city this year alone. Shiva and Soma Shiva met in jail while serving their sentences after they were released from jail in December 2019. The duo along with Nagamani stayed at Parsigutta and started committing burglaries. Shiva was involved in 35 offences from 2005 till 2019, while Soma committed seven offences since 2002. The duo would target isolated colonies around the ORR outskirts and commit burglaries. Nagamani, a close associate of Shiva, was providing shelter to the duo and help them dispose of the stolen property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-burglars-arrested-jewellery-recovered/articleshow/76414851.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Government postpones varsity exams||BHOPAL: Exams for under-graduate and postgraduate courses, which were scheduled to be organised from June 29, have been postponed. The state higher education department officials said that new dates will be announced later. Notably, students, professors were against the idea of conducting exams amid corona spread. Sources said that the universities had informed the state govt that even employees and teachers are against the decision to organise examinations during this sensitive times. Besides, there was a problem of space as only 20 students were allowed to sit in class. Highly placed sources said that govt is mulling on providing general promotion to all students except final year. Ever since the exam dates were announced, there had been an agitation from students and the faculty. Students said that it was not the correct time to hold exams as it could expose them to the infection. Several students had even threatened that they would skip exams. Earlier, the department of higher education had issued instructions for conducting the exams for final year students of undergraduate courses and fourth semester of post graduation exams in all colleges and universities. Professors claimed that social distancing would have been impossible in such case. “There was not enough arrangement for them to sit in colleges. Thus it would pose a higher risk of contracting infection,” said a professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-postpones-varsity-exams/articleshow/76413284.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: A month on, 81-year-old man continues to test positive for Covid-19||MANGALURU: The case of an octogenarian Covid-19 patient, being treated at the designated hospital in Mangaluru, has baffled the health authorities. The family of three, including the 81-year-old, had landed here in the first flight from Dubai on May 12, and were found infected. While his wife and daughter were discharged, the elderly man continues to be positive. Doctors are in a confusion as he is asymptomatic. All the six tests conducted on his samples in the past one month have tested positive, because of which the doctors have not sent him home. Meanwhile, another 76-year-old man, who arrived here with his wife from Dubai on May 18, also got infected. The couple is asymptomatic but positive. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that they are yet to decide on treating the 81-year-old patient in isolation — at his house — as a special case. “It is a sensitive issue as he is aged 81. Leaving him alone at house is risky as he may fall and injure himself. Also, people in the neighbourhood may oppose his shifting there. We are doing our best to cure him. Normally, tests are done once in 72 days. We will wait for one more week and hope for the best,” Dr Bairy said, adding that the lack of immunity is the only reason for the delay in recovery. “The elderly patients are looking healthy, but they are feeling down due to isolation,” the DHO explained. Dr Prashanth Bhat, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Udupi, said that there are only 2-3 patients who continue to be positive for 21 days in the district. Most of the patients have recovered within 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/a-month-on-81-year-old-man-continues-to-test-positive/articleshow/76413316.cms||Vinobha K T
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Four tourists from Delhi held in Mussoorie for violating Covid-19 norms||MUSSOORIE: Four tourists from New Delhi’s Shahdara area, all men in their early 20s, were arrested late on Monday for violating government norms relating to the code of conduct during Covid-19. Police said that the four friends were driving around Mussoorie when they were apprehended. Speaking to TOI, Devendra Aswal, station officer of Mussoorie, said that the accused did not stop their car at Kolhu Khet check post near Mussoorie when they were signalled to pull over. “An alert was then sounded to all check posts, following which, the car with Delhi number plate was tracked to Gandhi Chowk and all four were arrested,” he said. Aswal added that they were drunk and none of them was wearing a mask. There were also four people in a car while norms allow only three persons in a five-seater vehicle. Aswal said, “They said that they are from Shahdara in Delhi and had reached Mussoorie on Monday. They also didn’t follow the state government’s mandatory 14-day quarantine rule. Since they violated a number of norms, we had to arrest them under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51 (obstructing an officer of govt and refusing to comply with directions of government) of the Disaster Management Act.” The officer added that the accused were produced before the magistrate on Tuesday. “They were denied bail and sent to jail. Their families have been informed and they have arranged for a lawyer,” he said. Meanwhile, in another incident, three tourists from Faridabad were arrested late on Tuesday for violating Covid norms. “The three men, all in their late 30s, were drunk and were also not wearing masks. They also didn’t follow quarantine rules. We apprehended them in Mussoorie while they were coming from Dhanaulti. They have been sent for medical examination,” Aswal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-tourists-from-delhis-shahdara-held-in-mussoorie-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/76412003.cms||Anmol Jain
June 17, 2020||Surat||Water level in Sardar Sarovar dam rises to 127.7m||Bharuch/Surat: The water level in Sardar Sarovar Dam on river Narmada at Kevadia Colony crossed 127.7 metre mark on Tuesday. According to P C Vyas, Director Sardar Sarovar Nigam Limited (SSNL), Gujarat had asked for its share from Madhya Pradesh by June 30. “Every year, water is allocated to each state in which Gujarat gets 16%, Madhya Pradesh 57% and Maharashtra 27%. The water is released by MP to complete Gujarat's allocation. The MP government has started their power generation turbines and we are receiving fresh inflow into Sardar Sarovar Dam.”He further added, “The inflow of water is 29,740 cusec. Hence we have started our four power turbines each of 200 MW that generate 17 million units of power daily. Around 29,187 cusec water is released downstream of which 7,000 cusec is in the Narmada canal and 20,000 cusec in the river downstream.”Vyas said that there is enough inflow of water to run the riverbed and canal-head turbines. The water storage in dam has reached 2,700 million cubic meters. “During monsoon, we expect that the water level may cross the peak level of 138.68 meter this year. Gujarat’s water situation is comfortable now,” added Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/water-level-in-sardar-sarovar-dam-rises-to-127-7m/articleshow/76412002.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus: With 516 cases, UP records second highest spike in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: UP reported 516 fresh cases of coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours on Tuesday, registering the second highest spike so far in a single day. With this, the state’s Covid-19 tally reached 14,607 on Tuesday. According to data provided by health officials, Hapur registered 57 cases of whom nine are jail inmates while seven reside on Nauchandi police station premises. At least 43 cases were reported from Meerut while Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 42 cases. Overall, Gautam Budh Nagar tops the list with 1,099 cases. As per the bulletin, the death toll in the state stands at 435. Three deaths were reported in Agra while two casualties were registered in Meerut. One death each was reported from Hamirpur, Mau, Jhansi, Shamli, Kannauj, Etawah, Amroha and Gonda. Other districts with double digit entries included Kanpur (35), Ghaziabad (27), Agra (22), Bhadohi (17), Sultanpur (15), Firozabad (12), Bareilly (11) and Amethi (10). Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said at least 294 people recovered from infection taking the total number of recoveries to 8,904. “There are 5,259 active cases in UP as of now,” he said. Prasad said 13,966 tests were conducted in the state on Monday and added that accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace those who have returned from other parts of the country. “ASHA workers have tracked 16.75 lakh migrants and among them, 1,463 were found with coronavirus symptoms,” Prasad said. “The state government’s 1.23 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed over 93.42 lakh homes and covered 4.76 crore population. Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients,” he said. “Acting on alerts generated by the application, 83,462 people were called and given advice to protect themselves from infection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-516-cases-up-records-2nd-highest-spike-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76414852.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 17, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun district administration to hold Harela festival on July 16||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration will organise a massive plantation drive, to be participated by gram panchayats, on the occasion of Harela festival on July 16. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, "The theme of this year’s festival is Rispana river revival. There will be a drive in urban and rural areas and we have asked the officials concerned to arrange for saplings." The drive will take place at vacant government lands and public places for beautification purposes. After the drive, the administration will award two gram panchayats for planting most saplings and another for most surviving plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/admin-to-hold-harela-festival-on-july-16/articleshow/76411989.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh to lodge FIR against CM for fake tweet on Rahul Gandhi||BHOPAL: A day after the state Crime Branch registered a case of defamation and forgery against former chief minister Digvijaya Singh for posting an edited video on social media, the Congress leader on Tuesday said he will also go to the same police station and lodge an FIR against chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for posting fake tweets against Rahul Gandhi. On Tuesday, Digvijaya Singh took to twitter and posted chief minister Chouhan’s tweet dated May 16, 2019 in which senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is heard addressing Bhupesh Baghel as the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh instead of Kamal Nath. But it was an edited video in which Rahul Gandhi is shown to have made the mistake in his speech. Congress says the video was of Neemuch and was allegedly edited, then posted and retweeted nearly 6,000 times.  On Tuesday morning @digvijaya_28 said, “I will go to the same police station where BJP leaders lodged an FIR against me and register an FIR against Shivraj (Singh Chouhan) for tweeting a fake video.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-to-lodge-fir-against-cm-for-fake-tweet-on-rahul/articleshow/76413319.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 17, 2020||Surat||Powerloom unit gutted in Amroli, no loss of life||Surat: A major fire broke out in a powerloom unit located at the Anjani industrial estate on the Amroli-Sayan road on Tuesday morning. There were no casualty reported due to the incident.Sources in the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that the fire broke out on the third floor of building housing Khushi Textile at about 7 am. The cause of the fire, fire officials said, was yet to be ascertained. But prima facie the fire could have erupted due to short circuit, they added.A huge stock of unfinished fabric along with powerloom machines and other equipment was gutted in the fire. About five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and it took them about six hours to douse the blaze. Vijay Tiwari, a fire officer said, “The fire occurred in the Khushi textiles in the Anjani industrial estate. The fire had engulfed the entire third floor due to presence of large quantity of yarn and bundles of unfinished fabric.”Tiwari added, “It was difficult for the fire fighters to enter the building. However, we had to use the ladder platform to douse the fire. Though the fire was put off after five hours, the cooling exercise went on till evening.” Chief fire officer (CFO) Basant Pareek said, “The exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. However, there is no casualty reported as the unit was closed.”Since June 1, this is the third major fire incident in the city. A fire broke out in the plastic packaging unit located in the diamond park of Sachin GIDC on June 4. No casualty was reported in the incident. Again, on June 9, fire engulfed at the thrid and fourth floor of Raghuveer Celium textile market at Saroli on Puna-Kumbhariya road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/powerloom-unit-gutted-in-amroli-no-loss-of-life/articleshow/76412044.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Prepare development plans for villages’ progress: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Stressing on the need for all-round development of villages, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the district collectors to prepare village development plans so that developmental works can be taken up in the next four years. He said the development plans have to be prepared based on the requirements and resources in the respective villages and works should be executed as per the plans. The CM held a review meeting with collectors on Palle Pragati, Haritha Haram, MGNREGS, Covid-19, seasonal diseases, locust attack, seeds, construction of Rythu Vedika, food processing units and other issues. “Panchayats are expected to net Rs 39,594 crore through finance commission, MGNREGS and other revenues. There is a greater need to plan for four years for effective utilisation of funds,” he said. The CM said Telangana is the only state in the country where every village was given a tractor, a vaikuntadhamam (graveyard), nursery and dump yard. “Similarly, Rythu Vedikas should be completed within four months in all the clusters,” he said. KCR said the state government had transferred powers to the collectors under the new Panchayat Raj Act. Despite the Covid-19 crisis, the government is releasing Rs 308 crore to each panchayat and additional funds to low revenue earning panchayats, He said the panchayats should make repayments for loans taken for purchasing tractors, power bills should also be repaid regularly and 10% of budget should be earmarked for Haritha Haram. “Cleanliness and greenery should be given priority in villages. I will personally inspect some villages. The collectors should take stern action against those not maintaining cleanliness and greenery,” he said. He said if villages are clean, chances of epidemic breakout are less. “The collectors should assess the situation of coronavirus cases and work out strategies to combat the diseases apart from preventing seasonal diseases,” the CM said. He said agriculture officials should be on high alert to face locusts’ swarm invasion, expected between June 25 and July first week. KCR said many workers, especially hamalis, are willing to return from Bihar and work here, so collectors should help them return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prepare-development-plans-for-villages-progress-kcr/articleshow/76413334.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 17, 2020||Surat||Area damaged due to forest fire down 75% in Surat division||Surat: A multi-pronged approach adopted by the Surat forest division had helped in bringing down the area damaged due to forest fire by almost 75% over the past four years. In 2017, fire damaged 1,400 hectare of forest area which has been brought down to 330 hectare in 2020 using a mix of innovative practices and modern technology.“We started by using blower machines to control the forest fire in 2017. This proved very useful in controlling the fires. Blower machines have been used for industrial purposes. Using the machine, wind is blown in the opposite direction of the natural wind to stop spread in forest area,” Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Surat division, told TOI. “In 2018, we provided training to our staff how to use these machines in controlling forest fire. We provided each forest round with one blower machine each. At places prone to forest fires, we provided two blowers,” added Nayyar.Besides this, Nayyar said, the forest department was using Forest Survey of India (FSI)'s forest fire alert system effectively. He explained, earlier officers of the rank range forest officer (RFO) and above were registered with the forest fire alert system. “But now we have registered personnel up to forest beat guards level under the alert system. So, when forest fire occurs, alert will go beat guard of that particular forest as well as the higher ranked officials. This helped us in reaching the spot quickly as everyone concerned is alerted at the same time,” said Nayyar.The forest department also has forest watch towers, human resources to monitors forest fires, beside the other methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/area-damaged-due-to-forest-fire-down-75-in-surat-division/articleshow/76412080.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre to blame for cases spike in Telangana: Talasani Srinivas Yadav||HYDERABAD: Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav has attributed the hike in Covid-19 cases in Telangana and the country to the lockdown relaxations being given by the central government every seven to 10 days. The BJP leaders, who were shouting that the state government has failed in containing the spread of coronavirus, should go and ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi why relaxations were being given, Srinivas Yadav questioned. Coming down heavily on state BJP leaders for trying to politicise even the Covid-19 situation, the minister said: “Relaxations to open wine shops was the decision of the central government, which was followed by the state government. Airports have been opened by the central government. All relaxation decisions are being taken by the Centre and the state government is following them,” he told mediapersons. Stating that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was personally monitoring the Covid-19 situition on daily basis, the minister said over 50,000 tests would be conducted in the next 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/talasani-centre-to-blame-for-cases-spike/articleshow/76414864.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Cops impound bus with 56 labourers from Bihar||MOGA: Police impounded a bus bringing 56 migrant workers from Bihar for paddy transplantation work. The migrant workers from Sitamarhi and Muzaffarpur areas were packed into a bus without maintaining social distancing protocols, said police officials. Police have arrested the bus driver and conductor and booked them for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and under the Disaster Management Act. They said the migrants were probably brought in two buses till the outskirts of Baghapurana, where they were shifted into one when they were spotted by the police on Monday. These migrant workers were tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday and would be allowed to take up paddy transplantation work only after the test results come in. Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the bus owner has also been summoned to clarify his position as to why life of so many persons was put in danger. Police are also investigating how much money the bus driver or owner took for getting the migrant workers to Punjab from Bihar and why were the authorities not apprised about the plying of bus, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-impound-bus-with-56-labourers-from-bihar/articleshow/76414226.cms||Neel Kamal
June 17, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka govt projections estimate total tally in Kalaburagi, Yadgir could breach 10,000 mark||KALABURAGI: In the evening bulletin released by the Karnataka government on Tuesday, Kalaburagi district stood second in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours with 63 cases, behind only Dakshina Kannada, where 79 people were confirmed infected in the corresponding period. Yadgir district, meanwhile, reported six cases, pushing its overall tally to a whopping 828, of which 472 are active cases. The upward spiral in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts has experts a worried lot, with many of them expressing fears of the cumulative tally in these two districts alone crossing the dreaded 10,000 mark. The projection is the result of an assessment carried out by the state government, which is carrying out district-specific surveys to ensure that there are sufficient number of beds, ventilators and adequate supply of oxygen, to ensure preparedness should there be a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. In Kalaburagi, officials in the district administration said that there were 3,000 beds reserved for Covid patients. In all, the district has reported 944 cases, of which 523 are active at the moment. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner Sharath B told TOI that, the data collated by the state government projected that the district could report as many as 7,000 cases. “We have been asked to arrange required facilities for that number of patients,” Sharath said. However, the state government has not specified a timeline within which it expects the number of cases to surge to the estimated figure. “But we have decided not to tarry. We have begun arranging for more beds to ensure we are prepared for all emergencies. The district administration is fully prepared to handle such a situation, so the people need not worry,” Sharath added. In neighbouring Yadgir district, the state government fears that the number of Covid cases may cross 3,000. Both Kalaburagi and Yadgir have registered an influx in the number of migrants returning from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Goa, with more than 1.5 lakh people returning home in the past month. Yadgir DC M Kurma Rao was quick to point out that the estimate of the number of cases could be revised if the spread of the novel coronavirus was arrested in the district. “Many patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) have been testing positive in the district, which is a cause for concern for us,” he added. Rao said that there were more than 1,000 beds reserved for Covid patients in Yadgir, and work was under way to arrange more to ensure that the district was not caught ill-prepared should the projection prove accurate. “Patients with SARI testing positive for novel coronavirus need oxygen supply, and in Yadgir, three patients who were supplied oxygen recovered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-govt-projections-estimate-total-tally-in-kalaburagi-yadgir-could-breach-10k-mark/articleshow/76412069.cms||Shreyas HS
June 17, 2020||India||India ramps up testing to 3 lakh samples/day||NEW DELHI: India has stepped up testing capacity significantly for Covid-19 to three lakh samples per day with a network of 907 laboratories — 659 in the government sector and rest private labs — spread across the country. At present, India is testing around 1.5 lakh samples every day. In the last 24 hours till Tuesday morning, a total of 1,54,935 samples were tested. So far, the daily testing capacity was 2 lakh samples a day. To enhance testing capacity in Delhi, each of the 11 districts shall now have assigned labs for testing samples from the respective districts. The samples will be sent to these labs to ensure timely testing and getting the results without any delay, the health ministry said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Official sources said the move comes after the intervention of home minister Amit Shah who has held meetings with ministers, officials and authorities from both the Centre and Delhi government to assess and improve the situation in Delhi in the wake of rising cases. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director General Balram Bhargava has also written to the health ministry highlighting the need to ramp up testing for Covid-19 in containment zones and hospitals in Delhi. Higher testing will be needed to check not just hotspots but can become a more regular exercise to check the spread of the disease. “As discussed in the two high level meetings, it is critical to immediately augment Covid-19 testing capacity in containment zones of Delhi to prevent the spread of infection,” Bhargava wrote in a letter to health secretary Preeti Sudan. TOI has reviewed the letter. Currently there are 42 labs in Delhi with per day testing capacity of about 17,000 samples. Watch Covid-19: India enhances its testing capacity, ramps up to 3 lakh samples per day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-ramps-up-testing-to-3-lakh-samples/day/articleshow/76415532.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Government yet to deposit Rs 1,000 crore in bank accounts of Telangana farmers||HYDERABAD: The government is yet to deposit Rs 1,000 crore into the bank accounts of thousands of farmers from whom paddy was procured for yasangi, formerly known as rabi, crop. The procurement through the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) ended on Monday. Officials said Rs 11,000 crore has already been deposited into the bank accounts of farmers for the paddy procured and added that the remaining Rs 1,000 crore would be deposited in a couple of days. “Those farmers who came with paddy at the last moment are yet to get the amount. There is no problem with the money. Farmers will get the deposits in their bank accounts soon,” said an official. The government has procured 65 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of paddy from the farmers out of the total 1.05 crore MTs produced during yasangi. Though 65 lakh MTs of paddy procured is a little over 65% of the total paddy to be procured, the government said it has to be assumed as 100% procurement. Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy told TOI that of the total 1.05 crore MTs of paddy produced in the rabi, 65 lakh MTs was procured by the government, another 15 lakh MTs is kept by farmers for self-consumption and five lakh MTs would be used as seed for next season. “Over 20 lakh MTs of fine rice variety will be sold to rice millers or private traders directly by the farmers at a higher price,” he added. TSCSC chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said the government has procured 1.12 crore MTs of paddy from two crop seasons in 2019-20 from farmers at the rate of 65 lakh MTs in yasangi-2020 and the remaining in vanakalam-2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-yet-to-deposit-rs-1000cr-in-bank-accounts-of-farmers/articleshow/76413345.cms||Roushan Ali
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||More young patients bringing better recovery rate for Vid||Nagpur: The Covid-19 recovery rate is the most important and promising figure in the pandemic situation. India recently recorded a 52.47% recovery rate while Maharashtra crossed the 50% mark on June 16. However, Vidarbha region has been constantly showing above 60% recovery rate in spite of a sudden spurt in positive cases in June. Even on June 15, Vidarbha’s recovery rate was 64.15% — way ahead of the state. According to doctors, the age factor of Vidarbha patients is playing a very important role. For example, the age-wise distribution of the first 1000 cases in Nagpur shows that 149 children from the district got infected with Covid-19. Above 60 senior citizens more vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection are 288 while the remaining 563 are between the 18 to 59 years age group. Nagpur’s recovery rate is above 60%. In Nagpur division, Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Gondia had reported spike in Covid-19 cases post May 17 when returnees from Mumbai, Pune and foreign countries started arriving and testing positive. Most of these returnees were migrant labourers, students or employees working in big cities or abroad. As most of them were young and detected positive early on, the recovery rate of Gadchiroli (78%), Bhandara (77%) and Gondia (68%) are in the top 5 recovery rates of Vidarbha. “Young and healthy people have good chances of recovery from Covid-19 after proper rest, nutrition, treatment and medicines,” said physician Dr Vijay Todkar from Akola GMCH. “It has been a common experience of all GMCs treating Covid-19 patients that healthy people without any comorbidities are generally asymptomatic and they recover within the specific isolation period of 10 to 14 days,” he added. More recoveries hint at better management of the disease. More people recovering means doctors will get more donors for the plasma therapy trials which are under way in the state. In the long term, these recovered patients will help in creating herd immunity which is said to be the ultimate solution for the novel coronavirus. TOP 5 RECOVERY RATE (%) Gadchiroli | 78 % (51 cases — All below 60 yrs) Bhandara | 77% (53 — All below 60) Yavatmal | 74% (197 — 168 below 60) Wardha | 73% (26 — 20 below 60) Gondia | 68% (101 — All below 60) TOP CASES Nagpur | 60% (1076 cases — 59% below 60 yrs) Akola | 63% (1073 — 65% below 60) Amravati | 67% (365 — 60% below 60) COMPARISON Avg Vidarbha | 65% Maharashtra | 51% India | 52.47%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-young-patients-bringing-better-recovery-rate-for-vid/articleshow/76414885.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government plans Covid-19 care centres to treat mild cases||BENGALURU: The state government, which has already urged private hospitals to join the fight against the pandemic, is now planning to set up Covid-19 Care Centres (CCCs) across the state to treat very mild, mild and asymptomatic cases. With cases spiking, the government is looking to augment infrastructure and establish CCCs on the lines of ones in Tamil Nadu. Officials have already begun the task of zeroing in on buildings -- community halls, schools, medical colleges, stadiums and hotels and the likes -- that can be converted into CCCs. A road map shows patients will be divided into mild/very mild, moderate and severe cases and will be admitted to a CCC or a dedicated Covid private hospital depending on severity. “Since 40%-50% of active cases exhibit only mild symptoms, we have decided to set up CCCs,” said K Sudhakar, medical education minister and Covid-19 taskforce member. “The idea is to optimally use available hospital beds and to ensure needy patients get the best treatment.” CCCs will be set up in wards in cities and in taluks in rural areas. In the first phase, it is looking to set up 25,000 beds at these centres in the first phase. At present, the government has reserved 22,872 beds across designated hospitals for Covid patients. Plans are also afoot to allow very mild/presymptomatic patients to be treated at home if they have the facilities at their residence for self-isolation. This would increase beds in hospitals to 75,000, including those in private hospitals with isolation wards. “CCCs will ease the burden on major private hospitals,” said a health department official, adding that the taskforce will meet on Wednesday to fix costs of treatment in private hospitals. The government also plans to intensifying surveillance to prevent community spread and will conduct random tests in densely populated areas. Food delivery boys, courier executives, hawkers, salesmen at shopping malls, auto drivers and pourakarmikas are among those who will be subjected to tests. At present 15,000 tests are being conducted daily across 41 government and 29 private labs and plans are afoot to increase it to 25,000 tests a day from next month. “The need of the hour is to ensure medical infrastructure to treat patients and lay down an effective strategy to control the death rate by protecting vulnerable sections,” said Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-plans-covid-care-centres-to-treat-mild-cases/articleshow/76412101.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||State-of-the-art Hyderabad's TIMS, opened for Covid-19 patients, gathers dust||HYDERABAD: The 1,500-bedded Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) in Gachibowli, despite being developed into a state-of-art facility for treating Covid-19 patients, has been lying unused for over three months now for want of manpower. Though the state health department on Tuesday issued a notification for recruitment of 499 staff including professors, associate professors, nursing staff and pharmacists among others for the hospital, insiders say that the latest drive too might not yield much. State health authorities are not hopeful of putting the sprawling TIMS hospital, which has ICU and ventilator facilities, to use for Covid-19 patients anytime soon. “At the most it could be done for asymptomatic patients. With the kind of manpower and super-speciality departments available at Gandhi Hospital, it is far better equipped to handle Covid-19 cases even if TIMS has better infrastructure. We are bringing in some senior doctors from districts on deputation but this is not enough. Even if a single patient dies due to non-availability of a doctor, it will be a problem,” said a senior official from the state health department. The Gachibowli hospital, which came up in a record time and was later renamed TIMS, was announced as an exclusive Covid-19 hospital with much fanfare initially. But it has now turned into a mere showpiece for the department. What is worse is that it is now being kicked around from one authority to another. “The facility had been transferred from Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare to Directorate of Medical Education and is currently under Osmania General Hospital. Owing to the difficult task of recruitment, each wing is reluctant to handle it,” said a source. Even as TIMS lies unused, Covid-19 patients continue to be put up at sub-standard facilities like King Koti Hospital and more surprisingly Nature Cure Hospital and Government Ayurvedic Hospital in Erragadda which have absolutely no infrastructure to handle any patient who turns critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-of-the-art-tims-opened-for-covid-19-patients-gathers-dust/articleshow/76414876.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 17, 2020||Surat||Cautious Surtis avoiding air travel||Surat: It seems Suratis are not so keen on air travel despite government resuming domestic flight operations from May 25.The latest data released by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) revealed that only 6,500 people travelled to and from the Surat airport between May 25 and June 16. A total of 174 aircraft movements including 100 passenger flight, have been recorded during first 20 days of relaxation.This is against the daily movement of 4,000 passengers and monthly traffic of about 1.5lakh travellers from the Surat airport before lockdown.Currently, three flights are being operated by Spice Jet and Indigo connecting Surat with Delhi and Hyderabad due to the weak passenger demand. The flights are operated at less than 50% capacity as the airlines are grappling to get enough passenger traffic for smooth operations.A senior airport officer said, “Airlines are yet to add other domestic sectors as people are unwilling to travel to other states due to host of issues including mandatory quarantine for 14 days and fear of getting coronavirus infection.” Sources said that Indigo has announced the operation of flights connecting Surat to Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi and Goa starting from July 1. “The booking for the flights has already started and we hope that the airline (Indigo) would start operations from July 1. It is believed that the passenger traffic will rise only after July 1” said the airport officer. Talking with TOI, airport director, Aman Saini said, “We have taken a slew of new operational procedures to ensure passenger safety. Right from the contactless entry, social distancing, web check-ins, temperature screening to disinfection.”According to Saini, during the lockdown phase Surat airport had handled about 674 metric tonne of cargo including medicines, PPE kits, shrimp seeds and other essential goods to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cautious-surtis-avoiding-air-travel/articleshow/76412154.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Disqualification plea: Supreme Court asks Goa speaker to reply in four weeks||PANAJI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed Goa assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar' and 10 MLAs including deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, who joined BJP from Congress last year, to reply within four weeks to a petition filed against them. Congress state president Girish Chodankar had approached the Supreme Court pointing out the nearly nine-month delay by the speaker in deciding the disqualification petitions filed against the MLAs. Chodankar in his plea had cited an order in the Manipur assembly case passed by the Supreme Court in March and sought a direction to restrain the MLAs from attending the assembly proceedings during the pendency of the disqualification petition. Chodnakar stated that in the Manipur case, the SC directed the MLA concerned not to enter the legislative assembly, and that he would cease to be a minister due to the speaker’s delay in deciding the disqualification petition. Chodankar also cited another apex court judgment which provided that disqualification pleas should be decided within three months. He said that this time limit has been breached in Goa. “Importantly, during the pendency of the said petition, the respondents (MLAs) continue to participate as members of the legislative assembly, despite having ex-facie incurred a disqualification under Schedule X of the Constitution of India,” he said, adding that some of the MLAs are ministers in the state government. Besides Kavlekar, the disqualification petition, filed before the speaker on August 8 last year, pertains to deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes, ministers Jennifer Monserrate and Filipe Neri Rodrigues, and MLAs Nilkanth Halarnkar, Antonio Fernandes, Franscisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias and Atanasio Monserrate. All 10 had resigned from Congress and joined BJP in July, taking the saffron party’s strength in the 40-member House to 27. This is one of two petitions pending before the Goa assembly speaker. The other is against two former MGP legislators—tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar—who joined BJP in March last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-plea-sc-asks-goa-speaker-to-reply-in-4-wks/articleshow/76414872.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Palamuru delay deliberate: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress has charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao with intentionally not taking up works on Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme aimed at irrigating over 13 lakh acres in the districts of Mahbubnagar, Rangareddy and Nalgonda. AICC secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy on Tuesday said the foundation stone for Palamuru-Rangareddy project was laid on June 11, 2015. The government has not even completed 10% of works with nearly 4,000 acres of land acquisition still pending. “KCR had promised to complete the project within three years. Five years have passed and estimated cost of the project has escalated from Rs 32,500 crore to Rs 60,000 crore now,” Vamshi Chand said. He alleged that TRS government redesigned first pumphouse of the project with an eye on commission and kickbacks. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/palamuru-delay-deliberate-cong/articleshow/76413354.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: 110 special teams to collect 11,000 samples||NEW DELHI: To ramp up Covid-19 testing in the city, 110 special teams have been formed in 11 districts to collect 100 samples each, 11,000 in total, every day. The 110 teams will consist of staff attached to the offices of the chief medical officers (CMO) in the districts. Around 50 to 80 medical personnel are engaged with the office of each CMO. Early and extensive testing will help in quick identification of corona-positive people, a key step towards preventing the spread of the virus and boosting mitigation efforts, said an official. To increase testing capacities, the district magistrates have been allowed to again send samples to the National Centre for Disease Control laboratories, which were barred due to huge pendency. Over 2,96,000 tests have been carried out in the capital so far, out of which 42,829 have tested positive. The recent spurt in the number of positive cases — every district reporting 150-200 cases daily — has thrown major challenges at the authorities engaged in surveillance, tracing and testing over the past few weeks. “The district surveillance unit is mapping the common contacts of the Covid-19 positive people. All contacts will be screened, and the suspected cases will be tested according to the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on testing,” said an official. Under ICMR guidelines, throat or nasal swabs for testing are taken from persons showing symptoms of influenza-like illnesses (ILI) having international travel history in the past 14 days or having contact history with lab-confirmed cases. Those within containment zones showing ILI symptoms are to be tested regardless of travel or contact history. All ILI symptomatic healthcare and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of Covid-19 are also eligible for testing. Every severe acute respiratory infection patient is also likely to be tested. The other categories include all hospitalised patients who develop ILI symptoms and migrants within seven days of illness. The government plans to take its testing capacity to 18,000 and start using rapid antigen test kits as per ICMR’s norms by Saturday. All laboratories and hospitals have also been asked to utilise their full testing capacities to meet the increased demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/110-special-teams-to-collect-11k-samples/articleshow/76413362.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 17, 2020||Hyderabad||15K 2-BHK units to be ready by Dasara||Hyderabad: Over 15,000 of the total 50,000 2-BHK units targeted to be completed by Dasara are nearly complete. Municipal minister KT Rama Rao has set the target for officials and contractors to complete 50,000 2-BHK units, which will be allotted to beneficiaries on or before Dasara. Even construction workers have started to return to work in and around Greater Hyderabad. Now, the contractors were scouting for technical work force such as plumbers, electricians and carpenters. “About 15,000 units are ready and need finishing touches by plumbers, electricians and carpenters. Though some of them are available, but we need more. We are trying to get them from wherever possible. Right from Greater Hyderabad and its surrounding districts to other states, the contractors are trying to get technicians,” a senior official said. The contractors have speeded up construction of 2-BHK housing. Though there was shortage of labourers who went back to their home states during lockdown, some of them have returned giving a much-needed fillip to the construction work. Nearly a lakh 2-BHK units were in various stages of completion in and around Greater Hyderabad. Nearly Rs 12,000 crore has been allocated by the government to housing department in 2020-21 budget. GHMC chief engineer K Suresh exuded confidence that they would be able to complete 50,000 houses by Dasara in tune with the deadline set by KTR. “We are trying to complete more than 50,000 units by October-end,” he added. While GHMC is working fast to finish the target, the works on 2-BHK project elsewhere in the state were also at various stages of completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15k-2-bhk-units-to-be-ready-by-dasara/articleshow/76413370.cms||Roushan Ali
June 17, 2020||Lucknow||Get ready to pay up to Rs 5,000 for traffic violations in UP||LUCKNOW: Get ready to pay anything between Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 for traffic violations like jumping red light, not wearing helmet or seat belt, overspeeing, talking on mobile while driving or using an unfit vehicles as UP notified new MV (Amendment) Act on Tuesday. Till now, the fine amount was between Rs 400 and Rs 1,000 for these offences. In September last year, the Centre had revised traffic penalties to make MV Act stringent. The states were to notify the new MV (Amendment) Act. UP, which had put it on hold given the wide public outcry, notified it on Tuesday. According to the notification, use of handheld communication devices (including mobile phones) while driving, not wearing a helmet in two-wheelers and or seat belts in four-wheelers, and riding two-wheelers with more than two persons will attract a fine of Rs 1,000 for the first time and Rs 10,000 on subsequent occasions. A fine of Rs 500 will be charged for not following parking norms for the first time which will rise to Rs 1,500 on subsequent offences. Causing pollution by driving an unfit vehicle can leave you poorer by Rs 5,000. Blocking the way of ambulances and fire brigade will attract a fine of Rs 10,000 while honking in a silent zone will cost Rs 1,000 to an offender. Participating in any kind of race in a public place without official permission, flouting of fitness, pollution and permit norms will lead to a fine of Rs 5,000 on the first offence and Rs 10,000 thereafter. Those who fail to produce a driving licence, registration certificate and fitness certificate will have to pay Rs 500 and Rs 1,500 on subsequent offences. Driving a vehicle without insurance will invite Rs 2,000 as fine for the first time which can go up to Rs 4,000 thereafter. To check overloading of vehicles, Rs 20,000 will be charged as fine along with Rs 2,000 per tonne of extra load carried by a vehicle. Those who refuse to get the vehicle weighed by enforcement authorities will have to pay Rs 40,000 as fine. In case of passenger vehicles, Rs 200 will be charged for every person allowed to board a vehicle beyond the permitted number. A fine of Rs 10,000 will be slapped on people hiding information to seek driving licence when they are ineligible for the document. Similarly, if an owner modifies a vehicle against norms, he will have to pay Rs 5,000 as penalty which may go up to Rs 10,000 on subsequent offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/get-ready-to-pay-up-to-rs-5k-for-traffic-violations-in-state/articleshow/76414883.cms||Neha Shukla
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||5 liquor smugglers arrested in Ballia||Varanasi: The police nabbed five members of two gangs of liquor smugglers and recovered illicit liquor worth of Rs 52 lakh at two different places in Ballia district on Monday. The liquor consignments were being transported to Bihar. According to reports, during a checking drive the police stopped a truck near Sadauli culvert in Rasara police station area in Ballia on Monday evening. On checking 49,000 bottles of illicit liquor of two brands packed in 980 cartons were recovered from the truck bearing registration number of Haryana. The police arrested three persons identified as Manish Yadav, resident of Ballia, Rohtas and Sanjay, both natives of Haryana. During interrogation, they confessed that the liquor consignment was being smuggled to Bihar from Haryana. Rasara inspector Saurabh Kumar Rai said that the arrested persons were booked under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly indu444444444444cing delivery of property), 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale, 274 (adulteration of drugs), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of IPC and sections of Excise Act and MV Act. The liquor and the truck were seized. In another incident, the police caught two persons near Tengarahi temple in Bairia police station area of Ballia. They were also transporting the liquor to Bihar in a pick up van. The police recovered 230 cartons with different brands of liquor. The arrested persons were identified as Sonu and Golu, both residents of Ballia district. Baria SO Lalbahadur Yadav said that the arrested persons were booked under Excise Act and the pick up van was seized under MV Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/5-liquor-smugglers-arrested-in-ballia/articleshow/76412180.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot stray dog’s torture lost in translation||RAJKOT: A stray dog and its sympathizer, a former principal and dog lover of Rajkot, have their own tales of misery to tell after the plea on the dog’s plight got lost in translation at the police station. And how did the police defend its turning a blind eye to the repeated entreaties to save the dog? They could not understand the application because it was written in English! It all started with the lockdown-induced changes in her society and a cruel watchman. Padmavati Jain, former principal of a reputed college in the city, is a resident of Sanjay Vatika on the University Road. She said that an unused common plot of the society, which till then was home for stray dogs, suddenly found itself useful for residents’ recreational purposes on May 9. So, the first casualty was the strays who lost their home. One little pup, however, didn’t read the notice put up by the residents banning entry for stray dogs. So it kept barging in, much to the watchman’s annoyance. Jain filed a written complaint with university police on May 10 requesting them to check cruelty against dogs. “I repeatedly asked the cops to send a PCR van to educate society members that cruelty to animals is an offence under the law. My lone voice in the society was falling on the deaf and defiant ears,” Jain told TOI. But her pleas fell on cops’ deaf ears too. Jain heard its pitiful cries on June 12 and went outside but couldn’t find the dog. She confronted Kamal, the watchman of Yash Kamal Apartment in the same society. “He told me about the notice and warned that he will continue to beat if the pup returned!” said Jain, who finally located the dog on June 14 in an under construction building nearby with an inured eye. Jain took the dog to a veterinary doctor who confirmed that it had been blinded in one eye from the beating. “I again called the police inspector of university police station, but it didn’t register an FIR. Thereafter I went to police commissioner’s office but I wasn’t allowed to meet him. I WhatsApped pictures of the dog to the police commissioner, the police inspector and also to Maneka Gandhi. After the MP intervened, police registered an FIR,” she added. R S Thakkar, police inspector of university police station told TOI: “The application was submitted in English, and so, the staff here could not understand it. After she sent me pictures on WhatsApp and understanding the gravity of the offence committed, I immediately called Jain to register an FIR.” Watch Gujarat: Cops allegedly turn blind eye to stray dog’s torture||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-stray-dogs-torture-lost-in-translation/articleshow/76412206.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Health department in a tizzy as Raia, Curtorim throw up new cases||MARGAO: Even as contact tracing and testing of the positive cases found at Raia and Curtorim on Monday is underway, three new Covid cases from Curtorim and one from Raia were detected on Tuesday. Besides a person from Malbhat, Margao, also tested positive for Covid. What has raised concern among the medical fraternity is the detection of isolated cases with no apparent travel history. Experts in the medical field have advised utmost caution by the people in view of the spike in such cases. Sources in the health department said that on Tuesday, a Curtorim resident who presented himself with complaints of fever for the last four days tested positive for the virus. ‘Awaiting reports of remaining tests’Subsequently, two persons who were identified as his high risk contacts, including a doctor, were subjected to Covid tests and both turned positive, it was informed. The new case in Raia, sources said, was a patient suffering from severe pneumonia and admitted in Hospicio. “Before shifting him to GMC, we took his swab samples and he turned positive,” a senior health official at Hospicio said. The person from Malbhat who tested positive for Covid-19 had come to the hospital complaining of cold and cough. “Both Curtorim and Margao cases have no obvious travel history,” deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida told TOI. Investigation and contact tracing of the new cases is underway. As part of the contact tracing exercise at Raia, of the 20-25 swab samples taken for testing on Monday, ten tests have returned negative, sources said, and reports of the rest were awaited. “The person who tested positive hardly came in contact with anybody in the locality,” a health official said. “A decision on whether to continue with further tests will depend on the reports of all the remaining samples,” the official said. Sources in the health department said that if all the samples test negative, further contact tracing and testing will not be required. “However, this will necessitate further probe into the travel history of the patient tested positive, as it will mean he is concealing some vital facts,” the source said. The contact tracing at Curtorim led to drawing of nearly 50 swab samples on Monday for testing, out of which 14 returned negative. The person who tested positive is said to be a truck driver engaged in sand transportation. Though he had travelled to different places in North Goa, including Pernem, Deusua and Valpoi, he hadn’t crossed the state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-dept-in-a-tizzy-as-raia-curtorim-throw-up-new-cases/articleshow/76414888.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Ficci Mitra||Kolkata: West Bengal is in much better condition in economic level to fight Covid-19 pandemic compared to the country as a whole, believes state finance and industry minister Amit Mitra. Speaking at a webiner organised by Ficci, Mitra pointed out that despite the coronavirus situation, there has been a healthy growth in bank lending to the MSME (medium and small medium) sector. “In Covid situation from April 20 to May 27, the bank lending to MSME sector was at Rs 11,231 crore, which now should have crossed Rs 12,000 crore mark,” he added. The minister argued that generally bank lending has a strong Keynesian Multiplier effect (an economic theory that asserts that an increase in private consumption expenditure, investment or net government spending raises the total GDP) . “Generally, GSDP increases four times by this and in this case it could be Rs 47,000 crore,” he added. According to him, MSME sector in the state has manufactured 11 lakh PPE, while SHG has produced 25 lakh mask. According to him, from 2011-12 to till date, total bank lending in West Bengal was over Rs 2.44 lakh crore. “There are 539 MSME clusters now from just 49 clusters when we came to office,” he added. The bank lending target for 2019-20 was Rs 70,000 crore in the state and the banks have exceeded the target and achieved Rs 74,000 crore. Elaborating on a leather cluster, he said that over 2.20 lakh people are working here and with additional investment of Rs 80,000 crore the number would go up to 5 lakh. Mitra also stressed the need for bank lending to startups. “The startups that manufacturing products to fight Covid can get bank lending,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ficci-mitra/articleshow/76414288.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal airport saw highest growth in 2019||BHOPAL: Raja Bhoj airport of the state capital has achieved two fold growth in last five years and 84 per cent growth in last three years. Over 64 per cent growth in footfall was witnessed in last one year, states a survey conducted by DGCA. Director airport Anil Vikram tweeted about it on Tuesday. Aa per the official records, airport has witnessed highest ever growth in past one year after the arrival of airlines like IndiGo and SpiceJet. Though SpiceJet discontinued its operations in last September, it had played a crucial role in increasing the footfall. At present, IndiGo and Air India are operating their services at the Bhopal airport. Even the passengers acknowledged the growth at the airport. A passenger Raj Sarkar tweeted, "I use this airport and must say it is a global standard facility with a terrific management team. The growth in the last 18 months from 4 to 50 flights is a proof of the demand. Not many other Indian airports can match #RajaBhojAirport_Bhopal @FlyBhopal." In April 2015, a footfall of 47,888 was recorded, which reached 66,834 in March 2020. Notably, this was even after flight operations were discontinued in lockdown from March 24, 2020 due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. The highest ever footfall was 1.20 lakh, witnessed in September 2019. For the city’s airport, 2019 proved to be a year of achievements with a significant rise in footfalls as well as flight movement. According to December survey released by the DGCA, 1.18 lakh passengers travelled from the airport, almost 7,000 more than November, with a growth of 65.2 per cent, compared to December 2018. From July to December 2019, Bhopal airport secured 17th rank in the customer satisfaction index. Interestingly, Bhopal had the same rank in the January-June 2019 survey. In December 2019, airport recorded a footfall of 1,18,855 passengers, which is 46,927 more than December 2018 when the footfall was 71,928. Thus, the airport recorded a growth of 65.2 per cent growth, compared to December 2018. From April to December 2019, Bhopal airport recorded a growth of 84.2 per cent with 10,43,688 footfalls, while in the same period last year, the footfall was 5,66,471. Apart from footfall, the airport maintained a steady growth in flight movement. According to the December 2019 survey, 1,177 flight movement was witnessed, which was 483 flights more than that recorded in December 2018, thus registering a growth of 69.6 per cent. From April to December 2019, Bhopal airport recorded flight movement of 11,224, a growth of 88.9 per cent. During the same period in 2018, the flight movement was 5,941. Last year, Bhopal airport had recorded its highest growth in October. Overall 146 per cent growth in flight movement was recorded, while the footfall increased by 126.8 per cent. According to the survey, November recorded a movement of 1,076 aircrafts, while in the same month in 2018, the figure was 835.Airport director said that 2019 was an excellent year for Bhopal airport. “We will keep working to deliver better results in 2020 too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-airport-attained-highest-ever-growth-in-last-1-yr/articleshow/76413412.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Senior clerk, 2 others held for bribery in Baran district||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested a senior clerk working at Sahariya development office at Shahabad in Baran district and two government teachers holding charges of superintendents of Sahariya students’ hostels in Shahabad, for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 13,000 for sanctioning expenditure bills of two Sahariya students’ hostels, worth Rs 1,80,000. The role of ADM, also project officer of Sahariya development project in Shahabad, is also under investigation. The senior clerk, identified as Aashish Kumar Sharma (37), senior teacher and superintendent of Sahariya Ashram hostel identified as Kasbathana Ajay Garg (57) and teacher and superintendent at Eklavya Model Residency school hostel at Hanotiya identified as Ashok Sharma (50) — were arrested for bribery, said ACB, Kota Chandrasheel Thakur. The senior clerk Aashish Sharma and hostel superintendent Ajay Garg demanded a bribe of Rs 25,000 with a share for ADM and project officer of Sahariya development, Shahabad, Dr Mahendra Singh Lodha, who also held the withdrawal and distribution powers of the fund for Sahariya development for clearing two separate expenditure bills of Rs 70,000 and 1,10,000 of two Sahariya hostels, he added. The principal approached ACB, Kota on February 17 and lodged a report following which verification of the complaint was carried out on March 2, the ASP said. At the time of verification of the complaint, ADM and Sahariya development project officer Dr Mahendra Singh Lodha emerged as a suspect as he was found to be involved in negotiations for the bribe and his role is under investigation, the ACB official said. The clerk had already taken Rs 12,000 through Ashok Sharma, also a teacher and superintendent at Eklavya Model Residency school hostel at Hanotiya in Shahabad, he added. The clerk asked the school principal to hand over the remaining amount of Rs 13,000 to Ashok Sharma at Eklavya Model Residency school hostel at Hanotiya, where a team of ACB, Kota led by CI Ajit Bagdoliya arrested Sharma and recovered the bribe amount from his pocket, the ASP said, adding that two other ACB teams arrested the clerk and Ajay Garg from two separate places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/senior-clerk-2-others-held-for-bribery-in-baran-district/articleshow/76414305.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||233% hike in garbage cess a severe blow for citizens||Mangaluru: In a severe blow to the residents, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has hiked the garbage cess by 233%. Despite the Covid-19 lockdown affecting common man and traders alike, the civic agency is collecting revised user fee for solid waste management (SWM) from property owners in the city. The garbage cess is to be paid along with the property tax. Those paying Rs 180 per year (Rs 15 per month) as SWM user fee are now forced to pay Rs 600 per annum (Rs 50 per month) as per the revised slab with effect from April 1, 2020. While this is the minimum slab for those who own less than 500 sqft of property, the cess for others with above 500 sqft buildings also has increased steeply. Congress, the Opposition of MCC council, has warned of protests if the revised garbage cess schedule is not withdrawn. MCC council opposition leader Abdul Rouf said the garbage cess was introduced as per government order in 2013-14. A contractor was appointed accordingly, he said. As per the order, MCC started collecting Rs 30 per month for less than 500 sqft of property. Later, the cess was reduced to Rs 15 per month in 2015-16 after holding a discussion in the MCC council. However, the city corporation has increased the cess from Rs 180 per year to Rs 600 per year. It is a severe blow on the citizens who are already in distress due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Rouf. He said the city corporation must review its decision of hiking garbage cess and withdraw the order immediately. “Withdraw the order and collect cess as per the previous slabs. For those who have already paid the cess, the city corporation should either refund or adjust the amount with the next year’s payment,” he demanded. Congress leaders Shashidhar Hegde and Lancelot Pinto said MCC must also hold water adalats to solve the problems of people who received huge bills during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/233-hike-in-garbage-cess-a-severe-blow-for-citizens/articleshow/76412211.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Business||Emami||Kolkata: Consumer shift towards more essential products like food and groceries during the lockdown period affected the sale of niche and discretionary products manufactured by the company, says FMCG major Emami. The company operates in niche consumer and healthcare product categories like cooling oils, balms, antiseptic cream, fairness creams for men and ayurvedic hair-and-scalp care oils. It owns brands like Fair and Handsome, Zandu, BoroPlus, Navratna and Kesh King, among others. Speaking on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its business, Emami said, “Even before the implementation of the nation-wide lockdown (from March 25), restrictions on movement by various states affected the supply chain from mid-March. Operations until the first fortnight of April witnessed significant disruptions in the business and operations of the company affecting the pre-season sale of the company’s summer products.” “Further, a decline in consumption was also witnessed due to rising unemployment and a significant drop in demand from low-income groups,” the company said on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic its business in a stock exchange filing on Tuesday. The FMCG maker believes that the lockdown enforced due to the Covid-19 pandemic would impact the company's business performance in the first quarter this fiscal and operations are expected to normalize Q2FY21 onwards. Emami said due to the pandemic, there is a strong demand for healthcare and hygiene products. “The company’s healthcare range has been witnessing a steady demand for its immunity boosting products. The discretionary and personal care products are also slowly witnessing a recovery in demand,” it informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/emami/articleshow/76414309.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 forces Delhi to dig deep, machines replace tradition||NEW DELHI: There are rows of freshly dug graves, but no grave diggers at the Jadid Qabristan Ahle cemetery, one of the largest Muslim burial grounds in Delhi. A bright yellow earth mover scoops out mounds of mud, creating a deep cavity within minutes. The hum of the heavy JCB machine rarely stops, an indication of the almost unending load on the graveyard since it began to bury Covid-19 victims. The 44-acre graveyard, tucked behind a park in ITO, was started in 1924. Now, for the first time in nearly a hundred years, the gravediggers have abandoned their post after a two-acre section was earmarked for corona victims. “The four gravediggers only dig graves for regular bodies, not for Covid-19 victims because of fear,” said Mohammed Shameem, a third-generation cemetery caretaker. “But we have buried over 320 corona victims so far.” When TOI visited the graveyard on Monday, there were three families waiting to bury their loved ones. Almost all of them spoke of similar stories of distress and uncertainty. “Getting the Covid test done was a nightmare. The hospitals first refused to do the test, then said he was suspected to have the infection. We could not even see him once after his death,” said a 23-year-old whose father was to be buried. Even in death, the wait can extend to hours because there is oly one priest to conduct the namaaz-e-janaza, the prayer offered for the departed soul. The imam, Mohammad Wasim, who is also employed by Delhi Waqf Board to oversee burials of unclaimed accident victims, said he decided to lead the last prayer for these families because “someone had to”. Offering the last prayers for a 58-year-old man, Wasim told TOI, “Fear cannot be greater than humanity, and my work has helped hundreds of families.” Recently, the imam also became a pallbearer, helping families lower the bodies into the graves. “Once, we had the instance of only two people coming for the funeral because of the infection risk. We used the personal protection equipment suits the municipal corporation gave us to use while conducting funerals. But now we are out of all safety equipment,” said Wasim, recalling the time when only a woman and her son turned up for the last rites of her husband. According to safety protocols issued by the World Health Organization, graves meant for corona victims have to be at least 6-feet deep. Shameem uses a wooden stick to do his measurements. “We can’t follow everything the authorities state. The municipal officials gave us 30 PPE kits when we began the Covid-19 burials, and we ran out of them in a week. There is a constant fear of infection and I have taken two Covid tests, paying for them myself both times,” said Shameem, who only wears a mask he purchased himself. The lanky 38-year-old said he gets inundated with calls every day from people looking to book a plot. So, he follows a meticulous script now. “Get four PPE suits, one litre of hand sanitiser and at least two white shrouds for the body when it is lowered into the ground,” he repeats to every caller mechanically. The Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suits are for those who lower the body into the grave. Shameem said the graveyard only has the manpower to handle six burials a day, but they have even conducted the last rites for around 15 victims on a “bad day”. He also recalled, “The first time we got a call to bury a corona victim, I refused to be involved because of fear. But I regretted it soon after. The Quran says that we are made of dust, and we go back to dust.” Waseem interjected with his mantra for survival in these hard times: “We know we may get infected. But working with the dead has taught us that no matter who you are, you will leave the world empty-handed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-covid-forces-delhi-to-dig-deep-machines-replace-tradition/articleshow/76413446.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Irked over no ration supply, people block road in Ajmer||Ajmer: Angry with the ration distribution system, the residents of Adarsh Nagar here staged a protest and blocked Nasirabad Road on Tuesday. Last week, MLA from Ajmer South Anita Bhadel too accused the district administration of not distributing ration grains among the poor. The agitating people said that they are making rounds of ration shops since June 10, but they are not getting the ration even if they have proper documents and ration cards. “Sometimes, the shop owners say that their machine is not working properly and sometimes they say that they are not getting the supply,” said one of the protesters. The protesters alleged that on Tuesday, they stood in a long queue for ration, but after an hour, the shopkeeper said that the machine is not working. Angered over this, they blocked Nasirabad Road. Adarsh Nagar police came to the spot and convinced the agitators that they will speak to the higher officials to continue the ration supply. Protesters later went back. MLA Anita Bhadel said that since last one month, poor people are not able to get the ration regularly. She alleged that the state government is not serious about providing ration to the poor, hit hard by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irked-over-no-ration-supply-people-block-road-in-ajmer/articleshow/76414331.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Radiation therapy for Covid-19? AIIMS pilot study to test waters||NEW DELHI: Before the world’s first antibiotic, penicillin, was discovered in the 1940s, doctors used low dosage of radiation to treat pneumonia that could be caused by both bacteria and viruses. It was believed that radiation therapy, referred to as X-ray therapy, helped reduce inflammation in lungs and prevent cytokines storm (severe immune reaction), thereby mitigating the severity of pneumonitis. Since Covid-19 is known to cause pneumonia too, and there are no known cures for the viral illness yet, doctors at AIIMS are conducting a pilot study to assess whether radiation therapy can help reduce severity of symptoms. This has been confirmed by Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS. Two Covid-19 patients, both in their 50s requiring oxygen support due to severe symptoms, have already undergone the therapy that involved administering very low dosage of radiation (70 cGy in a single fraction) to the patient’s lungs in a single sitting. “After the therapy, both patients had normal X-ray reports. One is without oxygen and the other one’s requirement of oxygen has come down from 10 litres per minute to 3 litres,” Dr DN Sharma, principal investigator of the project, told TOI. Dr Sharma, professor and head of radiation oncology at AIIMS, said 10 eligible Covid-19 patients would be administered the therapy before July and, if it shows significant success, the trial would be expanded further. Apart from AIIMS, Emory University in the US is also conducting a similar study. Recently, they administered the therapy on five patients, most of them elderly, and found improvement in their oxygenation and mental status. Radiation therapy is usually given in high dosage for cancer treatment. The dosage for Covid-19 treatment is around 1/1000th of what is given for cancer. “This can be done on every radiotherapy machine without any serious side effects. The dosage in this case is equivalent to 20 PET scans,” Sharma said. He added that they were anticipating the therapy to help people with mild to moderate symptoms from getting severely ill and requiring ICU and ventilator support. “Most Covid-19 patients died due to pneumonia,” said Sharma. When a person is infected by the novel coronavirus, the immune system tries to fight back. Too many cytokines, small proteins important in cell signalling, are released into the blood very quickly leading to a storm. This has been linked to many complications, including heart attack in Covid-19 patients. It is believed that the low dosage of radiation can help prevent it. “At present, we have no known cure for Covid-19. Several drugs are being repurposed to see if they can treat the disease. Remdesivir, for example, has shown some success. This pilot study is also an attempt to find an answer to the disease, but right now it will be too early to talk about its success,” added Guleria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/radiation-therapy-for-covid-19-aiims-pilot-study-to-test-waters/articleshow/76413428.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Inside Covid care centre, patients search for beds, sweep and mop to keep it clean||PANAJI: When Alex received the message last week that he has tested positive for Covid-19, he braced himself for a long battle. This wasn’t going to be easy, he told his family, but what followed was worse. Along with three others from Vasco, all of who also tested positive, they were told to reach a venue in their own vehicle from where they would be picked up by an ambulance and transferred to the hospital. They waited, and waited, and it was only an agonising 10 hours later that the promised ambulance showed up. It was well past midnight as they took off from Vasco for the ESI hospital in Margao. “There is sheer lack of coordination and mismanagement at the Covid-19 centre (in Shiroda). I experienced this first hand,” Alex said from the facility where he will stay till he tests negative for Covid-19. ‘I am made to feel like I have got plague’Once they reached the ESI hospital past 1am, there was another half an hour’s wait before guards opened the gate and allowed the ambulance to enter. All of them couldn’t step out, and it was another half an hour before doctors were called to examine them. “We were suffocating inside the ambulance. It was hot and humid. Lack of sleep only made it worse. The air-condition was switched off. We could not even open the windows (of the ambulance) as they said it was a precautionary measure. We pleaded and asked them to at least allow us to open the door, said we wouldn’t step out, but they just wouldn’t budge,” he said. At approximately 2am, doctors wearing protective gears were ready to examine them. After examination, it was decided that two patients, including a child from Vasco, would be admitted in the hospital, while the other two were to be transferred to the Covid care centre in Shiroda. Since the two of them did not display any symptoms of Covid-19, they were transferred to Shiroda. “By the time we reached Shiroda, it was about 5.30am. They offered us four tablets each of paracetamol and another tray that contained some tablets and Chavanprash for immunity. We were then told to find beds for ourselves in one of the rooms,” he said. Alex and his companions navigated through completely dark corridors with patients sleeping everywhere. Finding a bed was just the start of another tough battle. “Most of the rooms were occupied and closed from inside. Now we didn’t even have a place to sleep,” he said. After looking around for some time, they were fortunate enough to find three unoccupied beds in one room. But patients inside would not accept them without knowing their identity: Goans or non-Goans. “There are a lot of migrant patients who are also transferred here. We got the beds when occupants of the room were satisfied that we were locals,” he said. Each room has eight or more beds. The distance between each bed, he said, was about two feet. “I could shake hands with a person sleeping on a bed next to mine,” he said. Due to the constant running around and endless waits, Alex was tired and hardly got any sleep. He woke up to locate the washroom, and as sunlight shone bright, his eyes opened up to another reality. “When I knocked on the door, the washroom was being cleaned. I thought the staff were doing their job, but much to my surprise, I found that it was one of the patients who had taken it upon himself to clean it. I was told that no cleaning staff comes to the centre,” said Alex. According to Alex, cleaning and mopping, is done by the patients themselves. Doctors or nurses, he said, don’t come to check on the patients. Anybody feeling unwell must go down to the counter and inform them. The next afternoon, Alex was shifted to another facility, which he says is better than the Shiroda centre. “Since being detected having the virus, I have not felt unwell. I don’t have to take any medication, but people around here are so scared. They don’t even allow us to keep a window of the room open. Will the virus jump and fall on them when they pass by? I’m told to keep the window closed at all time. I am made to feel I have got a plague,” he said. Alex said the least the government could do is improve coordination and press in more ambulances. The government, he said, must seriously consider allowing asymptomatic patients to remain in isolation at home, rather than face this harassment in the garb of providing care. “Health minister Vishwajit Rane should pay a surprise visit at these centres and see the truth for himself,” he said. ( Name changed to protect identity)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inside-covid-care-centre-patients-search-for-beds-sweep-and-mop-to-keep-it-clean/articleshow/76414889.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Thousands of turtles to get a new home near Mirzapur-Prayagraj Ganga stretch||Varanasi: The millennia old city Varanasi will no more be the home to the thousands of turtles who were cleaning the Ganga as the order to shift them to the Mirzapur-Prayagraj stretch of the river has been issued to save the city’s iconic ghats from erosion. Divisional forest officer of Kashi Wildlife Division Mahavir Kaujalgi told TOI on Tuesday that the order for relocation of the sanctuary has been received. The sanctuary will be relocated to a 30-km area in Mirzapur-Prayagraj stretch of the river, he added. “In a study, the Mirzapur-Prayagraj stretch was found fit habitat for the relocation of the turtles,” said the DFO. The sanctuary had come into existence in 1989 after the launch of the first phase of Ganga Action Plan for cleaning the river in 1986. As per records, the area of the mid-section of the Ganga flowing through Varanasi city and measuring around 7km had been declared as Turtle Wildlife Sanctuary under the UP State Administration Forest Act. Along with turtles, other species of aquatic animals which inhabit the area from Ramnagar Fort to Malviya rail-road bridge (Rajghat bridge) were also provided protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/thousands-of-turtles-to-get-a-new-home-near-mirzapur-prayagraj-ganga-stretch/articleshow/76412230.cms||Binay Singh
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Agri univ, NDRI ink MoU to boost dairy animals’ output||Udaipur: A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was inked between the Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) Udaipur and the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) Karnal to promote and accelerate the progress of research and training in various fields of technology development for enhancing productivity and profitability of dairy animals. NDRI, governed by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research, is India's premier institute on dairy research. In a video conference held on Tuesday, vice-chancellor of MPUAT Narendra Rathore and NDRI director Manmohan Chouhan signed the MoU which is expected to benefit hundreds of students from the tribal dominated districts falling under the service jurisdiction of the university. All disciplines to which admissions are made in the post-graduate programme by the MPUAT shall be open for collaboration under the MoU, provided the proposed research aspect is covered in the mandate of the ICAR-NDRI. “The students would benefit from the MoU since the research requires major collaborative input from the institution, in terms of scientific guidance, laboratory facility and field facilities for research, the additional major/co-major advisor shall be from therem,” Rathore told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-univ-ndri-ink-mou-to-boost-dairy-animals-output/articleshow/76414342.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Farmers protest in Saha, seek maize procurement||AMBALA: The Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Haryana unit staged a protest outside the office of grain market committee secretary in Saha town near here on Tuesday, demanding procurement of the rabi (winter) season maize on MSP. A large number of farmers participated in the protested and raised anti-government slogans. While the protesters complied with the rule of wearing masks to contain the spread of Covid-19, social distancing was not followed at the protest. A BKU spokesperson said the government was asking farmers to shift to maize from paddy under its crop diversification scheme to save groundwater, but farmers were not even getting deserving prices for maize. “The government must ensure procurement of entire maize produce on MSP, whether it is sown in rabi or kharif season, so that farmers can adopt crop diversification with a sense of security,” said the spokesperson. During the protest meeting, BKU passed a resolution against the Haryana government and submitted a memorandum of demands addressed to the CM to Ambala Cantonment SDM Subhash Sihag. In the memorandum, the BKU stated: “The government has promised time and again to procure maize, therefore, the farmers cultivated the crop on a large scale. But the government is not procuring maize on MSP. For maize, the farmers get Rs 1,760 per quintal under MSP, whereas the crop fetches only Rs 1,200 in the private market, which is a loss of around Rs 560 per quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-saha-farmers-seek-procurement-of-maize/articleshow/76414301.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi municipal corporation burial grounds run out of space||NEW DELHI: Two Covid-19 burial grounds at Mulla Colony and Bulland Masjid have run out of space. Due to steady rise in the novel coronavirus deaths, these burial grounds under East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) have received 47 bodies till June 14. “A high-powered committee headed by a medical health officer visited the sites recently and directed the engineering department to level the limited space available on the premises to accommodate 30-40 bodies. The work has started but it will take two-three days to make the surface smooth and usable,” said Sandeep Kapoor, standing committee chairman. He added that EDMC had pointed out earlier that the burial grounds might run out of space any time but the situation turned grave on Sunday after relatives of a deceased person was turned away from the Mulla Colony graveyard. “My aunt died on Saturday at GTB Hospital and we were told that the body will be handed over only after I get a slip from the burial ground for arrangements and space,” said a relative of the decesaed. “I visited the burial grounds at ITO, Shastri Park and Mulla Colony. The caretaker at the Mulla Colony ground clarified that there was no space left. Then we approached officials and the standing committee chairman. Arrangements could be made after a lot of persuasion,” added the east Delhi resident. The issue was also raised by the EDMC mayor at Sunday’s meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. “We asked for permission to allow more crematoria for Covid-19 bodies or suspected cases as well as extending land for burial grounds that have already run out of space,” said mayor Anju Kamalkant. Some crematoria in east Delhi fall under the jurisdictions of gram panchayats and the civic agency has been requesting for transferring some of them so that these can be developed and used in the time of crisis, said a civic official. Unlike the north and south corporations, EDMC has no CNG furnace and till recently all bodies from its areas were sent to Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh crematoria. After the government allowed wood cremation to speed up last rites and ease loads, the Karkardooma facility under EDMC started accepting Covid-19 bodies. Subsequently, the Seemapuri and Ghazipur crematoria have also been added to the list. Till June 14, these facilities have received 98 Covid-19 bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-burial-grounds-run-out-of-space/articleshow/76413455.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Three capitals key to decentralisation: Andhra Pradesh governor||VIJAYAWADA: Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Tuesday reiterated the state government’s commitment to go ahead with its plan of having three capitals. The governor said decentralisation of administration has been the key principle of the government and said “Amaravati will be the legislative capital, while Visakhapatnam will be executive capital and Kurnool, the judicial capital.” On administrative reforms and decentralisation of governance, the state government is moving forward by introducing village and ward secretariats, which had ‘redefined and has given a new look to villages where 60 per cent of the population lives.’ This initiative had created four lakh jobs to the people in just first four months of the government, he said. “The socio-economic ecosystem of villages is changing,” the governor said claiming the change is ‘for good.’ The governor’s address was mostly dedicated to the results of the socio-economic survey report for 2019-20, which was released on Monday by chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, where the government projected a GSDP growth of 8.16 per cent, much above the national average of 5 per cent. The governor listed the number of welfare schemes of this government starting from Amma Vodi to Rythu Bharosa and said that ‘education, healthcare, agriculture and welfare have been given prominence’ by the government. He also reiterated the government’s commitment to introduce English medium education in the schools, besides improving infrastructure in them through Nadu-Nedu programme. The governor spent a few minutes on highlighting the achievements of the government in dealing with coronavirus. “My government hopes that better days will come and life goes on smoothly,” he said. “From one lab, the government has increased the number of testing labs to 13 where about 15,000 tests are conducted per day. The mortality rate is much lower and recovery rate is higher than the national average,” he said. He said that the government had increased the Covid-19 hospitals in the state to 65 with 38,000 beds of which 15,000 beds are equipped with oxygen supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/socio-economic-change-in-villages-comes-in-for-praise/articleshow/76413450.cms||Gopi Dara
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Parties to ignore Mundhe’s plea to defer NMC general body meet||Nagpur: The all-party corporators meeting called by mayor Sandip Joshi on Tuesday decided to hold the general body meeting as scheduled on June 20. “Leaders of political parties like Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party and BJP in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation unanimously decided that the mayor should go ahead with the general body meeting by rejecting the request of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to put off the meeting,” Joshi told the media here. On June 13, municipal secretary Ranjana Lade issued agenda of the meeting as per mayor’s directives. On June 15, Mundhe wrote to Joshi requesting the meeting be cancelled as holding it would be violation of state’s lockdown norms. Joshi on Tuesday wrote back to the civic chief stating the state government had empowered municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats to decide about organizing general body on their own. Following this, leaders of all parties have decided to go ahead with general body meeting of June 20 at Suresh Bhat auditorium while following Covid-19 distancing. Joshi pointed out to Mundhe that if he could ask employees from containment zones to report to work, what was the problem in corporators from those areas attending the general body meet. The mayor also wondered how Mundhe had attended a gathering of over 300 people at Rajwada Palace on May 31 if organizing general body meeting of 156 corporators posed threat of coronavirus spread. In Pune that has over 11,000 coronavirus cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation has been conducting general body meetings and so were the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and Nashik Municipal Corporation. “We are not interested in bringing no confidence motion against Mundhe as we too want city’s development and for that we had and will continue extend our support to the civic chief,” said the mayor. “Rules should be equal for all and Mundhe too should follow it. Since joining the NMC in January, Mundhe has been working with a prejudiced mind,” he said and asked, “What is your problem, Mr Mundhe?” If he had been transferred 14 times in his 12-year career than it is not a matter of pride, he said, adding then there must be some problem with his working style. Referring to Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, the mayor said general body was the supreme followed by standing committee, mayor, standing committee chairman while the municipal commissioner is the last. However, Mundhe has seemingly overlooked the Act, Joshi said. “Sadly he never takes my calls and nor responds to my messages,” he said. The mayor said Mundhe had transferred OSD of standing committee office without the consent of the panel’s chairman. “We also ignored the fact that Mundhe did not meet standing panel’s chairman and took many decisions like declaring containment zones by ignoring elected representatives.” “Due to his dilly-dally attitude, retaining wall of nullah has collapsed in Marawadi chawl. The then municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar had sanctioned the work order to repair the wall but Mundhe did not issue the work order,” Joshi charged. The mayor said if Mundhe did not follow directive to hold general body meeting, he will again discuss the same with all-party corporators. Mundhe was not reachable for his comments. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke were present with Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parties-to-ignore-mundhes-plea-to-defer-nmc-general-body-meet/articleshow/76414337.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 17, 2020||Nashik||Nandurbar: Non-essential shops to be shut for 4 days||Nashik: The district administration of tribal-dominated Nandurbar has ordered complete four-day closure of all shops selling non-essential items in Nandurbar city beginning Tuesday.In addition, shops selling essential commodities such as vegetables, milk, groceries, etc. would function during these days for just four hours starting 8 am. However, medical shops would continue to function beyond 12 noon.The district administration seems unhappy with a large section of people in Nandurbar city for allegedly violating social distancing norms. District collector Rajendra Bharud held a review meeting with police and revenue officials on Monday. During the meeting, they discussed about the Covid-19 scenario in the district.“Things were under control in the district, but in the last three-four days, there has been a sudden spike of over 20 Covid-19 positive cases in the district, the bulk of which were from the city areas. The administration wants to prevent the spread of the infection in the city,” district officials said.Bharud has directed local authorities to take action against those violating social distancing norms.Nandurbar district has registered 68 positive cases so far while 32 have recovered. A total of four patients have succumbed to the infection. District officials said that police have stepped up vigil around the district borders. Moreover, they also deny permission to vehicles entering the district without permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-non-essential-shops-to-be-shut-for-4-days/articleshow/76412240.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Police recruits to study Goa’s Liberation||Panaji: The golden chapter of Goa’s Liberation, along with the contributions made by freedom fighters, will be made part of Police Training School syllabus, Goa police said. Inspector general of police Jaspal Singh inaugurated two photo panels at the GRP Convention Hall at Altinho, here, in the presence of deputy inspector general of police Paramaditya and others. The panels showing Liberation-related documents and photos were installed following an initiative by SP (Training) Bosco George. On the panel, one can see a copy of the ‘Instruments of Surrender’ of Goa and Daman, December 19, 1961, signed by the last Portuguese governor general Manuel Antonio Vassalo e Silva and the Portuguese governor at Daman. A rare hand-written copy of their intention to surrender on December 19, 1961, is also displayed on one the panels. The panels were appreciated as a deserving remembrance and recognition of the sacrifices during the Liberation movement. The invitees appreciated George’s initiative of installing the panels. George said that the golden chapter of Goa’s Liberation, along with the contributions made by freedom fighters, a few of whom joined the Goa Police force, after liberation, shall be made part of the syllabus at the Police Training School in the state. “The memoirs written by a couple of freedom fighters who joined the Goa Police force after liberation,” he said. The mandates of safe distancing were maintained at the function. Two panels showing Liberation-related documents and photos were installed at the GRP Convention Hall at Altinho, following an initiative by SP (Training) Bosco George||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-recruits-to-study-goas-liberation/articleshow/76414915.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon near, flood plan review in Ropar||Ropar: Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari during a meeting at the district administrative complex reviewed the plan for prevention of flooding in the district during monsoon and directed the officials to keep a plan ready, so that a repeat of last year was avoided this time . Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri, SSP Swapan Sharma, and additional deputy commissioners Deep Shikha and Amardeep Singh Gujral were also present. Tiwari said some problems had arisen last year due to lack of flood boats, so more would be required. He suggested strengthening of embankments of the Sutlej in high flood zone area and set up relief camps in such a way that medicines, food and relief materials could be provided expeditiously. He said dams near which there was more danger due to rising water level should be strengthened. He said appropriate arrangements should be made in advance by meeting sarpanches and there should be coordination with NDRF in advance. Tewari said like Himachal Pradesh had channelised rivers, a plan should be prepared in Punjab too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/monsoon-near-flood-plan-review-in-ropar/articleshow/76414339.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Backlog at mortuaries cleared, almost||NEW DELHI: With improved coordination between the hospitals and Covid-19 designated funeral sites over the past two days, the backlog of the bodies that had piled up at the mortuaries has been cleared. A spokesperson of the home ministry stated that following the directions of home minister Amit Shah, all central, private and state hospitals in Delhi performed the last rites of Covid-19 deceased with consent of or in presence of their families. “The last rites of the remaining 36 deceased will be done by tomorrow (Wednesday) as next of kin are not in Delhi. There will be no delays going forward,” the spokesperson added. With two-day deadline of clearing the mortuaries being over, most of the pending cases have been processed without any reports of mismanagement at the burial and cremation grounds. Reports from hospitals were sought after every two hours and floor management was ensured, said officials from all the three civic bodies. The Covid-19 designated funeral facilities have a capacity to handle 367 bodies per day, but the city saw delays in previous weeks due to poor coordination. “However, no delay or waiting time was witnessed in the last two days and senior officials were deployed at key sites like Punjabi Bagh and Nigambodh Ghat to ensure better coordination,” the officials added. A senior corporation official overseeing the Punjabi Bagh facility said that on both Monday and Tuesday, its capacity remained underutilised. Civic officials told TOI that they called the major Covid-19 hospitals, including LNJP, Safdarjung, RML, AIIMS and private establishments, to gather that the backlog was not huge and still manageable. “Lok Nayak had 22 bodies, while Safdarjung had 20. The figures were even lower and mostly in single digits in other hospitals,” the official added. The Punjabi Bagh facility received just 55 cremation bookings on Monday. “On Tuesday, it cremated 38 bodies against the capacity of 65. No rush was observed,” said the official. Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson of north corporation, said the Nigambodh cremation ground too remained underutilised and no mismanagement was observed. “If bodies do not come suddenly at one point, we will not witness any delays,” Prakash asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/backlog-at-mortuaries-cleared-almost/articleshow/76413473.cms||Paras Singh
June 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi to ramp up public health infra in a big way: Deputy commissioner||UDUPI: Unfazed by the fact that it tops the list with most Covid-19 positive patients in Karnataka and expects a spike with the next wave of influx, Udupi district administration on Tuesday decided to ramp up its public health infrastructure. As per the plan, all government hospitals in the district will be upgraded and the administration will provide necessary support and get funds released, noted deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha. Chairing a review meeting on Tuesday, DC sought information from officials on facilities needed at the hospitals. He added that Dr G Shankar Hospital in Kundapur will be converted in to Covid hospital. SBI and Infosys has provided four and three ventilators respectively and work of installing them at the hospital is on. At least 40 beds in this hospital will have oxygen support to make it an additional full-fledged Covid care centre for the district, DC said. Directing all private hospitals and nursing homes in the district to set up fever clinics, the DC said this will obviate the need to send them to government hospitals for screening. Hospitals and nursing homes, despite clear instruction, are not providing information on influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory infection cases referred to them to district, taluk health authorities and strict action will be taken against such institution, he warned. Health teams are visiting people in home quarantine and anyone with Covid19 symptoms will be immediately shifted to designated covid hospital, he said. Due care has been taken to ensure there are no fatalities due to the epidemic and recovery rate of patients in the district is on the higher side, he said. The lone death in the district to the epidemic was due to heart attack and the patient tested positive for the disease after death, Jagadeesha said. The administration is grateful to services of medical personnel who have toiled in this pandemic to ensure minimal Covid-19 fatalities, he said. The next influx of people from other districts and states will be challenging for all concerned as only symptomatic individuals will be tested — putting greater onus on the surveillance set up for rest of the untested population, DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-to-ramp-up-public-health-infra-in-a-big-way-dc/articleshow/76412263.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Four carnivorous species of tortoise released into Ganga||Varanasi: The stretch of the Ganga river from Rajghat to Ramnagar Fort was declared Tortoise sanctuary, a wildlife protected zone, in 1989 under the Wildlife (Conservation) Act-1972, while the turtle breeding centre was established at Sarnath in 1987. Turtle eggs were procured from the Chambal river for hatching at the Sarnath breeding centre before releasing in the sanctuary area in the Ganga after attaining adulthood. Four carnivorous species of tortoise were selected for releasing into the Ganga for organic cleaning of the river. The species are Kathawa (Aspederites gangeticus), Sundari Kachchua (Lissemys punctata), Dhond (Kachuga dhongoka) and Pacheda (Pangshura tecta). These carnivores feed on burnt and half-burnt corpses besides aquatic life. According to records of the Kashi Wild Life Division, so far over 42,000 turtles were reared at the Sarnath breeding centre in Sarnath and released into the Ganga. Till 1993, when the first phase of Ganga Action Plan (GAP) had been completed, 28,920 tortoises were dropped into the Ganga. With the end of GAP-I, the tortoise breeding project was also stopped in 1993. Later, the forest department revived the programme in 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-carnivorous-species-of-tortoise-released-into-ganga/articleshow/76412252.cms||Binay Singh
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||‘Harassed’ by bank manager over loan repay, Jodhpur farmer ends life||JODHPUR: A farmer committed suicide allegedly after failed to repay crop loan here. He has been identified as Sher Singh (55) who is reportedly under stress due to alleged threats and harassment by the manager of the bank insisting him to repay loan. Jagmal Singh, brother of the deceased, has filed a complaint at the police station against the bank manager holding him responsible for the suicide. SHO (Khedapa) Kesharam said that an FIR has been registered against the bank manager under Section 306 of IPC (abetment of suicide) and investigation has been initiated. Jagmal said that his brother had taken a loan of Rs 3 lakh from UCO Bank’s Osian branch in 2015 on Kisan Credit Card. “After taking loan, he dug a tubewell on his 40 bigha land and began farming. He paid some installments but could not do it regularly due to some unforeseeable reasons,” Jagmal said. He said that the bank had issued notices to him first in February and second in March directing him to clear the dues. “Even then the manager used to visit my brother insisting him to clear the dues and threatened him that if he did not clear the outstanding amount, he would lose his land and face legal action. My brother could not focus on sowing under the pressure of losing his land and tried to arrange money to pay back the loan and interest but could not. He was under stress for past few days and was hardly talking to anybody,” Jagmal said. “And when he could not bear the stress, he jumped into a pond of his village Chandrakh in Osian on Sunday. He left behind five daughters and wife. Now, we want justice from police and the government,” Jagmal said. According to bank notice, Sher Singh had an outstanding amount of Rs 3,32,208, excluding interest amount. Kesharam said that bank warrant had been issued against him for recovery in March which had been pasted at his house as he failed to pay any installment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/harassed-by-manager-over-loan-repay-farmer-ends-life/articleshow/76414351.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Part of Baina now a containment zone||MARGAO/PANAJI: With Covid cases on the rise, South Goa collector on Tuesday issued a notification declaring a part of Baina as micro containment zone. Some houses from ward number 9 at Baina constitute the micro containment zone, while Bagabai area of Baina has been notified as the buffer zone. The move comes after 14 persons from three families in Baina tested positive for the virus. It will be the third containment zone after Mangor Hill and Ghodemal at Morle village in Sattari taluka. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pramod Sawant said since Covid-19 cases reported from Baina are distributed within the area, the government will go for a micro containment zone.  “The adjoining buildings will be buffer zone,” he said. As of Tuesday, 27 cases were detected in Baina. The cases in Baina were found after first person from Mangor Hill was tested positive on June 1. Since 95% of Covid patients are asymptomatic, Sawant said their efforts are under way to transfer all of them to Covid care centres and accordingly arrangements are being made. The government wants to convert Sai Hostel in Mapusa into Covid care centre. This will be in addition to conversion of residencies of Colva and Calangute into Covid care centres, he said. The MPT hospital as well as Shiroda primary health centre are being used as Covid care centres. On being realised that patients are probably taking more than seven days for recovery, he said, “it is decided to segregate patients to reduce accumulation of viral in one place.” Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium in Taleigao and Navelim stadium will be used as Covid care centres to place male and female patients, respectively. Pernem stadium will be used if further need arises, he said. At each location, he said they will not keep more than 200 patients. Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio, said the government has dropped the plan of requisitioning educational institutes for use as Covid care centres. “Colleges may want to conduct final year and practical exams. We do not want to disturb them,” he said. The government had taken possession of Government College in Quepem to be used as Covid care center, but the order was revoked on Monday. Sawant said it was done no sooner than facilities such as Colva and Calangute residencies were made available. He said district collectorate teams after inspections have identified places in each taluka where Covid care facility could be set up if a need arises. Referring to some people opposing Covid care centres in their areas and opposition to conversion of the MPT hospital, he said people must understand that they must fight the virus and not those afflicted by it. “What if there are patients in their area, then where they should be treated. People mustn’t bring politics into Covid crises,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/part-of-baina-now-a-containment-zone/articleshow/76414890.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: All except 1 from Jaipur prisons recover||JAIPUR: All infected inmates and staff, except one patient, of the central and district jails in Jaipur, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, have been cured. Following an outbreak of Covid in the two jails, 252 inmates and staff were infected with the virus last month. But no death was reported from the two jails after health authorities successfully managed to contain the spread of the virus. The central and district jails witnessed the outbreak in May. According to health department reports, 252 persons were found infected with Covid in the two jails of the city. Out of these, 251 have now recovered. “In the central jail, 86 persons, including seven staff, tested positive. All of them have been cured except one person, who is undergoing treatment at the SMS Hospital,” said Rakesh Mohan Sharma, superintendent, Central Jail, Jaipur. Health department officials also said that all those tested positive in the district jail too have recovered. In the district jail, 166 persons, including inmates and staff, had contracted the virus. On May 11, two inmates were the first to be found infected with Covid in the district jail. One of the first two was brought to the jail from Jamwarangarh in Jaipur district on April 13. The other inmate, who tested positive along with him, had been arrested by Bajaj Nagar police on May 9 and put in a cell with 18 other prisoners on May 10. He was diagnosed with Covid the very next day. After the first case was reported, the health department started mass screening and testing of all staff and inmates. Following this, the department set up an isolation facility within the hospital where the inmates had tested positive and provided treatment. Those who had more complications were shifted to SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-except-1-from-citys-prisons-recover/articleshow/76414891.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP members stage protest in assembly||Amaravati: Clad in black shirts and led by the party’s national general secretary Nara Lokesh, TDP legislators staged protest while attending the assembly’s budget session on Tuesday. Holding placards, they charged the YSRC government of halting the state’s growth and development. TDP, which holds majority in the legislative council, also proposed amendments to the budget presented by finance minister Buggana Rajendranath. In a letter submitted to council chairman MA Shariff, MLCs Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, Lokesh, G Sandhya Rani, P Ashok Babu and B T Naidu said they want the House to adopt the amendments under Article 176 of the Constitution and business rules of the AP legislature. TDP members wanted the government to remove the paragraph on economy, which, according to them, gave unjustified figures on GSDP and PCI. They also proposed additions stating the government neglected the development of capital city Amaravati, construction of Polavaram and welfare of weaker sections. The TDP said the governor’s address misled the House by giving ‘false information’ on PPAs and implementation of Navarathnalu. They raised objection to the governor’s speech for not mentioning the law and order situation in the state and alleged atrocities by ruling party leaders. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu said the government failed to give direction to growth and development of the state with a lacklustre budget. He also asked the government to immediately cancel SSC examinations in the state. “The government has no right to play with the lives of students as Covid-19 cases are increasing. When Telangana and Tamil Nadu have cancelled SSC exams, I do not understand why the government is trying to harass children in AP. The exams should be cancelled immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-members-stage-protest-in-assembly/articleshow/76413482.cms||Samdani MN
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||480kg of ganja seized in Ajmer||Ajmer: A consignment of 480kg of hemp (ganja) which was being smuggled in a truck loaded with jackfruit from Hyderabad to Gurugram was caught at Nasirabad highway by Ajmer police on Tuesday. Two accused have been arrested. The cost of the consignment in international market is about Rs 1 crore, police said. Police had barricaded the Bhilwara-Jaipur highway for checking on Tuesday. A truck full of jackfruits was found carrying 20 plastic bags. When the bags were checked, hemp was recovered. Police arrested Kapil (36), a resident of Bijnor (UP) and Julfikar (36), a resident of Haryana. The interrogation revealed that the consignment was being taken to Gurugram for sale in Delhi. Police are investigating the case to unearth a nexus supplying drugs to big cities. They have informed their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/480kg-of-ganja-seized-in-ajmer/articleshow/76414361.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bahurupiya artistes seek govt help||JAIPUR: Like folk artistes who are unable to perform and earn because of the pandemic, families involved in the ancient art of ‘Bahurupiya’ are also facing a tough time. Having earned name, fame and glory by dressing up as mythological characters of Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman and also characters of Hindi cinema from Gabbar Singh to Mogambo, these folk artistes have urged the state government to do something for them and their families. In Rajasthan, around 15,000 Bahurupiya artistes are living in Churu, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Dausa and Alwar districts. For all these years, they have been earning by dressing up as mythological characters and visiting shops and houses where people offer them money. “This is how we have been earning. However after Covid 19 people are not going to tolerate and entertain us. And yes it will take more time for things to normalise. Thus, the state government and the Centre should also think for us and our families. We have made festivals like Dussehra in Ayodhya grand by our getups as Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman,” said 34-year-old Shamshad Bahuruipya of Bandikui town in Dausa district. This family having six brothers has been preserving the ancient folk art form. “We are into it for the past five generations. Be it an election campaign or some social campaign, the government invites us to prepare something to give a message. I think it is high time when government should reciprocate and help us,” said Mohammad Farid Bahurupiya, the brother of Shamshad. Shamshad, Farid, Firoz, Naushad, Salim and Akram were invited by the Uttar Pradesh government at Rashtriya Shilp Mela last year. Farid has also been felicitated with ‘Kala Samman’ twice by the central government’s cultural centre, West Zone Cultural Centre, in 2008 and 2012. He and his brothers appear only in government sponsored fairs across the country. Naushad added that the most difficult part of being a ‘bahurupiya’ is that there is no time limit on the stage or arena for performance. “We just walk from shop to shop and city to city. People might sometime scream or sometimes get happy. But Covid-19 it is actually a threat to our survival,” Naushad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bahurupiya-artistes-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76414369.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 17, 2020||Pune||Govt backs PTAs over cutback in fees||Pune: Schools can reduce the fees if certain facilities are not in use due to the online classes, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said at news conference held online on Tuesday. Gaikwad warned schools against raising the fees for this year irrespective of the board they were affiliated to. “ We have appointed nodal officers where parents can complain about any fees’ issue. If they don’t act, we will take action. We have spoken to the CICSE, CBSE and other boards. They will not an increase in the fees in their schools which should take a humanitarian view,” Gaikwad said. State commissioner for education Vishal Solanki said many facilities like the school buses are not in use. “The Executive Parents Teachers Association can decide about the fee structure factoring in what facilities are in use. Money saved by the school due to online classes can be factored in. Fees can be reduced by 10% or 20% for this academic year. The EPTA has full authority to decide. ” Gaikwad said the government was drafting an SoP for teachers from containment zones. “There will be a special mention for teachers above 55 years,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-backs-ptas-over-cutback-in-fees/articleshow/76414359.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 17, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar opens bridge over Gandak in East Champaran||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inaugurated two major projects of the road construction department in East Champaran and Lakhisarai through video-conferencing from ‘Samvad’ hall at the chief minister’s office. Nitish opened the high-level RCC bridge on the Gandak at Sattarghat in East Champaran. The bridge, constructed at a cost of Rs 263.48 crore, will reduce travel time between from East Champaran to Gopalganj, Siwan and Saran districts. The CM also inaugurated a bypass road along with two road-over bridges (total construction cost Rs 146.31 crore) in Lakhisarai town and laid foundation for another bypass road in Sasaram. The proposed bypass road in Sasaram (from Beda to Moker) will be constructed at a cost of Rs 122.39 crore. He also inaugurated Kunder barrage construction scheme in Lakhisarai district’s Chanan block and four other irrigation schemes in Suryagarha block through video-conferencing from the same venue. Addressing the function, Nitish regretted not being able to visit the site of Sattarghat bridge or Lakhisarai bypass for their on-the-spot inauguration due to Covid-19 pandemic. “I had gone to Sattarghat to lay the foundation of the bridge in 2012. It is not good that I am not there for the inauguration of the same bridge. I do not like inaugurating major projects through video conferencing. I like to go among people and visit construction sites because it provides me a chance to inspect the quality of work before their inauguration,” Nitish said and announced that henceforth no major project would be inaugurated through video-conferencing. CM asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to make all necessary arrangements for on-the-spot inauguration of new projects, while following the Centre’s guidelines on social distancing. “From now onwards, please do not request me to inaugurate any completed project from here. Take me to the project sites. If I will visit the site, I will also inspect whether there are any shortcomings in the construction,” Nitish told the chief secretary. CM said the state government not only builds the roads and bridges, but also gives attention to their regular maintenance. He said the state government has a separate maintenance policy for the RCD and rural works department’s roads. He also announced the construction of a 23.5km new road from Barahiya to Suryagarha via Khuthan at a cost of Rs 50 crore. “The RCD has already prepared a detailed project report (DPR) for this road. Now, they will start its construction,” CM said. Lauding the water resources department for completing several irrigation schemes in Lakhisarai district, CM reiterated that he would provide irrigation water to each farm land across the state, if people of the state give him another chance to serve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-opens-bridge-over-gandak-in-e-champaran/articleshow/76413506.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan youth abused, made to drink urine for affair with girl from his own community||JODHPUR: A youth in Sirohi was subjected to abject humiliation and made to drink urine for allegedly having an affair with a girl from his own community. He was allegedly tortured and beaten up by 'panchs' of his community for going against community laws. The incident occurred around five days ago in Sirohi’s Paldi M area. But the police sprang into action after a video of the atrocity committed by community leaders on the youth went viral on Tuesday. After identifying the accused, police have detained six persons and handed them over to Sumerpur police, where the case against community panchs has been registered. According to Sumerpur SHO Ravindra Singh, the youth was picked up from Sumerpur and taken to Sirohi, where he was beaten up and tortured. He, however, refused to relate the matter to khap panchayat and claimed that the relatives of the girl took the boy with them as they were infuriated with him for having an affair with her. The viral video showed the boy, surrounded by a group of men, being thrashed and made to drink water from the shoes. Later, he was forced to drink urine from a bottle. People around him could be heard constantly abusing him and saying to him that if he can drink liquor then why can't he drink urine. Paldi M SHO Pooraram Dahiya said that all the accused and the victim are from the Dewasi community. “Since the accused belonged to my area, I detained them and handed them over to Sumerpur police, where a case has been registered, for further investigation,” said Dahiya. There was a flurry of official activity after the video went viral on Tuesday morning. Sources said that the DGP and the home department have sought a detailed report on the incident. Watch Shocking! Youth abused, made to drink urine for affair with girl from his own community in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sirohi-youth-abusedfor-affair-with-girl-from-his-community/articleshow/76414894.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi registers its 8th Covid death||Varanasi: The district recorded eighth Covid-19 death on Monday night while six more positive cases came to light on Tuesday. Total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district reached up to 291. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that a 77-year-old man, who was a retired employee of railway and native of Hukulganj, died at BHU hospital on Monday. Sample of this man, who suffered tuberculosis and cardiac problem, had been taken, he said adding in lab test he was found infected, due to which the toll of Covid-19 cases reached eight in the district. Apart from him a 35-year-old and a 33-year-old men of Golghar Maidagin, 24-year-old man of Buddha City Sarnath, 26-year-old Mumbai returned man of Premchand Nagar Colony Pandeypur, 72-year-old man from old hotspot area and a 55-year-old man of Nandnagar Ashapur were also tested positive, said CMO. With these seven cases, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 291 of which 214 have been cured and eight died, he said adding, now number of active cases in the district has become 69. Test report of two patients from Bihar and Mirzapur had also come with remark as positive after which officials at their places concerned were reported, he added. Five new areas including Golghar, Buddha City, Premchand Nagar, Hukulganj and Nand Nagar have been declared hotspots. With it total number of hotspot areas in the district reached 150 of which 76 are in active category. Earlier on Monday, a doctor and a paramedical staff, who were members of the team engaged in treating Covid-19 cases at ESIC hospital in Pandeypur, had been tested positive. This was first case of detection of infection in any team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients in the district, admitted CMO After the work duration of this team was over, samples of all its members including doctors and paramedical staff were sent for laboratory testing. When the laboratory test reports were received, one doctors and one paramedical staff had been found positive, he said adding, all other members were found uninfected hence they were allowed to go home. Following these developments, the hotel of UP tourism department in Paredkothi area, where this team stayed, was sealed and process of its sanitisation was started, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-registers-its-8th-covid-death/articleshow/76412272.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan youth abused, made to drink urine for affair with girl from his own community||JODHPUR: A youth in Sirohi was subjected to abject humiliation and made to drink urine for allegedly having an affair with a girl from his own community. He was allegedly tortured and beaten up by 'panchs' of his community for going against community laws. The incident occurred around five days ago in Sirohi’s Paldi M area. But the police sprang into action after a video of the atrocity committed by community leaders on the youth went viral on Tuesday. After identifying the accused, police have detained six persons and handed them over to Sumerpur police, where the case against community panchs has been registered. According to Sumerpur SHO Ravindra Singh, the youth was picked up from Sumerpur and taken to Sirohi, where he was beaten up and tortured. He, however, refused to relate the matter to khap panchayat and claimed that the relatives of the girl took the boy with them as they were infuriated with him for having an affair with her. The viral video showed the boy, surrounded by a group of men, being thrashed and made to drink water from the shoes. Later, he was forced to drink urine from a bottle. People around him could be heard constantly abusing him and saying to him that if he can drink liquor then why can't he drink urine. Paldi M SHO Pooraram Dahiya said that all the accused and the victim are from the Dewasi community. “Since the accused belonged to my area, I detained them and handed them over to Sumerpur police, where a case has been registered, for further investigation,” said Dahiya. There was a flurry of official activity after the video went viral on Tuesday morning. Sources said that the DGP and the home department have sought a detailed report on the incident. Watch Shocking! Youth abused, made to drink urine for affair with girl from his own community in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sirohi-youth-abusedfor-affair-with-girl-from-his-community/articleshow/76416775.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Woman dies post-surgery, kin demand investigation||Jaisalmer: Family members of a woman who died while undergoing sterilisation at Jawahir hospital has demanded a high-level investigation into the alleged botched procedure. Officials said Sundara Devi (36), resident of Kishanghat in Jaisalmer City, reached Jawahir hospital for sterilization at 9am on Monday. The surgery was conducted and she was sent back home by 2.30pm. After reaching home her health deteriorated and family members brought her back to the hospital where she was declared dead. Following the incident, her family members levelled serious allegations on Dr. Ravindra Sankhla and said she died because of sterilization. When family members created ruckus, the hospital management assured to conduct a postmortem by forming a medical board. Family members have also lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station. Sumarnath, husband of the deceased, said his wife died because of the doctor’s carelessness. Dr. BL Bunkar, PMO Jawahir hospital, however claimed the surgery was successful. Sankhla said the woman was checked and when she was found okay, the surgery was conducted. After operation, she walked up to a taxi and reached home safely where her health deteriorated. The allegations levelled by her family members are not right, the doctor claimed. Sundara is survived by seven children. City police station SHO Kishan Singh said the body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-dies-post-surgery-kin-demand-investigation/articleshow/76414371.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Jaipur||Bodies of teen couple found hanging||Bodies of a 19-year-old boy and a 14-year-old girl were found hanging from a tree in agriculture field at Khokanda village under Jhalawar city police station area on Tuesday. Police probe revealed the teen couple was in love and had eloped on Sunday from Suket town of Kota district where their parents worked as labourers in a stone quarry. Jhalawar city police station CI Laxman Singh said the boy was identified as Govind Bairwa, a resident of Jugpura village under Bakani police station of Jhalawar district, and the girl was a resident of Undel village under Jhalawar Sadar police station. The duo had eloped on Sunday from their homes. Both of them used dupattas to hang from the tree. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bodies-of-teen-couple-found-hanging/articleshow/76414367.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Bahurupiya artistes seek govt help||JAIPUR: Like folk artistes who are unable to perform and earn because of the pandemic, families involved in the ancient art of ‘Bahurupiya’ are also facing a tough time. Having earned name, fame and glory by dressing up as mythological characters of Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman and also characters of Hindi cinema from Gabbar Singh to Mogambo, these folk artistes have urged the state government to do something for them and their families. In Rajasthan, around 15,000 Bahurupiya artistes are living in Churu, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Dausa and Alwar districts. For all these years, they have been earning by dressing up as mythological characters and visiting shops and houses where people offer them money. “This is how we have been earning. However after Covid 19 people are not going to tolerate and entertain us. And yes it will take more time for things to normalise. Thus, the state government and the Centre should also think for us and our families. We have made festivals like Dussehra in Ayodhya grand by our getups as Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman,” said 34-year-old Shamshad Bahuruipya of Bandikui town in Dausa district. This family having six brothers has been preserving the ancient folk art form. “We are into it for the past five generations. Be it an election campaign or some social campaign, the government invites us to prepare something to give a message. I think it is high time when government should reciprocate and help us,” said Mohammad Farid Bahurupiya, the brother of Shamshad. Shamshad, Farid, Firoz, Naushad, Salim and Akram were invited by the Uttar Pradesh government at Rashtriya Shilp Mela last year. Farid has also been felicitated with ‘Kala Samman’ twice by the central government’s cultural centre, West Zone Cultural Centre, in 2008 and 2012. He and his brothers appear only in government sponsored fairs across the country. Naushad added that the most difficult part of being a ‘bahurupiya’ is that there is no time limit on the stage or arena for performance. “We just walk from shop to shop and city to city. People might sometime scream or sometimes get happy. But Covid-19 it is actually a threat to our survival,” Naushad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bahurupiya-artistes-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76418036.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Bahurupiya artistes seek govt help||JAIPUR: Like folk artistes who are unable to perform and earn because of the pandemic, families involved in the ancient art of ‘Bahurupiya’ are also facing a tough time. Having earned name, fame and glory by dressing up as mythological characters of Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman and also characters of Hindi cinema from Gabbar Singh to Mogambo, these folk artistes have urged the state government to do something for them and their families. In Rajasthan, around 15,000 Bahurupiya artistes are living in Churu, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Dausa and Alwar districts. For all these years, they have been earning by dressing up as mythological characters and visiting shops and houses where people offer them money. “This is how we have been earning. However after Covid 19 people are not going to tolerate and entertain us. And yes it will take more time for things to normalise. Thus, the state government and the Centre should also think for us and our families. We have made festivals like Dussehra in Ayodhya grand by our getups as Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman,” said 34-year-old Shamshad Bahuruipya of Bandikui town in Dausa district. This family having six brothers has been preserving the ancient folk art form. “We are into it for the past five generations. Be it an election campaign or some social campaign, the government invites us to prepare something to give a message. I think it is high time when government should reciprocate and help us,” said Mohammad Farid Bahurupiya, the brother of Shamshad. Shamshad, Farid, Firoz, Naushad, Salim and Akram were invited by the Uttar Pradesh government at Rashtriya Shilp Mela last year. Farid has also been felicitated with ‘Kala Samman’ twice by the central government’s cultural centre, West Zone Cultural Centre, in 2008 and 2012. He and his brothers appear only in government sponsored fairs across the country. Naushad added that the most difficult part of being a ‘bahurupiya’ is that there is no time limit on the stage or arena for performance. “We just walk from shop to shop and city to city. People might sometime scream or sometimes get happy. But Covid-19 it is actually a threat to our survival,” Naushad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bahurupiya-artistes-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76418035.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 17, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Bahurupiya artistes seek govt help||JAIPUR: Like folk artistes who are unable to perform and earn because of the pandemic, families involved in the ancient art of ‘Bahurupiya’ are also facing a tough time. Having earned name, fame and glory by dressing up as mythological characters of Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman and also characters of Hindi cinema from Gabbar Singh to Mogambo, these folk artistes have urged the state government to do something for them and their families. In Rajasthan, around 15,000 Bahurupiya artistes are living in Churu, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Dausa and Alwar districts. For all these years, they have been earning by dressing up as mythological characters and visiting shops and houses where people offer them money. “This is how we have been earning. However after Covid 19 people are not going to tolerate and entertain us. And yes it will take more time for things to normalise. Thus, the state government and the Centre should also think for us and our families. We have made festivals like Dussehra in Ayodhya grand by our getups as Lord Rama, Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman,” said 34-year-old Shamshad Bahuruipya of Bandikui town in Dausa district. This family having six brothers has been preserving the ancient folk art form. “We are into it for the past five generations. Be it an election campaign or some social campaign, the government invites us to prepare something to give a message. I think it is high time when government should reciprocate and help us,” said Mohammad Farid Bahurupiya, the brother of Shamshad. Shamshad, Farid, Firoz, Naushad, Salim and Akram were invited by the Uttar Pradesh government at Rashtriya Shilp Mela last year. Farid has also been felicitated with ‘Kala Samman’ twice by the central government’s cultural centre, West Zone Cultural Centre, in 2008 and 2012. He and his brothers appear only in government sponsored fairs across the country. Naushad added that the most difficult part of being a ‘bahurupiya’ is that there is no time limit on the stage or arena for performance. “We just walk from shop to shop and city to city. People might sometime scream or sometimes get happy. But Covid-19 it is actually a threat to our survival,” Naushad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bahurupiya-artistes-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76418033.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 17, 2020||Goa||Downpour brings tree falls, landslide, flooding to Goa||PANAJI: Torrential downpour on Tuesday unleashed a fury of floods across the state, a landslide on the Goa-Karnataka border that led to a five-hour roadblock at the Chorla Ghat, and several tree falls that blocked roads and snapped power lines causing intermittent power cuts. Even as Tuesday’s very heavy rainfall hit normal life, the IMD has forecast similar showers for Wednesday. Farmers delay sowing paddy, suffer fewer lossesStreets were waterlogged in Panaji for most parts of the afternoon, which forced some of the commercial establishments to shut after muddy water entered their stores. The downpour, however, didn’t discourage some citizens from committing traffic violations, one of which saw a lady driving on the footpath along the 18th June road in Panaji. In South Goa, Canacona witnessed flooding in many of its low-lying areas. Trees fell on highways at various places in Khareband, Navelim and Nuvem, disrupting traffic for nearly three hours before fire services personnel could clear the stretches. The heavy and incessant showers also led to the Valvanti breaching its banks at Sanquelim. The river’s water entered one house there. At Opa, wash off from surrounding areas flowed down with the river water to the catchment area, which led to rise in turbidity. Across the state, incidents of falling trees blocking paths or snapping electricity lines kept fire services personnel engaged in rescue missions throughout the day. About 35 calls were received by the control room by late evening on Tuesday. The showers wreaked havoc in the most terrifying manner at the Chorla Ghat when boulders and a few trees were uprooted and came crashing down on the main road. The landslide paralysed motor vehicle traffic for five hours along the Goa-Belagavi route. The agriculture sector, however, saw little to no damage, as most farmers have delayed the sowing of paddy for the end of this week owing to the weather alert. There were instances of inundated fields, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/downpour-brings-tree-falls-landslide-flooding-to-state/articleshow/76414898.cms||Nida Sayed
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||Woman, daughter electrocuted in Ranchi||Ranchi: A woman and her daughter died after they were electrocuted in Tonko village near Birsa Munda international airport in Ranchi on Monday night. Police said Maheshwari Devi (40) and Sangeeta Kumari (9) had gone out in the rain to pick vegetables from a field when they came in contact with a live wire lying on the ground. Police said the family had no vegetables except a few tomatoes at home. Despite her husband’s insistence that they could have rice and tomatoes for dinner, Maheshwari went out in the rain with her daughter to pick vegetables from the field owned by a neighbour. Airport outpost OC Ramesh Giri, who visited the spot, said, “The two died of electrocution A case of unnatural death will be filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-daughter-electrocuted-in-ranchi/articleshow/76413348.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||Soren to write to PM about state’s needs||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday lamented that he did not get a chance to air his views before Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his video-conferencing with CMs. Soren reiterated that a poor state like Jharkhand has always demanded greater financial cooperation, health facilities and allied assistances to combat Covid-19. Talking to reporters at Project Building on Tuesday night, Soren said, “I did not get a chance to speak (at the meeting). As advised by the PM to all those who did not get a chance to speak, I will soon write a letter to him with my suggestions and demands.” Soren did not comment on the possibility of further relaxations in the lockdown amid the growing demand from garments and shoe traders and saloon owners for permission to resume work. His party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, has also demanded Soren to allow these businesses to resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/soren-to-write-to-pm-about-states-needs/articleshow/76413554.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand jawan among 20 killed in LAC stand-off||DUMKA: Twenty-four-year-old Kundan Kumar Ojha from Sahebganj district was one of the 20 Army personnel killed during the face-off with the Chinese army in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night. He was a jawan with the 16th Bihar Regiment. Ojha left behind a one-month-old daughter and wife besides his parents and three siblings — two brothers and a sister. Family sources said he joined the Army three years ago and was married in 2018. He was an NCC cadet at Sahibganj College during 2009-11. Chief minister Hemant Soren has expressed his condolences to the martyred jawan. He said, “I salute the jawan’s bravery who served his nation even during such challenging times to defend the country. We are with his family.” He added that the second special train carrying Jharkhand labourers to Leh and Ladakh for Border Roads Organisation (BRO) projects has been suspended in view of the tension but will soon resume when things normalise. He said, “For ages our labourers have been taking part in building roads for national security. They shall continue to do so but only on temporary basis. The trains have been halted till situation normalises.” Sahebganj deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan said Ojha belonged to Dihari village under sadar circle. “We are yet to get any official communiqué from the Army or his regiment on Ojha’s death.” However, Ranjan formed a team of district administration officials to visit the jawan’s family members and console them. He said, “A team of district administration officials have been rushed to the jawan’s home to console the bereaved family. Efforts are on to receive the body and conduct his the last rites with full state honours.” BJP’s Babulal Marandi condoled the jawan’s death from his official Twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-jawan-among-20-killed-in-lac-stand-off/articleshow/76413466.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||Reserve ballot unit for MLAs with viral symptoms during RS polls||Ranchi: The upcoming Rajya Sabha biennials for two seats in Jharkhand, scheduled on June 19, will be conducted under a set of stringent protocols put in place by the assembly secretariat to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of Covid-19 among voters and polling officials. Voting will be held from 9am to 4pm at the tribunal room of the sprawling Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha complex in Dhurwa, which is being sanitized. Thermal screening guns, hand sanitizers and hand wash have been arranged for the legislators who will turn up to vote. All voters and polling officials will also have to wear masks and gloves compulsorily. Mahendra Prasad, the returning officer appointed by  Commission (EC), said, “Voting for Rajya Sabha is done in a single ballot. But this year, a second unit will be put up for voters who show symptoms of Covid-19 when they turn out to cast their ballots.” Prasad said teams of the state health and disaster management will be on standby in case any legislator or polling official shows signs of the viral infection. A total of 79 voters (MLAs) are eligible for the election as two seats of the assembly – Dumka and Bermo - are currently vacant. The Dumka seat fell vacant in January after its MLA and incumbent Hemant Soren took the oath of office from Barhait assembly seat. Bermo fell vacant last month after its sitting legislator, Rajender Singh, died. While Prasad did not share further details about arrangements being made, an official in the assembly secretariat said those eligible voters, who are in quarantine or in a medical facility, will be transported to the voting centre by dedicated medical teams. “No queueing will be allowed. Voters will be allowed into the voting room one by one,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/reserve-ballot-unit-for-mlas-with-viral-symptoms-during-rs-polls/articleshow/76413397.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad to tap alternate power source soon, reduce dependency on DVC||Dhanbad: The coal city of Dhanbad may soon be free from frequent power cuts as the 250MW power grid substation at Kandra is almost set to get connected to the Tenughat grid to increase the power capacity by around 100MW within two-three months. The power grid was installed last year after withdrawal of power from the Dumka power grid to reduce dependency on Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Talking to TOI, Ravindra Rai, executive engineer of Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Limited said, “Only a couple of towers are left to be erected and the entire process is likely to be completed within two-three months after which, Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) can draw an additional 100MW power from Tenughat in addition to around the 80MW which comes from Dumka.” He added, “Though the capacity for drawing power from the Dumka grid through the Govindpur-based grid substation is around 80MW, JBVNL is presently drawing around 60MW for in Dhanbad as one one its three feeders are lying defunct.” General manager of Dhanbad supply area of JBVNL, Pratosh Kumar said that the laying of cables to integrate the Kandra grid substation with the Tenughat grid will help decrease JBVNL’s dependency on DVC, leading to self-sustainability in terms of power requirement. DVC carries out 600MW power supply in seven districts of Jharkhand — Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Ranchi — but due to breakdowns, DVC plants in Bokaro and Chandrapura, the power supply decreases significantly leading to crisis in the summer months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-to-tap-alternate-power-source-soon-reduce-dependency-on-dvc/articleshow/76413602.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Ranchi||BRO train to ferry road workers suspended after Indo-China tension||Dumka: The second special train to ferry road construction workers from Dumka to Ladakh for Border Roads Organisation (BRO)’s projects was suspended in view of the escalating tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Three Indian Army personnel were killed along the Indo-China border on Monday night. Addressing a press conference, Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said the decision to suspend the operation of the special train was taken by the state government in view of the stand-off with China. “About 1,600 workers, including 962 from Dumka district, were scheduled to board the special train on Tuesday. The trains will resume after suitable direction from the state government and assessing the security concerns of the workers,” she said. Chief minister Hemant Soren had flagged off the first such train with 1,600 labourers on June 13. The train had reached Udhanpur on Monday, from where they had the workers were taken to their respective works sites along the LAC. BRO has arranged for seven special trains to ferry 12,000 labourers from across the tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana, where people have traditionally been engaged in the road construction works along the LAC for the last four decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bro-train-to-ferry-road-workers-suspended-after-indo-china-tension/articleshow/76413522.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Three arrested for poaching tigress, two cubs in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve||CHANDRAPUR: The death of three tigers, a mother and two cubs, in buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve has turned out to be a well planned poaching case. Forest officials on Tuesday apprehended three suspects from Kondegaon village, who had poached a wild boar, and then poisoned and left its carcass in the forest to kill the tiger family. Even as park rangers continue their search for the third cub of the dead tigress, they meticulously continued to investigate the mystery behind the three tigers deaths. Investigations proved fruitful and foresters on Tuesday rounded up three persons from Kondegaon on suspicion of being involved in the poaching of tigers. CCF and field director of TATR NR Pravin confirmed they have detained three persons from Kondegaon and they are being questioned for their involvement in poaching of tigers. He claimed the poachers had poisoned a wild boar carcass. The tiger family later consumed the wild boar carcass and died of poisoning. The adult tigress was found dead close to Sitarampeth-Kodnegaon road in Moharli (buffer) range of TATR on June 10. During search operations, two carcasses of her one-year-old cubs were detected in same area near Kondegaon talao on June 14. Two dead langurs were also detected in the area, sparking speculation of waterhole poisoning. As all the carcasses were totally petrified, veterinary doctors failed to ascertain the cause of death from the autopsies. Sources claimed poachers first killed the wild boar by poisoning mahua flowers fallen on the ground under a tree in the forest. Then they poisoned the dead body of the boar and left it in the forest. The tigress and its cubs ate the wild boar carcass and died of poisoning. This theory of poisoning mahua also explains the mystery of langurs deaths, since langurs like to eat mahua flowers. Exact modus operandi of poachers will come out during investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-arrested-for-poaching-tigress-two-cubs-in-tadoba/articleshow/76413551.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Business shaved off during lockdown, barbers want easing of restrictions||Nagpur: Sandeep Atkare’s salon near Futala Lake was pulled down during an anti-encroachment drive early this year. He started working by putting up a chair under a tree as his old customers continued to turn up, till lockdown in March. With no means of employment, Sandeep, who has two children including a schoolgoing boy, managed with money transferred to his account by a kin in Amravati. He has been living in Nagpur for 10 years running a shop along with brother-in-law. With funds running out, Sandeep, who lives in Futala Juni Basti, is clueless about the way ahead. “I live in a rented house and for which I have to pay Rs5,000 a month. The landlord has been considerate so far, but has hinted that I will have to pay up sooner or later,” he says. Even as the lockdown has been eased for a number of other shops and establishments, the ban continues on hair cutting salons and beauty parlours. This has put those like Sandeep, who ran single-chair salons earning around Rs500 a day, in dire straits as they hope for the restrictions to be eased. According to rough estimates by leaders of the trade guilds, at least 10,000 persons must be engaged in the business. These include, shopkeeper and their employees. A large number of employees have returned to their native places. Surendra Atkare, Nagpur district president of Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal, a state-level association, said there must be more than 3,000 salons in the city. The total persons engaged in the business are expected to be easily over than 10,000. “Hair cutting shops are not supposed to be open, but do you see any important person like a government officer or politician with untrimmed hair. This means the work is going, behind the doors. Authorities must realize this and let the shops open. We are ready to take all the precautions,” says Atkare. Representations have been sent at various levels including the district collector, he said. Even those running shops with three to four chairs are in trouble these days. They can no longer manage to pay their employees, there is no relaxation in other overheads like the shop rent, he said. On the safety measures, he said they are ready to keep the shops open till only 2 in the afternoon. “The clients will be asked whether they have cold or fever before taking in. The barbers will be wearing mask and only hair cutting will be done, no other service live shaving or massage which involves touching the person’s face will be done,” he said. If just hair cutting is allowed, it will help the barbers meet their basic expenses, said Atkare. “We will also ask clients to wear protective gear like mask,” said Udhay Bhansingh, a migrant form Allahabad. “I could manage by getting money from my relatives in Allahabad, but they cannot lend me anymore,” he said. His relative, Vinod Sharma, says he plans to go back to his village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. “I could have left earlier, but the trains were full,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/business-shaved-off-during-lockdown-barbers-want-easing-of-restrictions/articleshow/76413620.cms||Shishir Arya
June 17, 2020||India||SC allows Mumbai woman to terminate one of twin fetuses||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed a Mumbai woman with twin pregnancies to “selectively terminate” one of her fetuses, which has Down’s syndrome. She is in the 25th week of pregnancy, five weeks over the deadline as set by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act. The top court’s relief came three and a half weeks after the Bombay high court dismissed the pregnant Dahisar nurse and her engineer husband’s plea. “The Supreme Court was our last option and we are glad things worked out for us,” the nurse told TOI. She said it is very difficult for parents to raise a child with special needs. Dr Nikhil Datar, who has helped over 150 women — including the nurse — to move court for terminating severely abnormal fetuses, said this is the first time that a court has allowed selective reduction of a fetus. “During the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown, many women missed getting timely tests done. The government should give relaxation in the 20-week cut-off and help such women in tough times,” said Dr Datar. The woman had moved the SC against the May 22 order of dismissal by the HC, which in the first hearing, had agreed to her counsels Colin Gonsalves and Sneha Mukherjee’s argument that a foetal medicine specialist should be consulted in the case. “Fetal reduction is regarded in the medical profession worldwide to be safe and acceptable, with a risk rate of one per thousand,” her lawyers had argued. The SC relied on fetal medicine specialist Dr Purnima Satoskar’s opinion that such reductions were safe, with “no direct risk to the normal twin as circulations (of blood) of the twins are separate”. The SC (bench of Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra, and Aniruddha Bose) then permitted the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-allows-mumbai-woman-to-terminate-one-of-twin-fetuses/articleshow/76415543.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada's Besant Road declared containment zone||VIJAYAWADA: After One Town and Old City, the retail market at Governorpet, including Besant Road, was closed off and declared a containment zone on Tuesday following a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Four employees at a textile outlet in the area tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and 40 people were quarantined. Reminiscent of the earlier days of the lockdown, Besant Road, Museum Road, Congress Office Road, Kaleswara Rao road, and other busy commercial streets wore a deserted look on Tuesday. VMC barricades were installed to demarcate the containment zones. And the only noise was from the loudspeakers, which the police used to request locals to not come out of their homes. Earlier, a wholesale market at One Town was closed down on June 10 after 40 new cases surfaced there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/besant-road-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/76413630.cms||Venu Lanka
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Role of Lakadganj cops under scanner in Preeti Das case||Nagpur: The role of Lakadganj police has now come under scrutiny after Preeti Das, the alleged honeytrapper, got anticipatory bail this week from the sessions court in abetment to commit suicide case registered at the station. Police are now contemplating challenging the bail order before the high court.Apart from Lakadganj police station, Das was booked at Sitabuldi, Pachpaoli and Jaripatka police stations in back-to-back cases of different offences spanning from cheating to extortions. She had offences registered at Sitabuldi in 2010 and also at Bhandara district a couple of years ago. The sessions court is learnt to have observed that Das’s name was not even mentioned in the suicide note of Sunil Paunikar who had consumed poison in November last year to end life. The offence was registered on the basis of a statement filed by Paunikar’s wife Vaishali who claimed that Das, Mangesh Paunikar and Vishal Sonkusre were responsible for her husband’s taking the drastic step.Though Vaishali had lodged her complaint immediately after her husband’s death, police registered the offence after much delay. Lakadganj police also did not send the suicide note for handwriting expert’s opinion in the last six months.It is also learnt that Das, accompanied by some cops from Pachpaoli police station, had gone to Sunil’s home last year to pressure him to pay up the amount he had borrowed from Sonkusre. She had that time abused Vaishali too.Though offence was registered against Das, Mangesh and Sonkusre, it is not known what actions the cops, who had accompanied the so-called social worker, faced following an inquiry by the ACP of Lakadganj division. A source said the cops had got clean chit as they had accompanied Das at the instance of the senior officer dealing with the application of Sonkusre against Sunil for not returning his amount.The police have denied existence of dying declaration by Sunil. According to senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station, Sunil was in coma and did not regain consciousness to furnish his dying declaration. “We are taking legal opinion in the case to be able to challenge the bail order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/role-of-lakadganj-cops-under-scanner-in-preeti-das-case/articleshow/76413637.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Lawyer held in Behbal Kalan firing case||BATHINDA: The SIT investigating into Behbal Kalan firing case of October 2015, in which two persons were killed, on Tuesday arrested a Faridkot-based lawyer. Officials were tight-lipped on accused Suhail Singh Brar’s involvement in the incident. However, a source said Brar’s licensed weapon was used to fire at a police vehicle to show that the protesters were fired upon in retaliation. The police vehicle on which gunshots were fired was attached with then Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma’s cavalcade. SIT member and inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh confirmed the arrest. He, however, said nothing much could be divulged about the case. After the police firing incident, Sharma’s escort vehicle was taken to a car workshop, owned by a friend of an SP-level officer, where shots were fired at the vehicle, according to the probe so far. It is after a long time that an arrest has been made in the case. Sharma was arrested on January 27, 2019. The charge sheet has been filed in the court, but the case has not been taken due to change of Faridkot district and session judge and now due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-lawyer-arrested-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case/articleshow/76414434.cms||Neel Kamal
June 17, 2020||India||Congress MLAs return to Gujarat, corralled||GANDHINAGAR: Three days before the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections for four seats, Gujarat Congress on Tuesday shifted its MLAs to a five-star hotel in Ahmedabad from three resorts – one in Rajasthan and two in Gujarat’s Anand and Rajkot. All 65 Congress MLAs will stay put in the hotel until the elections. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said: “All our MLAs will reach Ahmedabad by Tuesday night and stay in a hotel there. The MLAs will have workshops and training on various aspects of the Rajya Sabha elections from Wednesday. A mock poll will also be conducted for the MLAs before the June 19 elections.” A total of eight Congress MLAs have resigned since March, bringing down the party’s strength in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly to 65. The effective strength of the house is now 172 due to the Congress resignations and two vacancies caused by court cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mlas-return-to-gujarat-corralled/articleshow/76415551.cms||---
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Breathalysers put away, Visakhapatnam police to take blood samples of tipsy drivers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city traffic police will test the blood alcohol content (BAC) of motorists by collecting the blood samples of those found visibly drunk and those in accidents due to over-speeding and rash driving. The police said that some motorists have been driving in a rash and negligent manner on city roads. They added that due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, they aren’t able to use breathalysers. Since liquor outlets reopened in Andhra Pradesh in the first week of May have been witnessing long queues, the city traffic police are mulling ways to curb driving under the influence of alcohol to mitigate road accidents, while also safeguarding the health of police personnel during the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Ch Adinarayana additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Vizag, said that liquor sales and consumption are back to normal levels and so is the menace of drunk driving. “But, we are confused when it comes to checking tipsy driving as Covid numbers have been increasing in Vizag city. The virus has tied our hands when it comes to using breathalysers, as no police personnel want to hold the breathalyser to conduct the test.” According to a senior police officer, before lockdown, on an average, Vizag city police registered 60 drunken driving cases in a day on weekdays and over 100 cases in a day on weekends. However, during the lockdown (from March 23 to May 31) police did not register any drunken driving cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/breathalysers-put-away-police-to-take-blood-samples-of-tipsy-drivers/articleshow/76413667.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||Man found holding two posts in NMC, investigation ordered||Nagpur: An alleged case of a person holding two posts and drawing salary from both has emerged in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Tuesday ordered an inquiry against junior health inspector Vikas Mahajan when his name was found in the attendance register showing him as conservancy staffer too. Zalke said Mahajan might have been withdrawing two salaries for different posts. He asked the additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi to probe the matter. The standing committee also asked the Nagpur Municipal Corporation administration to issue show cause notices to the entire staff of Dharampeth zone for not attending emergency calls during heavy rains on Sunday. Besides, the civic administration has also been asked to issue show cause notice to executive engineer Dilip Bisen for failing to resolve an issue of faulty road construction by Abhi Engineering at Dipty Signal. Residents of the locality had raised the issue with their corporator and former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane almost two years ago. Still, no effort was made to resolve the issue, Zalke said. On Tuesday, the standing committee also reviewed the building sanction plans by the town planning department. Zalke said that since January 1, 2020, till date, the department had received 664 applications pertaining to building plans. “Of these, the department had sanctioned 242 applications, rejected 258, and did not take any decision in 164 cases,” Zalke said. If the department failed to respond to any building sanction plan application within 60 days, then it is considered as deemed sanction,” he pointed out. The panel was informed that many staff from department were deployed at quarantine centres delaying the decision on building plans. The standing committee members also criticized the municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for taking credit for cleaning of Nag, Pili and Pora rivers with less money. According to Zalke, credit for this year’s low expenditure goes to NHAI, PWD, MahaMetro and OCW as these agencies had provided men and machines for the job. Besides, NMC had procured 10 excavators and tippers in last financial year using special grants from then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. All this led to lower expenditure this year, he said. Standing committee members also expressed concern over Mundhe not sanctioning Rs 3 lakh each to corporators for carrying out emergency works like repairing manhole chambers, cleaning sewerlines etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-found-holding-two-posts-in-nmc-investigation-ordered/articleshow/76413695.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Cashew demand falls, traders seek government help||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cashew traders and farmers in Andhra Pradesh seem to have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic’s disruption of markets. Owing to a significant slump in demand, the price of raw cashew and cashew kernels have plummeted recently. Malla Rameswara Rao, a senior functionary of Palasa Cashew Production Association said that the Covid-19 lockdown has had an adverse effect on the sale of cashew in the months of April and May, the months in which cashew traders have the best business. The price of the best quality cashew nut has come down to Rs 750 per kg from Rs 950 per kg. Lower quality cashew nuts, which usually go for Rs 550 per kg, are now selling for Rs 300 per kg, Rameswara Rao informed. What’s adding to the problem, according to Rao, is that owners of cashew processing units have taken loans ranging from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 10 crore, which have now become difficult to repay. “We are appealing to the government to waive interest on loans,” said this senior functionary of Palasa Cashew Production Association. The lockdown has also affected the procurement of raw cashew from cashew farmers. Usually, procurement of cashew from farmers gets done by the first week of June. But this year, processing units have procured only 40 per cent of the usual amount. On the other hand, cashew farmers in Uddanam in Srikakulam district and other parts of state say that traders are quoting extremely low prices. Earlier, an 80kg bag of raw cashew would sell for Rs 12,000, but now, traders are offering only around Rs 9,000 per bag, said Ramakrishna, a cashew farmer. “Input costs for the crop have increased. So we demand traders pay Rs 16,000 per bag. We will raise our voice against this attempt at cheating us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cashew-demand-falls-traders-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76413718.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Simple breathing exercise maintains, boosts lung capacity’||We all are aware of the health benefits provided by regular physical exercise. From Monday, individual exercises at gardens and green gyms is allowed. Looking at the ‘new normal’ situation, it’s the best time to start with certain exercises which can easily be performed at home first, says Pratiksha Gadpal-Gadkari, consulting physiotherapist at Meditrina Institute. She suggested some simple lung exercises to start with during the post lockdown times.  How important is regular exercise during Covid times? Covid or non-Covid, regular exercise is one of the most important things you can do for your health. But how many of us are actually incorporating these exercises in our daily routine is the big question. Especially during lockdown, people were resting at homes and most of us have lost our exercise schedules. Many must have gained extra pounds. So, restarting exercise needs special care.  What will you tell those who are going to start their exercise post lockdown? I think it’s the best time to start with certain exercises which can easily be performed at home. Because, professional gyms are not going to re-open soon and you are not going to get direct guidance of a physiotherapist. Apart from stretching and strengthening exercises, there are certain exercises which focus on one of the most important organs of our body — lungs. During Covid-19 times, we must focus on lungs.  What type of exercises do you suggest for healthy lungs? Healthy lungs are important to stay away from respiratory problems, which is one of the basic symptoms of Covid-19. There are certain breathing exercises that can help to maintain and increase lung capacity, making it easier to keep lungs healthy and get the body adequate oxygen. Diaphragmatic breathing exercise is one which can be performed by normal healthy individuals.  How to perform this simple breathing exercise? Sit on a chair or bed keeping your shoulders relaxed. Place your hands on your abdomen. Now inhale (take air in) through your nose, allowing your tummy to rise up, and then exhale (blow air out) through your mouth. Practice this 9-10 times and then relax. One can repeat this three-four times a day anywhere. Even in your office, or at home or at the park you visit now for morning walk. Only avoid doing this exercise for an hour after meals.  What are the benefits of this exercise? Breathing exercise improves endurance and general exercise tolerance. It promotes relaxation and maintains or improves chest mobility along with overall increase in the functional capacity for daily living. Remember, exercises can bring many health benefits and can be enjoyable. Eat healthy food, spend time with your family, stay positive and stay physically active for betterment of your health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/simple-breathing-exercise-maintains-boosts-lung-capacity/articleshow/76413736.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University gets ready for online admissions to UG courses||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the state government’s decision to introduce online admissions for undergraduate courses, Andhra University (AU) has started making preparations for the same. The varsity started work on the verification process and correction of college database on June 15. AU has 200 affiliated colleges with nearly 40,000 undergraduate seats. The introduction of the online admission process is expected to streamline management of colleges and help identify deficiencies, besides being convenient for students. In the context of the Covid-19 outbreak, education officials are of the opinion that online admissions will be safer and advantageous. Prof Ch Panduranga Reddy, dean (college development council), AU, said that affiliated colleges have been asked to submit their data on AP state council of higher education’s website. “We will verify the data and other details submitted by colleges and ask them to rectify shortcomings. The database will come in handy when officials disburse scholarships, fees and for other schemes,” Prof Reddy said. The online management system of admissions is expected to simplify the admission process and remove geographical barriers for students and allowing them to apply to as many colleges as they wish. Officials hope that seamlessly connecting all educational institutions will make the system student-friendly. The state recently released the results of Intermediate exams. Degree college seats are allocated on the basis of students’ performance in Intermediate exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-gets-ready-for-online-admissions-to-ug-courses/articleshow/76413727.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 17, 2020||India||Raj youth forced to drink urine over affair||JODHPUR: A 22-year-old youth in Sirohi was subjected to abject humiliation and made to drink urine for allegedly having an affair with a girl of his own community. Self-appointed angry panchs of his community allegedly tortured and beat him up for not conforming to the community laws. The victim and accused all belong to the Dewasi community. The assault occurred around five days ago in Sirohi’s Paldi M area, but the police took cognizance only after a video of the atrocity of community panchs on the youth went viral on Tuesday. The video showed the boy surrounded by a group of men thrashing him and making him drink water from shoes. Later, he was forced to drink urine from a bottle. Police detained six people and handed them over to Sumerpur police, where the case against the community panchs has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raj-youth-forced-to-drink-urine-over-affair/articleshow/76415553.cms||---
June 17, 2020||India||Response to Covid-19 effective as recovery rate is over 50%: PM||PM Modi reiterated the need for continuing vigilance against the deadly virus, saying the danger is not over yet. Modi emphasised that the country’s response to the pandemic has been effective as can be gauged by a recovery rate exceeding 50%. “All modes of transport are now open, lakhs of migrant labourers have travelled back to their villages, thousands of Indians have returned from abroad, and even though India has a huge population, coronavirus has not assumed as life-threatening a form as in the rest of the world,” the PM said as he praised co-operation between the Centre and states. This was the PM’s sixth interaction with chief ministers since the lockdown started on March 25 and the first after Unlocking-1 unfolded. He will have another round of interaction with the remaining CMs on Wednesday. In his address at the outset, Modi said when India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how the country worked together and served as an example of ‘cooperative federalism’. “Experts world over are praising the discipline shown by Indians as the recovery rate in the country is now over 50%,” he said. The PM suggested that states should identify their “specific economic activity points” where work should happen round the clock. He emphasised need for cooperation to ensure that announcements made under “Self-Reliant India” campaign deliver results at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/response-to-covid-19-effective-as-recovery-rate-is-over-50-pm/articleshow/76415555.cms||---
