June 18, 2020||India||Pak violates ceasefire along LoC in Kupwara||SRINAGAR: Pakistan violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district late on Tuesday, resorting to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling on forward Indian posts and civilian areas, an Army official said on Wednesday. The breach of truce took place in Kupwara’s Nowgam sector, to which Indian troops effectively retaliated, an official statement from the Army confirmed, adding that there were no casualties or damage suffered by own side. This was the second such violation along the LoC in the same district on Tuesday. Earlier that morning, Pakistan had shelled Kupwara’s Tangdhar sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-kupwara/articleshow/76432980.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 18, 2020||Agra||Agra man receives Rs 13,000 electricity bill without any power supply||AGRA: A 46-year-old labourer, struggling to make ends meet, is in mental stress after receiving an electricity bill of over Rs 13,000 without having consumed any power. Last year, Mahesh Chandra Dixit had applied for power connection under the 'Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana' (Saubhagya scheme), launched by the Prime Minister in 2017 with an aim to provide electricity to all households. So far, there is no electricity meter installed at Mahesh’s house. He claims that the state government-owned discom Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) has charged for electricity without supplying any. Talking to TOI, he said, “I have no power supply at my home. Besides, no electricity meter has been installed at my house, so far. On Tuesday, employees of the discom came and handed me an electricity bill of Rs 13,644 on connection number 721802367383. When I told them that I had no power supply, they asked me to visit the local office for details. On Wednesday, I went to the discom office. Without properly listening to my complaint, the staff their asked me to go to sub-station Baroli Ahir. I am a poor man being unnecessarily troubled. There is no way I can pay the bill that has been wrongly imposed on me.” A social worker of the village, Neeraj Dixit said, “The DVVNL has been making errors in billing on a large scale. People are getting bills which exceeds their consumption. In the case of Mahesh Chandra Sharma, the bill has been generated without any electricity supply. Earlier, as well, a bill of over Rs 10,000 was generated on his name. Even after a formal complaint, officers failed to make the correction. Now the bill amount has been further increased.” A staff officer of DVVNL SK Baghel said, “I was not aware about this. I will get it checked. No undue charge will be taken from anyone.” Watch Uttar Pradesh: Man receives Rs 13,000 electricity bill in Agra without any power supply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-receives-rs-13000-electricity-bill-without-any-power-supply/articleshow/76430943.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 18, 2020||Thane||Kalyan: MSRDC to complete Patripool ROB construction by August end||KALYAN: The work on the Patripool railway over-bridge (ROB) in Kalyan will be completed by August end, claimed officials of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The officials along with Kalyan Lok Sabha MP Dr Shrikant Shinde reviewed the ongoing work of the bridge on Wednesday. Earlier, MSRDC had set the deadline for the completion of the construction work in May. However, due to the lockdown, the work was stopped from March 23. Later, due to some relaxation in lockdown, the work of bridge with limited labours was started on April 2. “All the technical hurdles in the project are cleared and now there is no reason for the delay. We expect the work to be complete by August-end," said an MSRDC official, who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalyan-msrdc-to-complete-patripool-rob-construction-by-august-end/articleshow/76433019.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 18, 2020||India||J&K govt makes annual move to Srinagar||JAMMU: Jammu & Kashmir government on Wednesday ordered shifting of different administrative departments from Jammu to Srinagar as part of the annual exercise, commonly called Darbar Move, to move the functioning of the government back to the summer capital of the union territory. “The departments whose headquarters will move to Srinagar include civil aviation, culture, estates, finance, floriculture, general administration, horticulture, higher education, hospitality & protocol, industries & commerce, information technology, law, justice & parliamentary affairs, labour & employment, public works, social welfare, school education, skill development, tourism, youth services & sports,” the order stated. It said, “Animal/sheep husbandry & fisheries, ARI & trainings, cooperative, disaster management relief, rehabilitation reconstruction, election, food, civil supplies & consumer affairs, forest, ecology & environment, health & medical education, home, housing & urban development, information, Jal Shakti, planning, development & monitoring, power development, revenue, rural development & Panchayati Raj, transport and tribal affairs will function from Jammu secretariat.” Likewise, agriculture production and science & technology would function from both Jammu and Srinagar secretariats, it added. Pertinently, the tradition of Darbar Move was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape extreme summer and winter weather conditions in the two regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-govt-makes-annual-move-to-srinagar/articleshow/76433087.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
June 18, 2020||Patna||Five from Bihar among 20 martyred in Galwan valley||PATNA: Five of the 20 Army personnel martyred in Galwan valley in Ladakh during a bloody clash with Chinese forces on Monday night were Bihar. All of them were from the 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment. Those from Bihar were havildar Sunil Kumar from Taranagar in Sikaria panchayat under Bihta block in rural Patna, sepoys Chandan Kumar from Bhojpur, Kundan Kumar from Saharsa, Aman Kumar from Sultanpur under Mohiuddinnagar block in Samastipur and Jai Kishore Singh from Vaishali. On Wednesday, the body of havildar Sunil reached the Patna airport in a special Indian Air Force aircraft. His son Ayush Raj was the first one to lay wreath on the body, followed by Sunil’s elder brother Anil Kumar, a retired Army jawan. Martyr havildar Sunil Kumar's body brought at Patna airport. He attained martyrdom in the bloody clash with PLA at… https://t.co/iZ20Vh6tT4— TOI Patna (@TOIPatna) 1592404612000Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav, rural development department minister Shrawan Kumar, leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav, BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha were among others paid floral tributes to the martyr at the airport. Brigadier Jai Singh Bainsla, the Commandant of Bihar Regimental Centre (BRC), Danapur, along with several other Army officers were present at the airport. Patna DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma and IG Sanjay Kumar also paid tributes to the martyr. With tears in his eyes, Anil said he wanted revenge of his brother’s death with the blood of enemies. Army sources said the martyr’s body would be sent to his village early Thursday morning for cremation. They said the bodies of other four martyrs are expected to arrive at Patna airport by Thursday evening, depending on the weather condition in Ladakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-from-bihar-among-20-martyred-in-galwan-valley/articleshow/76431767.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 18, 2020||India||Army jawan injured in accidental mine blast in Jammu||JAMMU: An Army jawan was injured in an accidental landmine blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu district on Wednesday. Sources said that an anti-personnel mine exploded accidentally in Khour belt of Akhnoor sector at 11am, injuring a soldier. The injured jawan was immediately evacuated and hospitalised. Sources added that later the injured jawan was referred to the Northern Command military hospital for specialised treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-jawan-injured-in-accidental-mine-blast-in-jammu/articleshow/76433181.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chennai||#LockdownInnovation: The Dhananjayans to conduct a virtual arangetram this month||Awards and accolades are not new for the Dhananjayans — VP Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan. And now, the Padma Bhushan awardees have been conferred with the Sangeetha Kala Vibhushan by Mumbai’s famed Shanmukhananda Sabha. “Every award is a public recognition and we’re very happy about it. And when it comes from a reputed sabha, it’s all the more joyous,” begins Dhananjayan. The lockdown, the couple says, has been a blessing as it gave them time to invest in a new production. “This has been pending for some time,” says Shanta, “We have taken up Arupakai, shad ripu or six enemies — kama (wild desire), loba (greed), krodha (unmanageable anger), mada (intoxication that brings dark thoughts), moha (confusion that leads to not being able to finish tasks perfectly) and matsarya (jealousy that causes hostility). It’s said that our lives would be blissful if we win over them.” Dhananjayan has choreographed the piece keeping in mind the need to create awareness about the enemies within us. “Instead of going by the nayika-nayaka bhava, we’ve put together this piece to make it socially relevant so that it can educate and enlighten people.” Dhananjayan has been quite vocal about socio-political issues and has even published a couple of books on the same. In fact, the couple has been emphasising on using the term natyam instead of dance and Bharat instead of India. “Dance and India are anglicised words and we don’t have to go by them when we have a rich tradition,” he says. They are also particular that their students learn music first before learning natyam. Shanta adds, “Sruthi and swarasthanam are must for natyam. Without music, there is absolutely no natyam. In fact, natyam is visual music. One needs the sense and sensibility for the natyam to shine bright. Sangathi, ragam, rhythm are all part of natyam. Hence, we insist on singing while dancing.” Similarly, the duo has never been keen to take classes online. But the pandemic, they say, has made it compulsory. “We never encouraged online teaching. But I have now started teaching some of the senior students virtually. Our son, Satyajit, has put up a huge screen for us to watch our students perform, and hence, I have been able to teach effectively,” says Shanta, noting, “It’s amazing how there is no absenteeism in these online classes, and I’m glad they are very punctual, too.” Interestingly, they are planning a virtual arangetram of one of their students by the end of this month. “It was initially planned for April. As we have to follow social distancing norms, we are trying this out. Since we have a very aesthetic hall, visually, too, it will be appealing. We will be using only minimum orchestra — vocal, mridangam and violin — to ensure safety,” they sign off. How dance came in handy for the adsThe Dhananjayans have also become part of the pop culture since the time they started doing TV commercials together. “Since we are dancers, the idea of acting comes very naturally. The only thing we had to do was be our natural self,” Shanta says. Dhananjayan adds that their director never had any problem with them as “we were understanding of the idiom, and also respected their work”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdowninnovation-the-dhananjayans-to-conduct-a-virtual-arangetram-this-month/articleshow/76433243.cms||Sindhu Vijayakumar
June 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Decision on Puri Rath Yatra likely on Thursday, government may allow rituals only inside temple||BHUBANESWAR: Clarity on June 23 Rath Yatra in Puri is all set to emerge as the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Thursday a recent PIL filed by an NGO to cancel the annual festival in the middle of Covid-19 outbreak. The state cabinet too is likely to make the state government's stand clear on Thursday. “We are left with two options—either to hold Rath Yatra rituals, including the pulling of chariots outside the temple or confine the rituals inside the shrine by stopping the pulling of chariots outside (on the Grand Road). We are waiting for the Supreme Court’s decision on Thursday,” a senior government officer said. A number of other Jagannath temples in the state have already decided to observe Rath rituals inside their shrines only and cancelled the annual spectacle of the pulling of the chariots outside the temples. Notably, during a recent meeting of the government officials with Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati, the seer reportedly advised to hold the Rath rituals inside the temple because of the unprecedented crisis caused by Covid-19 virus across the country. However, the seer and government did not disclose what transpired in their meeting. Fate of Puri Rath Yatra that is always associated with emotions of countless people has been hanging in balance after the state government on June 1 announced extension of the ban on all types of religious/cultural/social/political/entertainment and other large congregations till June 30. The government also same day extended the closure of all religious places for devotees in the state till June 30. The government is worried about the imminent violation of social distancing norms during Pahandi procession of deities and pulling of the giant chariots outside, if allowed during the car festival. The Orissa high court last week asked the government to consider deployment of heavy machineries or elephants to pull the chariots. But many in Puri, including the servitors have been opposing the proposal. Servitors have been demanding conduct of Rath Yatra as well as pulling of chariots amid restrictions. “Even though there were instances of non-celebration of Rath Yatra due to attacks on the temple by Muslim rulers in the past, the festival was also observed amid several crises and during the peak of outbreak of Spanish flu in 1918. Government should allow Rath Yatra this year as well by banning congregation of devotees. Police and servitors can pull the chariots,” Binayak Dasmohapatra, a senior servitor said. The carpenters, who have almost completed construction work of chariots, said their hard work will go in vain if the chariots are not pulled on Rath Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/decision-on-puri-rath-yatra-likely-on-thursday-govt-may-allow-rituals-only-inside-temple/articleshow/76433255.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Covid test required for expatriates as infection risk on air high: Kerala government tells HC||KOCHI: State government has informed the Kerala high court that Covid-19 test was made mandatory for returning expatriates as chances of passengers without the disease contracting during their flight is high. Number of persons testing Covid positive is higher among Keralites returning from abroad than among those returning from other states. The state does not have a policy that those stranded abroad or in other states, including those with the disease, should not return to Kerala, government said. The attempt is to bring those with and without the disease in separate flights. Such a stance is being adopted in the interest of the passengers themselves, the court was told. Government also said it has not stipulated that those returning from abroad should conduct PCR test itself. Tests that are less expensive and that would give instant results such as Truenat Covid test or antibody test are acceptable. These tests should be done on days close to the day of travel, government has submitted. The court is considering a petition filed by Reji Thazhamon questioning the stipulation that those returning in chartered flights should present a Covid negative certificate to travel. By June 16, 2.61 lakh Keralites have returned from abroad and from other states, including 1.32 lakh from red zones in other states. Those who returned have been directed to undergo quarantine in their homes and in facilities arranged by the government, the court was told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-test-required-for-expatriates-as-infection-risk-on-air-high-kerala-government-tells-hc/articleshow/76433330.cms||Mahir Haneef
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 positive woman delivers healthy baby in Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A week after a baby was born to a Covid-19 patient in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi followed suit with a 22-year-old patient from Karkala giving birth to a healthy baby boy at TMA Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital. The two coastal districts added a dozen new cases to their tally of existing Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with Dakshina Kannada accounting for eight and Udupi for four. The woman who underwent emergency Cesarean delivery was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. She is recovering. Obstetric reasons necessitated the emergency surgery. This is the first surgery performed on a Covid-19 patient in Udupi. The team of obstetric surgeons included Dr Shashikala K Bhat and Dr Surbhi Sinha. Dr Roshan Shetty was the anaesthesiologist and a nursing team comprising Veronica, Ashwini and Jayashree assisted them. Dr Ashish Gupta and Dr Chaitanya gave paediatric care to the newborn. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha while lauding the medical team at TMA Pai Hospital for handling a critical case, said that they have appraised him of steps that will be taken to prevent the infant from contracting the disease. “We will test the child before the mother and child are discharged from the hospital,” the DC said, recalling they had successfully treated the first case of a pregnant woman from Uttara Kannada, before discharging her. Referring to the total cases in the district on the day, Jagadeesha said three cases were reported from among those who returned from Mumbai, and one case is a primary contact of a previous case. Since Maharashtra returnees form a special category, they were tested and found positive, the DC said. Udupi presently has 130 active cases out of 1,039 total positive cases reported thus far, and 908 patients have been discharged, and one confirmed as a positive case after death. Out of the 80 test reports received during the day, eight were positive, said Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh. Five of these cases are primary contacts of earlier patients, and two are returnees from Saudi Arabia on June 8 and one patient returned from Mumbai. A patient was discharged during the day, taking the total number of those discharged to 170. Two patients are in the ICU at the Covid hospital, and Dakshina Kannada has 209 active cases at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-in-udupi/articleshow/76433203.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 18, 2020||Goa||Development players must in ISL teams||PANAJI: Clubs are expected to quickly confirm the signing of young players or promote those from their development squads after the Indian Super League (ISL) made it mandatory to include at least two “development players” in the team. According to ISL guidelines for 2020-21 season, every club should include at least two players in the match day squads of 18. Development players have been classified as those born on or after January 1, 2000. The inclusion of under-21 players, even if its mandatorily only in the squad and not the playing eleven, could prove to be a boost for many youngsters who have signed for ISL clubs but rarely get featured. “It’s a move in the right direction,” said Ravi Puskur, director of football at FC Goa where goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz had the maximum playing time. Besides Nawaz, FC Goa will now enjoy the services of Makan Winkle Chote, a bright striking prospect from Punjab FC who has joined the club for this season. “This decision gives clubs the chance to keep promoting younger players. At FC Goa, our emphasis has always been on promoting the younger and promising talent available to us. Now, with two slots among the 18, there is enough motivation for youngsters to break through,” said Puskur. Whenever given a chance, youngsters proved themselves in good measure during the last ISL season. Apart from Nawaz, who played all games, players like Mohamad Rakip (Kerala Blasters), Narender Gahlot (Jamshedpur FC), Sumit Rathi (ATK), Suresh Singh (Bengaluru FC), Lalengmawia (NorthEast United), Shubham Sarangi (Odisha FC), Ashish Rai (Hyderabad FC) and Rahim Ali (Chennaiyin FC) gave a good account of themselves. Interestingly, the top four ISL teams did not provide the juniors as many opportunities as the ones that finished in the lower half. For example, Kerala Blasters had three players who played regularly -- Rakip, Jeakson Singh and Rahul KP – while Gahlot, Jitendra Singh and Aniket Jadhav did the same with Jamshedpur FC. In contrast, clubs like ATK, FC Goa, Bengaluru FC and Chennaiyin FC showed faith in just one youngster all through the season. Meanwhile, the ISL has introduced a new category of marquee players. While until now marquee players were veterans who have made minimum of 75 appearances for major clubs in the top five leagues of world football, a “prodigy” will now also fit into the marquee category. “A prodigy has been classified as an under-23 player who has made at least two appearances for the senior team of a major club in the top five leagues or someone who has made at least three appearances for a national team within the top 25 of the Fifa world ranking,” said one club official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/development-players-must-in-isl-teams/articleshow/76433321.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Chilkur Rangarajan hails restoration of hereditary rights for Sannidhi Gollas||TIRUPATI: Temples Protection Movement (TPM) has lauded the passage of the amendment in Endowments Act to restore the hereditary rights of the ‘Sannidhi Golla’, the traditional system in vogue where a Yadava family is bestowed with the right to open/close the main threshold (Mahadwaram) of Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala. Other than the Archakas, there are many servants in the temple, who are descendants of a centuries-old legacy. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is a living example where such legacies were thoughtlessly destroyed in 1987”, observed TPM convener Chilkur Rangarajan of the famous Chilkur Balaji temple in Hyderabad. Mr. Rangarajan spoke to the media on the need to revive similar hereditary offices like Nayee Brahmanas (hair tonsurers of Kalyanakatta) and saint-poet Annamacharya’s successors who sing his compositions daily at the temple. He equated the ‘Kainkaryam’ to a ‘matter of faith’, which had been abolished by the state government through an amendment to the Endowments Act in 1987, thus reducing it to a ‘job’. “There can be no retirement to such services and they should be allowed to perform them as long as they are physically and mentally fit”, he observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chilkur-rangarajan-hails-restoration-of-hereditary-rights-for-sannidhi-gollas/articleshow/76433403.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 18, 2020||Agra||UP: Brick kiln owner arranges train to send back his workers home||AGRA: At a time when various businesses are cutting down on their workforce leaving their workers to fend for themselves, a brick kiln owner in Aligarh has spent Rs 8.51 lakh to send back 1,756 of his migrant workers to Bihar. The train carrying the labourers, with face masks, which incidentally carried the logo and the name of the company, chugged out of Aligarh’s railway platform on Wednesday. Though the smiles behind the masks were not visible, the happiness was evident in the eyes of the workers, who had been stranded here for months. The train departed for Bihar’s Gaya and Nawada from where the majority of workers hailed. While these 1,756 workers have been lucky enough to leave for their homes, nearly 13,000 more labourers are still stranded in the town since the Covid-19 lockdown. Vishal Garg, who owns 10 brick kilns in Aligarh, said around 2,400 people, including their family members, are associated with his units. "We have paid the entire cost of Rs 8.51 lakh to Railways for the special non-stop train, exclusively for his workers," he said. He added that all workers were provided masks, soaps, food packets and water bottles before they left. "We just want them to reach home safely," he added. Garg told TOI that his brick kiln business won’t suffer, as the kilns don’t operate in the months of monsoon from June to September. He said he was confident that once the kilns start, his workers would return. "I’m hopeful that things would improve in the coming months, but if required, I’ll again arrange a train to get my people back," he said. Additional city magistrate (I), Kuldev Singh, said that around 15,000 labourers employed with 500 brick kilns exist in Aligarh and this is the first train which is transporting 1,756 labourers to their home town. He said, in view of Covid-19 pandemic, all precautions have been taken. "Only 80 people sat against the capacity of 108 in one coach," he said, adding that the brick kiln union had demanded that the government should allow them to send back their labourers to their home state by train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/brick-kiln-owner-arranges-train-to-send-back-his-workers-home/articleshow/76430952.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Nearly 1,000 apply for 13 posts under MGNREGA||MANGALURU: Probably due to the pandemic and job insecurities attached to it, about 1,000 job aspirants appeared for the ‘walk-in’ interviews at the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat (DKZP) office on Wednesday for around 13 posts (outsourced) for various categories under the MGNREGA scheme. A job aspirant, who was present for the interview, told TOI that she was very scared to see a large crowd in front of the venue even as Covid-19 cases are increasing in the district. "Officials over the loudspeaker, kept announcing that that job aspirants should maintain social distancing. However, no arrangements were made to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed. There were no separate counters for distribution of application forms and as a result candidates were rushing to get them. Aspirants were told that a next date would be announced soon," she said. Out of 981 applications received, 660 were for the two posts of data entry operator. Meanwhile, 133 applied for two posts of MIS coordinator, 160 for two posts of technical coordinator, 28 applied for seven posts of IEC coordinator. R Selvamani, CEO, DK ZP, was surprised by the overwhelming response to the advertisement on job posting. “This is probably the first time we have received nearly 1,000 applications for various posts. We conduct similar interviews for various posts under MGNREGA here and never have witnessed such a huge crowd of job aspirants. Generally, about 30 aspirants attend the interviews. Since the circular had gone viral, we were expecting about 200 aspirants to attend. The interviews are being conducted as per the MGNREGA guidelines. The applications are being scrutinised and the results are expected to be announced soon," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-nearly-1000-apply-for-13-posts-under-mgnrega/articleshow/76433455.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 18, 2020||Goa||We are all excited at the challenge of rebuilding FC Goa, says director of football||PANAJI: Every morning Ravi Puskur wakes up to a dozen odd messages from agents recommending several players. It’s been like this for some time now. Previously, he has sifted through 100-odd CVs of coaches, including one from Brazil World Cup winning captain Carlos Dunga, before deciding that Juan Ferrando was the man to take FC Goa forward. The director of football at FC Goa explains the controversial exit of Sergio Lobera, choice of new coach, and why he is not losing sleep over high-profile departures this season. Excerpts from an interview. FC Goa were spot on while deciding to rope in Sergio Lobera as coach three seasons ago. How confident are you now that another right decision has been made?We were pretty confident about Juan (Ferrando) right from the beginning. It was not a profile that came up at the last moment. It was a name which was on our radar for quite a while, so that gave us the freedom to look through his details and understand his work. We had a specific sort of criteria which we were able to narrow down in our search for the right coach. Juan ticked almost all the boxes. It was easy for us to go forward with him. Why Juan Ferrando and not any of the high-profile coaches who applied?He showed the willingness to embrace the ecosystem that we have built here at FC Goa. The youth, foundation, first team, he wants to be part of the whole process, rather than just come here for the results. Yes, the lure of Champions League football makes it easy for any coach to say yes, but Juan wanted to look further forward. During our interview, his first question was, ‘what’s the average age of the squad, who are the young players and who he can work with for the future’. He didn’t ask us how much money is available for the strikers! He clearly wants to make an impact here. FC Goa will be the first Indian club to play in the AFC Champions League and for that a rebuild of the squad may be needed. Are you ready for that challenge?We are quite excited. It’s been three months since we have been working in the background. We had multiple conversations with Juan on how his teams want to play, what formations he may employ, and based on that we recommend players in multiple positions. We now have a good idea of what the nucleus of the squad would be. Sometimes, when a player leaves, you may feel that losing out on a player who has already proven, may be disappointing. But there’s also the excitement of bringing in someone unknown. We want to bring in players who have never been exposed to Indian football before. They may turn out worse, but we are pretty confident that they will be better than what we had on our books. We’ve seen many influential players leave the club this season. Mandar Rao Desai, Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall, Jackichand Singh…Each one has their own reasons for leaving, but the biggest factor that drives a majority of the players is money. Ultimately, it’s safe to say there are clubs with bigger financial strength than FC Goa in the ISL and we cannot compete with them toe-to-toe on every single deal. Their strategy may be to capture our players because they are tried and tested. We feel we can build a squad by buying and developing players who are new to the market. Does it make it worse that the players chose to go to Mumbai City FC, a club which will be coached by Sergio Lobera?I can see the obvious connection. The fact that they are our next-door neighbours, Sergio will be there, all players will be there. You can look at it two ways. One, they know us pretty well, but we will also know how they play, their characteristics, because we have seen them from close quarters for two or three years. We look at Mumbai as one more team competing for the title along with us and all others. How difficult was it to part ways with Lobera with just three matches left to be played and a place in the AFC Champions League at stake?It was a tough decision. I can tell you we thought about it long and hard. It wasn’t a decision that was made overnight. We spent a few sleepless nights thinking whether this was the correct decision. Things were finely balanced at that time and a Champions League spot was not even in our hands. The key factor more than anything was how the players would react. We had to ensure they were Ok with completing the job that was on their hands. I think they did well. The players said they signed for the club and their commitment showed till the final game. They were professionals. Are you sure the club made the right decision?Only time will tell whether it was the right decision in terms of the long-term process. For us, we were pretty convinced about what we did at that point of time. Even if we had a slight doubt, we wouldn’t have done it. We are confident that now we have the right person to take the club forward in Juan. What’s the status of star striker Ferran Corominas. Will we see him continue at the club this season?It’s always a difficult negotiation when you are dealing with a player who has had so much success. The way football works, success means more money. Coro is one of the best player for the last three seasons and undoubtedly the most consistent. Obviously, we want him to continue with us, but it’s all down to how Coro is thinking and feeling about what we have to offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-are-all-excited-at-the-challenge-of-rebuilding-fc-goa-says-director-of-football/articleshow/76433485.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 18, 2020||Goa||FC Goa say Golden Ball winner Hugo Boumous is not for sale||PANAJI: Hugo Boumous’ assertion to TOI that he has not yet decided about returning does not come as a surprise to FC Goa. The Frenchman has made his mind clear for some time now, but there is no denying that he remains contracted with the club till 2022. FC Goa’s director of football, Ravi Puskur, said the Golden Ball winner and their most-prized asset is not for sale, and if someone has to prise him away, they will have to fulfil the buyout clause. “Hugo is a player who is young and ambitious. You cannot fault him for that. The reality is that Hugo has a two-year contract with us, and as far as the club is concerned, he is not for sale. “We expect him to comply with the contract, unless something drastic happens where someone takes a decision completely out of our hands. Till that point, Hugo is an FC Goa player, and as far as we are concerned, forms a key part of our plans for next season,” said Puskur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-say-golden-ball-winner-hugo-boumous-is-not-for-sale/articleshow/76433676.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 11 healthcare workers test positive for Covid-19 in Patiala||PATIALA: As many as 11 healthcare workers, including a doctor, were tested positive for coronavirus infection in Patiala on Wednesday, taking district's tally to 193. In Sangrur district, six cops were among 10 new positive cases.. Patiala civil surgon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “The samples of the healthcare workers and employees were taken for testing. We had thoroughly carried out sampling of our healthcare workers after two had tested positive for the infection a few days back. On Wednesday, 11 healthcare workers including nurses and ward attendants tested positive while a 47-year-old woman of Ranbirpura also tested positive.” In Sangrur, ten new Covid-19 cases were reported, including six cops. Among these cops, four hail from Malerkotla block while two from Sangrur block. Four other Sangrur residents including a resident of Dhuri and two patients admitted in a private hospital in Barnala and DMC hospital Ludhiana tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-11-healthcare-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-patiala/articleshow/76433621.cms||Bharat Khanna
June 18, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 27 new Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: The state on Wednesday reported 27 new Covid-19 cases, including eight from Kangra district, seven from Hamirpur, four each from Solan and Una, three from Chamba and one from Sirmaur district. The state has now total 585 positive cases of which 198 cases are active, 11 cases have migrated to other states while 368 have recovered and six have died. A total of 50,905 people were put under surveillance in the state till Wednesday. Of them, 31,649 have completed their 28-day surveillance, while 19,256 are under active surveillance. So far, 57,479 people have been tested for Covid-19, of which 56,861have been tested negative while results of 33 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-27-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76433797.cms||Anand Bodh
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||#UnlockingFlavours: Immunity Boosters replace traditional welcome drinks, sweets in Kolkata hotels||Even as the hospitality industry opens up in stages to welcome guests, there is that one nod to the overriding concern among their guests these days — immunity. Which is why you are likely to be greeted with 'immunity boosters' the moment you step into a five-star or resort, or even a sweet shop and a cafe. Immunity booster beverages, dishes, sweets and desserts are the latest buzz word in the hospitality business — a mix of traditional wisdom and innovative concepts. Here's a sampler… Traditional concepts, pandemic twistWe have all had kadha at some point or the other. A magic potion for cold and flu, it is made of herbs, dried ginger, black pepper, cloves, small cardamom, cinnamon stick, nutmeg, tulsi and a dash of jaggery for taste. No wonder it was the top choice in this hour of crisis. “Kadha not only boosts immunity, but also helps improve appetite and digestion. It’s an age-old recipe that always works. We are also trying to come up with new variants in the coming days,” informed Anil Bhutoria, managing director of The Stadel. Others are not far behind. The ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar are also offering its guests a complimentary welcome drink, using traditional immunity boosters, albeit with a twist. “On offer are drinks like amā haridrā tiksnā (using raw turmeric and hand pounded black pepper) and amla rama tulsi pānaka (made with Indian gooseberry and holy basil),” informed Tejinder Singh, area manager east and cluster general manager of the hotels. Out-of-box fine dine ideasThose who enjoy health drinks can try a few innovative immunity boosting beverages at The Park. There’s jasmine iced tea, green juice (made of spinach, kale, green apple etc), citrus carrot plus ginger alkalizer and aloe vera and kiwi punch. “Each of these drinks has been concocted keeping in mind their immunity boosting properties,” said Sharad Dewan, regional director, food production of the hotel. Power-packed immunity lunchesA few hotels are coming up with immunity building menus, which people can even order at home. The Vedic Village Spa and Resort has also curated one. They are using organic veggies grown on their premises. “Some of the items from the special menu are crunchy lettuce and raw turmeric, elephant garlic and wok tossed greens, kaccha haldi murgh, blueberry smoothies and baked apple chutney with multigrain breads, among others,” said Azad Taslim Arif, exeutive chef of the resort. Another city-based hotel, JW Marriott Kolkata, has introduced a wellness menu for guests, who want to order from home. The hotel’s spread includes immunity boosting dishes like char-grilled asparagus, vegetables and barley soup, wild mushrooms and tofu in basil sauce, braised organic chicken with ginger and scallion and so on. Prakash Chettiyar, executive chef of the hotel said, “The effects of the pandemic on the kitchen are largely about how we adapt to the new normal.” On a sweet noteWell, there are desserts too. City-based sweet shop, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick, has come up with a special immunity sandesh for its customers. It comprises several immunity boosting ingredients. Sudip Mullick, the owners of the shop, said, “Boosting one’s immunity is the only way to fight the coronavirus. There is no vaccine yet, so we’ve come up with this sweet that is made of 15 different traditional spices, known to build immunity. They are priced at Rs 25 each.” They have also introduced vitality sandesh. “It’s supposed to give you strength and vigour and maintain your muscles and organs. It’s made of 18 superfoods, like ghee, dates, pomegranates, almonds, walnuts, poppy seeds, pumpkin seeds, amaranth, water chestnuts, rose petals, anjeer, ginseng et al,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlockingflavoours-immunity-boosters-replace-traditional-welcome-drinks-sweets/articleshow/76431568.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Tea, coffee stir artists' imagination||Artistic minds have brought morning cuppa to canvas now. Inspired by the colours of lockdown's lavishly-consumed beverages-- tea and coffee-- they are blending raw beans and tea leaves to create situational paintings in diverse shades of brown, black and lime green. Lockdown-inspired artwork by Chandigarh-based Naveen Marichi is making waves. This new artform is fuelling the imagination of painters who are on the lookout for new, creative ideas. Since artists have to portray drinks with colour, their skill takes imagination to a different level. Naveen has created a jumbo image of a group of elephants using coffee powder colours. Naveen feels its important to keep doing the new things. He is also experimenting with the newsprint to make a unique artwork. Natural shades, he feels, makes him curious. On coffee powder colour, he points out that it has energetic vibes and can uplift your mood, the way you feel after consuming a cup of coffee. Various artists in Tricity are working on paintings, caricatures etc, themed around the colours of life. Especially after coronavirus, they are documenting their perspective of pandemic by extensively using the art medium. Dev Sharma, a painter, is keen to create colours from veggies. "I use beetroot shade as it's quite soothing. Though colours derived from vegetable and plants sources require precision, it's good to experiment with them. During lockdown, all of us at home feasted on new dishes. So, I styled my paintings in colours created out of it," he said. The environment-friendly colours, which are created at home, can be fused easily with other ingredients for a better shade. Art experts feel that fabric dyeing in various Asian countries is done using various beverages. "This painting medium is picking up. While some rely on normal coffee or tea, there are some who go for imported beans or leaves to create fine patterns. However, what matters here is the way you make a colour as it has to be hard and sticky so that it can come out well on the base." WINE INK IS ANOTHER OPTIONMerlot colour can be created from wine. It turns art fancy and chic. The layering it gives is amazing but it depends how much an artist is working on it. Painting with beverages... this unique art style is making quite a splash!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tea-coffee-stir-artists-imagination/articleshow/76434144.cms||Ankur Batra
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||In a midnight release, two turncoats get MLC tickets||BENGALURU: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa in a midnight decision from the central leadership got the green signal to honour his promise to the turncoats that helped him instill the BJP government in Karnataka. The central leadership gave the go ahead to nominate former Ranebennur independent MLA R Shankar and former Disqualified MLA from Hosakote M T B Nagaraj to be fielded in the upcoming June 29 MLC elections. Apart from the two, the BJP nominated Sunil Valyapure and Prathap Simha Nayak as the other two candidates. While Valyapure was considered in the mix of things for making way for Kalaburgo MLA Umesh Jadhav’s son and Chinchili MLA Avinash, Nayak is being speculated as the BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s recommendation with the backing of the RSS state unit. Nayak is the present district president of the BJP in Dakshina Kannada, the Hindutva lab factory. BJP can secure four of the seven seats going to polls based on its present strength of 117 MLAs in the assembly of 222 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-a-midnight-release-two-turncoats-get-mlc-tickets/articleshow/76434212.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Your personal box seat for French film festival||A strong lineup of French films will entertain you till July 13. The festival 'IFcinéma à la carte', being organised by Alliance Française de Chandigarh in collaboration with Institut Francais, is designed around 'watch-from-home' concept, keeping in mind the health and safety of movie lovers. With 10 feature films and 10 short films with sub-titles in English to be shown, the filmy extravaganza will cover diverse genres including comedy, literary adaptation, drama, etc. While The White Knights, Keteke, The Together Project, Corporate will be high on comedy and seriousness, other films to be screened during the festival like Swagger, Les Pepites, The Elephant and The Bicycle, In a Cage will be perfect to watch for the younger audiences. According to the Alliance spokesperson, earlier film screenings took place at the premises of institute. But with the situation still risky outside, the festival was designed differently. Now, the movie lovers can watch their favourite films at their homes by just registering online for the event. The Institut français, promotes French culture outside France. The organisation also showcase French-language cinema and facilitate film programming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/your-personal-box-seat-for-french-film-festival/articleshow/76434461.cms||---
June 18, 2020||World||Bolton claims Trump pleaded with China for re-election help||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump pleaded with China's leader Xi Jinping for help to win re-election in 2020, the US president's former aide John Bolton writes in an explosive new book, according to excerpts published Wednesday. Trump met with Xi at a summit last June when he "stunningly turned the conversation to the US presidential election, alluding to China's economic capability to affect the ongoing campaigns, pleading with Xi to ensure he'd win," former national security advisor Bolton claims in his upcoming tell-all. In excerpts published by The Washington Post, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, Bolton writes that Trump stressed the importance of America's farmers and how "increased Chinese purchases of soybeans and wheat" could impact the electoral outcome in the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/bolton-claims-trump-pleaded-with-china-for-re-election-help/articleshow/76434460.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||Central panel slashes Covid-19 test rate in Delhi to Rs 2,400||NEW DELHI: An expert committee set up on the directions of Union home minister Amit Shah to revise Covid-19 testing rates in Delhi has recommended lowering it to Rs 2,400 from Rs 4,500. The report of the committee, which was led by NITI Aayog member Dr Vinod K Paul, was submitted to the Union health ministry which has approved it and forwarded it to the Delhi government for further action. A decision on ensuring that private hospitals offer 60% of their Covid-19 beds at lower rates, which are to be fixed by the same committee, may follow on Thursday, according to a source. The committee had been constituted after a meeting, chaired by Shah on Sunday, to discuss the Delhi Covid-19 situation with LG Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and others. The private labs carrying out the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 in the city said they would wait for the government order before commenting on it. “We are not making any profit at the current rate of Rs 4,500 per test. A reduction in this price will make it unsustainable for us. While big lab chains may be able to manage because they get bulk orders, we will suffer heavy losses due to the decision,” said the owner of one such lab. The head of another lab chain, which is also testing for Covid-19, said they are charging Rs 4,500 per test for the general public and Rs 3,500 for samples sent to them by the government. “We will have to wait for the details. For samples that are sent to us, the reduction in price is manageable because we don’t have to send our phlebotomist for collecting them. But for testing which also involves sample collection, this price may be too less to sustain,” he said. Delhi has 43 labs — 18 government-run and 25 private — that are approved for Covid testing by Indian Council of Medical Research. Recently, the Delhi high court had said all private hospitals with capacity to carry out testing should do so to enable more people to get tested for controlling the pandemic better. The home ministry on Wednesday said that 16,618 test samples were collected on June 15 and 16 as against a daily collection of 4,000-4,500 samples till June 14. “Reports of 6,510 tests have been received so far,” the home ministry said, adding that the remaining reports were expected by June 18. Also, from Thursday, the rapid antigen tests will be carried out with results out within 30 minutes. This is followed by an RT-PCR test only if the result is negative. Delhi will be given priority for these kits, the home ministry said, adding that 169 test centres have been set up across the city. Watch Covid-19 test rate slashed by Central panel in Delhi to Rs 2,400||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-panel-slashes-covid-19-test-rate-in-delhi-to-rs-2400/articleshow/76434573.cms||Bharti Jain
June 18, 2020||Business||90% borrowers didn’t defer EMI: SBI to Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: State Bank of India, the largest bank in the country, told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that 90% of borrowers did not avail the moratorium till August 31 on repayment of loans through EMI to question the brouhaha caused by PILs over waiver of interest on interest accrued on deferred EMIs. Appearing for SBI, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, “Nearly 90% of borrowers have not availed the moratorium and are paying their EMIs regularly during the lockdown period. If on one hand the compound interest in deferred EMIs are not charged from borrowers, and on the other hand the banks are bound to pay compound interest on depositors' money, how will the banks survive?” The bench said it was not asking for waiver of interest during the moratorium period, but asking the finance ministry, the Reserve Bank of India and banks to consider waiving interest on interest that would accrue on the deferred EMIs. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said moratorium did not mean either waiver of interest or interest on interest but it was decided not to levy penalty on delayed EMIs. “The RBI has taken a stand (that it would be imprudent to waive interest on interest which would cause havoc in the banking industry). It is now for the banks to take an appropriate decision. Banks are under obligation to pay interest on deposits,” Mehta said. The bench, which had been asking the finance ministry to take a decision on the ‘interest on interest’ issue, told the SG, “You (the Centre) don’t appear interested in helping borrowers who faced tough times during the lockdown. You cannot throw up your hands and say it is for the banks to decide. When thousands and thousands of crores of rupees are defaulted, you come out with a rescue plan. Now, for this narrow issue of ‘interest on interest’, you talk of adverse impact on banks and the economy. We are aware of the problem due to the pandemic. There has to be some benefit to the borrower otherwise what is the purpose of this moratorium.” Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Indian Banks' Association (IBA), sidestepped the contentious issue by arguing that banks had not calculated the impact of the revenue shortfall. “We cannot be taking defaulters to liquidation as we know most industries are doing badly except Netflix and telecom companies. So, let the issue be deferred for three months to see whether we come out of the Covid tunnel. Then, we can have a realistic picture before us to debate the issue,” he said. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Rajiv Datta criticised the indecisiveness on the issue of ‘interest on interest’ but the bench said it would take up the matter afresh in the first week of August. Watch 90% borrowers didn’t defer EMI, SBI tells Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/90-borrowers-didnt-defer-emi-sbi-to-sc/articleshow/76434684.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 18, 2020||India||China's claim over Galwan Valley 'exaggerated, untenable': India||NEW DELHI: India has trashed China's claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, the site of a violent cross-border clash, saying such "exaggerated" and "untenable" claims are contrary to the understanding reached during a high-level military dialogue on June 6. The Chinese military on Thursday said the Galwan Valley has always been a part of China. LAC stand-off: Live updatesIn a sharp reaction to the claim by China's People's Liberation Army (PLA), spokesperson in the ministry of external affairs Anurag Srivastava referred to an agreement reached between Chinese and Indian militaries on "disengagement" during the Lt General-level talks on June 6. "Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding," he said in a statement. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThe Galwan Valley was the site of the violent clash between the two militaries on Monday evening in which a colonel and 19 other Indian Army personnel were killed. It was the biggest confrontation along the Line of Actual Control between the two forces after their clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers and China lost over 300 PLA personnel. Read AlsoChina-India clashes may spur companies to rework supply pactsAn escalation between India and China dispute at Galwan Valley risks disruption for firms from Alibaba Group Holding Ltd and Xiaomi Corp to Tata Motors Ltd that have customers — and investors — in two of the world's biggest economies. A gamut of companies importing parts or capital from China willIn a telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, external affairs minister S Jaishankar too talked about the need for implementation of the decisions taken at the June 6 meeting. "As we have conveyed earlier today, external affairs minister and the state councillor and foreign minister of China had a phone conversation on recent developments in Ladakh," Srivastava said. Read AlsoIndia-China standoff: Forces on almost war-like alert along LAC, ready to ‘impose costs’ on ChinaIndia will now impose costs on China whenever it tries its favourite salami-slicing tactics in a bid to incrementally grab territory, a move that marks a decisive change in India's long-standing border management policy to largely maintain “peace and tranquillity” along the LAC, said official"Both sides have agreed that the overall situation should be handled in a responsible manner and that the understandings reached between senior commanders on 6th June should be implemented sincerely. Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding," he said. Read AlsoIndia-China standoff at Galwan valley: Top developmentsNEW DELHI: The deadliest clash between India and China in over five decades killed 20 Indian soldiers during the hand-to-hand fighting between border troops at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. Here are the latest developments: * Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that IndiaIn the telephonic talks, Jaishankar delivered a strong message to Wang saying the "unprecedented" incident in the Galwan Valley will have a "serious impact" on the bilateral relationship and held the "pre-meditated" action by Chinese Army directly responsible for the violence. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Read AlsoChinese nationals in India fear backlash, anxious over anti-China sentimentsThe border clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh broke the brittle quiet and also the sense of security for anxious Chinese nationals in India who fear a backlash with anti-Chinese sentiment spiralling in the country. The high altitude violent face-off in Galwan Valley translated intoPrior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Watch India trashes China's claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinas-claim-over-galwan-valley-exaggerated-untenable-mea/articleshow/76434732.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||India elected non-permanent member of UN Security Council||UNITED NATIONS: India was elected as non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council for a two-year term on Wednesday, winning 184 votes in the 193-member General Assembly. Along with India, Ireland, Mexico and Norway also won the Security Council elections held Wednesday. There were 192 Member States present for voting and the 2/3 required majority was 128. India garnered 184 votes. Canada lost the elections. Read AlsoUS congratulates India on UNSC election, says looking ahead to working with it on global peace, securityWASHINGTON: The US has extended a warm welcome to India on its election to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member and said that it looks forward to working with New Delhi in the powerful organ of the United Nations on the issues of international peace and security. The remarks of America,“Member States elect India to the non-permanent seat of the Security Council for the term 2021-22 with overwhelming support. India gets 184 out of the 192 valid votes polled,” India's Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted. Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the @UN Securi… https://t.co/Pb6zn8nnuO— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1592452498000India will sit in the most powerful UN organ, for two years beginning on January 1, along with the five permanent members China, France, Russia, UK and the US as well as non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam. Read AlsoDeeply grateful for support shown by global community to India's membership of UNSC:PM ModiPM Modi on Thursday said he is "deeply grateful" for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity, he said. India garnered 184 votes out ofThe two-year terms of Belgium, Dominican Republic, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa are ending this year. Member States elect India to the non-permanent seat of the Security Council for the term 2021-22 with overwhelming… https://t.co/tPP3EpUD5Z— India at UN, NY (@IndiaUNNewYork) 1592424552000To be elected to the Council, candidate countries need a two-thirds majority of ballots of Member States that are present and voting in the Assembly. India was a candidate for a non-permanent seat from the Asia-Pacific category for the 2021-22 term. Its victory was a given since it was the sole candidate vying for the lone seat from the grouping. New Delhi's candidature was unanimously endorsed by the 55-member Asia-Pacific grouping, including China and Pakistan, in June last year. Previously, India has been elected as a non-permanent member of the Council for the years 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985, 1991-1992 and most recently in 2011-2012. The UN General Assembly on Wednesday conducted elections for President of the 75th session of the Assembly, five non-permanent members of the Security Council and members of the Economic and Social Council under special voting arrangements put in place here due to COVID-19 related restrictions. Turkish diplomat and politician Volkan Bozkir was elected as President of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly. He was the endorsed candidate from among the Western European and other States. The elections began at 9am Wednesday and unlike previous years, when the sprawling General Assembly hall would be packed with UN envoys, diplomats and staff during the ballot, this year presence in the UNGA hall was sparse due to COVID-19 related restrictions. UN diplomats, staff and other personnel arrived at the General Assembly hall wearing masks and immediately left the venue after casting their ballots. In adherence to social distancing guidelines due to the coronavirus pandemic, the 193 UN Member States were allotted different time slots to cast their votes in the General Assembly Hall for the crucial elections. Eight time slots were allocated to Member States to cast their ballots starting at 9 AM, in adherence to social distancing guidelines. The voting continued well in the afternoon, with an additional 30 minute time slot for voters who were unable to visit the GA hall during the specific time slot communicated to them. The time slot for India to cast its ballot was 11:30 am-12noon. President of the UN General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande oversaw the proceedings in the General Assembly Hall and the tellers also observed the whole process. For the two vacant seats from among the African and Asia-Pacific States, Djibouti, India and Kenya were the three candidates. For the one vacant seat from among the Latin American and Caribbean States, one endorsed candidate was Mexico. For the two vacant seats from among the Western European and other States, Canada, Ireland and Norway were the three candidates. The 15-member Security Council has five permanent members - the US, the UK, France, Russia and China - and 10 non-permanent. Each year the General Assembly elects five non-permanent members for a two-year term. The 10 non-permanent seats are distributed on a regional basis as follows: five for African and Asian States; one for Eastern European States; two for the Latin American and Caribbean States; and two for Western European and other States. To be elected to the Council, candidate countries need a two-thirds majority of ballots of Member States that are present and voting in the Assembly. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had said that India's presence in the Security Council will help bring to the world its ethos of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'. "India's journey with the United Nations is quite a remarkable one. As a founding member of the United Nations, India's contribution to implementing the goals of the United Nations Charter and to the evolution of UN specialised agencies and programmes has been substantial. In many ways, quite extraordinary,” Tirumurti had said in a video message ahead of the elections. "I'm confident that at a time when we are poised to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and later the 75th anniversary of India's independence in 2022, India's presence in the Security Council will help bring to the world our ethos that the world is one family - Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam,” he had said. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the Security Council, saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the Council, which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st Century. Watch India elected unopposed to non-permanent seat of UN Security Council||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-elected-non-permanent-member-of-un-security-council/articleshow/76434802.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||SC slams Delhi govt for action on doctors||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed the Delhi government for threatening coercive action against doctors and healthcare workers who made public the sorry state of affairs in the capital's hospitals and ordered it to forthwith revoke the suspension order against a healthcare worker who had made a video of bodies lying in patient wards of Lok Nayak Hospital. "You are shooting the messenger. You do not want the truth to come out. You must withdraw the suspension and take back all coercive steps. Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are your warriors in the fight against Covid-19. They need support. But you are taking coercive action against them. What is happening? The administration must understand that coercing doctors and healthcare staff while not paying them salaries will not help control the pandemic," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said. The hospital director did not deny bodies were kept in patient wards but blamed it on a contractual healthcare worker who was unwilling to touch them. He said the ward boy had made the video and that disciplinary action has been initiated and a detailed inquiry had been ordered into the incident. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain told the court that the Delhi government had done its best to fight the pandemic and was geared to meet the situation to the best of its capability. "We are doing our best to build capacity. We are not justifying any lapse that might have happened in the past. We are also not admitting that everything is hunky-dory," he said. The bench said, "It is very unfortunate to know that this (suspension of the ward boy) happened after we issued notice to Delhi government. You must stop threatening doctors, nurses and healthcare workers. You suspended the messenger. You must withdraw the suspension." Jain promised to look into the matter immediately. Delhi government's affidavit was full of self-praise and the bench asked it to file a better one informing the court about the ground situation. The affidavit filed by Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla, through advocate Chirag Shroff, said, "Delhi took steps even before the magnitude of threat posed by Covid-19 was acknowledged in large parts of the country. Many measures adopted and executed by the government of the national capital were later adopted by other states." It said there were five dedicated Covid hospitals in Delhi with a bed capacity of 4,400, of which only 1,361 were occupied. It said there was no truth in reports that Covid-19 patients were running from pillar to post to get admitted to hospitals. "There is a hassle-free admission procedure. Doctors and healthcare workers are given PPEs and other equipment. There is proper quarantine facility for all," the affidavit added. It said against the national average of 4,000 tests per million, Delhi was conducting 14,000 tests per million population. It said daily testing would be increased from 5,000 to 15,000 by June 20. The SC will hear the matter on Friday with a fresh affidavit from the Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-slams-delhi-govt-for-action-on-doctors/articleshow/76435007.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 18, 2020||India||EC can now refer for probe candidiates giving false info in poll affidavits||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission will henceforth scrutinise the complaints received against candidates who furnish false information in their affidavits filed at the time of nomination, and refer the matter to relevant investigative agencies on a case-to-case basis. As per the existing provisions, individuals are filing such complaints in the competent court under Section 125A of the Representation of People Act, 1951. Though complaints were also received by EC against false affidavits, the poll panel so far was not taking cognisance of such complaints. A full meeting of EC — comprising chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra — on Tuesday delved into the issue of the commission taking cognisance of complaints of false affidavits “which adversely affects the rights of voters as well as impinges on the purity of electoral process”. Stating that furnishing false information in election affidavits is a devious design to defeat the right of the voter to be informed and transparency in elections, EC said it has reviewed this position and decided that “in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis,“. A candidate, in his/her affidavit, is required to disclose his criminal antecedents; assets and liabilities; and educational qualifications. Commission had in 2013 decided that the assets and liabilities of the candidates, as filed in their affidavits, would be verified by Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Citing the observation of the Supreme Court in People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India (2003) case, EC on Tuesday said the foundation of a healthy democracy is to have well-informed citizens-voters. “He must have necessary information so that he can intelligently decide in favour of a candidate who satisfies his criterion of being elected as an MP or MLA.” The poll panel further stated that the voter has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution to know about the candidates at an election. “Commission views the erosion of this fundamental right as an affront to the democratic ideals which underpin the system of government. The Commission has today decided to robustly address this challenge to further ensure free, fair and ethical elections in the country,” said EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-can-now-refer-for-probe-candidiates-giving-false-info-in-poll-affidavits/articleshow/76435020.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||US, EU and UN call for peaceful resolution of Ladakh situation||WASHINGTON/NEW DELHI: The United States, the European Union and the United Nations on Wednesday urged India and China to exercise restraint and resolve their border stand-off through dialogue. The US, which is itself engaged in high-level bilateral parleys with Beijing in Hawaii, appeared circumspect, with President Trump’s voluble Twitter feed remaining conspicuously silent on the matter even 48 hours after the Galwan clash. However, in response to a query, a State Department spokesperson said, “Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation,” adding that the US is “closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control.” EU spokesperson Virginie Battu-Henriksson said in a statement that India and China should show restraint and engage in military de-escalation, as well as continue their dialogue. “This is crucial for building trust and reaching a peaceful solution, which is essential to preserving peace and stability in the region.” Eri Kaneko, associate spokesperson of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, also expressed concern over the reports of clashes, but said, “We take positive note of reports that the two countries have engaged to de-escalate the situation.” The US spokesperson noted, without elaborating, that “during their phone call on June 2, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi discussed the situation on the India-China border.” Trump had offered on Twitter to mediate between the two sides then. On record, though, neither the State Department nor the White House chose to comment, much less express support for India, evidently not wanting to queer the pitch during the US’ own ongoing engagement with China, with a quiet meeting in Hawaii between Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and top Chinese mandarin Yang Jiechi. State Department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus tweeted out condolences about the recent ISIS killing in Nigeria but took no note of the India-China bloodbath. Alice Wells, who was till recently the US point person for South Asia, was more forthcoming on the issue. She tweeted with the hashtag #USIndia on Tuesday: “PRC actions — provocative border rumble with India, aggressions against Vietnam and Malaysia, threats to Taiwan, and repression in HK — require more, not less, US diplomacy.” She followed it up with another tweet: “De-escalation is critical, as is diplomatic resolution of issues related to the Line of Actual Control, but India will come out of this crisis with the full support of like-minded countries.” The clash barely made news in China. It was ignored in the official media and buried on Page 16 in its English mouthpiece, Global Times. However, it had Washington’s strategic community astir given the current tensions between US and China over the coronavirus pandemic. Urging the Trump administration to “take a stand against China’s increasing bullying,” James Carafano of the conservative think-tank Heritage Foundation invoked Washington’s characterisation of India as an important American partner for peace and stability in the region, and said, “Beijing ought to have no illusions about where America stands. The US stands with our friends.” With inputs from agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-eu-and-un-call-for-peaceful-resolution-of-ladakh-situation/articleshow/76435040.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
June 18, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: Contract for Chinese firm on hold?||NEW DELHI: Day after a fierce clash between Indian and Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh and amid media reports that the tender for the design and construction of an underground stretch of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS has been bagged by a Chinese company, the Centre said on Wednesday that grant of contract was “yet to be finalised”. The government added that guidelines do not allow discrimination based on firms or countries. Chinese multinational company Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC) had emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction of the 5.6km stretch between New Ashok Nagar to Sahibabad of the Delhi-Meerut regional rapid transit system. "On June 12, 2020, financial bids were opened. STEC emerged as the lowest bidder,” said the government in a statement. “The tender is under process and yet to be finalised,” it said. LAC stand-off: Live updatesGlobal bids for the project are being managed by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation Limited (NCRTC), a joint sector company that has participation of both Centre and state governments. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThe cost of the entire Delhi-Meerut corridor is pegged at Rs 32,000 crore. For construction of the 5.6km underground stretch, technical bids were opened on March 16, 2020. Five firms including China's STEC, Larsen & Toubro, Afcons, Gulermark Heavy Industries and SKEC-TPL-RRTS were found to be eligible and financial bids were invited. According to a source in NCRTC, “STEC’s bid was the lowest at Rs 1,126 crore while L&T bid Rs 1,170 crore. Gulermark bid Rs 1,326 crore, SKEC-TPL-RRTS (Rs 1,346 crore) and Afcons (Rs 1,400 crore).” After media reports that the contract would be granted to STEC, the move had drawn flak from various quarters. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala questioned Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat call while RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch demanded that contract for the project be given to Indian companies. The government, however, said that since the project’s finances are looked after by Asian Development Bank, their guidelines do not allow discrimination based on countries and firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/contract-for-chinese-firm-on-hold/articleshow/76435182.cms||Rohan Dua
June 18, 2020||India||Covid death rate now 3.4%, up from 2.8% in start of June||NEW DELHI: With the sudden spike of over 2,003 deaths in one day, India’s Covid-19 death rate has risen to 3.36% now from 2.82% reported by the health ministry around a fortnight ago (on June 2). India's fatality rate is, however, still lower than the global death rate of over 5%, even as officials say more states are likely to reconcile figures of deceased retrospectively following death audits. The big jump in the death toll in just one day was due to Maharashtra and Delhi updating the number with earlier unreported deaths. For instance, Maharashtra reported 1,409 deaths on Tuesday, of which only 81 occurred on the single day and rest were on account of retrospective reconciliation of death figures taking total death toll in the state to 5,537 or a little less than half of the total for India. Similarly, in Delhi, 437 new Covid-19 deaths were added on Tuesday, but only 93 took place over the 24 hours. The other 344 took place across June, and a few even earlier. The two states, along with a few others added a total of 2,003 new deaths to the country’s total toll on Tuesday taking cumulative number of deaths so far to 11,903 and fatality rate to 3.36% when calculated against 3,54,065 confirmed cases recorded till Tuesday. Even till a day ago, the death rate was 2.8% with 9,900 deaths recorded from across the country against 3,43,078 confirmed cases. Official sources said similar death audits are going on in some other states too and the fatality rate may see further revision if similar “missing deaths” are accounted for. This assumes significance as the Centre has constantly been emphasising on effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases to reduce number of deaths. It has also asked states to focus on timely detection and testing and upgrade health infrastructure to ensure deaths can be avoided. So far, the government has pointed to a low fatality rate as compared to the world average. However, with such sudden spurt in the death toll, the fatality rate is likely to be impacted. Of late, India has witnessed an improvement in recovery rate. According to health ministry, 1,86,934 cases have been cured so far taking the recovery rate to 52.8%, whereas 1,55,227 are active cases under clinical supervision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-death-rate-now-3-4-up-from-2-8-in-start-of-june/articleshow/76435191.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 18, 2020||India||SC notice to Delhi, Maharashtra and Bengal on plight of nurses||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought responses from the governments of Delhi, Maharashtra and West Bengal, some of the worst Covid-19 affected states, on a petition by a nurses’ association alleging that they were forced to do round the clock, backbreaking work despite inadequate PPEs, lodging and quarantine facilities as well as lack of incentives. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah, which urged "taking care of corona warriors", said the SC has already passed orders for providing adequate PPEs to doctors and healthcare workers. But given the respect and appreciation the court has consistently given to healthcare workers, petitioner association's counsel V K Biju did not have to labour hard to persuade the bench to entertain the PIL. In another PIL filed by Arushi Jain, a doctor who complained of lack of adequate quarantine facilities and non-payment of salaries, solicitor general Tushar Mehta agreed with the SC and petitioner's counsel K V Vishwanathan that payment of timely salary to doctors and healthcare workers was essential. He said the Centre would issue a direction under the Disaster Management Act and any breach in paying timely salaries to corona warriors would be made a criminal offence. Appearing for Mumbai-based 'United Nurses Association', Biju told the court that despite working selflessly and round the clock without any additional incentives, the nurses had been shortchanged as Maharashtra government invoked Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) against them to force them to carry on working without rest. The bench asked the three state governments to file their responses within four weeks. The association said the May 14 decision of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research and the order passed by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai were illegal as they compelled nurses to do continuous duty for five days without proper quarantine facility, even if they came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. Biju said two nurses in Delhi had succumbed to the infectious disease because of non-adherence to guidelines issued by the health ministry. He said nurses were also suffering in West Bengal because of lack of proper protection equipment and non-payment of salaries. "It is clear that there is no proper isolation facilities, equipment like PPE, mask, salary, extra allowance for Covid patient care for staff nurses. After duty, nurses are compelled to stay together in the absence of proper accommodation, which makes them prone to catch infection," the petitioner said. The workload of doctors and nurses has increased as is evident from the affidavit filed by LNJP Hospital, which said it had a sanctioned strength of 392 senior residents but was carrying on with only 279. As against a sanctioned strength of 250 junior residents, there were only 199. Similarly, there were only 151 nursing sisters against a sanctioned strength of 299 and 1,202 staff nurses as against the sanctioned strength of 1,288.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-notice-to-delhi-maharashtra-and-bengal-on-plight-of-nurses/articleshow/76435214.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 18, 2020||India||RSS slams China’s violent behaviour||NEW DELHI: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday condoled the death of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes with the Chinese forces in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and condemned China for its “violent and aggressive” behaviour. “RSS salutes the Indian soldiers, who attained martyrdom while protecting the country’s integrity and self-respect in Galwan Valley in Ladakh region, We express condolences to the families of the soldiers, who lost their lives,” Bhagwat said. The RSS chief said, “The RSS condemns the aggressive and violent behaviour of the Chines government and its army. We all Indians are fully with the Indian army and the government in this hour of crisis Members of RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) and army veterans staged a protest on Wednesday outside the Chinese embassy in the national capital. They were briefly detained by the Delhi Police. The SJM has decided to intensify its campaign against Chinese goods and also against investments from the companies belonging to the neighbouring country and contracts allotted to them in India. “We have already launched campaign against Chinese consumer goods,” SJM national co-convenor Ashwini Mahajan told TOI. He said the campaign was launched on March 20 and is intended to bolster the “self-reliant India” campaign and ensure that there is no Chinese presence in any form in the country. “The response has been very good as people are coming out in huge numbers boycotting Chinese goods. The campaign got a boost after some celebrities like environmentalist Sonam Wangchuk joined the campaign,” Mahajan said. “Besides, we are sensitising policy- makers in the government regarding Chinese Apps. We have also urged the government and states to cancel work tenders allotted to Chinese companies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-slams-chinas-violent-behaviour/articleshow/76435285.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||SC seeks govt reply on PM Cares Fund||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Union government's response to a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre to transfer the money in PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and provide help to those affected by the disease and the lockdown. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave sought 10 minutes to argue the points raised by petitioner NGO ‘Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL)’ through advocate Prashant Bhushan. But barely three minutes into it, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah decided to issue notice to the Centre even as solicitor general Tushar Mehta interrupted by requesting the court not to issue notice while promising that the government would file its response to the petition. This angered Dave, who complained that the judges were not listening to him and allowing the SG to interject. The bench said, "If you (Dave) are here here only to lose your temper, then we cannot help it. We appreciated the issue raised by you and issued notice, yet you are complaining that you are not being heard. This is not done. Some times we do not even hear a petitioner's counsel but issue notice. Can the counsel then complain that he was not being heard?" CPIL said the national disaster management plan was of 2019 and it did not deal comprehensively with the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. It had no mention of measures like lockdown, containment zones, social distancing etc. A part of the national plan dealt with 'biological and public health emergencies', which did not mention any of the measures that were being taken in an ad hoc manner today, the petitioner said. It sought a direction to the Centre to prepare, notify and implement a national plan, envisaged under Section 11, read with Section 10, of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to lay down minimum standards of relief under Section 12 of DMA to be provided to people affected by Covid-19 as well as the lockdown. It also sought a direction to the Centre that all contributions from individuals and institutions should be credited to the NDRF rather than the PM’s fund and all money collected by the PM’s fund should be transferred to the NDRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-govt-reply-on-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/76435307.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon likely to hit Delhi next week||NEW DELHI: Monsoon rains are likely to hit the national capital region (NCR) as early as next week. Delhi’s ‘normal’ monsoon date has recently been revised to June 27, while it had remained June 29 for several decades, say Met officials. The ‘withdrawal’ date for the south-west monsoon is now September 25, instead of September 21. The normal monsoon dates for each city were recently updated by India Meteorological Department, Ministry of Earth Sciences and Indian Institute of Science (Bengaluru). The normal onset and progress dates have been calculated based on 1961-2019 data and that of withdrawal have been calculated based on 1971-2019 data. The previous withdrawal and onset dates were based on data from 1901-1940, which IMD said needed updation. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, said monsoon is likely to touch parts of Noida and Ghaziabad June 22. At present, the monsoon has touched parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh and is expected to cover parts of western Uttar Pradesh by next week. “The monsoon has further advanced into some parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh, while it has also passed through the nearby Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich. It may touch and even cover west Uttar Pradesh by June 22, practically bringing rain to Ghaziabad and Noida,” said Srivastava, stating its advancement in the next few days will determine when it is likely to hit the capital. For Delhi and other places in the NCR, a dry spell is forecast until June 19, with a spell of pre-monsoon rain to commence on the night of June 19. This spell, Srivastava said, could carry on till June 23 – culminating with monsoon showers if the current advancement continued. “If it touches western UP by June 22, Noida and Ghaziabad could get monsoon showers. Delhi is next in line and eastern Delhi could get touched after that. This year, monsoon could hit Delhi slightly earlier than the normal date,” said Srivastava. After a relatively cool June which saw light showers in the first two weeks, temperatures have been on the rise again. Delhi’s maximum temperature on Wednesday was 41 degrees Celsius. The IMD forecasts a maximum of 43 degrees Celsius by June 19, however, subsequent rain is likely to bring it down after that. “With the next spell of rain, temperatures will once again drop down to below 40 degrees,” said a Met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-likely-to-hit-city-next-week/articleshow/76434011.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 18, 2020||Business||RBI moves to tighten rules for housing finance lending business||MUMBAI: The RBI on Wednesday proposed a host of changes to the rules that govern housing finance companies (HFCs). These include doubling of net owned funds to Rs 20 crore and dividing all these companies into systematically important ones and the rest. The industry regulator also said that at least 75% of half of HFCs’ net assets should be individual housing loans and proposed that no pre-payment penalty should be levied for floating rate loans. According to the RBI, a net owned fund is the total of equity capital, free reserves, balance in share premium account and capital reserves. The central bank also proposed that non-adherence to the new rules should render HFCs to be treated as non-banking finance companies (NBFCs). The changes in rules have been initiated since HFCs came under the direct supervision of the RBI in early August 2019, from the National Housing Bank (NHB). The regulator has given the industry till July 15 to send their comments to it. Industry players said the proposals are forward looking and would make the housing finance sector stronger. However, some industry players said that some of these rules are already there in various forms within NHB’s regulations. “NHB’s refinancing rules stipulate that at least 51% net assets of an HFC should be in housing loans, although the same is not there in the main rules for HFCs. So HFCs which got refinance from NHB fulfil this criterion,” said HDFC executive director V S Rangan. This move by the RBI is part of its endeavour to bring all types of lenders — banks, NBFCs and HFCs — under one regulatory umbrella. The draft guidelines also say that existing HFCs will get a year to increase their net owned funds to Rs 15 crore and two years to reach the Rs 20-crore limit. “This step is aimed at strengthening the capital base, especially of smaller HFCs”, and new companies entering the sector, the draft proposal said. The draft guidelines also defined the terms ‘housing finance’ and ‘providing finance for housing’ as financing for purchase, construction, reconstruction, renovation or repairs of residential dwelling units. The RBI draft rules also said that non-deposit-taking HFCs with asset size of Rs 500 crore and above, and all deposit-taking HFCs, irrespective of their asset size, will be treated as systemically important HFCs. According to Indiabulls Housing Finance VC & MD Gagan Banga, for a while developmental works relating to HFCs were on the slow track and these rules, once adopted, would make the sector robust. “These rules would also make it easier for HFCs to raise debt and equity capital,” Banga said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-moves-to-tighten-rules-for-housing-fin-lending-biz/articleshow/76433545.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU to begin registration for annual exams from June 19||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Technological University (GTU) said on Wednesday that students taking the annual examination are free to opt either for online or offline exam, the registration for which will commence from June 19. The varsity will conduct the annual examination for final-year students of all faculties according to the guidelines of the state government, GTU said in a media statement. The issue of holding the exams was discussed at length at a meeting on Tuesday with the principals of the GTU affiliated colleges and convened by vice-chancellor Navin Sheth. The online meeting was also attended by senior officials of the examination section of the university. GTU is the first university to take such an initiative of conducting online and offline exams, according to the press release. “We have worked out all details including the safety of the students after analysing the risk factor involving the Covid-19 pandemic for students appearing for the examinations,” said Sheth. He said that all possible precautionary measures for safety of the students like social distancing, thermal check-up of body temperature will be carried out for students as they entered the examination halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-to-begin-registration-for-annual-exams-from-june-19/articleshow/76433372.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sheikhpura BJP chief sacked||PATNA: The state BJP on Wednesday sacked Daro Bind from the post of the party’s Sheikhpura district president for making caste-based undignified remarks against an upper caste. BJP state general secretary Sushil Choudhary on Wednesday issued the office notification appointing Sudhir Kumar as the Sheikhpura district president. Bind, however, has not been removed from the party. The existing district executive committee constituted by Bind has also been dissolved paving way for the constitution of a new committee. Bind had made undignified comments against the people of an upper caste in a mobile phone conversation with an unidentified local acquaintance from the party early this month. The recorded conversation that hinged on various aspects of the party’s district committee and the district Mahila Morcha unit, had gone viral. Consequently, on June 10, in reply to questions from mediapersons, the party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal had stated that a show-cause notice had been served on Bind to explain his position on the issue. While the matter acquired sensitive proportions, the party acted swiftly in view of the forthcoming assembly elections to nip into bud the possible inter-caste bad blood, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sheikhpura-bjp-chief-sacked/articleshow/76431818.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Good wheat crop spurs demand for gold in rural areas||AMRITSAR: At a time when people are taking to selling gold and gold ornaments post lifting of lockdown to meet their extreme needs, the precious metal traders here are surprised to find an unexpected surge in the its demand, especially from rural areas. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, a gold jeweller Mohinder Kumar said like other businesses, the coronavirus-induced lockdown had disturbed the market sentiments of bullion trade too and they were expecting people rushing to sell their gold ornaments to meet their requirements, but it did not happen. “We have seek a large number of rural customers buying gold and silver ornaments as well as utensils due to good wheat crop, whereas there is no similar enthusiasm among the urban customers,” he said, adding that in urban areas, the demand of gold jewellery is only need-based and not from jewellery enthusiasts. Before lockdown, per 10g of 24 carat gold price was between Rs 41,000-42,000, but after lockdown it jumped to Rs 46,000-47,000 per 10g, which is a healthy sign for the market, said goldsmith Satnam Singh. “Following border tension between India and China, people were expecting a sudden surge in gold price, but it hasn’t happened yet. Market is stable and hopefully it will remain so,” he said. A moneylender, who gives loans against gold ornaments, said on condition of anonymity that people are approaching him for closing their gold loan accounts and getting their ornaments back. “The price of their ornaments has now increased with the increase in the price of yellow metal and it is a losing proposition for them to continue with the same loan which they had taken earlier whereas their securities (ornaments) are of more value now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/good-wheat-crop-spurs-demand-for-gold-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76434053.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Covid fraudsters target Kolkata universities with fake emails||KOLKATA: Educational institutes have become the target of cyber frauds who are seeking money in the name of relief or to help “colleagues admitted to hospitals with Covid and in distress”. The gangs have so far targeted several senior academics and used the email IDs of the departmental head of a central Kolkata university and theVC of a university in north Kolkata. “The modus operandi is an old one. Taking advantage of the Covid lockdown, the accused generated fake email IDs resembling the originals or even hacked into the original ones. The accused then sent mails to a few junior academics claiming their seniors were facing trouble and needed financial help due to Covid. While most realized the mails were fake, a few did fall into the trap. Among those who responded to the emails were professors from Presidency University and Rabindra Bharati University. One of the fake IDs used has been identified as executivedirector1910@gmail.com. Kolkata cops claimed they have started collecting evidence after the CBI sounded an alert on such scams last Monday. Several cases targeting professors have been reported from Mumbai and Delhi during the lockdown too. “Online fraudsters are cashing in on the pandemic to dupe unsuspecting people. A professor at IIT-Bombay was duped of Rs 2 lakh, which he transferred by way of cash vouchers to treat his colleague and a relative “affected by Covid”. Most of those duped said he or she had received an email in their official account from the personal account of their colleague saying they were admitted to the ICU and needed financial help. Most said they didn’t doubt the genuineness as it had come from their colleagues’ account through which they communicated often.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-fraudsters-target-varsities-with-fake-emails/articleshow/76432739.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Century-old banyan tree in West Bengal hit by cyclone Amphan gets new life||KOLKATA: A century–old Banyan tree, which was uprooted by Cyclone Amphan, has been transplanted from its original location on Allenby Road to a small patch of greenery on Heysham Road on Wednesday. This created an instance of how a local councillor and concerned citizens can be perfect saviours of the city’s greenery at a time when councillors are often accused of destroying trees in the name of development. The cyclone had destroyed the roadside trees at Chakraberia in Bhowanipore like other parts of the city. Inspired by the story of replantation by concerned citizens at Maidan, the councillor of Ward 70, Ashim Basu, had sought help from these youths for restoration of the affected trees. They identified a few trees that could be restored while the councillor helped them by arranging a mechanical lifter (JCB) for the translocation of the trees. “Basu gathered all resources almost by using a magic wand. As the lifter came, we swung into action. We took horticulturists along with us as the time for revival of such uprooted trees is not very long and more than two weeks had already passed. Transplantation of the Banyan tree was a challenge. The growth of root system was seriously inhibited at its current location, thanks to over-concretization. If we could relocate it to a greener patch, its growth would be unrestricted,” said Ajay Mitta, one of the key members of Active Citizens Together for Sustainability (ACTS), which had carried out the replantation at Maidan. “I was heart-broken by seeing the devastation on May 21. I decided to replant majority of the affected trees. After hearing their efforts in Maidan, I got in touch with them for the transplantation of old trees. We decided to translocate the Banyan tree to a place where it would create some awareness for students. We chose a small green patch in front of J J Ajmera School on Heysahm Road. When students come there after the lockdown break, they will not only be surprised but will also be curious to know how it was brought there,” said Ashim Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/century-old-banyan-hit-by-amphan-gets-new-life/articleshow/76432956.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘One more sewage treatment plant to be functional by month-end’||PATNA: One more sewage treatment plant (STP) at Karmalichak will be operational by the end of this month, according to Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCo). Initially, the Karmalichak STP would function on the old sewage network like Beur STP, whereas the construction of a new sewage network will be completed by the end of 2020. The estimated cost of Karmalichak STP is Rs77 crore. It will treat 80 MLDs of water after getting fully functional. According to chief engineer of National Mission for Clean Ganga (Namami Gange) Ramavtar Sah, the process to build sewage network for all STPs — Beur, Karmalichak, Saidpur and Pahadi — are underway. “We are working to connect all the households with sewage lines and further to these STPs, so that no untreated water gets discharged into the Ganga directly from household sewage lines,” he said. Ramavtar told this newspaper on Wednesday that the work on Karmalichak STP would be completed in a few days and it was likely to be functional on the old sewage line by June-end. “So far, 60.8km out of 96.5km of the sewage line has been laid, covering Khajekala, Didarganj, Shikharpur, Nehru Tola, Bazar Samiti and Begumpur,” he said. The chief engineer further said: “The construction of all the STPs got delayed due to the lockdown in view of Covid- 19 pandemic. However, we are expecting all the STPs to be operational by December 2020.” Beur STP started functioning on old pipelines from June first week. Of the total 180km-long sewage network, work has been completed in several areas, including Chitkohra, Harnichak, Aneesabad, Gardanibagh and Yarpur. Ramavtar said some of the old networks under Beur STP got damaged due to waterlogging and other reasons. “However, the sewage water of households connected to the STP are being treated per day and discharged to agricultural fields,” he said. The National Thermal Power Corporation Limited will also use the STP’s treated water for power generation and irrigation purposes. An agreement has also been signed with NTPC to use treated water of STPs in their plants,” he added. The STPs slated to function from June got delayed due to several bottlenecks, including procedural issues, Covid-19 and no-objection certificate from various departments for network lines. Minister of urban development and housing department Suresh Kumar Sharma said they have received the NOC from road construction department, Indian Oil Corporation, Railways and NHAI for laying the main trunk lines. However, other procedures are still underway. Meanwhile, the Saidpur STP will partially function on new sewage networks from July-end. It will have the capacity to treat 60 MLD. It will cover households in areas like Kumhrar, Agamkuan, Bahadurpur and Gulzarbagh. The Pahadi STP will be fully functional from December. It will have the capacity of 60 MLD. Of the 204km-long sewage line, construction work has been completed in 115.3km area. The foundation for the plants being built under the Centre’s ambitious Namami Gange Mission was laid by PM Narendra Modi at Mokama in Patna district in October 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-more-sewage-treatment-plant-to-be-functional-by-month-end/articleshow/76431361.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Banking operations pick up pace, loan activities low||PATNA: Banking operations across the state are gradually returning to normal under Unlock 1.0 even as demand for credit is yet to pick up, say bankers. B Prasad, president of Bihar unit of Bank Employees Federation of India told this newspaper on Wednesday that only routine work such as deposits and withdrawals are gathering pace in banks whereas other areas such as loans continue to remain affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Banking hour has been increased from 10am-2pm to 10am-4pm and office hours for employees is 10am-5pm. Most people are coming to banks only for Covid relief funds,” Prasad said, adding, footfall has increased by 32% in the first phase of unlock. General secretary of State Bank of India Staff Association, Sanjay Singh, said credit demand has declined due to the lockdown. “As the economy has slowed down, businesses have been badly affected and the demand for credit has diminished,” he said. Begusarai lead bank district manager Ranjit Kumar Jha said branches of all banks under the district are functioning as usual. “Earlier for a few days banking hours were curtailed from 10 am to 2 pm. However, all branches are now functioning as per scheduled hours from 10am to 4pm,” Jha said. Aurangabad district has also reported normal activities at the banks, which are open from 10 am to 5 pm. However, many are also scared after several employees, including the branch manager of a private bank, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. District Lead Bank Manager SP Das said all possible efforts are being taken to ensure social distancing and use of sanitisers to prevent the spread of the virus. In Bhagalpur, Sanjay Kumar Lath, vice-president of Bhagalpur and Banka chapter of All India Bank Officers’ Confederation said banking operations are being undertaken as per scheduled hours 10am to 5pm. “Though banking operations vis-a-vis customer services is returning to normalcy, there have been shortfalls in turnovers of banks and in making advances,” he said. In Buxar district, banking operations are reported to be normal and being held as per scheduled hours 10am to 5pm, according to lead bank district manager Anand Kumar Ojha. “Working hour is 10 am to 4 am though I have advised to work with safety but not shut a bank before working hours,” Ojha said. However, at the Dumraon branch of SBI, several customers have complained that customer services are being offered only from 10am to 2pm. A customer, Vinod Kumar Verma, a resident of Kamal Nagar, has shot off a letter in this regard to senior SBI officials, including the AGM at the bank’s Sasaram office, under which the Dumraon branch comes, as well the GM and CGM in Patna. “Apart from reduced duration of daily operations, the passbook update printer at the bank has not been functional for the last three months,” Verma said. Anirudh Kumar, general secretary of Bihar Provincial Bank Employees Association claimed that working condition of bank employees was risky, especially in rural areas. “The bank premises are too small in rural areas as well as in urban areas. When so many people have gathered, the chances of spread of Covid- 19 are also high,” he said. ( With inputs from Aurangabad/Begusarai/Bhagalpur/Buxar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/banking-operations-pick-up-pace-loan-activities-low/articleshow/76431387.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||B’day bash on road, former neta arrested||Vadodara: Ten persons including controversial former MS University student Zuber Khan Pathan were arrested on Tuesday for celebrating his birthday on Old Chhani Road during night curfew without maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Police said that Pathan, who has also been former city president of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), had uploaded a video of birthday celebration on Facebook. “We identified Pathan in the video and brought him to the police station as all others had crowded around him and nobody was wearing mask,” said a police official. Pathan told police that it was his birthday, so he had called his friends around June 15 midnight near SBI on Old Chhani Road to cut the cake and celebrate. Later, his friends identified as Smita Parmar, Fazal Khan, Prakash Parmar, Hasnain Khan, Faizan Khan, Yaser Arafat, Mustakim Gajiawala, Akib Pathan and Sajid Khan were also arrested. They all were charged for violation of public notification, committing negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. Under the current guidelines, movement of citizens is prohibited between 9pm and 5am and wearing masks in public is compulsory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bday-bash-on-road-former-neta-arrested/articleshow/76431006.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||ECI allows postal ballot for Covid-affected MLAs||Gandhinagar: Considering the possibility of a few MLAs finding it difficult to vote in the Rajya Sabha election scheduled on June 19 due to the coronavirus outbreak, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has allowed the chief electoral officers (CEO) of Gujarat and other states to accept postal ballot votes after stringent verification.However, even if a MLA is Covid-19 positive, he or she will be allowed to physically vote after wearing a PPE kit.Three BJP MLAs from the city have tested positive for Covid-19. While two of them have been discharged, the third will complete his home quarantine on June 18, Wednesday, a day before the RS election. S Murali Krishna, CEO, Gujarat said, “The ECI has allowed voting through postal ballot after due application and complete verification. All three MLAs who had tested positive for Covid-19 have recovered. If anyone applies for postal ballot voting, we will allow him to cast vote through postal ballot in the June 19 Rajya Sabha election.”The CEO said that all necessary precautions have been put into place to ensure that the voting process is conducted smoothly. “If applications for postal ballot are made, we will verify and allow postal ballost. Meanwhile, Covid-positive MLAs will also be allowed to physically cast their vote in the election after wearing PPE kits. The polling room will be fully sanitized after they have finished voting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eci-allows-postal-ballot-for-covid-affected-mlas/articleshow/76433293.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||What killed 30 lions? Probe inconclusive||Ahmedabad: The four-member central committee comprising representatives of the Union government and prestigious wildlife and research institutes, have failed to reach a conclusion about the deaths of 30-odd lions in the past two months. Top sources said that the report submitted by the committee advocates that in order to know what is ailing the lions, the visceras of deceased lions and samples from those rescued for treatment should be tested for all viral loads including Covid-19, canine distemper virus (CDV) and for bacterial infections prevalent in the area. “The report states the deaths are being investigated by the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre and the results are still awaited. However, in its recommendations, the team suggested that any lion rescued for treatment should be checked for all viral loads prevalent in the area, including Covid-19 and other infections. The visceras of lions that died unnatural deaths should also be checked for the same,” said a senior forest ministry official.The central team including representatives from the Union ministry of forests and environment, the Wildlife Institute of India, the National Tiger Conservation Authority and the Indian Veterinary Institute, New Delhi, had visited Gujarat at the end of May. The team was sent to ascertain if the 30-odd lion death had occurred due to CDV but failed to reach a conclusion about the deaths in and around Dhari.The senior official said that the committee has also recommended that Gujarat follow the protocol laid down by the National Tiger Conservation Authority in case of lion deaths. The tiger death protocol mandates that every death be recorded and a postmortem carried out in the presence of NGOs and volunteers with samples sent to laboratories for further investigation.An official, part of the probe team, said CDV could not be confirmed to be put on paper in the report. He, however, questioned why the samples from the dead lions were not sent to the NIV for testing. In 2018, the state government had accepted that 27 lion deaths took place in Gir due to CDV after it was confirmed by NIV. Shyamal Tikadar, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden of Gujarat, said samples could not be sent to NIV, Pune due to the lockdown. Leader of the opposition in the state assembly Paresh Dhanani had recently written to the chief minister seeking a probe into the large number of unnatural lion deaths in Gir recently.Experts point out that the state forest department had already announced procurement of kits for CDV testing which could have been used during the lockdown. (With inputs by Nimesh Khakhariya from Rajkot)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/what-killed-30-lions-probe-inconclusive/articleshow/76433334.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 18, 2020||Business||Restrictions on tyre imports to plug $400 million outflow from India; to boost domestic production, says ATMA chairman||Chennai: The government's recent move of putting restrictions on tyre imports will help curb outflow of nearly $400 million a year, especially for Chinese tyres. According to the tyre industry apex body Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association (ATMA), despite the slowdown in FY20, tyre imports worth nearly $400 million swept into the Indian market last fiscal. Data from the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics (DGCI&S), Ministry of Commerce, shows that in FY19, tyres worth US$ 429 million were imported in India. Even in the first 11 months of FY20, a year that witnessed economic slowdown in India and hence reduced demand, tyres worth US$385 million landed in India, ATMA has stated. Most of the imported tyres are from China. Both in the case of truck & bus radial (TBR) tyres and passenger car radial (PCR) tyres, China accounts for over 40% of overall import while in case of tractor tyres, Chinese import is three-fourths of total import, said ATMA.“Domestic manufacturing capacity is ahead of the demand curve and India is self-sufficient in manufacturing practically all kinds of tyres including tyres for critical applications like fighter jets. Most of the imports are unwarranted and have been hurting capacity utilization in domestic manufacturing”, stated K M Mammen, chairman ATMA. “The move has come as a sentiment booster for the industry that has been bearing the brunt of slowdown in the auto sector and disruption caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Emboldened by the development, the tyre industry in India is looking at better than expected domestic production and increased exports from the country," he added.The import block will also boost demand for domestic natural rubber (NR) as tyre production goes up, said Mammen.According to ATMA, indirect import of NR through tyre imports has been hurting the interests of NR growers. For instance, import of each unit of truck & bus tyres represents 25 kg of indirect import of NR in the country. Total tyre production in India declined by 8% to 177 million units in FY2019-20 due to the reduced demand in both replacement and OEM segments. The truck & bus tyre segment, which is bread and butter for the tyre Industry in India accounting for over 50% of industry’s revenue, witnessed the sharpest drop in production of 14%. “In view of projections about contraction of the economy in the on-going year, tyre Industry was expecting a further drop in production. However, the restrictions imposed on import will provide elbow room for increasing domestic tyre production in a difficult year”, added Mammen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/restrictions-on-tyre-imports-to-plug-400-million-outflow-from-india-to-boost-domestic-production-says-atma-chairman/articleshow/76433416.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||Stock brokers seek govt nod to operate in lockdown||Chennai: As Tamil Nadu government gears up to fortify Chennai and a few areas in neighbouring districts for a 12-day lockdown, with the exception of few essential services, from Friday, stock brokers and depository participants have sought permission from the government to continue their operations during the lockdown. Financial markets in India operate nationally and so if Tamil Nadu government asks Sebi registered intermediaries not to work during the June 19 – 30 lockdown, it will disrupt the capital market business in Chennai, brokers said. “Tamil Nadu should support financial markets as it has done in the previous lockdowns, so that people of Chennai are not left alone in the times of market uncertainties. Since only back office staff are needed, the number of people to be permitted to work will only be in the range ofabout 150 – 200employees,” said Jaswant Munoth, MD, Munoth Financial Services Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stock-brokers-seek-govt-nod-to-operate-in-lockdown/articleshow/76433476.cms||D Govardan
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Widespread rain expected till weekend, says Met||PATNA: After its onset on time, the southwest monsoon has been active over Bihar in the last 48 hours, leading to showers in Patna and several other places of the state. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has widespread rainfall forecast in Bihar till June 21. A Patna Meteorological Centre bulletin on Wednesday said heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over northeast and southwest parts of Bihar over the last 24 hours. Besides, light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places over north- central, many places over north-west and most places over northeast, south-west, south-central and south-east parts of the state. Places which received significant rainfall included Daudnagar (110mm), Bahadurganj, Sherghati and Rafiganj (60mm each) besides 50mm each at Tekari and Chatia. Showers are likely to continue at least till the weekend. Thunderstorm with heavy rain is likely to occur over northeast and south-central parts of Bihar, including Patna and Gaya on Friday, while rainfall with thunderstorm is likely at many places over remaining parts of the state over the next two days. The continuation of rain has been attributed to several weather systems leading to moisture incursion. A trough line was running from central Pakistan to Bangladesh across north Rajasthan, south Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Wednesday. Another trough line was running from east Uttar Pradesh to Bangladesh across Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal. Besides, a cyclonic circulation was also situated over east Uttar Pradesh. “As trough line is basically an elongated area of low pressure. The two trough lines passing across Gangetic plains are leading to heavy moisture incursion in the region. The cyclonic circulation over east UP is also adding to moisture incursion. This, in turn, is leading to showers,” an officials of Patna Met office said. Meanwhile, the northern limit of monsoon (NLM) was passing across Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich as on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-widespread-rain-expected-till-weekend/articleshow/76431575.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Political parties nervous ahead of Rajya Sabha poll||GANDHINAGAR: With just a day left before the crucial Rajya Sabha (RS) election of four seats in Gujarat, there is considerable anxiety in both the BJP and Congress parties. While the Congress cannot rule out the possibility of cross-voting by some of its MLAs like in the 2017 RS election, the BJP is bothered by the likelihood of its MLAs casting invalid votes like the 2017 RS poll. Eight Congress MLAs had cross-voted against the mandate and in favour of BJP candidates while one BJP MLA had cast an invalid vote in the 2017 election, which saw veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel win his RS seat with a wafer-thin margin. Although the Congress is already short of the required numbers to ensure outright wins for both of its candidates, senior party leaders admit that a few Congress MLAs could cross vote in favour of BJP candidates despite the fact that they have been showing solidarity with the Congress as of now. In 2017, then leader of opposition (LOP) and senior Congress leader Shankersinh Vaghela, his son Mahendrasinh Vaghela and six other MLAs had cross-voted for BJP. Just prior to the 2017 RS election, six Congress MLAs had resigned to join the BJP subsequently. In 2017, a total of 14 Congress MLAs had attempted to damage the party’s prospects in the RS election. The votes of two Congress MLAs, namely Raghavji Patel and Bholabhai Gohil, were declared invalid, as they failed to follow the prescribed process and showed their vote to the BJP agent instead of the Congress agent. A senior Congress leader who preferred not to be named, said, “At present, all the remaining 65 MLAs have pledged allegiance to the Congress, but we cannot be completely sure if they will vote for Congress candidates. In 2017, some MLAs voted against the Congress candidate despite staying with the others at a resort in Karnataka. Things will be clear only on voting day.” A BJP leader claimed that between three and five Congress MLAs will cross-vote in the election on Friday. “Although we have conducted intensive training for our MLAs, the fear of invalid votes remains. Even if there is no cross-voting by Congress MLAs, we will comfortably win three seats on the basis of second preference votes,” the leader said. While the Congress has fielded its senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, the ruling BJP has nominated Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates for the polls, in which MLAs will vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parties-nervous-ahead-of-rs-poll/articleshow/76433251.cms||Kapil Dave
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court allows woman to abort 23-week pregnancy||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed termination of around 23-weeks pregnancy of a woman for abnormality of the foetus that could endanger her life. HC has passed these orders on the basis of a report received from a specially constituted board of PGIMER, Chandigarh. “Although the pregnancy of the petitioner is more than 20 weeks but since the foetus is opined to be not compatible with life and the board has recommended termination of the said pregnancy, the petition, as such, is accepted. The petitioner shall present herself before the PGIMER, Chandigarh, within next three days and upon her appearance the PGIMER shall admit the petitioner and carry out the procedure for medically terminating her pregnancy under supervision of head of department (obstetrics and gynaecology department),” HC’s Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill has ordered. However, Justice Gill made it clear that in case, for any reason, the head of the department is not available then the procedure shall be supervised by the next senior most doctor of the department concerned. PGI has been directed to do the needful for the entire procedure and shall extend all the facilities to the petitioner as may be required. The petitioner had sought the directions for termination of her pregnancy citing the 2017 judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the case titled ‘Sarmishtha Chakrabortty and another Versus Union of India and others’, holding that “The right of a woman to have reproductive choice is an insegregable part of her personal liberty, as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution – she has a sacrosanct right to have her bodily integrity”. The matter had reached HC in the wake of a petition filed by a resident of Karnal district. The 33-year-old woman in this case was informed by the doctors on June 4 that “her foetus is incompatible with life” and needs medical termination of pregnancy (MTP). As her pregnancy was around 23 weeks, the process of MTP cannot be carried by the doctors as per the statute that prohibits termination of pregnancy beyond 20-weeks. The petitioner had sought directions for grant of permission regarding termination of pregnancy as the child in the womb of the petitioner is under the term ‘very poor prognosis’ as opined by the doctor at PGI, which is dangerous to the life of the petitioner as well as the child in the womb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-allows-woman-to-abort-23-week-pregnancy/articleshow/76434048.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||City societies rise to Covid challenge, reach out to poor||PATNA: Even before the lockdown was announced on March 22, Patnaites in residential societies, apartments and colonies went out of their way to chalk out plans to deal with the new normal. From distributing masks to gsetiving sanitizers and getting circles painted on the floor for maintaining social distancing, societies took every possible step to curb the spread of the virus. As part of TOI’s MySocietyPride initiative, dozens of residential societies have written to us, sharing what they did and continue to do. A majority of residential societies claimed that they did regular sanitization of the premises as well as the flats. Several others said they banned the entry of outsiders to protect residents. Saharsh Bhushan, treasurer of Arrah Garden Residences in Rukanpura, said only senior officials, who couldn’t work from home, were going out. “The vehicles used by them are sanitized with sodium hypochlorite solution. The other residents, who were working from home, stay indoors as we have made availability of all essential commodities. Besides, a common delivery point has been designated inside the campus for picking up milk and grocery,” he said. He added that block-wise activities, including ‘Antakshari’, were organized for residents on a regular basis during the lockdown. Bhushan also said funds were collected from residents for helping migrants, who arrived at Shahpur village area. “We provided food packets, veg biryani, fruits and water bottles to them,” he added. At Jalalpur City near RPS More, a personal sanitization equipment has been installed to follow regular sanitization of the entire society. Society members have also installed automatic sanitizers near elevators for those coming in. Rajiv Kumar, a flat owner, said out of the five elevators, only one has been made functional for residents. “Keeping in mind the safety of people, we have also restricted the use of elevators for coming downstairs. They are allowed to use it only after going through sanitization at the entrance of the society. Apart from this, the shops and street vendors, who sell vegetables and other things, are also screened on a regular basis. All the measures are still being followed as the number of cases is increasing at a rapid rate,” Kumar said. Asked about steps being taken to engage residents, Kumar said virtual classes of art and craft are being organized for the residents. “We also organize yoga and Zumba classes,” he said. Yoga classes were also organized at Sai Enclave in Danapur in order to keep residents connected during the lockdown. Vinay Kumar Singh, a flat owner at Gyan Sarovar apartment near RPS More, said sanitization of the residential society is still being done on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-societies-rise-to-covid-challenge-reach-out-to-poor/articleshow/76431314.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||India Cements denies take over bid by Damanis||Chennai: South India’s largest cement maker by volume, The India Cements on Wednesday dismissed a news report that said it was a target of a takeover bid by billionaire retailer Damanis. In a filing with stock exchanges, the company said that a Bloomberg news report which said that Radhakrishnan Damani of DMart was mulling a take over of India Cements as ‘factually incorrect’. The stock price of the company rose nearly 5% at the BSE to close at Rs 132.1, in a flat Mumbai market.In an earlier filing with the stock exchanges the cement maker said that the Damanis through different entities controlled 19.89% of equity of the company. The Damanis now have become the second largest shareholders in the company after the promoters whose holdings stand at 28.26% as per regulatory filings. Institutional investors, including mutual funds sold their stakes in the company during the Jan-March quarter and now stands at 2.7% while that of foreign portfolio investors stood at 12.85%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-cements-denies-take-over-bid-by-damanis/articleshow/76433124.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Bar council to act against lawyers||Chandigarh: Taking strict note of advertising by advocates on social media, especially Facebook and WhatsApp groups by uploading their videos and photographs, the state bar council of Punjab and Haryana has decided to initiate action against them. A resolution in this regard has been passed by the general house of the state bar council, which is the apex regulating body of the lawyers of the region. Karanjit Singh, chairman of the council, said that it was brought to the notice of the house that many advocates were resorting to unethical way of advertisement to solicit work by making videos and uploading them on Facebook and WhatsApp groups and getting their names published in newspapers with reference to conduct of cases. It was considered and unanimously resolved that any advocate who resorted to advertisement through social media, which is in violation of Rule 36 framed by the Bar Council of India (BCI) in Section IV under the heading “duty to colleagues” would be considered as a misconduct under Section 35 of the Advocates Act 1961. The mandate of Rule 36 prohibits an advocate from soliciting work or advertising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bar-council-to-act-against-lawyers/articleshow/76434044.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Prices of essentials burn hole in pocket||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, then Cyclone Amphan and now a hike in diesel price have come as successive blows for citizens, forcing them to cut more corners just to stay afloat. The spike in the price of diesel, which drives buses and trucks, has had a rippling effect on the cost of living of citizens at this difficult time. While bus operators are demanding higher fares, consecutive hikes in diesel price has also caused an upswing in the prices of essentials too. Since June 1, diesel price has risen to Rs 70.33 per litre — a substantial rise of Rs 5 per litre — and is likely to affect cost of living in every aspect. “The cost of operation of a truck or a bus has risen by 30% due to this. Thus, almost every commodity will be costlier. The impact on essentials, however, is immediate as people consume them on a daily basis,” said Tarun Biswas, a truck operator. “It is a tight-rope walk with the steady rise of prices of essentials and salary cuts. We have cut corners to strike a balance. But even then, running a kitchen is getting costlier every day. Even a small rise in prices of essentials hits us hard,” said Arup Ghosh, who works with a soft-drinks bottling plant. His salary was slashed by 30%. TimesViewAmphan’s after-effects have added to the chaos in the supply chain. But a solution must be found. The entire effect of the disruption is often passed on to consumers and they need to be protected.The spike has been seen across categories, but is the most significant in case of edible oil and spices. “In the edible oil market, a spike in price of one oil affects the price of another. Because of border issues, import of crude rice-bran oil from Bangladesh was affected. This left most of the refineries idle. Now the shortage of edible oil has pushed up the prices of other oils, like mustard and soya,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary Posta Merchants’ Welfare Association. If the spike in diesel rate has led to rise in prices of essentials, rising labour cost has refused to flatten the price-curve of commodities that are now easily available. “The higher labour cost for loading and unloading prevented retailers from reducing price of some commodities. The wholesale price of these commodities have dipped, but that has not been reflected in retail rates,” said Gobindo Naskar, a trader at Kidderpore market. The hike in diesel price has its most immediate effect on vegetables. “After Amphan, diesel price is the second successive blow to vegetable vendors. The cost of transportation has suddenly jumped. Though the production has stabilized, higher transportation cost inhibited many from taking vegetables to city markets. They are afraid vegetables will be unsold and they would have to distress sell the produce,” said Kamal Dey, president West Bengal Vegetable Vendors’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prices-of-essentials-burn-hole-in-pocket/articleshow/76432720.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Case filed against Salman Khan, Karan Johar in Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case||PATNA: A criminal complaint case has been filed against Bollywood actor Salman Khan, producer Karan Johar and six others in the court of chief judicial magistrate in Muzaffarpur on Wednesday for allegedly hatching a conspiracy and abetting the suicide by actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). The other six persons made accused in the case are producers Aditya Chopra, Sajid Nadiawala, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Dinesh Vijayan, T-series owner Bhusan Kumar and Balaji production’s Ekta Kapoor. Actress Kangana Ranaut, Sushant’s father KK Singh and three others from Muzaffarpur have been pleaded at witnesses in the complaint case. Sushant committed suicide on Sunday. The complainant Sudhir Kumar Ojha, a lawyer, alleged that the eight accused had conspired against Sushant by boycotting and so that he could not get work in films. He also alleged that the accused had also tortured Sushant for several months which forced him to commit suicide. Ojha said June 3 has been fixed as the date of hearing in the case. “The court either can order for registering an FIR or itself hand over punishment if it finds anyone guilty,” he said. He has urged the court to book them under Sections 306, 504, 506 and 109 of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/case-filed-against-salman-karan-in-ssr-suicide-case/articleshow/76431409.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Defamation case filed against Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: JD(U) functionary and building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary on Wednesday filed a criminal defamation case against RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for posting an alleged ‘edited’ video on social media and accusing the minister of abusing him and his father Lalu Prasad. The case was filed via e-filing process in the court of chief judicial magistrate in Patna. Choudhary had slapped a legal notice on Tejashwi on June 15 giving him ten hours to remove the video from his Facebook and Twitter handle. Chaudhary’s counsel Kumar Shanu told TOI over phone that the complaint case had been filed under Section 200 of CrPC. praying for punishment under Section 500 of Indian Penal Code which has provision for jail term up to two years or fine or both for criminal defamation. “A doctored video of 14 seconds was uploaded on June 13 by Tejashwi to his Facebook and Twitter handle, which is misleading and defamatory. It alleged that the petitioner had abused him as well as his father, which was not true,” he said. Counsel Shanu said Yadav’s act had damaged morale and intellectual character of Choudhary in public domain and tarnished his reputation. He said Choudhary was replying to some queries of media persons when he fumbled and that video had been doctored and played in loop to cause damage to him. Shanu said the case number has been allotted but it would be known later when the matter will be taken up for hearing. “It is so because only urgent cases are being taken up at present for hearing by the court,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/defamation-case-filed-against-tejas/articleshow/76431603.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: Arrange to send back labourers stranded at mandi||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Aam Aadmi Party government to coordinate with the state legal services authority and transport 686 migrant labourers, stranded at Azadpur Mandi since the coronavirus-induced lockdown began, to their hometowns. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked Delhi government to ensure the workers were informed in advance about the mode of transport arranged for them as also the date and time of departure, after a survey at Azadpur market showed that 686 labourers there wanted to return to their hometowns. The court said a travel schedule needed to be prepared and communicated to the workers so that all of them do not land up together at inter-state bus terminals or railway stations and directed the state government to work in collaboration with Delhi State Legal Services Authority to this end. The court also directed Delhi government to set up a helpdesk at Azadpur Mandi so that shelter and ready meals could be offered to those returning after work or for those who are forced to spend nights in the open. The directions came on a plea by the Potato and Union Masakhour Merchant Association, which had sought directions to Delhi government to ensure that nearly 1,000 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi were provided “two square meals” each day and proper shelter. As per the court’s direction on June 9 to find out the exact number of workers stranded at the mandi, the state government carried out a survey and filed a report stating that 882 labourers were registered at the help desk set up at the marketplace. The report stated that of these 882 workers, 849 gave their permanent residential address as outside Delhi and the remaining did not disclose it. On provision of meals to the workers, the report stated that 436 labourers brought food from home while the remaining were getting ready meals from a nearby hunger relief centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-arrange-to-send-back-labourers-stranded-at-mandi/articleshow/76434040.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus effect: Parties change style of functioning at offices||PATNA: The coronavirus pandemic has changed the style of functioning at the state headquarters of various political parties in proximity to each other on Beerchand Patel Marg in Patna. They call it “managerial style of functioning.” The headquarters of the three main parties — BJP, JD(U) and RJD — have a small number of visitors at any point of working hours. Party workers and sympathizers are not expected to hang around the party offices. Similar changes have also been made at their respective district headquarters. “BJP is in election mode, but the coronavirus has forced its own kind of compulsions. We think the new style of functioning would continue all through the year and even till early next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” state BJP spokesman Suresh Rungta said. BJP’s another spokesman Azfar Samsi called it “the introduction of managerial style of functioning”. The changes introduced are common to BJP, JD(U) and RJD. “Our office has more spartan look,” JD(U) national secretary Rabindra Singh said. Even the vehicles don’t remain parked outside the state headquarters of any of the three parties beyond the time required. Restrictive notices for the visitors have also been fixed or pasted at the gates, which remain half closed. Lower rung functionaries make thermal testing on any visitor, besides offering them drops of sanitisers and, if needed, even masks. The prohibitive notice at the main gate of state BJP office reads: “It is requested that if you do not have very urgent work, then don’t enter the office premises.” Similarly, the JD(U) notice says: “Don’t sit on the campus unnecessarily.” Although no such notice has yet been pasted at the gates of RJD office, party’s state president Jagadanand Singh had already introduced “managerial style” of functioning in February itself for which he was described as a “strict disciplinarian”. “When the lockdown was imposed due to coronavirus pandemic, the changes introduced by Singh made the transition to the new office norms smooth — as it was already existing in the RJD for the last one month. What other political parties did after the lockdown, Singh had already done it in RJD,” party general secretary and spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said. In tune with the changes made in February itself, no RJD member or even district/block functionary could enter the campus without prior appointment and once the work was over, he or she had to walk out of the campus. Further, the headquarters was given a new look — scrap and junks were removed, white washing was done, the office garden was given retouch and even 12 CCTV cameras were installed at nodal points and in office rooms. Moreover, refrigerator, tea-coffee and printing machines were installed and a conference hall was also constructed. Yet, look-wise, BJP office has an edge over the headquarters of RJD and JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-effect-parties-change-style-of-functioning-at-offices/articleshow/76431539.cms||Abhay Singh
June 18, 2020||Business||Paytm signs new Noida office deal, eyes space in B’luru||BENGALURU: Amid the pandemic, Paytm said it has signed a new office deal to consolidate its workforce in Delhi-NCR by taking up around 5.5 lakh sqft n Noida’s Sector 98. The annual lease cost for the company would be Rs 70-80 crore. Paytm will house around 5,000 of its staff across two towers in Skymark (earlier known as Lotus Isle) near Noida Expressway, where it will gradually move in December. Additionally, it is looking to lease another 1.5 lakh sqft in Bengaluru, which will house its e-commerce division (which is shifting from Noida to Bengaluru), mutual fund, and travel businesses. The SoftBank- and Alibaba-backed company had bought a 10-acre land parcel in 2018 in Noida to build its own campus, but that plan has been put on hold for now. Paytm’s move comes at a time when routine work-from-office arrangements are changing rapidly and only 25-50% of the total workforce of large internet-based startups are expected to come to the office for the rest of the year. Paytm said it is giving up the leases of a total of 19 facilities across the country, out of which 16 are small regional sales offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-signs-new-noida-office-deal-eyes-space-in-bluru/articleshow/76433856.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP’s outreach drive to 14 lakh families from today||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma has said the party leaders and workers would reach out to 14 lakh families in the state under the ‘Jan Sampark Abhiyan’ starting from Thursday till June 30. The BJP workers would highlight major achievements in the first year of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government. During this public contact programme, BJP workers in groups of two persons would visit door-to-door to convey PM’s message. The Punjab BJP unit will hold a big rally on June 27 through video conferencing from the state BJP headquarters at Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-bjps-outreach-drive-to-14l-families-from-today/articleshow/76434051.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||CavinKare will shut HQ, to rent out office space||CHENNAI: He pioneered the sachet revolution in India, which changed consumption patterns. And now he wants to change the way his employees work. C K Ranganathan, founder of FMCG company CavinKare, has called for rental bids for his office in Cenotaph Road in Chennai’s central business district. The reason: He has migrated his entire corporate office to a work-from-home (WFH) platform. “We have shut down our corporate office and closed all four branches. We see no need for it. We have called for bids from tenants for the 40,000sqft office,” Ranganathan said. Additionally, the four branches have also been shut. “Only factories and R&D centres will have employees come in and work,” he said. Nearly 300 people worked out of the corporate office, while the company has a staff strength of 1,900. While most companies have announced aggressive WFH models in a bid to save on costs and stop the spread of the Covid pandemic, Cavinkare’s Ranganathan said he has chosen it for productivity reasons. “It is more from a productivity standpoint. We have seen a 30% increase in productivity in the nearly 100 days of lockdown,” he said. The Covid pandemic is clearly emerging as a black swan event for India’s real estate market. While tech companies have easily adapted to WFH mode, an FMCG company shutting down offices will force others to look at the option with more focus. CavinKare’s competitor Marico is working with an external consultant to bring about a critical shift in the way the company has traditionally operated. This is to ensure that at least 40% of its office-based staff would be in WFH mode. HR firms think that only WFH may not have the desired impact and the future of work won’t be completely virtual. “Smaller spaces just for important meetings would be set up and a hybrid model will evolve,” said Ciel HR CEO Aditya Mishra. “Some critical decision making needs in-person discussions. While WFH works well in the short run, it may not be as successful in the long run.” For those who miss meeting and interacting with colleagues, CavinKare has decided to meet once a month at an offsite location. “That will help them stay bonded too. Besides, they can be in touch with each other outside offices too,” Ranganathan said. “Working during the pandemic has proved that virtual working is just as effective or even more than working in an office. This would definitely shake up office real estate and we would see the concept of designated workspaces go away,” said TeamLease VP Rituparna Chakraborty. Globally, tech companies including Twitter and Square have asked their employees to be in WFH mode always. It would now be CavinKare’s big bet on the workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cavinkare-will-shut-hq-to-rent-out-office-space/articleshow/76433075.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cotton acreage likely to dip 15-20% this year||Ahmedabad: Gujarat may see a decline in cotton acreage with farmers preferring groundnut over cotton this kharif season. The area under cotton cultivation is expected to be 15-20% less in 2020 as against last year, said market players.“Cotton sowing in Gujarat is likely to drop by 15-20% this year as farmers are shifting from cotton to groundnut crop,” said Atul Ganatra, president, Cotton Association of India (CAI). “However, a lot depends on the progress of monsoon,” he added. Farmers last year fetched better prices for groundnut as compared to cotton. Hence, more are now opting for this oilseed crop now. The growing preference for groundnut among Gujarat’s farmers could be seen from the massive jump in its sowing area. According to the state agriculture data, as on June 15, the area under groundnut cultivation stood at 6.56 lakh hectares, which is more than 20 times the acreage of 22,875 hectares sown during the same period last year. At 6.05 lakh hectares, cotton cultivation area in the state is currently higher than the 1.60 lakh hectare sown in the corresponding period last year due to early arrival of monsoon. The area under cotton crop stood at 26.48 lakh hectares in 2019. Market participants, however, are of the view that the final acreage of cotton cultivation may be lower also because of low price of the natural fibre and stressed textile sector amid dim demand prospects. Declining yield and pest infestation have further made cotton crop less attractive. “The cotton season had opened with a price range of Rs 39,000 to Rs 40,000 per candy (356 kg) last year. The prices remained firm till February this year. But, prices have plummeted to Rs 33,000 to Rs 35,000 per candy now due to the lockdown,” said Arun Dalal, a city-based cotton broker. “Had minimum support price (MSP) for cotton not been hiked, its sowing would have been even lower,” said an industry insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cotton-acreage-likely-to-dip-15-20-this-year/articleshow/76433314.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 5 lakh stolen from scooter||Ahmedabad: A 65-year-old man from Usmanpura on Wednesday filed a complaint with Navrangpura police stating that four motorcycle-borne men stole Rs 5 lakh from his scooter. In his FIR, Ramesh Jain, who works as a manager at a private firm in Navrangpura, stated that he had the money in the glovebox of his scooter. When he parked the scooter outside the office, two men on a motorcycle asked him for directions. He said the men were wearing helmets. Later, when Jain came back to his scooter, he found that the glovebox was open and the money was stolen. On checking CCTV footage, he saw two men on another motorcycle stealing the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-5-lakh-stolen-from-scooter/articleshow/76433300.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||Food delivery companies asked to cut offers, commission||BENGALURU: As economic activities pick up across the country, restaurants are now pressing online food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato to change commission structure, reduce discounts and levy new fees for deliveries. The aim is to be able to stave off closure of restaurants. Restaurants are telling platforms to bring these changes, and especially do away with ‘forced platform discounting’ without which they said they can’t sustain operations in what is the ‘new normal’. This comes when restaurants have been allowed to open their dine-in services, but government guidelines and overall safety concerns of consumers have meant less footfall in these physical outlets. The new safety and cleaning measures are adding to the costfurther, restaurant owners said. Typically, online platforms charge 20-25% of order value as commission, depending on multiple factors like brand, exclusivity and consumer reach. The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) confirmed it has begun talks on this matter with online food aggregators as dine-in service remains muted. “This is an opportunity to redraw the contours of the business. We have begun a discussion on commission structure with online platforms,” said NRAI president Anurag Katriar. As offline business remains a pale shadow of pre-Covid-19 levels, online orders are the only major source of revenue, for now. At the same time, Swiggy and Zomato are also still operating at just 30-40% of their pre-Covid orders and have laid off 12-15% of their corporate staff in order to cut losses, as TOI had reported earlier. According to a Mumbai-based restaurateur, the average order value is around Rs 400 and then there is typically a 30% discount all around the year, on an average. “So customers pay around Rs 280 for that order and platforms will charge 20-25% commission on that. If the platform discount is reduced, the absolute value of the commission can be realised at a lower percentage of order value. This will help restaurants in the current situation. Platforms can generate additional revenue on each order by implementing charges such as convenience fee, and other such measures,” this person said, who has held initial talks with both Zomato and Swiggy. Over the last week, about 20% of restaurants have opened in the country for dine-in with limited footfall. NRAI national management committee member Amit Roy, who is based in Bengaluru, said about 30% of restaurants have opened in the city so far with little business. “Aggregators are giving some sort of deal, but it’s not a long-term solution. So, with the commissions, it hasn’t helped a lot of people,” added Roy. According to him, some of the restaurants and home chefs have started WhatsApp groups that help with not paying a cut to any platform. Typically, consumers in these groups get the delivery through platforms like Dunzo. A Zomato spokesperson said its commissions have always been in line with the value it delivers and the cost it incurs. “They (fee) have also been designed to ensure sustainability and growth for every stakeholder — our restaurant partners, delivery fleet, and us. Whether restaurants directly offer discounts on Zomato or not has always been and continues to be their own choice. We have been proactively cutting down discounts being offered on the platform and are only rolling them out when they support our restaurant partner’s growth and bottom-line goals,” the company added. Earlier this month, TOI reported the company was going to focus more on food delivery and relatively less on grocery as more restaurants open in the coming weeks. Swiggy said its focus, in the short term and mid term, remains to work through the current phase with its partners by enabling business continuity and boosting organic growth. “Our strategic investments in Swiggy Access (central kitchen for restaurants) and BrandWorks (co-creates brands with restaurants) are bolstering these efforts, while the reduced levels of discounting and transparent commission structures will support restaurant partners during the time it takes for dine-in revenues to return to a scale where the pre-pandemic financial viability gets re-established,” a Swiggy spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-delivery-cos-asked-to-cut-offers-commission/articleshow/76433463.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 18, 2020||Patna||Virtual meetings pick up pace before Bihar polls||PATNA: From the time when RJD chief Lalu Prasad shunned technology by saying ‘Yeh IT-YT kya hota hai’ and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar said before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections that Twitter is ‘chi chi che che’ (chirping of birds), politics in Bihar has come to a point that virtual rallies and online workers meetings have taken centrestage in Bihar politics ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. After virtual rally of Union home minister Amit Shah with BJP office-bearers and workers on June 7, JD(U) chief and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar is now to address a same kind of rally in July. “The date of the virtual rally has not been finalized yet,” a senior JD(U) minister in the Nitish government told TOI on condition of anonymity. BJP functionaries claimed that more than 1 crore people had watched Shah’s virtual rally through live telecast on news channels and web streaming. Nitish has also held interactions with the booth and district level workers and functionaries of JD(U) in virtual meetings for five consecutive days last week. The JD(U) workers were told to publicize the works done during the Nitish government in the last 15 years and how to counter the opposition’s “misinformation campaign”. Senior BJP man and road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav has also got a studio set up to address party workers and functionaries online. “The Covid-19 pandemic and social distancing norms have increased the significance of technology in electioneering. Though it cannot be an alternative to face-to-face interactions, but there is no other option due to restrictions owing to social distancing norms,” he said. “I use an App to connect with 1,000 workers in one go. I address them on election preparations and lend support in tackling Covid crisis,” Yadav said. Opposition Congress has also been using the online mediums for organizing interactions of senior party functionaries with grassroots workers. An interactive session on ‘Disaster risk reduction in Bihar with Special Reference to Covid-19’ was organized by the research wing of Bihar Congress on June 14. It was addressed by national level Congress functionaries, including Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh. “I interact with party workers and functionaries through online medium every day. Till now, I have interacted with party workers and functionaries in 20 districts and will be interacting with remaining 28 districts in the next few days. We ask the workers to enrol more and more people through digital membership and increase the party base,” said state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha. LJP, an NDA ally, has also been holding regular interactions with party workers through online meetings. “Several rounds of online interactions have already been held. In the first round, party president Chirag Paswan interacted with national office- bearers and presidents of different wings of the party. In the second round, interactions were held with parliamentary board members, followed by district presidents and probable candidates,” LJP’s state minority cell president Ashraf Ansari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/virtual-meetings-pick-up-pace-before-polls/articleshow/76431558.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 18, 2020||Business||Finance ministry asks PSBs to cut non-essential expenses||MUMBAI: The finance ministry has asked public sector banks to cut non-core business expenses by 20% and instructed lenders to avoid incurring non-essential expenditure like purchase of staff cars, refurbishment of guesthouses or spend on interior decoration items. The directive from the department of financial services comes at a time when there are reports that Punjab National Bank purchased three Audi cars worth Rs 1.3 crore for executive directors. In a communication to the chiefs of all public sector banks, the department of financial services said that in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, lenders must take necessary measures to ensure “productive use of their financial resources for core business activities”. Banks have been asked to place this advisory before their respective boards in its next meeting and issue appropriate instructions internally. It has also put the onus on the top management to ensure instructions are followed in letter as well as spirit. Earlier, the RBI had asked banks to conserve capital in the early stages of the lockdown. The central bank had asked all lenders to avoid paying any dividend to shareholders and has asked them to plough back the earnings. The advisory on following economy measures is in four parts — deferring expenditure that can be avoided, a 20% expenditure cut in non-core business activity, deferring hikes in entitlements & perquisites and rationalisation of non-core business expenditure. The items where expenses have to be cut by 20% include entertainment, publicity, travel, and use of external infrastructure. Banks have also been asked to rationalise expenses in hiring a fleet of vehicles and on guesthouses. Hike in expenditure has been frozen for perquisites such as vehicle and furniture entitlement and rent amounts allowed for residential accommodation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finmin-asks-psbs-to-cut-non-essential-expenses/articleshow/76433508.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress releases booklet on careers after Class XII||Gandhinagar: For the 15th consecutive year, a detailed career guidance booklet “At the career threshold – What after Standard 12?” authored by senior Congress party leader and spokesperson Manish Doshi, was released in both Gujarati and English by the state Congress president Amit Chavda on Wednesday. Along with Doshi, others who contributed to the booklet include Vijay Dave, Nishit Vyas, Hiren Banker and Kirtan Jani. The book will be available free of cost for download from www.incgujarat.com and www.careerpath.info. While releasing the book, Chavda said that selection of courses after Class XII becomes very important. “This is a humble effort by the Congress party for the 15th consecutive year to make available this book with a view to help students of Gujarat,” he said. “The Congress party has attempted to make available maximum information after contacting various educational institutes and experts of various fields and organizations engaged in career guidance work,” said Manish Doshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-releases-booklet-on-careers-after-class-xii/articleshow/76433381.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Politicians hail soldiers’ sacrifice||PATNA: Leaders of various political parties on Wednesday hailed the martyrdom of 20 soldiers of the country, including five from Bihar and one from Jharkhand, who sacrificed their lives fighting against Chinese forces in Ladakh. Among those who hailed the martyrdom were deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai, former CM Rabri Devi, leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan, RJD state president Jagadanand Singh, former minister Tej Pratap Yadav, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti and others. Modi said people of the country have hailed the sacrifices made by the soldiers and they are also angry with the turn of events. “Our soldiers showed bravery and boldness in taking on the Chinese soldiers,” he said, adding the Chinese aggression into India will not be tolerated, even as China has shown desperation in making incursions into Galwan valley to deflect international rage against it for hiding facts and figures about coronavirus,” he said. वीरगति को प्राप्त सेना के सभी वीर जवानों को शत-शत नमन। हमारे जवानों ने अपनी वीरता से साबित किया है कि भारत सबल भी… https://t.co/e8AEAV3SQg— Nityanand Rai (@nityanandraibjp) 1592392437000In his tweet, Rai said, “The way our soldiers fought the Chinese and sacrificed their lives, they have shown their bravery and the country’s capability. Our soldiers have given fitting reply to them. People of the country are proud of their martyrdom.” Chirag said people of the country ought to remain united and boycott Chinese goods to lift the morale of soldiers. “The way the central government is engaged in resolving the crisis through dialogue has enhanced its position in the international arena,” he said. CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh said it was necessary for the amicable resolution of the dispute and de-escalation of the conflict between the two countries for peace in South Asia and the world. State CPI(ML) secretary Kunal said the escalation of the dispute should be prevented and dialogue should be held between India and China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/politicians-hail-soldiers-sacrifice/articleshow/76431782.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Good wheat crop spurs demand for gold in rural areas||AMRITSAR: At a time when people are taking to selling gold and gold ornaments post lifting of lockdown to meet their extreme needs, the precious metal traders here are surprised to find an unexpected surge in the its demand, especially from rural areas. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, a gold jeweller Mohinder Kumar said like other businesses, the coronavirus-induced lockdown had disturbed the market sentiments of bullion trade too and they were expecting people rushing to sell their gold ornaments to meet their requirements, but it did not happen. “We have seek a large number of rural customers buying gold and silver ornaments as well as utensils due to good wheat crop, whereas there is no similar enthusiasm among the urban customers,” he said, adding that in urban areas, the demand of gold jewellery is only need-based and not from jewellery enthusiasts. Before lockdown, per 10g of 24 carat gold price was between Rs 41,000-42,000, but after lockdown it jumped to Rs 46,000-47,000 per 10g, which is a healthy sign for the market, said goldsmith Satnam Singh. “Following border tension between India and China, people were expecting a sudden surge in gold price, but it hasn’t happened yet. Market is stable and hopefully it will remain so,” he said. A moneylender, who gives loans against gold ornaments, said on condition of anonymity that people are approaching him for closing their gold loan accounts and getting their ornaments back. “The price of their ornaments has now increased with the increase in the price of yellow metal and it is a losing proposition for them to continue with the same loan which they had taken earlier whereas their securities (ornaments) are of more value now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/good-wheat-crop-spurs-demand-for-gold-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76434053.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan extension gets CRS nod||KOLKATA: East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan extension received the mandatory safety nod from the Commissioner of Safety (CRS) on Wednesday. The section can now be launched when the lockdown ends and commuters will be able to go from Sector V to Phoolbagan in 16 minutes flat, for only Rs 20. This will bring a meaningful number of riders to Kolkata’s Line 2 because it takes more than an hour to travel the stretch by bus and auto. The truncated 5km from Sector V to Salt Lake stadium was inaugurated in February, but it couldn’t attract a significant number of passengers. Adding Phoolbagan also means that Kolkata will get its first underground Metro station in 25 years. Manas Sarkar, MD, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the he agency implementing the 16km Sector V-Howrah Maidan East-West Metro, said, “The date of the inauguration has not been decided yet. The CRS has made some observations, which must be complied with before the section can be thrown open to the public. But this is certainly a big day for the East-West Metro project.” CRS, NF-eastern circle, Abhai Kumar Rai had inspected the stretch on Friday. Wearing a mask, Rai had walked the 1.6km of tracks between the elevated Salt Lake Stadium station and the underground Phoolbagan station. The section under the CRS’ scanner was actually the 3km, mostly underground, stretch of the 16km East-West Metro, between Salt Lake Stadium station and Sealdah crossover via the underground Phoolbagan station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phoolbagan-extn-gets-crs-nod/articleshow/76432939.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Call for peace from Chinese-Indians as border tension escalates in Ladakh||Kolkata: A day after skirmishes between India and Chinese forces in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley claimed lives and ratcheted up tension, the mood was sombre in Tangra and Tiretta Bazaar, the two largest settlements of Chinese-Indians in the country. With the scars of the 1962 war yet to heal among community elders who were interned in a camp in Rajasthan’s Deoli, they are beginning to recoil as passions flare up and reason takes a back seat. “The Chinese-Indians in Kolkata are under lockdown. No one is stepping out due to the fear of Covid. And now this added tension of Indo-Chinese conflict that can lead to the community and others with Mongoloid features, including people from the northeast, being unfairly targeted,” said Chinese-Indian Association president Bean Ching Law. With most Chinese eateries in Tangra and Tiretta Bazaar still shut, most community members followed the developments with trepidation in their homes. “We don’t know what will happen. Neither country can ill-afford a war, least of all at a time like this when we are also fighting a pandemic. We are hoping and praying for peace,” said South Tangra Youth Club president Chen Khoi Kui. Restaurateur Monica Liu, who was just seven when her family was interned in Rajasthan on suspicion of being Chinese-sympathizers, felt nearly six decades on, the Indian government should not have any doubt over where the allegiance of Chinese-Indians lies. “Nearly all of us are second- or third-generation Indians. We were born here, grew up here and are Indian citizens. We hope the average man on the street understands that and does not target anyone, be it Chinese Indians or anyone from the northeast because of our Mongoloid features,” said Liu. A retired teacher who did not want to be identified said the injustice with the community led to him raising his children in a way that they migrate to other countries. “I could not go out because I had a job and a family to feed, but I did not want my children to stay here. My two daughters and son are working in Australia and UAE,” he said. There are close to eight Chinese temples in and around Tiretta Bazaar. They belong to sects from different parts of China settled here for centuries. But several footwear shops and beauty parlours run by members of the Chinese community have shut down. Even some of the popular eateries have now become history, rued dentist Ah Fu Chang. Sarah Lee wasn’t even born in 1962, but has heard the stories from her grandmother about her father and an uncle being taken to Deoli. Cops continued to knock on their doors even years after they were released. “There was an atmosphere of distrust, but none of our family members ever tried to leave India. From our businesses to our temples, everything is here. We are as Indian as anybody,” said Lee, a geography teacher in a local school on Blackburn Lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/call-for-peace-from-chinese-indians-as-border-tension-escalates-in-ladakh/articleshow/76433015.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||E-W metro Phoolbagan extension gets CRS nod||Kolkata: East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan extension received the mandatory safety nod from the Commissioner of Safety (CRS) on Wednesday. The section could be launched when the lockdown ends and commuters would zip from Sector V to Phoolbagan in 16 minutes flat, for only Rs 20. The 6km will thus bring a meaningful ridership for Kolkata’s Line 2 because it takes more than an hour to travel the stretch by buses and autos. The truncated 5km from Sector V to Salt Lake stadium of the East West Metro was inaugurated in February, but the much-awaited service couldn’t attract significant number of passengers. Adding Phoolbagan also means Kolkata getting its first underground Metro station after 25 years. Manas Sarkar, managing director (MD), Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the he agency implementing the 16km Sector V-Howrah Maidan East-West Metro, said, “The date of the inauguration has not been decided yet. The CRS has made certain observations which must be complied with before the section can be thrown open to the public. But this is certainly a big day for the East-West Metro project.” CRS, NF-eastern circle, Abhai Kumar Rai, inspected the stretch on Friday. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, gives safety clearance to any new metro line in India. Wearing a mask, Rai had walked the 1.66km tracks between the elevated Salt Lake Stadium station and the underground Phoolbagan station. East-West Metro’s 5km stretch till Salt Lake Stadium is elevated. From here, a ramp at Subhas Sarovar leads the tracks down under to Phoolbagan station, which is the metro’s first underground station. The section under the CRS’ scanner was actually 3 km mostly underground stretch of the 16km East-West Metro, between Salt Lake stadium station and Sealdah crossover via the underground Phoolbagan station. The Salt Lake Stadium station till the ramp section at Subhas Sarobar was built by Gammon India while the stretch from the ramp till the Sealdah crossover underground section was built by ITD Cementation. Once the approved section and becomes operational, it will extend the newly inaugurated 5km Salt Lake-Sector V by 1.7 km to 7 kms (till Sealdah crossover) through Phoolbagan station. The first trial run using the line’s BEML-made train-sets through the underground tunnels was conducted on May 31, 2019. That was a historic day for Kolkata as the last time a trial run through an underground section in the city was conducted was way back in 1995.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-metro-phoolbagan-extension-gets-crs-nod/articleshow/76432891.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||123 fly back to Kol from Bangkok after waiting for over two months||Kolkata: For the 123 Indians who flew back to Kolkata from Bangkok on Wednesday, it was an agonizing wait for over two-and-a-half months for a journey that took barely two-and-a-half hours. They were among hundreds of Indians stranded in Thailand since the lockdown was imposed, severing air connectivity between the two cities that had six-seven daily flights.  With no fresh cases of Covid 19 in Thailand for the last few days and with only 3,135 infections and 58 deaths since January, the country appears to have successfully managed to control the spread of the virus. But those who took the Vande Bharat flight back on Wednesday wanted to reunite with their families here. For Hind Motor resident Suman Kr Chowdhury (27), who became a father two months ago, the flight held the joyful prospect of his finally meeting his child. Though he had seen the newborn during video calls with his wife, he was desperately waiting to hold the baby in his arms. “I had a ticket booked on the first week of April when my wife was about to deliver. But then the lockdown was suddenly announced and before I could take a flight back, India announced a ban on international flights,” the marketing executive with a private firm in Bangkok recounted. Sushanta Ghorui, a senior executive at a hotel in Bangkok and a resident of New Garia, acknowledged the Covid situation was good in Thailand and he felt extremely safe. “But how long can one stay away from home? I was missing my family and wanted to be with them,” said Ghorui. All passengers, including Ghorui and Chowdhury, will have to wait a bit longer to return home as foreign returnees are required to spend a week in hotel quarantine and another week in home quarantine before leading normal lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/123-fly-back-to-kol-from-bangkok-after-waiting-for-over-two-months/articleshow/76432839.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Last E-W Metro rake leaves for city||Kolkata: The last of 14 trains of East-West Metro was flagged off from BEML’s Metro coach factory complex at Bengaluru by BEML chairman and managing director Deepak Kumar Hota on Wednesday. of BEML. The six-car rake will have a trial run at the Salt Lake depot once it reaches the city. BEML secured the contract for 14 train sets with six cars each, worth Rs 900 crores, from Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, the executing agency for the project. Hota said, “We are on track. We despatched the last of the 14 trains for Kolkata Metro’s East-West project.” The East-West train, made of stainless steel, can carry 2,068 people in six coaches, compared to 3,200 that an eight-coach AC rake on the north-south route can ferry. The six-coach train will arrive to the city on trailers, covering more than 2,000km. It will be unloaded with the help of a 300kg heavy duty crane at the Salt Lake Metro depot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-e-w-metro-rake-leaves-for-city/articleshow/76432910.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two BJP MLAs to use proxy for RS elections||Gandhinagar: Two MLAs of the BJP will use proxies to cast their votes in the Rajya Sabha election which will take place on Friday in Gandhinagar because of their medical condition. The BJP and the MLAs have informed the chief electoral officer in this regard.Minister of state Purshottam Solanki is unwell with several ailments and his brother Hira Solanki will be his proxy in the RS election. Former home minister Rajani Patel is likely to vote on behalf of MLA Shambhuji Thakor, who has age-related infirmities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-bjp-mlas-to-use-proxy-for-rs-elections/articleshow/76433265.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family returns with ashes||PATNA: The family members of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput returned to Patna on Wednesday after performing his last rites there on June 15 evening. Sushant’s’ father KK Singh brought the ashes of his son to his Rajiv Nagar residence for immersion in Ganga river. Singh returned from Mumbai with his daughter Meetu Singh and son-in-law OP Singh among others. The actor’s first cousin and BJP MLA from Chhatapur Niraj Kumar Singh Babloo told this newspaper that Sushant’s ashes will be immersed after 15 days in Ganga river following the rituals, shantipath and traditional prayer ceremony for the departed soul. “The other family members — Sushant’s sisters and brothers-in-law and close relatives will join. It was yet to be decided on which ghat the ceremony would take place,” Niraj said. The actor was the youngest among the five siblings. He is survived by his father and four sisters. Sushant allegedly committed suicide at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. The untimely demise of Sushant has shocked the nation and his fans and supporters came out in support of the late actor against nepotism in Bollywood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-family-returns-with-ashes/articleshow/76431426.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Martyr Sunil Kumar motivated youths to join army’||PATNA/SAMASTIPUR/ARA: Five army personnel from Bihar among 20 attained martyrdom in the bloody clashes with Chinese forces in Galwan valley of Ladakh region Monday night. The 20 army personnel martyred belonged to the 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment. Havildar Sunil Kumar (34) of Taranagar in Sikaria panchayat under Bihta block in western Patna was among them. His body was flown to Patna in a special flight on Wednesday evening. Sunil used to motivate the village youths and schoolchildren to join army, his neighbour Krishna Kumar told TOI over phone. “He used to tell youngsters that serving army is the best job. If martyred, it will bring name and glory,” Krishna recalled him saying during his interaction with the youths when the braveheart had visited the village on Chhath last time. Sunil is survived by his parents, wife, a 12-year-old daughter and two sons below 10 years. His father is paralytic and walks only with the help of a stick. “Sunil’s mother have fainted frequently since Wednesday morning after the Bihar Regimental Centre (BRC) at Danapur informed the family about him around 10am,” he said. “He was very friendly and helpful. We are proud of him. We will try to install his bust and name the village chowk after him,” Krishna said. His elder brother Anil Kumar also retired from army ten years back. He was the first to be informed. Anil lives with his family near Saguna Mor in Danapur while Sunil’s wife and children stay at the village. Another martyr from Bihar is Aman Kumar Singh of Mohiuddinagar in Samastipur district. His father Sudhir Singh received a call from Ladakh on Tuesday night about his son’s martyrdom. Aman joined the Bihar Regiment in 2015. He was married only last year. Aman’s body will reach Mohiuddinagar on Thursday. Bhojpur district public relations officer in charge Rashmi Choudhary said Chandan belonged to Gyanpura village in Kaura panchayat under Jagdishpur block. He was the son of Hridayanand Singh. According to the sources, Chandan’s three elder brothers are also in the army. His marriage was to be solemnized in April but it was put off due to the lockdown. As soon as the news reached Gyanpura, a large crowd assembled at the martyr’s house and started raising slogans like ‘China murdabad’ and ‘Shahid Chandan amar rahein’. The last rites of the martyr is likely to be performed on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/martyr-sunil-motivated-youths-to-join-army/articleshow/76431745.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown lull: Distress sale of gold rises as business & jobs take hit, savings dry up||BATHINDA/JIND: With jobs gone and businesses taking a hit from the long lockdown to contain Covid 19, an increasing number of people are selling gold kept at home to overcome cash crunch. In Haryana’s Jind town, which is popular for gold shopping among people in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan, jewellers are saying this is the first time they are seeing such a rise in people wanting to sell gold. In Punjab’s Barnala town, though the rise in number of people falling back on distress sale of gold, which costs a little over Rs 45,000 per 10 grams, has been slow, it has started to become visible now, say jewellers. A jeweller in nearby Bathinda, Surinder Kumar, said every fourh customer visiting his shop was looking to sell the yellow metal. As per jewellers, nearly 15-20% persons having gold without much use at home are coming forward to sell off the metal. Under usual circumstances, people fall back on selling gold in case of an emergency or financial crisis, they said. Rishav Jain, co-owner of a Barnala-based jeweller, said 3-4 persons were coming to their shops daily to dispose of gold. “Earlier, only needy persons or those in an emergency used to sell gold, but now people are just coming to get rid of gold so that they could have some cash in hand. The average of those coming to sell is nearly 20-25% of total footfall. We hope this stops when things are normal,” he said. Jind is home to over 300 jewellery shops. Rajender Soni, president of a gold jewellers’ body in the town, said many people selling gold owned business and needed the cash to rejuvenate their businesses, which have suffered losses due to two-month-long lockdown. A jewller in Jind, Deepak Verma, added many people had also cancelled orders placed before lockdown. Om Prakash, another jeweller in the Haryana town, said gold price was around Rs 40,000 per 10 gram when the lockdown was imposed, but now its rate had increased. “There is no sale or business now. People are only coming to sell gold,” he said. “Our business also depends on marriages, but even many of those have been cancelled or caled down,” added another jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-lull-distress-sale-of-gold-rises-as-biz-jobs-take-hit-savings-dry-up/articleshow/76434057.cms||Neel Kamal
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t hide facts to befool farmers: SAD||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar to explain why he was allegedly trying to befool farmers by hiding the fact that the Congress government had amended the state’s Agriculture Produce Markets Act (APMA) in August, 2017, to allow creation of private yards, permission for e-trading and for direct marketing. Former minister and SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema challenged the Punjab Congress chief to resign from his post if the next paddy crop was not procured as per minimum support price (MSP) in Punjab. Cheema assured MSP and assured marketing are here to stay and the SAD would ensure this at all costs. “The Congress government is also party to passing of the Farming Produce Ordinance, 2020. It participated in the consultative process and also gave feedback to the Centre that it had already amended the state APMC Act to enable implementation of the proposed ordinance,” said Cheema. The Akali leader said Jakhar should clarify if the amendment to the state APMC Act by his government was right or wrong. “If he feels it was an anti-farmer step, he should start his jan andolan from the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh and force the government to take it back,” he added. SAD is also going to hold a symbolic protest in all districts of Punjab on Thursday on various issues, including restoration of all blue cards, against the Punjab government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-hide-facts-to-befool-farmers-sad/articleshow/76434066.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot seeks direct cash transfer scheme to boost demand||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said with the uncertainty over the battle against Covid-19 looming large and the demand in the economy continuing to be dull, the Centre should come out with direct cash transfer scheme to the needy to boost demand. The chief minister raised the demand in a letter to PM after a VC the Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday. Gehlot also demanded more allocation to the state towards strengthening health infrastructure. The CM said in the letter that Covid-19 has adversely affected employment of millions of people. According to estimates by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate in the country has reached nearly 24%. The MGNREGA scheme is providing financial support to the people in this difficult time. Currently, over 53 lakh workers in Rajasthan are employed in this scheme. In order to save them from unemployment, an additional 100 man days should be created. This will benefit 70 lakh rural families of the state. Gehlot said it has become extremely difficult for states to arrange its share for centrally sponsored schemes. In such situation, the Centre should bear 100% contribution for the financial year 2020-21. He said the outstanding GST compensation payment of about Rs 961 crore for the financial year 2019-20 should be released soon along with the GST compensation for the month of April and May this year amounting to Rs 4,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-seeks-direct-cash-transfer-scheme-to-boost-demand/articleshow/76434071.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||5 new cases take Nilgiris’ Covid-19 count to 22||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district on Wednesday reported five new cases of Covid-19, taking its total count to 22. After 36 days of lull, the hill district had on Monday reported three new cases. Presently, there are eight active Covid-19 cases in the Nilgiris. Four of the five new patients are primary contacts of the truck driver who went to Kalasipalayam in Bengaluru to unload carrots. A resident of Kuzhisolai area in Ooty, he had tested positive for the virus on Monday. The four comprise 21-year-old cleaner of the truck, his father and two sisters. Officials have now sealed Kuzhisolai area to contain local transmission of the virus. The fifth patient, a woman from Nallappa Street in Aruvankadu near Coonoor, had gone to Karur to attend a death anniversary of one of her relatives a few days ago. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “All the five have been admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. We have sealed their residential areas and declared them containment zones. People should avoid travel as far as possible. Without people’s cooperation, containment activities are not possible.” The collector has inspected all the seven containment zones in the district to ensure adherence to protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-new-cases-take-nilgiris-covid-19-count-to-22/articleshow/76434062.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu in Congress campaign, buzz over self-imposed exile||CHANDIGARH: With Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu set to feature on the party’s #SpeakUpIndia campaign on June 28, the state unit is speculating about his possible return to party activities. Sources in Punjab Congress said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is likely to coordinate with the Amritsar (East) MLA to make him come around. Meanwhile, Indian Overseas Congress is set to launch a campaign #SpeakUpIndia as part of which party leaders will speak to NRIs and Sidhu will join it next Sunday. “The conflict that Sidhu had with other leaders in Punjab, including chief minister Amarinder Singh, appears to have waned over time. It is primarily due to hints from the party’s central leadership of wanting to bring Sidhu back. The party high command doesn’t want to lose him to a rival party. However, whether he agrees to the options offered to him for rehabilitating in the state unit remains to be seen,” said a senior party leader. “After Sidhu quit from the state cabinet in July 2019, there have been attempts to reach out to him and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar had even offered to step down so that Sidhu could be accommodated in that position. Back channel talks have been on but now the high command is likely to make some serious attempts ahead of the next assembly elections,” said another party leader. Sidhu has been keeping away from the party affairs and also the Punjab assembly ever since he resigned from the cabinet soon after the Lok Sabha elections last year in protest against change of his portfolio. However, he has been in touch with Priyanka during this period and met her and Sonia Gandhi on February 27 to share a roadmap for Punjab. Meanwhile, there have been unconfirmed reports of AAP trying to woo Sidhu through campaign strategist Prashant Kishor even though Amarinder has rejected such reports. At a video press conference recently, he said Sidhu was very much a part of Congress and he can approach him if he had any issues. Till now, Sidhu has been lying low, limiting his political activities to his constituency. He has been sharing his views on various issues through a YouTube channel launched by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-in-cong-campaign-buzz-over-self-imposed-exile/articleshow/76434061.cms||Vibhor Mohan
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Private schools ask Haryana to roll back leaving certificate exemption||Chandigarh: Within days of Haryana education department announcing to allow students of private schools to shift to government schools without a school-leaving certififcate (SLC), the Haryana chapter of Federation of Private Schools and National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) on Wednesday threatened to not cooperate with education department and sought withdrawal of order. NISA national president Kulbhushan Sharma said he schools would also have to initiate recovery proceedings against parents of students who seek admission in government schools. “We are educationists and most of us have a budget and small schools. There are over 40% such students who have not cleared the fee for last session. As far as current session is concerned, due to government orders in the wake of Covid, not more than 10% have made the payment so far. We have reached this conclusion after conducting survey on 300 schools,’’ said Sharma. NISA described the state government’s SLC order as a reflection of its “dictatorial attitude”. “This looks like a conspiracy against us. First, they bound us to not force parents to pay and now they are giving admission to our students. Government is bent upon locking our schools,” added Sharma. He said if government failed to withdraw the order, they would start non cooperation in terms of sharing information of school records.. “We are fearful of even leaking of data as well. So far as civil recoveries are concerned, we will first initiate against government servants who have intentionally not paid fee and now seeking SLCs without clearing dues’’ said Sharma. Over 25 lakh children study in 20,000 private schools across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/private-schools-ask-haryana-to-roll-back-leaving-certificate-exemption/articleshow/76434068.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||In a first, Goa BJP to hold virtual rally on June 20||Panaji: The Goa BJP will host its first virtual rally on June 20 at 6.30pm, which will be addressed by Union minister Nitin Gadkari, and is expected to be attended by over 1 lakh BJP workers and supporters from across Goa, BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade said on Wednesday. Tanavade said the rally is to mark completion of one year in office by the Narendra Modi government in its second term. An actual stage will be set up in Mapusa, from where the event will be hosted for Goa. “Goa CM Pramod Sawant, BJP state president, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, MP Vinay Tendulkar, deputy CM Chandrakant Kavalekar and tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar will be present on stage. The Mapusa MLA and around 50 others will be seated in the audience at Mapusa by maintaining norms such as social distancing,” said Tanavade. Similarly, in all constituencies with BJP MLAs, the local MLA will host the virtual rally in their respective constituencies including ministers Nilesh Cabral and Vishwajit Rane, he said. In constituencies, where there is no party MLA, the BJP head for the area will host the virtual rally, Tanavade said. “As preparation for the virtual rally, we will mobilise our mandal heads through virtual meetings. We are targeting for an audience of more than one lakh persons to join the rally from platforms like Facebook and Youtube,” said the state BJP chief. He said that similarly for Yoga Day on June 21, people should perform yoga at home as per the appeal of the central government and share photos and videos via Whatsapp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-goa-bjp-to-hold-virtual-rally-on-june-20/articleshow/76434069.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Two parking lots to be shut in Lucknow's Aminabad||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) will shut two parking lots for two-wheelers in Aminabad to allow more space for over 850 vendors to follow social distancing in one of the busiest markets of the city. The two parking lots were able to accommodate around 50 two-wheelers each The decision was taken after Lucknow police wrote to LMC requesting it to decongest the market so that social distancing can be followed as a precautionary measure for keeping Covid-19 at bay. The two parking lots to be closed are located in front of Jhande Wala Park and near Hanuman Temple, said officials. The decision did not go down very well with shopkeepers, who said the move will create a shortage of parking space. “Customers will then have to park their vehicles on the roadside leading to congestion and making it difficult to follow social distancing,” said a shopkeeper. LMC nodal officer Ashosk Singh said “We are looking for alternate parking space in the market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-parking-lots-to-be-shut-in-aminabad/articleshow/76434372.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 lockdown effect: Dudhwa Tiger Reserve records 45% dip in revenue from tourism||Bareilly: After the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) was closed for tourists following the Covid-19 lockdown, it incurred a revenue loss of 45% in comparison to the last year. According to forest officials, Dudhwa earned nearly Rs 64 lakh in 2019, which fell to around Rs 35 lakh this year.During the tourist season, November 15 to June 15, DTR attracts a large number of people from across India and abroad. In 2019, nearly 49,000 tourists, including 400 foreigners, visited the reserve, which decreased to around 27,000, including 300 foreigners, in 2020. DTR was closed for tourists on March 18, but the tourist season ended on Monday. The tiger reserve will now reopen on November 15. Field director, DTR, Sanjay Pathak, told TOI, “Of the seven months of tourism season, the reserve remained closed for three months, following the Covid-19 lockdown. Besides, Dudhwa was briefly closed for tourists five times in the winter due to incessant rains.”Apart from nearly 100 tigers, elephants, rhinos, five types of deer, DTR also boasts of 450 bird species, including domestic and migratory, a large number of herbivores, rich flora and fauna, grassland and wetlands. According to officials, the reserve gets flooded and roads and corridors become inaccessible during monsoon, and hence, DTR is closed for tourists on June 15 every year ahead of the onset of monsoon. After the closure of the tourism season, the forest staff started “operation monsoon” and intensified patrolling. As the forest gets inundated during monsoon, the staff face difficulty in patrolling, and hence, animals and trees become vulnerable of poaching and felling.DTR deputy director Manoj Sonkar said, “We have intensified monsoon patrolling and our focus is on timber mafia. The patrolling has also been intensified in the border area adjoining Nepal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-lockdown-effect-dudhwa-tiger-reserve-records-45-dip-in-revenue-from-tourism/articleshow/76431914.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||133 of 172 medical staff recover from Covid-19 Jaipur||Jaipur: Of the total 172 Covid-19 positive cases among medical staff in the district, 133 healthcare workers have recovered and been discharged so far, according to the data provided by the chief medical and health officer-1 (CMHO-1), Jaipur. In Ramganj area, there are only 15 active positive cases presently, according to the data. Of the 143 super spreaders, who were tested positive, 127 have recovered so far. The super spreaders include fruit/vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, labourers, drivers, cooks/maids, mechanics, medical shop workers, halwai, painters, meat seller, milk seller and others. There are three deaths among the super spreaders. Till June 17, positive cases in Jaipur were 2,674 and of these, 2150 have recovered. So far, 141 deaths due to Covid 19 have been recorded in Jaipur. “Even now, around 1,000-1,200 samples are collected each day. We collect samples from the hotspots, its neighbouring areas and from places where we suspect of getting positive cases. There has been a lot of improvement since the beginning,” said said CMHO-1 Dr Narottam Sharma. “The samples are collected from the sabzi mandis, medical stores, grocery shops with the support of nagar nigam, district administration and police. There are around 15 teams involved in collection of samples. The police personnel bring these vegetables vendors and shopkeepers for collection of samples from the high-risk areas. Samples of influenza-like illness (ILI) symptom patients, those who have come in contact of corona positive person and people in high-risk areas are being collected,” he added. Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday sent hygiene kits for the staff in the health centers of Jaipur. Around 10,000 masks, 2,000 gloves and 15,000 soaps have been sent for the staff in the health centers. Mishra handed over hygiene kits to CMHO (Jaipur I) Dr Narottam Sharma and Dr Naveen Sharma at Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/133-of-172-medical-staff-recover-from-covid-19-jaipur/articleshow/76434087.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||At PM meet, Nitish Kumar offers 1,000 acres for industries||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday offered to make available 1,000 acres of land in Bihar, if the Centre takes an initiative to help the state in setting up new industries in certain preferred sectors. While presenting the state’s viewpoint on the steps taken to prevent Covid-19 during the video-conferencing with PM Narendra Modi, the CM said Bihar has tremendous scope in setting up new industries in sectors such as food processing, garments making, textiles, leather goods, medical and electrical equipment. “Also, there is a need for taking some initiatives in Bihar under Make-in-India, and for that the Centre can think over giving certain relaxations in the GST and income tax,” the CM told the PM. Nitish further urged the Centre to give its approval for creation of an additional 6 (six) crore man-days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to provide employment opportunities to the migrant workers who have returned to Bihar after the lockdown and now want to stay and work in their home state. He also urged the PM to increase the upper limit of employment guarantee to 200 days in a year from the existing 100 days per year under the MGNREGS. The CM said a survey conducted in Bihar has revealed that 32.88 lakh people are homeless in the state. He urged the Centre to give its sanction for providing housing facilities to all these people under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana –Grameen on a priority basis. CM also urged the PM to provide additional funds to Bihar under the PMAY-G for constructing houses for these homeless people. At the beginning of the video-conferencing, all participants kept a silence of two minutes to pay tributes and respect to all those Jawans of the Indian Army who laid their lives in Galvan valley on the India-China border. “The country is united under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. We will unitedly give a reply to all such forces which will make any attempt to create problems with our country,” Nitish said in his address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-pm-meet-nitish-offers-1000-acres-for-industries/articleshow/76433054.cms||Madan Kumar
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest over tubewell connections||Hisar: Members of All-India Kisan Sabha staged a dharna outside the office of the general manager of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) in Hisar on Wednesday, demanding release of connections who have deposited money for tubewell connections without any conditional and waiver of electricity bills of all farmers and labourers. Phool Singh Sheokand, Haryana unit chief of the kisan sabha, presided over the agitation. Dayanand Poonia, secretary of the sabha’s state unit, led the protest. Former MLA Harpal Singh, who is the state general secretary of kisan sabha, said farmers had deposited money to the electricity corporation for tubewell connection about one-and-a-half years ago, but due to the wrong policies of the government, the farmers did not get the connection. The kisan sabha demanded connection for 49,000 farmers. The department assured the leaders of kisan sabha of a meeting with the chief general manager of the electricity corporation within 10 days. The sabha said if a connection is not given to all farmers in a month, then they will start an agitation again. The officials said faulty transformers will be replaced in 12 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protest-over-tubewell-connections/articleshow/76434078.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Partners kill budding Bhojpuri music composer over money||NEW DELHI: A budding Bhojpuri music composer was murdered for refusing to pay and upload the songs performed by his two partners, an upcoming singer and a YouTuber. The victim, Mukesh Chaudhary (24), had partnered with the accused, Santosh Kumar (26) and Vicky C (24), to run a Bhojpuri YouTube song channel. Chaudhary’s body was found wrapped in a blanket in a room in Mohan Garden. Kumar and Vicky were later caught from Bihar. They claimed that Chaudhary had changed the username and password of the YouTube channel to gain full access. He then refused to upload their performances or share the revenue earned from running the channel. They got into an argument with him over this and strangled him with a wire. DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said, “Kumar also composes Bhojpuri songs. The YouTube channel, Aryan Entertainment Media, has over two lakh subscribers. Kumar claimed that he had composed around 1,000 songs vocalised by more than 200 singers. Vicky had recorded 50 songs and even conducted stage shows.” On June 13, police got a call about a foul smell emanating from the ground floor of a flat in Nawada housing complex. The flat was locked from outside and no one had seen the occupants. When cops broke open the door, they found the body of a man with his hands and legs tied with a piece of cloth and a white cable around the neck. The body had been wrapped in two layers of a blanket and pushed under the table. The house had been ransacked and musical instruments and other articles were found stolen. Chaudhary also operated his studio from the flat. The first clue was found from CCTV footage in which the two suspects were seen running out of the house and loading their belongings in an autorickshaw. When police traced Chaudhary’s mobile phone, the last location was found to be Chhapra in Bihar. “A police team was sent to Bihar. While chasing the accused, a constable sustained a fracture in his left leg. Chaudhary’s robbed articles, including sound system, computer monitor and CPU, digital keyboard, sound card, composing machine, tripod and sound mixer, were recovered,” said Alphonse. The accused told police that they came to Delhi as their business was not flourishing in Bihar. They then started a joint venture with Chaudhary. Kumar got upset when Chaudhary didn’t pay him anything. He added that he had shared the password and username of his YouTube channel with Chaudhary, who deleted his uploaded songs and then blocked access to it. Vicky also recorded a song with Chaudhary, which was uploaded on the channel but he didn’t get paid for it. Chaudhary also refused to upload another song sung by Vicky. Kumar and Vicky then killed him on the night of June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/partners-kill-budding-bhojpuri-music-composer-over-money/articleshow/76434070.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Chorus grows in Bhopal to boycott Chinese goods||BHOPAL: The pent-up anger against China for the spread of Covid-19 pandemic became palpable in local markets in the city amidst building tension between the two countries. After news broke of Chinese aggression on the Ladakh border and visuals of the bloody skirmish at Galwan Valley was played on the TV and splashed over newspapers, chorus for boycott of China made goods have gone up. Now, traders and consumers both have started talking about limiting use of Chinese goods. “We have been opposing the sale of Chinese goods in India for a long time. How can a country allow another country which is not friendly towards it to dominate its market? Asking the consumer not to buy and the shopkeeper not to keep Chinese products is not the answer. They produce cheap goods. You can see their domination in mobile, electronics, electrical and even the puja industry. It can only be stopped when the government gets tough and bans import from China rather than making excuses,” said general secretary, MP Chapter, Akhil Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal Anupam Agrawal. While Agrawal says traders can't help but sell Chinese products despite not liking it, there are consumers like Piyush Sharma, a long-time votary of “Swadeshi” goods, who are sad that they don’t have an alternative. “What do I do? When I went to buy N-95 mask for my younger brother and a thermal screening gun for my office, both the things were made in China. I had no choice but to buy them.” President of Bhopal Drug Association, Lalit Jain, while stating that the coronavirus pandemic has opened new vistas for a nation, said, “Earlier, very few industries made masks and sanitisers in India, but now a lot of them have ventured into their production. “We have replaced half the ingredients, which used to be imported, but it will take a push from the government to end reliance on China,” he said. With Chinese brands making a big impact on mobile market in India of late, exclusive showrooms of some of those brands have sprung up in every major market place. The salesperson at the counter of Prakash Music, one of the busiest mobile showrooms in New Market, said, “Most of the brands in Rs 10,000 to Rs 15000 segment, which sells the maximum, are now Chinese. There is only one Indian brand Micromax, which has some presence in the mobile market.” A professor of sociology at a city college, when asked about possibility of boycott of Chinese goods in India, said on the condition of anonymity, “It is difficult to imagine any such thing happening unless there is initiative from the government. How can you imagine people not buying a Chinese mobile when it's sponsoring the Indian cricket team.” At MP Nagar’s Jyoti Complex, one of the busiest electronics and cellphone market, traders said there in no boycott of Chinese products, but added, people are talking about it. “It is too early to reach any conclusion. Moreover customers also do not go for non-Chinese products, ” says Ashish, a cellphone and accessory shop owner. Some, however, said that there have been a few isolated incidents wherein customers have insisted that they should not be given Chinese items. Shopkeeper Jitendra Sharma, said, “There is no such thing in this market as of now. Do not know how things will turn up later.” A shopkeeper, who wished not to be named, said, “I have already started selling made-in-India products since long back. Now, majority of the items in my shop are made in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chorus-grows-in-city-to-boycott-chinese-goods/articleshow/76433047.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Trichy||Thirumayam panchayat declares 2-day lockdown after cop tests positive||TRICHY: Thirumayam panchayat in Pudukottai district has announced a two-day lockdown from Wednesday in the panchayat limits after a 34-year-old woman constable from Chennai testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. She came to Papavayal village to attend her father’s funeral on Sunday. The woman constable started from Chennai on Saturday after giving her swab for testing. After the funeral, health officials in Chennai informed her that she was positive. She immediately rushed to Ranees Government Hospital in Pudukottai for treatment. The village has been declared a containment zone. As children and elders took part in the funeral, Thirumayam panchayat president M Sikandar spoke to traders and declared a two-day lockdown of shops from Wednesday. Health officials said that 33 close contacts of the constable will be tested on Thursday. Containment activities have been initiated at full force in the village. Sikandar said the lockdown became necessary as some of the people who attended the funeral were in close contact with each other. It is impossible to maintain distance at a funeral. Thirumayam panchayat has has a population of 10,000 in 12 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panchayat-declares-2-day-lockdown-after-cop-tests-positive/articleshow/76434741.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||For mental health patients, lockdown has meant reversal of gains||Bareilly: As the country grapples with the pandemic’s psychological fallout, there’s one vulnerable group that lack of access to treatment and isolation have hit particularly hard — mental health patients. As out-patient department (OPD) services shut down in hospitals in UP, those with mental health issues were left in the lurch. While “emergency” cases of various ailments were being treated, a mental health issue is hardly categorised as one. For many living with mental illnesses, this has meant a reversal of the gains made. On Wednesday, as the government mental hospital in Bareilly opened its OPD services, more than half of 160 patients that turned up at the facility reported worse mental health compared to their condition pre-lockdown. “Nearly 50% of the patients we had on day one were on the verge of a relapse. Many could not avail of free medicines as OPD was shut since March,” said Dr C P Mall, senior consultant (psychiatrist) at the hospital. “The isolation and home confinement has only worsened their condition,” he said. These included patients suffering from conditions like schizophrenia, mania and depression. Many reported symptoms like sleep disorder, aggression and anxiety which had aggravated without treatment. “Treatment has resumed and their condition should become stable soon,” said Dr Mall. The hospital provides free medicines and regular check-ups. During the lockdown, several patients from underprivileged families were not able to afford those medicines. For instance, the condition of Nazia Hasnain’s brother has worsened in the past two months. “He doesn’t sleep and has become very aggressive. He picks up fights with people. We cannot afford to buy expensive medicines from stores so he has been without treatment for some time. Now that the OPD is opened, we are hoping his condition will become better,” said Hasnain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/for-mental-health-patients-lockdown-has-meant-reversal-of-gains/articleshow/76431904.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Dismissed PTIs gherao Hry education minister||Kaithal: Dismissed physical training instructors (PTIs) gheraoed Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Wednesday in Kaithal to seek their reinstatement. The minister had gone there to participate in a ritual at Maharshi Balmiki Sanskrit University, where a delegation of PTIs met him. The PTIs failed to get any assurance from the minister, following which they got upset. They tried to stop him from leaving the venue by lying before his car after which the police intervened. Mild force was used to disperse them in which several teachers sustained minor injuries. During the protest some of the females teacher fainted. Talking to mediapersons, the minister said, “The state government didn’t remove them from their job but Supreme Court had ordered to terminate the services of 1,983 PTIs. The government can’t intervene in the court’s decision and we have no role in this.” Kamla Rani, a sacked teacher from Kurukshetra district, said, “The education minister ran away without holding any talks with us. Police restored to lathi-charge when the teacher tried to meet him and he escaped from the back door. But the teachers will not go back on their demand.” Former Congress state president Ashok Tanwar condemned the incident and sought relief for them. He said these teachers had served the Haryana education department for 10 years and should not have been sacked. INLD senior leader Abhay Chautala said the state government should take necessary steps to sort out their issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dismissed-ptis-gherao-hry-education-minister/articleshow/76434085.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Akalis also at fault in stifling federal system’||Chandigarh: Slamming Akalis for supporting “anti-Punjab, anti-farmers and anti-Sikhs” decisions of the BJP at the Centre, Congress cabinet ministers said Akalis were equally responsible in throttling the federal structure by the BJP. In a joint statement, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria and Balbir Singh Sidhu said the recent three ordinances issued by the Centre were completely against the farmers, which would badly hit the agrarian state of Punjab. They said by supporting these ordinances, Sukhbir Singh Badal had proved that they pawned their ideology before the BJP for saving the chair of Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the cabinet of the Modi government. The ministers said being the president of Akali Dal, how was Sukhbir supporting ordinances against the farmers of Punjab since the party and Badal family always scored their political goals demanding more rights to the states while pretending to be sympathisers of farmers. They alleged that with the induction of Harsimrat in the Union cabinet since the last six years, the Akali Dal had surrendered itself before the BJP. They said it was not the first instance when Akalis supported BJP’s anti-Punjab decision as they had voted in favour of BJP at the time the Union government brought the “anti-minorities” CAA besides imposing GST on langar at religious places including Sri Darbar Sahib, Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akalis-also-at-fault-in-stifling-federal-system/articleshow/76434073.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Goa University begins issuing marksheets||PANAJI: Over the last couple of weeks, Goa University (GU) has already announced that it has cancelled lower semester examinations for most of the graduate and postgraduate programmes offered at GU and affiliated colleges. GU has said that only final year examinations will be held for most exams starting from August 3 in view of the pandemic. Accordingly, GU will begin issuing the marksheets. “A nominal fee of Rs 100 shall be charged to each student for the purpose of registration and issue of marksheet for the semester concerned. However, all students will be required to register in order to receive the marksheet,” officiating registrar M Shreedhara has stated in a circular. “The exams for the lower semesters have been cancelled in various programmes of study in GU, and results will be declared based on the marks scored by them in the intra semester assessment (ISA)/internal assessment and practical examination and viva, wherever applicable,” the circular states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-begins-issuing-marksheets/articleshow/76434083.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||India will give befitting reply to provocation, warns Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday promised a befitting reply to the killing of Indian soldiers by Chinese troops in Ladakh. In a sharp response which can intensify the border confrontation, the PM said, “I want to assure the nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain. India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have an iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But when provoked, India will give a befitting reply.” The remark, at the beginning of Modi’s interaction with chief ministers on the fight against coronavirus, came against the backdrop of criticism of the Centre’s response to the Chinese aggression, and marked the country going a step higher on the escalatory ladder on the LAC. The intent to avenge the loss of lives — the single biggest toll since a clash between the two sides in 1967 — came through clearly as the PM hailed the way the officers and jawans fought when they were ambushed by a numerically superior PLA contingent on Monday. “The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers killed (their attackers) before they were martyred,” Modi said. He also seemed to refer to China’s apparent edge in military capabilities and stronger muscle and said the asymmetry would be no deterrent. “Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect,” the PM said at the meeting with CMs where a two-minute silence was observed in honour of those who lost their lives. He called them “brave sons of Mother India”. The day also saw foreign minister S Jaishankar bluntly telling his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the attack on Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley was “premeditated and planned” and would seriously impact bilateral ties, as well as the beginning of boycott of Chinese goods and technology, if China did not take corrective measures. Blaming China for the outbreak of hostilities, Modi said while India always stood for peace and relied on talks for the resolution of differences, it could not run away from confrontation when it was forced on it. “We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. Sacrifice and resilience are part of our national character, but at the same time bravery and valour are also equally a part of it,” the PM said. The remark was strikingly similar to the promise of retaliation Modi made in the wake of terror attacks, organised from within Pakistan, on Indian security forces at Uri and Pulwama. In both cases, the pledges of retaliation were made good by launching strikes by special forces and the IAF on targets inside Pakistan. While China is a far stronger adversary, sources in the government described the PM’s statement as reflecting the resolve that India would not refrain from using force to resist China’s expansionist designs along the LAC. “From now on, anything is possible,” a senior government source said, indicating a major shift from the playbook India used in the standoff at Doklam in 2017 where it resisted Chinese land grab but decided not to publicise the resistance. The PM made it clear the PLA’s assault in Galwan Valley had breached India’s pain threshold, forcing it to exercise options it had not favoured so far. “India is culturally a peace-loving country. Our history has been that of a peace-loving country. In every era, we have wished for peace and welfare of the entire world and humanity. We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare. Whenever there have been differences of opinion, we have always tried to ensure that those differences never turned into a dispute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-will-give-befitting-reply-to-provocation-warns-modi/articleshow/76435344.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||A stitch in time will save Ludhiana’s sewing machine makers||Ludhiana: One of the big contributors to Ludhiana’s growth story, the sewing machine industry, is reduced to 40% of its capacity. According to the businessmen, this is because the demand and supply chain has been disrupted, mostly due to late opening of the biggest consumer markets in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Madhya Pradesh (MP), Bihar and other states. The Ludhiana cluster is easily India’s largest producer of sewing machines and parts. Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “Sewing machine industry is facing very tough time and this is for the first time in the industry’s history that it is facing such a situation. The entire chain of the sewing machine manufacturing and supply has been disrupted as in the initial process hundreds of sewing machine parts are manufactured in different factories. After this the parts are purchased by the sewing machine assembling units and small workshops where the parts are combined and sewing machines are finally made. Once the complete process is over then these machines are supplied to the local market Lakkar Bazar, which is the biggest wholesale market of sewing machines in India. From here the machines are then supplied to the markets in Delhi, UP, Bihar, MP, Jharkhand, which have the biggest base of end consumers of sewing machines.” According to Sokhi, there are hardly any orders now. “Due to coronavirus lockdown, the factories were closed for two months and now we have opened our units, arranged raw material and even arranged the labour but there are hardly any orders. Therefore, we are only operating at 30-40% of our production. The dealers in Ludhiana, who market sewing machines said they do not have any demand from their customers based in other cities due to late opening of markets there. At some places, sewing machine dealers have still not opened their shops.” Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association, (LSMIA), said, “It’s a complicated situation for us: earlier, the production totally remained suspended for over two months and now when we are heading towards normal operations there is no demand. Therefore, the sewing machines and parts manufacturers are only producing 40% of their total installed capacity and that too so that we keep giving work to our labourers, who have joined the factories after so many days.” According to Jatinder Nagpal, finance secretary of LSMIA, “We have been desperately trying to get some orders from our dealers based in cities like Kanpur and Lucknow, but all attempts have turned futile as they claim that there is no demand of sewing machines as of now and the little orders they get they already have enough unsold stock dating back to pre-lockdown time. It seems that it will take at least three to four months for our industry to achieve 50-60% of our production capacity.” Broke this chain Sewing machine parts are manufactured by small and medium scale factories. These parts are then purchased by assemblers or parts wholesalers and then complete sewing machine is made by assembling these parts together. Once complete, the sewing machine is supplied through the wholesalers based in Lakkar Bazar in Ludhiana to sewing machine dealers and shops located in other states of India, majorly Delhi, UP, Bihar, MP and Jharkhand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-stitch-in-time-will-save-ludhianas-sewing-machine-makers/articleshow/76434089.cms||Mohit Behl
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Fine of Rs 1,000 for spitting, Rs 100 for not wearing mask||BHOPAL: In fight against Covid, the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) is imposing fines on those found spitting, without face masks or not following social distancing normals. On an average, fine of Rs30,000 to Rs70,000 are being collected by the civic body daily. “All 19 zone area health officers have been instructed to impose fines on anyone found spitting, not maintaining social distance or without face mask,” said Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) public relations officer, Prem Shankar Shukla. Fine for spitting in public is Rs1,000. Not wearing a face mask can lead to a penalisation of Rs100. Other sanitisation and hygiene, norms under Swach Bharat mission remain the same. BMC fines for spitting and not wearing masks, came in the background, wherein government directed necessary preventive measures may betaken under the appropriate law to prohibit the use and spitting of chewing smokeless tobacco products in public. As per the appeal “Chewing Smokeless Tobacco products, Paan masala and areca nut (supari) increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the Covid-19 virus”. In view of the increasing danger of Covid-19 pandemic, appeals the general public to refrain from consuming the smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places during the Covid pandemic have also been stated. State government have necessary authority under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and also under various provisions of Indian Penal Code 1860 and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to deal with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fine-of-rs-1000-for-spitting-rs-100-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76433059.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC restrains use of social media by staff||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court has asked judicial officers and court staff to use social media ‘responsibly’ and refrain from commenting against policies of the government or the high court administration on any platform. The standing order issued by the registrar general said, it has been observed that the judicial officers and the court staff are accessing social media during office hours, which is not only affecting the working, but also diminishing the dignity and reputation of the entire system. The order said, “It has been observed that the judicial officers and the court staff are forwarding, liking, disliking and commenting upon the posts which are not only scandalous and derogatory, but sensational also… The policies of the government and the high court administration are also being commented upon.” The order said the official communications are also being forwarded in an unauthorized way on social media platforms which amounts to breach of official confidentiality. The order warned that this practice tantamount to misconduct under the provisions of the Rajasthan Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1971 and attracts disciplinary action. The registrar general asked the judicial officers and the court staff of the high court and the subordinate courts /tribunals/special courts, to make use of the internet and social media responsibly and also to desist from forwarding, liking, disliking and commenting upon any posts which are against the policies of the government and high court administration. No official communication should be forwarded on social media by the judicial officers and the staff except when it is required by them as part of bonafide discharge of their official duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-issues-order-on-social-media-use-by-its-staff/articleshow/76434103.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||2 judges among 15 quarantined after 2 accused test +ve||Ludhiana: Two judges, an additional public prosecutor, an advocate, and 11 other judicial staff members were quarantined after two accused, who were produced in the court of one of the judges, tested positive. The two judges who have been sent on quarantine are a couple whereas four judicial staff members include two couples. An order by district and sessions judge suggested that a judge had intimated on Tuesday that two accused Paramjit Singh Prince and Charanjit Singh Channa, who had been produced in her court on Monday have been tested positive for Covid-19. As per the intimation, those who were present in the court included a reader, criminal Ahlmad, civil Ahlmad, usherer, judgment writer, 2 naib courts, gunman, duty steno, advocate and additional public prosecutor. The order suggested that as a precautionary measure, the judge and the staff members/police officials in her court are to go for home quarantine for 14 days. It added that spouse of the judge, spouse of the reader, husband of the judgement writer should also go for home quarantine for 14 days. Around April 9, a judicial magistrate was advised to go for self quarantine after a an alleged thief produced in her court had tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-judges-among-15-quarantined-after-2-accused-test-ve/articleshow/76434098.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Waive off rental fee, ask Night Food Street kiosk owners||CHANDIGARH: Kiosks’ runners of the Night Food Street of the city have written to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) to waive-off their monthly rental fee till the shops are opened again. They said their business has been shut since last week of March, when the lockdown was imposed in the city. The said issue is a policy matter and directly related to the revenue of the civic body authority, the MC is yet to take a decision in this regard. In a detailed representation to the MC, the kiosks’ runners have requested them that since their business have been closed since the last week of March, thus they are unable to pay the monthly rent to the authority. They said there is no means of earning and thus they are unable to pay the rent. When asked, a senior official of the MC, said, “We are examining the entire matter, but since the matter is directly related to the revenue generation of the civic body authority, any decision in this regard will be taken by the higher authority. Currently, no decision has been taken so far and since there are some other cases too of same nature, things will be decided by keeping all aspects in mind.” There are a total of four kiosks at the city’s Night Food Street situated in Sector 14 opposite the PGI. Out of these four kiosks, three were given to successful bidders after holding the bidding process a few months back. Since, the case of one kiosk is under litigation and pending in the court, the same was not auctioned and has been closed since then. The monthly rent of each kiosk of the food street is over Rs one lakh. Recently, the general house of the civic body authority had waived-off monthly fee for April and May of vendors of all categories, including essential vendors, non-essential vendors and mobile vendors. Though, BJP’s municipal councillor Anil Dubey had demanded to waive-off the vendors’ fee till December, but no decision was taken in this regard during the house meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/waive-off-rental-fee-night-food-street-kiosk-owners/articleshow/76434095.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||FGG alleges political pressure in Rs 300 crore fake challan scam, only Rs 50 crore recovered||HYDERABAD: Telangana Commercial Taxes Department has stopped the recovery process in the Rs 300 crore fake challan scam and so far government could recover only Rs 50 crore. Forum for Good Governance (FGG) alleged that the recovery of the money from the traders involved in the scam was stopped due to suspicious reasons. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy, in a letter written to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, alleged that the government is sitting on the Crime Investigation Department probe too. The case that was registered with Bodhan police station in 2017 was transferred to Telangana Crime Investigation Department. “Commercial Taxes Department had started the recovery of loss from traders. Surprisingly after collecting Rs 50 crore, all of a sudden, the move to recover the amount was stopped. The CID probe has been slowed down,” said Padmanabha Reddy. He added, “About 26 officials of Commercial Taxes Department were suspended three years ago. Some of the tainted officials have retired without finalisation of the case.” Reddy alleged, “How did the fake challan case go undetected for nine years? No immediate action was taken after the scam was unearthed. With all required papers and evidence, CID has done little in the case. Forum for Good Governance has a reason to believe that political pressure is preventing the finalisation of the case.” FGG asked governor to give instructions to chief secretary to recover the entire amount from the traders and also demanded a charge sheet be filed in the case against the accused traders and officials of Commercial Taxes Department. ‘Proud to be guv of Santosh’s state’Governor Tamilisai Sounderrajan on Thursday said that she is proud to be governor of Telangana , the native land of Colonel Santhosh Babu who lost his life for the sake of country. Paying tributes to him at the airport to his mortal remains she said that his sacrifice will be remembered by the nation , She said that her deep sympathies are with his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fgg-alleges-political-pressure-in-rs-300cr-fake-challan-scam-only-rs-50cr-recovered/articleshow/76434107.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 18, 2020||Goa||Over 100 students graduate from NIT Goa amid pandemic||PANAJI: The current pandemic has meant that classrooms and campuses have remained out of bounds for students, and for most final year students their dream of graduating has been deferred. But the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has been an exception. During the lockdown, 72 BTech and 36 MTech students have not only answered the final year exams at NIT Goa, but have also received provisional certificates online. This batch of 2019-20 students are now eligible to begin their career or pursue higher education. NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said the institute ensured that the graduation process was not hindered by the current circumstances. To make this possible, NIT Goa, with approval of its senate, devised a one-time crisis management solution to evaluate students, which will be applicable only to this 2019-20 batch. As per the formula, the students were evaluated giving 20% weightage to the semester end examination, which was held online. “Around 95% of our students have already found placement or have been selected for higher education opportunities, the offers that continue to stand. We did not want their progress to be put on hold due to the current circumstances. At the same time, we did not want to cancel the semester end exam or dilute the standard of education,” Mugeraya said. The students were evaluated giving 30% weightage to internal assessments of the students, 40% weightage to the mid-semester performance, 10% weightage to their cumulative grade point average and 20% for the semester end evaluation conducted online. “During the lockdown, we continued our teaching-learning process online. The classes and the practical sessions were held regularly online. The exams also took place despite the geographical barrier and the travel ban. The evaluation criterion was implemented after the approval of the senate and higher bodies,” Mugeraya said.  He said that the institute will similarly conduct examinations for lower semesters on virtual platforms. “We wanted to prove that education can continue if proper measures and efforts are taken. If all goes well, we plan to begin the new academic year from August 2020, as per the central government guidelines,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-100-students-graduate-from-nit-goa-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76434091.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||Clerics write to PM, demand stern action against news anchor for ‘insulting’ Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti||Pilibhit: An Islamic scholar and the divisional president of All India Ulema Mashaikh Board, Mufti Sajid Hassani Qadari, has demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi take stringent action against the anchor of a Hindi news channel for allegedly making derogatory remarks about Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti, known in the Islamic world as Khwaja Gharib Nawaz, during a television debate on June 15. Qadari sent a letter to the PM on Wednesday, expressing displeasure of clerics over the comments by the news anchor. In his letter, Qadari wrote, “Dargah-e Gharib Nawaz is a sacred place that is adored by millions of people from across the world. As it had been spreading the message of harmony and brotherhood, the act of making loathsome comments about Hazrat Chishti was therefore a grim offence.” On behalf of all clerics of his institution, he urged the PM to ensure that the erring news anchor and concerned news channel, which was also at default for telecasting such objectionable comments, were brought under the ambit of stern punitive action for the sake of peace and harmony in the country. Meanwhile, Qari Amanat Rasool Qadari Razvi Chishti, the Khalifa-e Mufti-e Azam Hind, along with half-a-dozen clerics, presented the SHO of Pilibhit Sadar kotwali a written complaint against the erring news anchor, to lodge an FIR against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/clerics-write-to-pm-demand-stern-action-against-news-anchor-for-insulting-khwaja-moinuddin-chishti/articleshow/76431920.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||‘Unlike BJP, GFP driven by individual’||Panaji: If Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) Vijai Sardesai says that he should have withdrawn his support to the Goa government post the death of former CM Manohar Parrikar, then Sardesai has not understood BJP as a party at all. It is organisation-based party and not an individual-based party like GFP, BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade said on Wednesday. He said that Sardesai should not worry about whether or not BJP will be elected in Goa again, and that he should worry only about his own party. “Vijai Sardesai is saying that he made a mistake by not withdrawing his support, etc. It is wrong to say such things because he was a minister in the same government. BJP is not working based on any individual. Manohar Parrikar was the biggest leader of BJP Goa and had hugely contributed to the party’s growth in Goa. He shaped many workers under his leadership. But BJP is not an independent party unlike GFP. You can call GFP an individual-based party. But BJP is not an individual-based party,” said Tanavade. He said that it is understood that as opposition, GFP and independent Rohan Khaunte will criticise the government, but the same should not be done by getting personal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlike-bjp-gfp-driven-by-individual/articleshow/76434106.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Three killed in two road accidents||Varanasi: At least three persons including a middle-aged couple lost their lives in two separate road accidents in Mirzapur district on Tuesday. Reports stated that Hari Shankar (53) of Tikrikala village in Vindhyachal area, along with his wife Usha Devi (51), was headed to somewhere on his motorcycle. When they were passing through Ghosipur area under Jigna police station, a speeding SUV dashed their vehicles. Both of them suffered grave injuries. Jigna cops rushed them to a hospital in Gaipura area where both of them died during treatment. Police said that the driver was arrested and his vehicle seized. The bodies were sent for postmortem. In another accident, three men—Kamlesh (22) of Gurgi village, Chhotelal Kole (23) and Vivek Kole (24) of Sagra village—on a motorcycle were passing through Thotha area when they lost control over the vehicle while trying to overtake a tractor and came under its wheels. Police rushed them to a hospital where doctors declared Kamlesh brought dead, while Chhotelal and Vivek were admitted and are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-killed-in-two-road-accidents/articleshow/76412353.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||PWD team from Chandigarh inspects ‘cracked’ Khanna-Samrala ROB||LUDHIANA: A day after base of a busy railway over bridge (ROB) on Khanna Samrala road developed a crack, a team of officials from public works department (PWD) from Chandigarh visited the site to access the damage to the bridge. Meanwhile, the traffic on the ever busy ROB had to stopped on Wednesday after it was declared out of bound for vehicles on Tuesday evening. On Tuesday evening, a cemented part of the base of the ROB on Khanna Samrala road had fallen down, triggering a panic. The bridge is on the road that carries traffic from Khanna to Samrala, Nawanshahar, Jalandhar and even Pathankot. After the crack in the base of ROB, a team of officers, including sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Khanna Sandeep Singh and deputy superintendent of police Khanna Rajan Parminder Singh, visited the spot. Later, the police diverted the traffic to another road and barricaded the bridge. Local sources said the cemented portion luckily did not fall on any person or vehicle below. The SDM Khanna said after the incident, a team of PWD officers from Chandigarh led by superintendent engineer visited the spot on Wednesday. He added that the team will assess the damage in two days after which they will decide what type of vehicles can safely run on it. SDM indicated that it may take 15 days to get the bridge repaired. Meanwhile, local sources said after the incident there was chaos on the road for more than an hour. They added that the traffic problems will be there due to the closure of the bridge as the ROB was used by those going from Khanna to Samrala and other areas of the state. They further said the construction of ROB through PWD department was started in 2001 and it was completed after four years. They added that the traffic was allowed on the bridge in 2005 and it was one of the first ROBs in Khanna area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pwd-team-from-chd-inspects-cracked-khanna-samrala-rob/articleshow/76434111.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, home isolation applicable in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Punjab government has allowed home isolation for positive patients, who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. According to the district magistrate’s order, now it has been allowed in Ludhiana district as well. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “An officer of the rank of executive magistrate will verify whether the residence of the patient seeking home isolation is suitable for home isolation or not. For this purpose 26 officers are appointed as special executive magistrate who are working agriculture development officers in seven sub divisions to be supervised by designated sub-divisional magistrates.” Dr Ramesh Bhagat, district epidemiologist will coordinate with special executive magistrates and seek verification report wherever any application for home isolation is received. The state government had issued the guidelines for home isolation — patients should have separate room along with individual toilet facility. The person should stay in his or her room only. The utensils used by him or her should be cleaned by soap. Even the cloths and all equipment utilised by the positive resident eed to be cleaned properly. Civil surgeon, Dr Ramesh Bagga said, “Residents having mild symptoms can take treatment at home, but those showing serious symptoms like high fever should need to immediately contact a medical officer.” "The caretaker should need to ensure that the positive patient has not contracted any serious symptoms related to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The used mask should be destroyed properly and the person should need to give affidavit for it "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-home-isolation-applicable-in-ludh/articleshow/76434104.cms||Mehak Jain
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kite string almost kills scooterist in freak accident||CHANDIGARH: A 50-year-old air conditioner (AC) mechanic was injured in a freak accident when a glass-coated ‘manjha’ or kite string got entangled around his neck while he was riding a scooter at the housing board light point on Monday evening. Ajay Aggarwal, a resident of Manimajra, was returning from Panchkula after repairing an AC at the house of a client. As Ajay reached near the housing board light point, the string got wrapped around his neck. When he rode the scooter for a few metres, his neck started bleeding and he fell unconscious. Passersby gathered at the spot and informed the police. A PCR van took Aggarwal to civil hospital, Manimajra. Doctors tried to stop the bleeding, giving him first aid, but later referred him to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police said his condition is stable but he is facing difficulty in speaking and moving his head. Aggarwal said he did not see any kite and only the thread coiled around his neck and cut his throat. Police registered a DDR and are investigating the matter. Every year, the city witnesses many injuries due to kite strings. As injuries are of minor nature, people generally avoid reporting the matter to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kite-string-almost-kills-scooterist-in-freak-accident/articleshow/76434099.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 18, 2020||Trichy||Police advise people not to take bath in Cauvery||Trichy: As the outflow of water from the Mettur dam was increased to 18,000 cusecs, the Trichy range police on Wednesday issued a list of 43 dangerous locations in Trichy and Karur districts, where 61 people drowned in the Cauvery river in the last four years. Every year, release of water for samba cultivation in delta districts brings joy to farmers but the heavy water flow causes worry going by the number of instances of people drowning in the river. On June 12, 10,000 cusecs of water was released from the Mettur dam to Cauvery. The water reached Mukkombu barrage in Trichy on Monday. The outflow was increased to 18,000 cusecs subsequently. With the water level rising, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Trichy range, V Balakrishan reminded people about the number of drowning cases in several places in the river in previous years. Going by the data, 61 people lost their lives by drowning from 2017 to June 15, 2020. The deaths occurred when people took bath in the dangerous locations in the river. The numbers included 42 men, eight women and 11 children. Of the 43 places that were found to be dangerous to take bath, 34 are in Trichy district while nine are in Karur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-advise-people-not-to-take-bath-in-cauvery/articleshow/76434744.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Locked in homes, children give online summer camps a miss||LUCKNOW: Locked in their homes and attending one online classroom after another, schoolchildren were eagerly waiting for the summer camps to end the monotony triggered by corona pandemic. Since social distancing still remains in effect, schools came up with online summer camps. However, with the buzz of physical activities and real time action missing, these camps have failed to entice the children. Many have either quit these camps or preferred not to join them. According to the Uttar Pradesh Private School Association, there is a drop of more than 50% participation in summer camps this year as compared to the last year. Several children have quit the online camps run by the schools while many preferred not to join them. “For me, summer camp was all about sports activities — be it swimming, basketball or learning martial arts. Since none of these are possible in online camps, I decided not to join it,” said Achintya Bajpai, a class X student of Rani Laxmi Bai school. He said there is no fun in summer camp and it seems like learning a hobby via online videos. Sanchit Batra, a student of SKD Academy, said, “Online classes made us miss our classroom experience while online summer camp appears to be just another online session. Summer camp and Covid-19 don’t go well together hence we have to sacrifice on learning new hobbies during this vacation.” For Manjari Sinha, a dancer, summer camp was all about performing classical steps with friends group. But no such activity happened this year due to the pandemic. She had joined an online dance class but left it after a week. “Camping in schools and dance coachings during summer used to be my every year schedule in vacations. I joined an online Bharatnatyam class but got bored and hence quit.” President, UP Unaided School Association, Anil Agarwal said, “Over 100 schools ran online summer camps for students to keep them engaged and stress-free during Covid-19 but only a few students participated from every school. The response to summer camps has been poor with more than 50% students not opting for it since they miss the physical touch and are tired of online sessions during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/locked-in-homes-children-give-online-summer-camps-a-miss/articleshow/76434471.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 18, 2020||Jodhpur||37% Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan took place in June||JAIPUR: A whopping 37% of Covid-19 deaths in the state took place in June during Unlock 1.0 which allowed relaxation of movement of people. In the first 17 days of this month, 119 people have lost their lives to the virus in different parts of the state. Casualty count in May was 136. None of the four phases of lockdown had reported as many fatalities as in June. Highest number of deaths reported during lockdown was during its fourth phase which saw 63 people fall to the virus. Of 115 people, 51 died in Jaipur. Even the soaring mercury failed to make any adverse impact on the increasing number of cases and deaths. Till date, 142 people have succumbed to the virus in the city. The major cause of concern for health authorities was that during Lockdown 4.0, the mortality rate had come down to 1.7% but rose to 2.5% in the first 17 days of this month. The number of persons who tested positive in June has also increased significantly with 4,507 cases being reported at an average of 265 cases per day. The health department claimed that they had taken measures to prevent mortalities. “While containment measures are being implemented in the entire state, there are still clusters or zones within the state where the number of cases have seen some increase,” said a health department official. The department pointed out that in these clusters, saving lives was the most important job and scientific evidence available so far indicates that early diagnosis can help in averting deaths. It further stated that evidence also suggests that there is a specific group of people, either above 60 years and people with co-morbid conditions, who are at higher risk of developing complications and death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/37-covid-deaths-in-state-took-place-in-june/articleshow/76437112.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Udaipur||37% Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan took place in June||JAIPUR: A whopping 37% of Covid-19 deaths in the state took place in June during Unlock 1.0 which allowed relaxation of movement of people. In the first 17 days of this month, 119 people have lost their lives to the virus in different parts of the state. Casualty count in May was 136. None of the four phases of lockdown had reported as many fatalities as in June. Highest number of deaths reported during lockdown was during its fourth phase which saw 63 people fall to the virus. Of 115 people, 51 died in Jaipur. Even the soaring mercury failed to make any adverse impact on the increasing number of cases and deaths. Till date, 142 people have succumbed to the virus in the city. The major cause of concern for health authorities was that during Lockdown 4.0, the mortality rate had come down to 1.7% but rose to 2.5% in the first 17 days of this month. The number of persons who tested positive in June has also increased significantly with 4,507 cases being reported at an average of 265 cases per day. The health department claimed that they had taken measures to prevent mortalities. “While containment measures are being implemented in the entire state, there are still clusters or zones within the state where the number of cases have seen some increase,” said a health department official. The department pointed out that in these clusters, saving lives was the most important job and scientific evidence available so far indicates that early diagnosis can help in averting deaths. It further stated that evidence also suggests that there is a specific group of people, either above 60 years and people with co-morbid conditions, who are at higher risk of developing complications and death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/37-covid-deaths-in-state-took-place-in-june/articleshow/76437111.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||37% Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan took place in June||JAIPUR: A whopping 37% of Covid-19 deaths in the state took place in June during Unlock 1.0 which allowed relaxation of movement of people. In the first 17 days of this month, 119 people have lost their lives to the virus in different parts of the state. Casualty count in May was 136. None of the four phases of lockdown had reported as many fatalities as in June. Highest number of deaths reported during lockdown was during its fourth phase which saw 63 people fall to the virus. Of 115 people, 51 died in Jaipur. Even the soaring mercury failed to make any adverse impact on the increasing number of cases and deaths. Till date, 142 people have succumbed to the virus in the city. The major cause of concern for health authorities was that during Lockdown 4.0, the mortality rate had come down to 1.7% but rose to 2.5% in the first 17 days of this month. The number of persons who tested positive in June has also increased significantly with 4,507 cases being reported at an average of 265 cases per day. The health department claimed that they had taken measures to prevent mortalities. “While containment measures are being implemented in the entire state, there are still clusters or zones within the state where the number of cases have seen some increase,” said a health department official. The department pointed out that in these clusters, saving lives was the most important job and scientific evidence available so far indicates that early diagnosis can help in averting deaths. It further stated that evidence also suggests that there is a specific group of people, either above 60 years and people with co-morbid conditions, who are at higher risk of developing complications and death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/37-covid-deaths-in-state-took-place-in-june/articleshow/76437113.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||International call centre racket busted, 3 held||Vadodara: Three persons were arrested for running an international call centre racket where they lured American citizens into loans and and siphoning off money from their bank accounts. The detection of crime branch (DCB) officials said trio was operating from a residential colony in Manjalpur. They had got hold of phone numbers of American citizens. “The trio used to make phone calls to American citizens and offer them loans of different amounts. Once the victim was convinced, they used to ask them to buy online pay cards for paying advance instalments that was usually 10% to 15% of the loan amount promised,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The victims were then asked to buy bitcoins from a website and the money was then siphoned off by the accused, two of whom are graduates. Parshwa Mehta, a resident of Ahmedabad, planned the entire scam and started the call centre in the city. He then roped in Sumit Rajput and Kapil Goyal for making calls to the victims. Mehta and Goyal are both gradates while Rajput is SSC pass. Police are investigating how they managed to get phone numbers of the American citizens. Their bank accounts too will be investigated to ascertain the amount that they siphoned off from the victims’ accounts. Police seized three laptops, four mobile phones and some cash from the spot. Mehta was arrested by the police in Ahmedabad in a similar call centre racket in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/intl-call-centre-racket-busted-3-held/articleshow/76431020.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Afghan student kills self at GU hostel||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old Afghan student, a BBA student at city college, on Wednesday committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree on the premises of the overseas students’ hostel on the Gujarat University campus in Navrangpura. The preliminary investigation found that that he was in stress as he could not clear his ATKT (allow to keep term) statistics exam even after taking it multiple times. The deceased was identified as Fakir Jad Sekib, from Kabul, who had come to the city on a student visa three years ago. Inspector Harit Vyas of Gujarat University police said that Sekib left his room in Block A of the overseas students’ hostel in the wee hours of Wednesday and allegedly hanged himself with a scarf, of the type normally worn around the shoulders by Arabs. “It seems he had come out in wee hours, got a chair from nearby, stood up on it, tied the scarf to the Ashoka tree and around his neck, and hanged himself,” Vyas said. When students and security personnel came out in morning, they discovered the body and called the control room. A team of Gujarat university police reached the spot and began an inquiry, he added. His friends said he was very stressed as he could not clear his ATKT exams, said Vyas, adding that no suicide note was found. “Sekib was doing his BBA course from Som-Lalit College in Navrangpura. He lived in a flat in Paldi and moved to the Gujarat University foreign students’ hostel a month ago. He told his friends about the stress he was under,” he said. “We informed the concerned agencies and Afghan embassy so his family could be informed,” he said. The suicide took place near the security cabin so questions arise about why no guard saw him committing suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/afghan-student-kills-self-at-gu-hostel/articleshow/76433227.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy on alert after 6 cases surface in Big Bazaar street||(Cleard/Gopa)Trichy: At least six people residing in the vicinity of the packed Big Bazaar street, which has residential and commercial establishments, have contracted Covid-19 in the past two days. Since most of the buildings in the congested cross streets share a common wall, where social distancing is difficult to adhere to, there is some alarm in the Trichy Corporation.The six cases were reported in three wards covering ward 16, 17 and 18 falling under Srirangam zone. Four people of the same family in White Betal street were among those who tested positive. As the family had recently hosted a small gathering, people from other districts are expected to have attended the event causing the spread. After one of the family members displayed symptoms including loss of taste, test results revealed the person was infected, and subsequently his three primary contacts also tested positive. They were admitted to a private hospital in Trichy. Similarly, a 17-year-old boy from Nadu Gujili street also tested positive.In ward 17, a positive case was reported near Bande Gana street, thus taking the total number of positive cases in Big Bazaar street vicinity to 11 so far. “There are both shops and houses in the streets that have Covid-19 positive patients. Fancy stores in the vicinity have had people arriving from other states. So, people in the vicinity were told to stay indoors,” a Trichy Corporation official said. Not too far away from Big Bazaar street, Madurai Road and EB Road localities have reported cases in the past weeks. Meanwhile, commercial outlets in two complexes located on Madurai Road and Chinnakadai street were closed after the employees in the shops were found to have contacted a Covid-19 positive patient hailing from Thillai Nagar. The patient has visited the mobile shop in the commercial complex. “We have told shops in the confined streets to stay cautious. Disinfection is being done on the vicinity of Big bazaar street,” the official added.————————————————- Covid-19 cases surge in congested streets: Total Covid-19 positive cases in Big Bazaar street vicinity: 11 Covid-19 positive cases in the past few days: 6 Congested wards near Big Bazaar street (Srirangam zone): 1) Ward 16: White Betal street 2) Ward 17: Bande Gana street 3) Ward 18: Nadu Gujili street Closed and partially closed commercial establishments: 1) Madurai road 2) Chinnakadai street||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-on-alert-after-6-cases-surface-in-big-bazaar-street/articleshow/76434746.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||MC employees caught with their masks down||Ludhiana: Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra caught some of the employees of civic body without masks and social distancing on Wednesday while conducting suprise check at zone A office. The employees only after seeing the senior deputy mayor started wearing the masks. The senior deputy mayor has warned the employees and said if in future he caught anybody without masks there will be action against that employee. At around 12noon, Malhotra went to Suvidha centre, where employees were sitting without masks. He instructed the staff to wear the mask and then perform duty because they are dealing with public directly and should set an example for others to follow. After this, he went to the room where property tax collection staff sit. When he found employees there too without masks, he snapped at them. According to him, employees of the municipal corporation (MC) are corona warriors and has the responsibility to stop the coronavirus spread. But it is very sad that they should break rules too, added the senior deputy mayor. Malhotra claimed that already cases were increasing and if there will be violation of rules, then it would be a blunder and everybody will bear the brunt. He said now many people are coming to the MC office to deposit the taxes or getting some documents so there should be extra precaution for the employees as well as the visitors. He reiterated that in future if he came to know that employees were violating the norms, there will be action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-employees-caught-with-their-masks-down/articleshow/76434117.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Going to Noida via Kalindi Kunj? Keep a few hours in hand||NEW DELHI: If you are commuting to Noida from Delhi, especially during peak hours, add a few hours to your travel time. Checking at police pickets on the borders has been leading to traffic snarls, which sometimes stretch to hours, giving motorists a headache. The Kalindi Kunj border has seen nearly 70% spike in the traffic volume compared with the lockdown period. The picket set up by Noida police at the mouth of the Kalindi Kunj bridge leads to the road getting choked in the morning peak hours. Cops conduct a thorough check, including permits and other documents, leading to a massive queue of vehicles stretching till Shaheen Bagh. The situation is somewhat similar at DND Flyway and Chilla border. Noida police officers said the checks are being conducted on an order by the district magistrate. Vehicles without permit are not allowed to enter the sub-city. However, Noida police relaxes checking towards the afternoon. Commuters said no stringent checking of commuters trying to enter Delhi from Noida is conducted before 9am. Those found travelling without valid permits are asked to take a U-turn on the Kalindi Kunj bridge and return to Delhi using the wrong side of the carriageway. This also ends in snarls on the opposite carriageway that is supposed to be left free for vehicles returning to the capital. The situation is a little better on DND Flyway as there is more space for vehicles to manoeuvre. A handful of Delhi Traffic Police personnel manning the Kalindi Kunj crossing near the metro station helplessly try to streamline the huge volume of traffic that accumulates during weekdays. “I have to travel to Noida Sector 132 for work and the snarls have become a daily affair despite interstate travel being allowed everywhere else. I leave at least 90 minutes before my usual time to negotiate the jam,” said Sumeet Bhargav, a resident of Moti Bagh in south Delhi. The situation was so bad on Tuesday that medical assistance had to be provided to at least three drivers who fell ill waiting in the summer heat. “A woman driver nearly fainted due to the heat. We have also arranged for an ambulance and asked police to station a PCR vehicle nearby to prevent incidents of people falling ill due to a heat stroke,” said Vikram Singh, a resident of Madanpur Khadar aiding police in controlling the traffic. A traffic policeman said the problem begins when the four-lane road gets squeezed into two at the bridge. “Normally, both the carriageways of the old bridge are used by vehicles going towards Noida. But now one of the carriageways is being used to send back vehicles that do not have permits,” he added. (With inputs from Shikha Salaria in Noida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/going-to-noida-via-kalindi-kunj-keep-a-few-hrs-in-hand/articleshow/76434102.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||269 infected: Telangana records highest single-day surge||HYDERABAD: A top official leading the Covid-19 fightback in one of the key government hospitals in Telangana tested positive on Wednesday, even as state reported the highest single-day surge of 269 cases. While one more person died, raising the toll to 192, the official at the District hospital King Koti, which is a Covid-19 treatment and testing centre is among many who tested positive on Wednesday. The hospital has been playing a key role in Covid-19 management and is currently housing nearly 200 patients, while hundreds turn up each day for testing. “Since King Koti hospital has a high influx of suspected patients, the risk exposure is high here. While Gandhi hospital admits only confirmed positive Covid-19 patients, here we have patients walk in every day asking for tests and many are put up in isolation too,” said a source at the hospital, adding that over 25 of the colleagues have been put in quarantine. Three doctors at the Government Nature Cure hospital and Government Ayurvedic hospital have tested positive taking the total count of healthcare workers to have tested positive over the last two weeks to around 200. The Covid-19 count stands at 5,675 and the number of samples tested during the pandemic stand at 45,911.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/269-infected-t-records-highest-single-day-surge/articleshow/76434125.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Robbers walk out of bank with Rs 4.8 lakh in 2 minutes||MOHALI: Two masked men armed with a gun and knife robbed a bank of Rs 4.8 lakh in Phase IIIA in broad daylight here on Wednesday. Footage from CCTV cameras showed the robbers casually walking into the branch of Punjab National Bank having an all-women staff of five members and no security guard posted outside around 1.40pm. When a woman tried to step out of a counter, one of the robbers pointed a gun at her and told her to get back in the cabin. Within two minutes, the two walked out with the cash after threatening the employees to remain in their places for 10 minutes. Superintendent of police (city) Harvinder Singh Virk said the face of one of the miscreants was visible in the footage while he came out as he had pushed his mask down. Cops are not sure whether the gun was original or a fake. Gursher Singh, deputy superintendent of police, City 1, said “The robbers came in a car and had done a recce of the area.” Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal visited the spot. Police registered a case under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Mataur police station. This is the third time that Punjab National Bank was targeted within six months in Mohali district. Cop have made no headway in all the cases. On February 12, three miscreants robbed Rs 8 lakh cash from the bank ATM with the help of a gas cutter in Tangori village of Sohana. On June 10, an ATM machine containing around Rs 16 lakh of the bank was looted from near the Dappar toll plaza. Watch Punjab: Robbers walk out of bank with Rs 4.8 lakh in 2 minutes in Mohali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/robbers-walk-out-of-bank-with-rs-4-8l-in-2-minutes/articleshow/76434114.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Unit managers new super spreaders||SURAT: Managers of diamond units are emerging as the new set of Covid-19 ‘super spreaders’ in the city as increasing number of people linked with diamond polishing work or their family members are testing positive. Of the 62 new cases reported on Wednesday, 29 were related to those working in the diamond polishing units, mostly in Katargam zone. Out of the 29, five were managers of diamond units. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) also shut down five units in Katargam after positive cases surfaced there. These include Om Star Diamond, Nivam Diamond, Vaishali Gems, Shreeji Gems and Drishti Gems. At least 40 diamond artisans have been quarantined after their co-workers tested positive for Covid-19. “We have observed that unit managers who distribute the diamond packets to polishers are the super spreaders as they are coming in contact with large group of people. If enough care is taken, the infection spread can be stalled,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, said. A meeting between SMC officials, diamond unit owners and businessmen was also held over the issue and they were asked them to sanitize packets that managers give to polishers. “These packets spread the virus. Every diamond polisher should keep one sanitizer with them and clean their hands whenever they touch the parcels,” said Pani. After diamond units resumed operations, albeit at snail’s pace after unlock 1.0, positive cases have been on the rise, especially in Katargam zone. On Wednesday too, Katargam reported the highest number of cases with 19 followed by Limbayat which reported 12 cases. SMC officials said that 198 patients are on life-support systems which included 14 on ventilators and 143 on oxygen. "Around 43 Covid-19 patients were also discharged. Meanwhile, five more Covid-19 cases were reported in the Surat rural area on Wednesday, taking the total number to 254 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/unit-managers-new-super-spreaders/articleshow/76431964.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||37% Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan took place in June||JAIPUR: A whopping 37% of Covid-19 deaths in the state took place in June during Unlock 1.0 which allowed relaxation of movement of people. In the first 17 days of this month, 119 people have lost their lives to the virus in different parts of the state. Casualty count in May was 136. None of the four phases of lockdown had reported as many fatalities as in June. Highest number of deaths reported during lockdown was during its fourth phase which saw 63 people fall to the virus. Of 115 people, 51 died in Jaipur. Even the soaring mercury failed to make any adverse impact on the increasing number of cases and deaths. Till date, 142 people have succumbed to the virus in the city. The major cause of concern for health authorities was that during Lockdown 4.0, the mortality rate had come down to 1.7% but rose to 2.5% in the first 17 days of this month. The number of persons who tested positive in June has also increased significantly with 4,507 cases being reported at an average of 265 cases per day. The health department claimed that they had taken measures to prevent mortalities. “While containment measures are being implemented in the entire state, there are still clusters or zones within the state where the number of cases have seen some increase,” said a health department official. The department pointed out that in these clusters, saving lives was the most important job and scientific evidence available so far indicates that early diagnosis can help in averting deaths. It further stated that evidence also suggests that there is a specific group of people, either above 60 years and people with co-morbid conditions, who are at higher risk of developing complications and death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/37-covid-deaths-in-state-took-place-in-june/articleshow/76434122.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||‘Sawant, BJP MLAs violated social distancing norms’||Panaji: Hitting back at the state government for the detention of Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar, Congress filed a complaint with Goa Police and the north Goa collector R Menaka demanding action against chief minister Pramod Sawant, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho and other BJP MLAs for violating provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the advisories of the ministry of home affairs. In the complaint state Congress president Girish Chodankar called for action against Sawant, Godinho, Milind Naik and MLAs Alina Saldanha and Joshua D’Souza for violating social distancing norms on May 27 at the inauguration of the grade separator near Goa airport. “Around 100 people were in presence and there was complete disobedience of instructions issued by Central and state government in as much as no social distancing was maintained,” he said . Congress leader Sankalp Amonkar and six others were arrested on Monday for allegedly not maintaining social distancing while addressing a press conference opposing the Covid care centre at Sada. Amonkar was picked up by Goa police at midnight and released early in the morning. Organisation of the inauguration of the grade separator was in complete breach of MHA guidelines which prohibited such functions and large gatherings without social distancing being maintained, said the Congress president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-bjp-mlas-violated-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/76434116.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||Ecom Express to hire 7k employees||Hyderabad: End-to-end logistics solutions provider Ecom Express on Wednesday said it plans to hire over 7,000 employees. The new positions, which represent around 25% of the company’s total workforce, will see hiring across metros like Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru, as well as cities like Ahmedabad, Surat, Chandigarh, Indore, Pastna, Lucknow, Kanpur, Bhopal and Jaipur, the company said. The full-time openings in the next two months span functions such as last-mile delivery, warehousing management, operations, information technology and data sciences, Ecom Express said. The company said it has chalked out plans to hire around 35,000 people till the beginning of this year’s festive season to gear up for the surge in online shopping due to festival sales and increasing preference to doorstep deliveries. Saurabh Deep Singla, senior VP & CHRO, Ecom Express said, “In these difficult times, we see increase in the demand for online shopping across cities. The hiring of new employees is driven by unprecedented need to keep the supply chain running and in ensuring safe and timely deliveries.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ecom-express-to-hire-7k-employees/articleshow/76433081.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Amid corona crisis, budding artists log on to online cultural workshops, theatre||LUCKNOW: With academies shut and all events cancelled in view of coronavirus spread, cultural workshops have gone virtual to connect with budding artists and students to preserve the tradition and culture of the state. Institutions like Sangeet Natak Akademi and Bhartendu Natya Academy have taken to online workshops which are proving to be a hit among artists from across the state, as online enrollments are higher than usual. Sangeet Natak Akademi, which is known for holding workshops, plays and cultural events throughout the year, is now hosting online workshops on kathak, folk music, professional make-up, learning the art of expression and speech as well as music competition. Students not only from Lucknow and adjoining areas but also from abroad are joining in. Secretary, UPSNA, Tarun Raj said: “Earlier, our kathak workshops would see only 100-150 students walking in. Ever since we have started online workshops, we get around 400 students from Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Delhi, and abroad as well. Two students from California have also enrolled. Despite time difference, they connect for online workshops. We are getting more applications daily but as we have limited teachers, we have stopped taking more applications.” “The aim of virtual workshops is to stay engaged with young artists who want to make a mark in the field of arts, classical music and dance. Currently, we are holding workshops only, but if we don’t get the nod for cultural events, we might plan ways to go online and conduct certain classes or events digitally. The new session will begin in July,” he added. At Bhartendu Natya Academy is also getting more applications than it used to get in pre-lockdown days. The theatre training institute is also uploading old plays enacted by students and alumni of the academy on its YouTube channel. The Academy is also hosting a virtual event, ‘Rang Samagam’, to connect with Indian artists and directors who have made a mark in the field of theatre. Actors like Anil Rastogi, Saurabh Shukla and Ravi Kishan have shared their success stories. BNA director RC Gupta said, “We received 300 applications but could select only 100 due to shortage of staff and time. Teaching theatre through web platform is a tedious task but looking at current situation due to coronavirus, we are slowly adapting to it. We are also uploading old plays on our YouTube channel to invite people to join in as theatre cannot be physically attended as of now.” UP cultural department is also uploading videos on its official YouTube channel where one may listen to podcasts, watch theatrical plays and documentaries of festivals and events hosted in UP, and music renditions by Ustad Ahmad Jan Khan ‘Thirakwa’, Pt Sheetal Prasad Mishra and Ustaad Rashid Khan, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-corona-crisis-budding-artists-log-on-to-online-cultural-workshops-theatre/articleshow/76434459.cms||Aditi Singh
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||Gang of cyber criminals which hacked over 40 bank accounts busted||RAMPUR: A team of cybercrime sleuths and police arrested an engineering student and three others for allegedly siphoning off money from scores of bank accounts. Rampur’s superintendent of police Shugan Gautam said, “Vijayant Patel’s arrest was the turning point as he has confessed his involvement in the crime and revealed name of others involved. Patel is a B.Tech student, a website designer. He used to hack accounts through net-banking. The gang has so far hacked 40 bank accounts and siphoned Rs 18 to 20 lakh. Police have recovered a car, nine costly branded mobile phones, two laptops, LED TV, music systems, watches, washing machines etc.” Patel’s other accomplices were identified as Prajwal Pathak, Aditya Gangwar and Amit Kumar all of whom are residents of Bareilly. All the four accused were sent to the jail under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) IPC and under 66 of the IT act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-of-cyber-criminals-which-hacked-over-40-bank-accounts-busted/articleshow/76431959.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat gets 11.5% of seasonal rainfall right at the onset||Ahmedabad: Till June 15, Gujarat has received 95.2mm of rain this season, which is 11.5% of the state’s 30-year average annual rainfall of 831mm, said the state relief commissioner’s office. The data was shared during a weather watch group meeting. Except three, all talukas in the state have received between 1mm and 232mm of rain, added the officials.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the southwest monsoon had advanced to cover half of Gujarat, barring the northern districts and Kutch on June 17. The IMD said that except for five, all districts of Gujarat have recorded excess rainfall ahead of the actual onset of the monsoon.The IMD on Wednesday said that light thunderstorms with lightning and surface winds slower than 40kmph are expected with moderate rain in all the districts of Gujarat on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. On Monday, heavy rains are likely in Valsad, Amreli and Gir-Somnath.For Ahmedabad, the forecast said that it is likely that parts of the district could get rain or thundershowers towards the evening or night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-gets-11-5-of-seasonal-rainfall-right-at-the-onset/articleshow/76433223.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Over 2 lakh tested for coronavirus in last 17 days in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Over 2 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Rajasthan in the last 17 days, which is 33% of the total samples tested till date. On an average, 12,500 samples are being tested daily this month. Tests done per million have touched 8,055. The health department has set up 21 laboratories for testing. There was no facility for testing in March and the state government had to depend on the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. With increasing testing facilities, the average number of tests done daily have crossed the 12,000 mark in June. Health department officials said they had increased the capacity for testing manifold. He said they have the capacity of testing 25,000 samples daily in their existing laboratories. In Jodhpur alone, more than 1.1 lakh persons have been tested, out of which more than 37,000 tests were done in June. In Jaipur, nearly 25,000 tests have been carried out while Pali and Bharatpur have seen more than 11,500 and 10,000 tests, respectively, this month. All the four districts have reported highest number of cases in the state. From June 10 to 17, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-lakh-people-tested-in-17-days-in-raj/articleshow/76434146.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Protesting LIP workers booked for violating social distancing||Ludhiana: Jamalpur police have booked halka in charge of Lok Insaaf Party, Fatehgarh Sahib and his accomplices for violating social distance and not wearing masks during a protest in Ramgarh, Chandigarh Road on Tuesday. The FIR is lodged against LIP worker Manwinder Singh Giaspura, Gurmeet Singh of Mundiya, Sahnewal, Sarbjeet Singh Kang of Khanna, Karamjeet Singh, Vicky Panch of village Ramgarh, Parveen Kumar of village Jhabbewal and 25 unidentified accomplices. Sub-inspector Ram Prakash of Jamalpur police station said the accused had staged a protest in Ramgarh, Chandigarh road against Pearl Chit Fund Firm by forming a big gathering. Moreover, they were not wearing masks and also violated social distancing. The police have registered a case against all accused under sections of 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesting-lip-workers-booked-for-violating-social-distancing/articleshow/76434129.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Two detained for running sex racket||Vadodara: Two persons were detained on Tuesday for running an online sex racket in Vadodara city.The duo — Arjun alias Rohit Rajput and Bhavanishankar alias Raj Dayma — were nabbed after a murder accused Mitul Tailor revealed to police that he had stabbed a sex worker at a hotel on Waghodiya Road. Tailor was arrested for stabbing his father-in-law to death in Tarsali on Monday afternoon after trying to kill the prostitute. During the investigation of the murder case, the sex racket was busted.Police said that Dayma and Rajput were running the racket through a website and WhatsApp. Once a client would inquire and give his contact number, the duo would send photographs of women on WhatsApp and finalize the deal. The accused would charge anything between Rs 5,000 and Rs 20,000.Initially, Dayma’s wife was also detained but when the sex worker who was stabbed told cops that she was not involved in the racket, she was allowed to go. The injured woman is Dayma’s sister-in-law from Jaipur and was forced in the flesh trade as she was in dire need of money. A police official said that the woman had asked Dayma to help her get a job in Vadodara, but Dayma told her that in current economic condition it is not possible. He told her that if she was ready to get into flesh trade, he can help her find a customer. When she agreed, Dayma told Rajput and when Tailor showed interest, the woman was sent off with him on Monday.“The two accused have been under custody but we will arrest them only after their coronavirus report arrives negative,” said inspector K M Chhasiya of Gorwa police station. He added that Rajput was arrested by special operations group in February too for similar offence and two offences have been registered against him at Gotri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-detained-for-running-sex-racket/articleshow/76412434.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||'One rank one post' hot topicas UP BJP goes for new team||Lucknow: As grassroots workers of the BJP continue to wait for the announcement of a new executive to lead the party for 2022 Assembly elections, the moot question is whether state head of the party Swatantradev Singh will be able to address their concerns. The rank and file of the BJP wants the state president to stick to the 'one man-one post' norm and those holding dual positions should give up a post to pave way for the younger generation. Among leaders holding two posts in the state is UP BJP vice-president JPS Rathore who has been appointed as chairman of the UP Pollution Control Board. It is considered to be a powerful posting as only the chairman is authorised to issue no-objection certificates to industrialists seeking to set up their units in the state. Same is the case of Ashok Kataria, who is general secretary of the state BJP and also minister of state for transport. Nileema Katiyar is general secretary of the state BJP and she is also minister of state in the Yogi government. Similarly, BL Verma is vice-president of the party in UP and he holds the post of chairman of the Samaj Kalyan Nirman Nigam. Nawab Singh Nagar, the vice-president of UP BJP, is also chairman of a public sector unit. There are several others who continue to hold two posts in the state despite the fact that the central leadership is totally against the practice. Swatantra Dev Singh is facing immense pressure from within the party. Most of the party workers are of the view that as the party has to face 2022 Assembly elections those enjoying government positions should be asked to quit their organisational posts and new faces be given a chance. "Even home minister Amit Shah has resigned from the post of national president as the party follows the policy of 'one man one post'. Same should also be applied in the state,” said two vice-presidents of the party. Talking to TOI, Singh said that the new executive would be announced soon. Denying that there is any factionalism in the state unit, he said that the new committee would have representation of all regions and social groups. Besides, due representation would be given to seniors as well as the young generation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/one-rank-one-post-hot-topicas-up-bjp-goes-for-new-team/articleshow/76434691.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 18, 2020||Trichy||Residents rejoice at abundant water flow in Cauvery river||Trichy: The copious flow of water in the Cauvery river has elated the spirit of locals that has been low due to the Covid-19 outbreak. While passing through the city, Cauvery touches either banks, thus presenting a scenic view from the bridge that connects Srirangam. Drone images of the river passing through Trichy were shared by many on social media platforms to express their happiness.The Trichy Corporation is also relieved with the arrival of water as the civic body has overcome summer without any drinking water shortage. The corporation is supplying 135 MLD per day to the households, and the quantum will be ensured in the coming months due to abundant water flow, sources said.“We have already completed maintenance work in the pumping houses. The flow in Cauvery will also recharge the groundwater table in adjacent Kollidam river bed, which, too, has civic body’s pumping houses,” a civic body official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-rejoice-at-abundant-water-flow-in-cauvery-river/articleshow/76434747.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Over 2 lakh tested for coronavirus in last 17 days in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Over 2 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Rajasthan in the last 17 days, which is 33% of the total samples tested till date. On an average, 12,500 samples are being tested daily this month. Tests done per million have touched 8,055. The health department has set up 21 laboratories for testing. There was no facility for testing in March and the state government had to depend on the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. With increasing testing facilities, the average number of tests done daily have crossed the 12,000 mark in June. Health department officials said they had increased the capacity for testing manifold. He said they have the capacity of testing 25,000 samples daily in their existing laboratories. In Jodhpur alone, more than 1.1 lakh persons have been tested, out of which more than 37,000 tests were done in June. In Jaipur, nearly 25,000 tests have been carried out while Pali and Bharatpur have seen more than 11,500 and 10,000 tests, respectively, this month. All the four districts have reported highest number of cases in the state. From June 10 to 17, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-lakh-people-tested-in-17-days-in-raj/articleshow/76437103.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||Over 2 lakh tested for coronavirus in last 17 days in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Over 2 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Rajasthan in the last 17 days, which is 33% of the total samples tested till date. On an average, 12,500 samples are being tested daily this month. Tests done per million have touched 8,055. The health department has set up 21 laboratories for testing. There was no facility for testing in March and the state government had to depend on the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. With increasing testing facilities, the average number of tests done daily have crossed the 12,000 mark in June. Health department officials said they had increased the capacity for testing manifold. He said they have the capacity of testing 25,000 samples daily in their existing laboratories. In Jodhpur alone, more than 1.1 lakh persons have been tested, out of which more than 37,000 tests were done in June. In Jaipur, nearly 25,000 tests have been carried out while Pali and Bharatpur have seen more than 11,500 and 10,000 tests, respectively, this month. All the four districts have reported highest number of cases in the state. From June 10 to 17, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-lakh-people-tested-in-17-days-in-raj/articleshow/76437105.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh at 17th slot on tests, sixth on Covid-19 positivity rate||CHANDIGARH: The city is on the 17th slot for tests per million and sixth for Covid-19 positivity rate in the country, indicating that testing is low when compared to the spread of the infection. Tests per million in the city were 5,287 till June 15, while the national average was 4,871, according to an analysis by Dr Rijo M John, a Kerala-based health economist. Ladakh, Goa, Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi are ranked on top four in the tests per million. Except Delhi, all these states/UTs are low in positivity rate. At the same time, the positivity rate was 5.9 for the city, when the national average was 5. This indicates that the infection rate is more in the city. The testing rate had picked up in the city at the end of May, increasing by over 61% for this month. “But as the rate of infection is still high and the tests per million are not matching with this rise, the city is sixth in the positivity rate and far below in tests per million,” said an epidemiologist in PGI. The present positivity rate is the same as it was until June 15, which is 5.9 in the city and the tests per million are almost the same as 5,202. On an average, four daily cases being reported in Chandigarh. Experts correlate the tests per million and positivity rate to understand the rise or fall in the number of infections. “Positive rate is better indicator for disease spread and testing efficiency. When positive rate declines without decrease in testing, we can expect decline in cases,” said a researcher from Oslo University hospital, Norway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-at-17th-slot-on-tests-6th-on-positivity-rate/articleshow/76434119.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Change strategy to conquer virus, not chase it: Experts||* A professor had stepped out only for a haircut, but a few days later, not only did his father die due to Covid-19, but at least seven of his contacts tested positive. * A 63-year-old woman from Phoolbagh never went out after the pandemic outbreak, but tested positive and succumbed to infection. After her death, contact tracing found seven family members positive. Health officials learnt that they had only gone out to buy vegetables. These two cases are examples of how a number of Covid-19 cases, including five deaths in the city, have been of those who followed the lockdown rules, but got infected due to service providers when they or their family members stepped out to buy essentials. This, say experts, can be prevented by a slight shift in testing strategy—rather than chasing the virus, we need to move ahead of it. This means that apart from tracing the “source” after a person is infected, aggressive bulk testing of service providers at vulnerable spots such as vegetable mandis, markets and BPOs should be done simultaneously so that the “source” can be isolated for treatment before it infects others. This is also in consonance with UP government’s recent decision to go for sampling of vulnerable communities, they added. “TrueNat machines will come in handy in this task by deploying them on mobile vans and camps for on-the-spot sampling. Machines which have been given to hospitals and can give test results within an hour’s time should be used for testing groups going into the larger community for providing services,” suggested veteran virologist and former head of SGPGI Lucknow’s microbiology department Prof TN Dhole. Prof Dhole exemplified that the machines could be set up in a vegetable mandi, at sanitary workers’ colonies, bus depots and all such places where people assemble for work and come in contact with the public. This, he said, will ensure that only persons tested negative for coronavirus are allowed to deliver services. Expressing similar views, former director of SGPGI and former vice-chancellor of KGMU Prof Mahendra Bhandari said that public initiative would help in preventing virus spread to a large extent. “Through public-private partnership, testing machines can be established in offices such as BPOs to test all employees. Health insurance companies can tie up with the government to test those interested and can afford, in a group setting. Vulnerable areas in a city that can become hotspots should be places of targeted testing so that any outbreak in the area or community can be checked at the onset itself,” said Prof Bhandari, now director of robotic surgery education and research in Detroit, US, and CEO of Vattikuti Foundation. “The application of IT in tracking patients should be aggressive and the solution to this pandemic should be preventive. We don’t have enough resources to afford healthcare,” he said. CMO Lucknow Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Targeted testing will be started in the city soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/change-strategy-to-conquer-virus-not-chase-it-experts/articleshow/76434425.cms||Yusra Husain
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Taint on animal husbandry min's office: Three arrested, what next?||LUCKNOW: The recent arrest of private secretary of minister of state for animal husbandry Jai Prakash Nishad and two other employees of the same department for their alleged involvement in manipulating lucrative government tenders has made it clear that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has zero tolerance against corruption. Investigation by the special task force has exposed not only the minister’s staff, but also top bureaucrats and IPS officers and a section of journalists who have been giving shield to scamsters, whichever government it may be. In all probabilities these officers would be penalised for their wrongdoings as the CM seems to be in no mood to spare the corrupt officialdom. Rajneesh Dixit, private secretary of the MoS for animal husbandry and two more staff members of the animal husbandry have been named as alleged scamsters and sent to jail for manipulating government contracts of crores of rupees. Last year, the CM had axed three ministers, including Dharampal Singh, Archana Tripathi and Anupama Jaiswal, from his cabinet. Personal staff of Archana and Dharampal were allegedly caught in a sting operation by a news channel and it was perceived that ministers had been removed only because their staff were found to be involved in corruption cases. Staff of another MoS Sandeep Singh too was caught dealing with suspects. However, no step was initiated against the minister who is also grandson of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh. In another case, the name of a minister had surfaced in a controversy involving a tehsildar. Later, it was found that somebody had used the name of the minister in defrauding a government officer. Insiders have hinted at the role of the ministerial staff in the controversy, but the matter was shelved. Now, it has to be seen what fate awaits Nishad, says a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/taint-on-animal-husbandry-minsoffice-three-arrested-what-next/articleshow/76434699.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Cases spiral, but many drop guard; masks, social distancing miss in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With lockdown norms being eased considerably, residents have thrown caution to the wind. Groups of people can still be seen without masks or ignoring social distancing norms at public spaces even as the state’s Covid-19 cases increase steadily. On Tuesday, despite the showers, locals still flocked to the streets around Tank Bund. One group could be seen posing for selfies without anyone wearing masks. Wary passers-by say this is a common sight. “I was passing by Necklace Road on my two-wheeler on Sunday. Being the weekend, there were several people sitting together as if on a picnic near People’s Plaza,” said R Revathi, a resident of Himayathnagar. The problem is apparent across the city. Anil Gupta, a resident of Yapral, said: “There are at least 70 to 80 people who come to the ground next to Valerian Grammar school every evening. Many come there on bikes with three to four people per vehicle. At a time when there is a pandemic, social distancing norms are not being followed.” Gupta added that residents fear confronting youngsters as many get into an altercation. “Many of them have a mob mentality and get aggressive when asked to follow rules,” he said. Gupta added simple steps like police vehicles making rounds of open spaces could keep a check on public behaviour in these times. Activist Vinay Vangala said: “Matrusrinagar in Miyapur has recorded five corona positive cases. Despite this, there has been no change in behaviour. People without masks can be seen playing badminton on the roads early morning and senior citizens are out irrespective of the danger to their health. Lack of traffic on internal roads has made it even more easy for people to get out.” Vangala said that he has also contacted Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials and cops in this regard, but has not received a proper response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-spiral-but-many-drop-guard-masks-social-distancing-miss-in-city/articleshow/76434135.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Railways ready with 150 Covid care coaches for UP||LUCKNOW: North Eastern Railway (NER) will hand over the maximum number of 150 Covid care coaches to the UP government whenever requisitioned. An isolation rake comprises 10 Covid care coaches, one AC coach and one SLR Van. The UP government has identified 24 railway stations in the state where these rakes can be stationed. Maximum stations, close to 10, will come NER zone. “We have got the coaches ready. They have been sanitized and ready to be handed over,” said DRM, Lucknow, NR, Sanjay Tripathi. Since every coach can accommodate 16 patients, 10 coaches can be used for 160 patients at a time. Every rake would have two coaches for the medical and supporting staff. Initially, the government may use 24 rakes, each stationed at a different railway station under four zonal railways in the state — NR, NER, East Central Railway and North Central Railway. As per instructions issued by the state government, CMO of the district will be the nodal authority for maintenance and handling of Covid care rakes at the railway station in the district under his jurisdiction. CMOs have been ordered to visit the railway stations identified in their districts and ensure implementation of protocol within a week. Instructions said that railways will disinfect and clean the rake before handing it over to the state government. Once in use, coaches will be taken care of by the government. In March, Railway Board had directed zonal railways to convert non-AC and sleeper coaches, which were more than 15 years old, into isolation rakes. Sleeper coaches through modifications like ‘conversion of two toilets into a bath room by plugging the toilet pan and proper flooring; provision of hand shower; removal of patient side middle berth; plugging the lower portion of compartment by ply wood and isolation of compartment besides others, have been converted into Covid Care coaches. 24 Stn For Covid Coaches Deen Dayal Upadhyay nagar, Gorakhpur, Varanasi city, Gonda, Bareilly city, Jhansi, Manduadih, Varanasi,Saharanpur, Bareilly Jn., Ballia, Chopan, Najibabad, Mau, Faizabad, Ghazipur city, Azamgarh, Nautanwa, Farrukhabad, Bhatni, Kasganj, Bhadohi, Mirzapur and Bahraich.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rlys-ready-with-150-covid-care-coaches-for-up/articleshow/76434494.cms||Neha Shukla
June 18, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses plea to grant leave to convicts to check Covid spread||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought to grant two months’ ordinary leave to life convicts, who have completed 10 years of sentence and convicts with ailments such as asthma, diabetes and blood pressure to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at prisons.A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing the petition filed by T Senthil alias Thileepan Senthil, a resident of Madurai.Senthil stated that he came to know through news reports that few prisoners from Trichy, Madurai and Palayamkottai central prisons who attended the free legal aid training programme at Puzhal Central Prison had tested positive for Covid-19. He also said that 30 prisoners at Puzhal had tested positive. In this present situation, there is a possibility of Covid-19 spreading to other prisoners and prison staff. Therefore, it is necessary to isolate and provide treatment to the prisoners who have tested positive. He stated that this process would be difficult due to overcrowding at the prisons. Hence, he moved the high court Madurai bench. Senthil also sought for a direction seeking a high-powered and undertrial review committees to submit a status report with regard to the spread of Covid-19 at prisons in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-to-grant-leave-to-convicts-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/76434137.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Margao municipality to soon float tenders for biomethanation plants||Margao: Over seven months after the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) first announced setting up of biomethanation plants at various locations in the city, the municipality has finally decided to float tenders for setting up the waste treatment plants at three different locations. Each of the plants will treat 5TPD (tonnes per day) of waste. The plants will be set up at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore, which includes the cost of operation for five years, MMC chief officer Ajit Panchwadkar said. While one of the plants will be set up at the SGPDA wholesale fish market, the two others will be installed at the SGPDA’s retail fish market and fruits and vegetable market. “As the garbage will be treated at source, less than 40% of the waste generated in the city will land at the Sonsoddo waste treatment plant. Our aim is to reduce it to zero,” Panchwadkar said. Biomethanation is a process by which organic material is microbiologically converted under anaerobic conditions to biogas. Apart from the five baling machines that are operational at Sonsoddo, the MMC has now also installed two baling machines at the SGPDA market for baling the plastic waste. Meanwhile, the waste management operations at Sonsoddo that were severely affected following the lockdown have now been normalised. As transport across the state had come to a standstill during the initial phases of the lockdown, baled dry waste which was otherwise being sent to cement factories in Karnataka, had been piling up at Sonsoddo. Around 15 tonnes of dry waste land up at Sonsoddo everyday which are then baled using baling machines. The lifting of baled waste and RDF (refuse derived fuel) has also begun, MMC sources said. Panchwadkar further claimed that over 50% of the legacy dump at Sonsoddo has been cleared by the ongoing bioremediation process which has been halted for monsoons. The total quantity of the legacy dump is estimated to be 2.3 lakh cu m. The MMC has also begun covering the legacy dump to prevent leachate flowing into public roadside drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-municipality-to-soon-float-tenders-for-biomethanation-plants/articleshow/76434150.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 72 contacts of coronavirus patient moved out of Ram Darbar||CHANDIGARH: The detection of three Covid-19 cases in Ram Darbar has prompted the authorities to shift 72 people from the dense and crowded locality to two different places. Seventy people were quarantined at a Panjab University hostel, while the other two — family contacts of one of the patients — were taken to a hospital for tests and placed under isolation. The decision was taken as Ram Darbar is one of the most densely populated rehabilitation colonies in the city. All neighbours and residents who might have come in contact with one of the patients were among those shifted as a precautionary measure. The authorities are conducting their health screening. “As many as 40 people are tenants of the patient who has two houses adjoining his. He has given rooms in those two houses on rent. The main concern is that all these tenants were drawing water from a tap in the landlord’s house. This means many people were in direct contact with the patient and his family members. All these people are being monitored,” a senior UT officer said. Sources said there is only one passage for tenants in each house and they had been interacting with the owner and his family frequently. “The entire area has been sealed and health department has been taking all the required precautionary measures, an official of MC said. The entire affected area is being sanitised The UT has home quarantined 25 people in a Sector 25 based rehabilitation colony, from where a case was reported on Monday. “Though it is also a rehabilitation colony, homes have individual toilets and other related facilities. So, they have been isolated in their homes. After consulting the health department, they can be taken to other places for quarantine. The area has been sealed and police deployed,” said a senior UT officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/72-contacts-of-patient-moved-out-of-ram-darbar/articleshow/76434133.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 18, 2020||Udaipur||Over 2 lakh tested for coronavirus in last 17 days in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Over 2 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Rajasthan in the last 17 days, which is 33% of the total samples tested till date. On an average, 12,500 samples are being tested daily this month. Tests done per million have touched 8,055. The health department has set up 21 laboratories for testing. There was no facility for testing in March and the state government had to depend on the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. With increasing testing facilities, the average number of tests done daily have crossed the 12,000 mark in June. Health department officials said they had increased the capacity for testing manifold. He said they have the capacity of testing 25,000 samples daily in their existing laboratories. In Jodhpur alone, more than 1.1 lakh persons have been tested, out of which more than 37,000 tests were done in June. In Jaipur, nearly 25,000 tests have been carried out while Pali and Bharatpur have seen more than 11,500 and 10,000 tests, respectively, this month. All the four districts have reported highest number of cases in the state. From June 10 to 17, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/2-lakh-people-tested-in-17-days-in-raj/articleshow/76437104.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Call centre case count rises to 99||LUCKNOW: The number of cases linked to the call centre running chief minister’s Covid-19 helpline touched 99 on Wednesday as four more family members of its employees tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. Six others, including two journalists of news channels, were also diagnosed with Covid-19. While one journalist is resident of MLA Hostel on Park Road, the other lives in Vinamrakhand, Gomtinagar. These 10 new cases pushed the city’s corona tally to 697, including 427 patients who recovered and 11 who died.  The four new cases linked to the call centre included parents and aunt of a woman employee, a resident of Daliganj, and sister of another who lives in Chinhat. Both woman employees had tested positive earlier. Soon after Daliganj cases were reported, Joshi Tola in Mankameshwar ward was declared a containment zone. The city now has 26 such zones.  Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Tests of 450 call centre employees out of total 700 have been done so far since the first case was reported on June 5. About 200 contacts of these employees have also been tested. Of total 99 positive cases, 88 are employees and 11 their contacts.” Among the remaining four cases is an Hindustan Aeronautical Limited employee who recently returned from Rajasthan, a medical store owner in Chowk and a Aminabad resident. The tenth case was the woman who died in KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/call-centre-case-count-rises-to-99/articleshow/76434397.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Trichy||Delta to curb passes as Covid cases spike||TRICHY: Faced with a spike in Covid-19 cases of late, delta districts are planning to impose curbs on securing epasses and have officers monitoring incoming people. Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur districts have witnessed high cases, attributed mostly to influx from Chennai, especially in the last few days. Almost 95% of the recent positive cases were Chennai returnees and with a lockdown planned there and in the surrounding districts from Friday, more people have been returning to their native places in the delta. Till June 8, the total number of cases in the delta was 260 (Nagapattinam – 81, Thanjavur-117 and Thiruvarur- 62). In a week, the tally has doubled to 525, with new cases of 13, 12 and 15 in the districts respectively on Wednesday. The operation of two special trains between Chengalpattu and Trichy brought thousands from Chennai, but in the last two days the influx has been huge, said officials. Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao said the trains were being operated between Chengalpattu and Trichy via Kumbakonam. “We have tightened movement through our check posts and are restricting passes unless it is an emergency. We are doing the test at railway stations”, the collector told TOI. Nagapattinam district collector Praveen P Nair said almost all new positive cases had travel history. Out of 43 recorded on Tuesday, eight had arrived from Chennai without any travel pass. Though they were put under quarantine, they had skipped it, he said. “We have decided to file a case against those eight people for jumping quarantine,” he added. He said the district created around 17 containment zones. “To handle the present situation, we have appointed a nodal officer to monitor the incoming people and jumping of quarantines. To create awareness among the local people about the returnees, a public addressing system has also been utilized”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delta-to-curb-passes-as-covid-cases-spike/articleshow/76434750.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Fourth day in a row recoveries higher than fresh cases||BHOPAL: For the fourth consecutive day, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 outnumbered the number of people testing positive. While 236 patients were discharged from the hospitals across the state, 161 tested positive on Wednesday. The fresh cases took the Covid tally to 11,244. On the other hand, with six more deaths — Indore (4) and Sagar (2)--the corona death toll climbed to 482. Fresh cases were reported from 18 districts. Those districts that reported fresh cases in double figures were: Indore (44), Bhopal (49), Neemuch (13), Gwalior (10) and Khargone (10). The total number of patients who have recovered from the deadly diseases so far in the state has reached 8,388—74 per cent of the total number of people who have been tested positive so far. Till now, the number of people who have recovered in the state is triple than the number of active patients in the state. Now, Madhya Pradesh has only 2,374 active patients. Reports of more than 2.71 lakh samples have been received so far. Meanwhile, 1091 localities across the 51 districts from where positive cases have been reported as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones has been strictly prohibited. 1197 fever clinics have been set up across the state, where primary treatment is being provided. Samples are being taken on the basis of the symptoms, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/4th-day-in-a-row-recoveries-higher-than-fresh-cases/articleshow/76433094.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Hospitality industry willing to operate at 50% capacity to avoid closures of units||LUDHIANA: Citing losses to the tune of several crores, the members of hotel and resort association are now pleading before state government to allow them to open their properties for marriage and other functions. They said they are ready to operate at 50% capacity. A delegation of the association has also met the district administration officials and assured them that the marriage palace and resort owners will follow every safety measure to avert the danger of Covid-19. According to Ajay Kumar, a member of the hotel and resort association, “Every single owner of marriage place, resort, farmhouse has suffered a big blow due to the lockdown. Everything else has opened except for our industry. Religious places and community halls have been allowed to conduct marriages and other functions but we are still banned from doing so. The irony is we have all sorts of arrangements in terms of infrastructure, trained professionals and equipment to take care of the norms and requirements in the wake of Covid-19. So, please allow us to organise functions. We are even ready to operate at 50% seating capacity of our properties. If we are not allowed to do so, we will be left with no other option than to shut down our businesses permanently.” According to another member of the association, Kulwant Singh, “Not allowing hotels, banquet halls, resorts and marriage palaces to hold functions even for 50 guests is proving to be a big setback for the entire industry. Already, a majority of us have taken huge loans and repayments of these loans is now very doubtful because for three months now we are sitting without earning a single penny. Except for Ludhiana, the hospitality industry has been allowed to function everywhere else.” According to Inderpal Singh, “On June 15, the authorities concerned were going to take a decision regarding us. But it has been more than two days now and no decision has been taken in this context. We have met district administration officials yesterday and have asked them to take a call on our demand at the earliest, as delay will cause huge damage to our industry and there will be permanent closures and huge job losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hospitality-industry-willing-to-operate-at-50-capacity-to-avoid-closures-of-units/articleshow/76434139.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Prevention better than cure: Eat good, remain stress free, exercise regularly, stay at home’||As the district continues to witness a rise in the number of corona positive cases, the district health department has its task cut out. It’s its business to ensure that minimum number of residents are affected with the Covid-19 disease and the fatality rate remains low. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, who has been at the helm of affairs in district, spoke to Shariq Majeed on preparations and challenges ahead. How do you plan to face the emerging challenges in view of rising number of cases in the district? We have been adhering to a planned strategy. We are focusing on contact tracing and maximum sampling. Stress is being given on social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing and hygiene. These three to four measures are sufficient to control the disease. What steps are you taking to ensure that cases don’t witness a huge rise? It is not that big a challenge to ensure that disease is checked. To break the chain, we are taking steps to check overcrowding and to ensure that social distancing is maintained. We are also advising people to wear masks properly. To ensure compliance, we are issuing challans to those who are not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing or indulging in similar violations like spitting on road. What steps are you taking to ensure that doctors and health workers don’t face threat of contracting disease? We are regularly advising them to take precautions like wearing of proper protective gear and follow the guidelines and protocol by the health department. If we follow these, we will not get infected. We believe that a doctor gets infection only if he is examining patients unprotected. Above all, doctors and health workers are being advised to take very good diet, remain stress free, exercise regularly. This is our advice to everyone, actually. How are you ensuring that the people coming from outside are properly screened so that they don’t cause the spread of the disease? We are screening people coming from outside at various places. For example, those coming in trains are being screened at railway station and we are doing sampling of those with symptoms and coming from high risk areas. Those coming in buses are being screened at bus stand and those coming by air are being screened at Sahnewal airport. These passengers are being home quarantined for 14 days and, if at any stage, they get symptomatic, we do their sampling. We are also doing random sampling of people coming from outside. We are taking 1,000-1,200 samples a day, which is quite a lot. Also, people coming to Ludhiana in private vehicles are being screened at near Khanna and at Shambhu. What steps are being taken to ensure that cases are checked in containment zones? To check spread in containment zones, we are doing sampling. House-to-house survey is also being carried out. We are doing sampling of symptomatic patients and to trace asymptomatic ones, random sampling is being done. Do you have adequate infrastructure, including ventilators and testing kits, to meet the challenge? We have sufficient testing kits. So far as ventilators are concerned, we have 31 ventilators, which are meant for Covid-19 patients only. We have signed a memorandum of understanding with private hospitals and have reserved these ventilators with them. I can say that we have sufficient ventilators. In tertiary centres like Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, there are 98 ventilators for other patients like for those in trauma or surgery. In Christian Medical College and Hospital, the number of such ventilators must be around 30 to 40. Do you have adequate isolation facilities in Ludhiana district? We have sufficient isolation facility. We have 450-bed isolation facility and each bed is fitted with oxygen supply. Apart from that, we also have 500-bed Covid care centre at meritorious school in Ludhiana. What precautions residents have to take in the present scenario? People should come out of their houses only for emergency work. And only one person from family should go to get necessary articles from the market. People should wear mask while going out and that too in proper manner. When going out, they should maintain social distancing wherever they go. I advise all the residents of Ludhiana to keep hand sanitisers in their pockets before they step out of their houses. We have given directions to shop owners to ensure there is no overcrowding and social distancing is maintained. It is ideal that they should keep hand sanitiser outside their shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prevention-better-than-cure-eat-good-remain-stress-free-exercise-regularly-stay-at-home/articleshow/76434151.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parsoli Motors ordered to deposit Rs 1 lakh in NDF||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has reduced the amount of fine that the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) imposed on Parsoli Motor Works Pvt Ltd and its owners to allow them to file a written statement and to take it on record in a recovery proceedings filed by Axis Bank Ltd after BMW India Ltd invoked a bank guarantee facility. The DRT had imposed costs of Rs 5 lakh on Parsoli for taking its written statement on record in the recovery proceedings. The HC has reduced it to Rs 1 lakh asking it to deposit in the National Defence Fund. Earlier, the DRT had fixed the cost at Rs 10 lakh, but reduced it to Rs 5 lakh upon Parsoli’s request. While the tribunal imposed cost for taking written statement on record saying that there was a delay, Parsoli contended that it had filed the written statement in time according to law after receiving case papers from the other side. The bank instituted recovery proceedings against Parsoli Motors and its owners including Zafar Sareshwala, former chancellor of Maulana Azad National Urdu University, after BMW India Ltd and BMW India Financial Pvt Ltd invoked the bank guarantee facility. Parsoli Motors has been opposing the recovery proceedings saying that the auto giant, for which Parsoli used to hold exclusive sales rights for Gujarat till 2013, had fraudulently allowed other players to sell vehicles in Gujarat after 2014. It has also accused the auto giant of committing fraud in having the bank guarantee facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parsoli-motors-ordered-to-deposit-rs-1-lakh-in-ndf/articleshow/76433220.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam readies 7-phase plan to fight Covid-19||KOCHI: Ernakulam district administration and health department have come up with a detailed action plan to tackle the situation if the number of Covid-19 cases go up in the district. The action plan is for meeting challenges at different stages of penetration of the disease by arranging all medical and other infrastructure and manpower. Covid-19 Surge Plan prepared by the authorities anticipates seven stages of surge in the cases. The first stage is when there is a maximum of 50 patients and the seventh stage may occur when the number of active cases rise to the range of 6,000 to 22,500 in the district. According to the district administration, the chances of a big surge in the number of patients in the district are less. But the preparation is done anticipating maximum possible surge. “As we have taken all the measures to prevent the spread of the disease as well as to treat the patients according to the state government’s instructions, chances are less for a big surge. Still, we should be prepared for the worst,” district collector S Suhas said. In the first phase, which is already over, the number of active patients was in the range of 0-50. Now, the district is going through the second stage where the active cases are in the range of 50-300. While patients with mild symptoms and asymptomatic cases are being accommodated in the Covid-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) at Adlux Convention Centre. Other patients with severe illnesses are being treated at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. It is estimated that around 80% of patients at each stage will be with mild symptoms while 15% will have moderate symptoms. Only five percentage of patients at each stage will have severe illnesses who require ICU care and ventilator support. As on Wednesday, the number of active cases in the district is 82. Number of positive cases reported on Monday and Tuesday were 13 each, which is the highest ever. Authorities will start measures to activate the facilities arranged for the next phase when the active cases in the district reaches 75% of the combined bed strength in Covid hospital (MCH) and CFLTC in the existing phase. The capacity of beds in the second stage, for example, is in the range of 50-300. Then, the authorities will start measures to operationalize other facilities planned for the third phase when the number of active cases touches 225, which is 75% of the total capacity in the second phase. In the third phase the number of active cases is in the range of 300-600. Then, a facility at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) will be taken over for accommodating those with mild symptoms. For the treatment of patients with moderate symptoms, AIIMS Community Centre, Njarackal, with 30-bed capacity will be introduced into the system. “We will go into the next phase on the basis of the number of active cases and saturation of existing facilities,” an official with the health department said. “We will start CFLTCs at taluk level when community spread starts and operationalize panchayat level CFLTCs when community spread increases,” the official said. “We have alerted the block panchayats, grama panchayats and other local bodies regarding this,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-readies-7-phase-plan-to-fight-covid/articleshow/76432011.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Auckland flight arrives with 116 passengers||MOHALI: An Air India flight from Auckland in New Zealand landed at the Chandigarh international airport with 116 passengers on board on Wednesday night under the Vande Bharat mission of the central government to rescue stranded Indians abroad. The flight landed at 9.40 pm, said a spokesperson of the Chandigarh International Airport Limited. He said the flight from Lagos, Nigeria, was cancelled due to operational reasons. The Auckland flight departed at 9.30 am and reached Delhi at 7 pm. After a halt of more than an hour, it departed for the city at 8.40 pm. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers will have to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts. A total of four flights — one each from the US and Ukraine, and two from Dubai — under the Vande Bharat mission have arrived at Chandigarh. A special flight of IndiGo from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh international airport on June 15. Out of 177 passengers, 168 passengers were from Punjab, two each from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh and one passenger from Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/auckland-flight-arrives-with-116-passengers/articleshow/76434141.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Lack of skilled workers hits JDA infrastructure projects||JAIPUR: Work at the Jaipur Development Authority’s (JDA) infrastructure projects which began after a gap of two months is struggling to gain momentum due to lack of skilled labourers. At many major projects, including Sodala and Jhotwara elevated road, work is moving at a snail’s pace as civic body is managing with only 20% of the skilled labourers. The JDA requires experienced and skilled hands for carrying out various works, including piling and handling heavy machinery and equipment, at these sites. While, finding a fresh set of skilled labourers remain a challenge, the JDA and contractors cannot even consider inexperienced ones to perform as it might lead to accidents. N C Mathur, chief engineer (projects) at JDA, said, “Once the borders were opened, the skilled labourers from eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal went back to their villages. The JDA has adequate infrastructure, however, in absence of labourers, the work can’t be accelerated. Constant attempts are being made to mobilise the labourers,” he said. The civic body is not only losing out on time but also expenditure on fixed assets. An engineer said, “A rig piling machines was mobilised (which cost high rent) at Jhotwara elevated road site. However, the operator went to his village. The JDA is facing a financial and time setback.” Sources said, it was difficult to retain these labourers after restrictions were eased. “During the entire lockdown, the JDA was having more than 180 skilled labourers at its site. At present, the civic body is left with 35 labourers against a required strength of minimum 250.” With no skilled labourers could be found in neighbouring states including Delhi, it appears construction work will take time to start off. “The company which has been awarded contract for Sodala is reputed with good number of manforce. It has also deployed more than 600 labourers in Delhi metro. But all these skilled people can’t be brought to Rajasthan from other sites as they migrated further,” said an official. As confusion prevails the lockdown could happen once again, the labourers are reluctant return back to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-skilled-workers-hits-jda-infra-projects/articleshow/76434161.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC & cops get tough, but data on fines for safety norms flout sketchy||HYDERABAD: While the state government has issued orders for imposing fines on those not wearing a mask, there is no consolidated data yet on number of such cases as both — the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and police — have been imposing fines. As per GHMC sources, fines amounting to nearly Rs 1.95 lakh have been collected in Kukaktpally zone while another Rs 1.06 lakh have been collected in Serilingampally. Elsewhere, Secunderabad has seen the least number of fines with only Rs 24,000 collected so far. Officials say fine collection has been low as the civic body’s staff has been stretched thin due to various coronavirus-related activities. Speaking to TOI, GHMC additional commissioner health B Santosh said that all efforts were being made to ensure people wear masks. “Fines are just being used as a deterrent. We are focusing on creating awareness by distributing lakhs of pamphlets and putting up boards in prominent areas,” he said. Sources also said that the low numbers were because the police were registering petty cases in this regard. “We have booked 2,376 petty cases till now on people who have not worn masks, with a fine of Rs 1,000 being imposed,” said Cyberabad police commissioner, VC Sajjanar. Stating that consolidated data must be made available by GHMC, activist Sai Teja said: “As per Section 565 of Hyderabad Municipal Act 1955, the GHMC commissioner may take special measures regarding the outbreak of any infectious disease and under Section 596, authorities must levy a fine for not wearing a mask.” Teja added that despite the government’s directions, fines were not being imposed strictly in all zones. “Cops are registering petty cases for violating the mask policy but the GHMC must do more as enforcement during a pandemic is the civic body’s responsibility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-cops-get-tough-but-data-on-fines-for-safety-norms-flout-sketchy/articleshow/76434142.cms||Uttara Varma
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Only 7 applications for UP teachers’ award so far||LUCKNOW: Only seven teachers have applied for the state teachers’ award given to primary and upper primary schoolteachers by the UP government every year on Teachers’ Day. For the first time, teachers were asked to self-nominate online on the Prerna portal. The award is for teachers who have made exemplary contribution. Online applications were invited from June 1 and the last date to apply is June 30. Till June 15, only seven teachers from seven districts have applied. Officials, however, refused to share the name of the districts from where applications have been submitted. Basic education director, Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh has asked all basic shiksha adhikaris to encourage more teachers to come forward and apply online for the award. Last year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, while felicitating 49 teachers during the Teachers’ Day ceremony, had shown his desire to felicitate 75 teachers, one from each district. He had also asked officials to make the selection process fair and transparent. The selection is based on two criteria — objective and performance. While the former will evaluate teachers objectively, the latter is based on teachers’ initiatives in improving learning outcomes, innovative experiments undertaken, use of teaching-learning material, social mobility etc. Only regular teachers and heads of government and aided primary and upper primary schools are eligible for the award. Teachers hired on contractual basis and shiksha mitras remain ineligible for the award. Teachers who nominate themselves must upload their portfolio which includes documents, reports of activities, tools, field visits and other relevant supporting material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-7-applications-for-up-teachers-award-so-far/articleshow/76434483.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu records 48 deaths in a day as cases zoom past 50,000-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 cases crossed the 50,000-mark on Wednesday as fresh infections rose again after dipping for the past two days. The official toll touched 576 with 48 deaths recorded. Chennai had 1,276 of the 2,174 fresh cases that took the state tally to 50,193. Announcing more stringent measures, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said streets in corporation or municipal areas of state will be marked as containment zones if there are three index cases (or households) in the area against the earlier five. In rural areas, an entire village will be made a containment zone if there are three index cases. “This will help us bring down the infection rate particularly during the intense lockdown phase in Chennai. Fever clinics will be screening more people and tests will be ramped up,” he said. The concern for the health department is the rising death toll. In two days (since June 15), the state logged 97 deaths, 79 of them in Chennai. “We are augmenting infrastructure and human resource to catch people early and prevent deaths. We are planning to double the number of Covid-19 beds in RGGGH and Stanley Hospital,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Ten people whose deaths were registered on Wednesday had no comorbidities. In what could be an indicator of late diagnosis, seven people died within 24 hours of admission. There were 35 people above the age of 60 years, three of them in their 20s and a couple of them in their 30s. The youngest was a 21- year-old man and the oldest was 90. One patient who had died on June 3 at a private hospital in Chengalpet was added to the death register on Wednesday. The 41-year-old man did not have any comorbidities..  On Wednesday, barring Ariyalur, Erode, Perambalur and Tiruppur, all other districts reported cases. As usual, Chennai’s neighbours saw the most cases. Chengalpet reported 162 cases while Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded 61 and 90 new cases, respectively. The rise in fresh cases was relatively low in western Tamil Nadu. Erode district didn’t have a case for the fifth consecutive day, while other western districts barring Salem and Dharmapuri had cases only in single digits. Salem continued to top the list among western districts, adding 25 fresh cases on Wednesday while neighbouring Dharmapuri reported ten. Nilgiris had only five new cases but the rise is considered steep since the district had reported only 17 cases till Tuesday. Incidentally, Nilgiris has one of the highest testing rates in the state at 9,695 tested per million. Down south, Tuticorin reported 50 new cases, followed by Madurai with 27. Central TN had reason to cheer as Ariyalur and Perambalur, the two districts which saw an exponential rise, had zero cases. Even other central districts such as Trichy, Pudukottai and Karur had cases only in single digits. At the end of the day, 842 people were discharged and 21,990 were still under treatment. So far, 27,624 patients have recovered. TN tested 24,621 people in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-records-48-deaths-in-a-day-as-cases-zoom-past-50000-mark/articleshow/76434165.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 18, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu records 48 deaths in a day as cases zoom past 50,000-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 cases crossed the 50,000-mark on Wednesday as fresh infections rose again after dipping for the past two days. The official toll touched 576 with 48 deaths recorded. Chennai had 1,276 of the 2,174 fresh cases that took the state tally to 50,193. Announcing more stringent measures, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said streets in corporation or municipal areas of state will be marked as containment zones if there are three index cases (or households) in the area against the earlier five. In rural areas, an entire village will be made a containment zone if there are three index cases. “This will help us bring down the infection rate particularly during the intense lockdown phase in Chennai. Fever clinics will be screening more people and tests will be ramped up,” he said. The concern for the health department is the rising death toll. In two days (since June 15), the state logged 97 deaths, 79 of them in Chennai. “We are augmenting infrastructure and human resource to catch people early and prevent deaths. We are planning to double the number of Covid-19 beds in RGGGH and Stanley Hospital,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Ten people whose deaths were registered on Wednesday had no comorbidities. In what could be an indicator of late diagnosis, seven people died within 24 hours of admission. There were 35 people above the age of 60 years, three of them in their 20s and a couple of them in their 30s. The youngest was a 21- year-old man and the oldest was 90. One patient who had died on June 3 at a private hospital in Chengalpet was added to the death register on Wednesday. The 41-year-old man did not have any comorbidities..  On Wednesday, barring Ariyalur, Erode, Perambalur and Tiruppur, all other districts reported cases. As usual, Chennai’s neighbours saw the most cases. Chengalpet reported 162 cases while Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded 61 and 90 new cases, respectively. The rise in fresh cases was relatively low in western Tamil Nadu. Erode district didn’t have a case for the fifth consecutive day, while other western districts barring Salem and Dharmapuri had cases only in single digits. Salem continued to top the list among western districts, adding 25 fresh cases on Wednesday while neighbouring Dharmapuri reported ten. Nilgiris had only five new cases but the rise is considered steep since the district had reported only 17 cases till Tuesday. Incidentally, Nilgiris has one of the highest testing rates in the state at 9,695 tested per million. Down south, Tuticorin reported 50 new cases, followed by Madurai with 27. Central TN had reason to cheer as Ariyalur and Perambalur, the two districts which saw an exponential rise, had zero cases. Even other central districts such as Trichy, Pudukottai and Karur had cases only in single digits. At the end of the day, 842 people were discharged and 21,990 were still under treatment. So far, 27,624 patients have recovered. TN tested 24,621 people in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-records-48-deaths-in-a-day-as-cases-zoom-past-50000-mark/articleshow/76441268.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Col B Santosh Babu’s kin fight back tears, say it was call of duty at border||SURYAPET: The Covid-19 lockdown made it difficult for Col B Santosh Babu, commanding officer, 18 Bihar Regiment, to report back to his work after his leave ended, but such was the urgent need that special arrangements were made by the Indian Army to fly him back to Leh. Col Santosh Babu was in Delhi with his family just a day before lockdown was announced in March. But because of the lockdown, he enquired with higher-ups if he could extend his leave as he would not be able to travel in a lockdown situation. But the situation on the border, the higher-ups felt, needed Col Santosh Babu and his regiment to take positions and be on alert. “It was the call of duty and he responded to it. Special arrangements were made to fly him back to the border more than a month ago,” said Thalleda Venkateshwar, his father-in-law. But on the night of June 15, in the clash between the Indian army and the PLA of China, 38-year-old Col Santosh Babu was killed. Venkateshwar, a retired government school teacher, could not muster the courage to speak to his daughter Santoshi after the death of his son-in-law. “My daughter also did not call to speak to me out of concern for my health. It is important for us to comfort our daughter, but I am utterly at a loss for words at the loss of my son-in-law who was more like a son to me,” Venkateshwar said. “Such was his great heart that when we were getting our daughter married to him, he was dismissive of any talk about dowry,” he recalled. Col Santosh Babu’s sister Shruti is distraught. “I also wanted to follow in the footsteps of my brother and join the army but I could not go ahead with it because of various reasons,” Shruti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cols-kin-fight-back-tears-say-it-was-call-of-duty-at-border/articleshow/76434156.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 18, 2020||Goa||Aleixo wants strong border surveillance||Margao: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has demanded that surveillance at the state’s borders be stepped up in view of a video that has gone viral about a man boasting about his illegal entry into Goa from Karnataka. In the video, the man claims that he has entered Goa from the Karnataka border by skipping the checking system at the checkposts. “The said person in the Youtube video claims that he has paid Rs 2,300 for crossing the border and Rs 500 to a Bolero vehicle driver to drop him in Margao from the Karnataka border. As the coronavirus cases are soaring with each passing day in Goa, Goemkars are aghast to learn from the said video that there is absolutely no checking being done at our borders like the sideways, forest areas, waterways (rivers) with neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. And people are entering Goa by bribing the so called agents,” the Congress legislator said. He has also demanded an inquiry should into the case of illegal entry of the non-Goan into Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-wants-strong-border-surveillance/articleshow/76434171.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||HC closes plea for CBI probe into alleged custodial death||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday closed a petition filed by a man seeking CBI probe into the alleged custodial death of his father at Madurai. A Anand, a resident of Madurai, said that his father Alagar, 65, was a real estate broker. Alagar acted as a mediator for executing a sale deed to sell a property between two private parties in Madurai. Since a dispute arose between them, one of the private parties preferred a complaint before the central crime branch (CCB) unit which is situated inside the campus of the Madurai city police commissioner’s office. Anand said that on June 11, his father informed him that he was going to the CCB office for an inquiry. At around 7.30pm, he received a call from an advocate who accompanied his father, stating that his father had died and his body is kept at the Government Rajaji Hospital.Claiming that his father died due to alleged police excess, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to register a case in connection with his father’s death and sought to entrust the investigation to CBI for impartial investigation. When the petition was taken up for hearing, the state government informed the court that a case was registered under 174 CrPC and the Melur revenue divisional officer is conducting an inquiry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-alleged-custodial-death/articleshow/76434169.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Bodies in patient wards: Delhi government & LNJP differ||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Thursday denied before the Supreme Court reports about dead bodies of Covid-19 patients being kept inside wards, but it was contradicted by LNJP Hospital that admitted the lapse. Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla and LNJP director Dr Suresh Kumar filed separate affidavits as directed by the apex court while taking suo motu cognisance of a media report about bodies being kept inside patient wards. Referring to stinging observations made earlier by a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah, the government said, “It is denied that dead bodies were kept alongside patients, in lobby and waiting areas.” It said there were clear standard operating procedures for handling bodies and taking them to the mortuary. However, the LNJP director accepted in his affidavit that bodies were kept inside patient wards and said, “We humbly accept a few shortcomings in managing dead bodies. In future, this type of incident will not happen.” The director of the largest dedicated Covid hospital in north India, with a capacity of 2,000 beds, pinned the blame on a contractual health worker who shot the video on his mobile phone. “A contract worker, who was not willing to do Covid patient care duty and did not want to touch bodies, made the video. Disciplinary action has been initiated against him and a detailed inquiry has been ordered into the episode,” he said. Dr Kumar said sanitising bodies took time. Moreover, on June 10, the lift was not working, resulting in delay in shifting bodies to the mortuary, he added. However, he said the hospital was doing its best in fighting the pandemic despite having its back to the wall as far as morale of healthcare workers was concerned. “Covid-19 is a deadly disease and most employees fear that they may get infected. So, this is actually a very difficult time for the hospital to keep employees motivated. As many as 72 doctors/nurses/healthcare workers have been infected by Covid-19. This shows how difficult it is to manage coronavirus patients and dead bodies as there is psychological fear in healthcare workers. In spite of this, LNJP is excelling in coronavirus patient care,” Dr Kumar said. “LNJP has done outstanding work in India in managing Covid-19 patients since March 17 despite losing two healthcare workers, one ICU technician and another staff to the disease. Over 3,000 Covid positive or suspect patients have been admitted to the hospital, of which 2,013 have been treated and discharged,” he added. Delhi government, in its affidavit, said there was enough burial and cremation facilities available with the three municipal corporations. The SC asked the state government to detail its patient discharge SOP during the hearing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bodies-in-patient-wards-delhi-govt-lnjp-differ/articleshow/76434131.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools asked to get thermal scanners two days before exam||JAIPUR: The Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner, has issued orders that all exam centres need to have thermal screening facilities and have asked teachers to write to medical department for providing the same. The order was issued on Tuesday, two days before RBSE exams resume. Government teachers, however, said it was almost an impossible task to get thermal scanner in such huge quantities from the medical department which is already under pressure. A government school principal said they were ordered to write a letter to the chief medical & health officer (CMHO) to provide the thermal scanners, but nothing had been done till June 17. “We simply followed the orders and have written to CMHO to provide us with thermal scanners. In urban areas, we can still expect it to be fulfilled, but in rural areas it is not possible. Already medical department is in dire need of thermal scanners. It will not be feasible for them to provide us scanners in such large numbers,” the principal said. The remaining exams of Classes X and XII will be conducted from June 18 to 30 in around 6,000 exam centres. A senior government education officer said, “We have written to all the teachers for taking precautions. There are enough scanners with the medical department so I think they will be able to provide us for a few hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-asked-to-get-thermal-scanners-two-days-before-exam/articleshow/76434149.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Surat||Bharuch crosses 100 mark||Bharuch/Surat: Covid-19 cases in Bharuch district crossed 100 figure mark after seven people from Jambusar taluka tested positive on Wednesday. Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic medical officer (EMO), Bharuch told TOI: “In all, there are 105 positive cases in the district. Majority of those testing positive have travel history to Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai.” Health officials said that 65 samples of people having travel history to Ahmedabad and Surat were taken. There of 40 Covid-19 cases in Navsari. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-crosses-100-mark/articleshow/76432012.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 42-year-old man shoots mother-in-law||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old man allegedly shot his mother-in-law because he resented her interfering in his personal matters, at her residence in the Rambagh locality of Maninagar on Wednesday morning. Police said the accused, Ashish Desai, who is in the construction materials business, had on Tuesday night tried calling his wife, Varsha, as it was her birthday, but she did not answer his call. He assumed that his mother-in-law, Rajrani Desai, had prevented Varsha from talking to him and this triggered the attack on her. According to the FIR filed with Maninagar police, Varsha and Rajrani were at their home in Mehta Avenue Flats, when Ashish, a resident of Srushti Apartments in Maninagar, rushed there and began abusing his mother-in-law. As Varsha protested, he took out his licensed revolver and fired three rounds at his Rajrani. She suffered bullet wounds to her right elbow. She was taken to LG Hospital in Maninagar where she in being treated. Inspector Suresh Desai of Maninagar police said that Rajrani’s condition is stable and she did not suffer a life-threatening wound. “Ashish had various vices due to which the couple had fights very often. Some 25 days ago, Varsha and Ashish had a fight and she had gone to her mother’s place. This did not go well with Ashish who believed that his mother-in-law was interfering too much in his life and he decided to kill her,” he said. Maninagar police sent the accused for a Covid-19 test after which he will be arrested. He has been charged with attempted murder and offences under the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-shoots-mother-in-law/articleshow/76433218.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to invite tenders for overbridge design||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is all set to invite tenders to appoint consultancy for preparing a design for the railway overbridge (RoB) proposed to be constructed at the Civil Lines railway crossing. The Rs 75-crore project is expected to have three legs with the first one being proposed from DLB road. A senior official said, “The tender document has been completed and will appoint the firm soon. As per initial proposal, the flyover would be 650 metres long.” The proposal to construct the RoB was initiated during the previous tenure too, but was shelved citing security reasons. To reduce traffic near the crossing, JDA had decided to construct an RoB on the crossing in 2012. The decision was taken after the appointed consultancy firm submitted the feasibility report. “The JDA had appointed Rambol Consulting Engineering Limited, a Kolkata-based company, to carry out a feasibility report. The firm had submitted six options,” said a source. The JDA official said, “Out of these six options, the JDA had found that construction of an RoB from Jamnalal Bajaj Marg to Jacob Road was the most feasible option. The proposal had to be sent to the chief minister for final approval as it was proposed to be constructed near the chief minister’s and governor’s residences. However, the UDH department did not move the proposal.” In the previous report, it was proposed that the RoB over the railway line had to be constructed with a 60-degree curve. However, many opposed the move as giving such a sharp turn could have raised the possibilities of accident on the overbridge. Shifting the police outpost and water tank situated near the track was also challenged at that time. Sources said, “These structures will not be considered in the new design as JDA has plan to shift them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-invite-tenders-for-overbridge-design/articleshow/76434182.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mumbai||Day 1 sees RTOs get 250 learner’s licence requests in Mumbai||MUMBAI: RTOs across Maharashtra finally opened the licence section on Wednesday. Mumbai offices got more than 250 appointments for learner’s licence on Day One. Of these, only 50 will be called to Tardeo RTO in the island city for the learner’s licence tests which start on Thursday. The other RTOs, including Wadala (eastern suburbs) and Andheri and Borivli (western suburbs) will start tests on Monday, sources said. “On Wednesday. we cleaned and sanitized the premises where tests will be conducted. This included the waiting area for candidates and the computer desk for exams,” said Pradeep Shinde, who heads Tardeo RTO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-1-sees-rtos-get-250-learners-licence-requests/articleshow/76433085.cms||Somit Sen
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Mayawati supports Centre, says India will do right thing at the right time||LUCKNOW: At a time when Opposition parties are questioning the Centre on the China-India faceoff which claimed the lives of at least 20 Indian soldiers, BSP president Mayawati came out in the Centre’s support saying she is confident that the government will take the right step at the right time. She also appealed to people to overlook the government’s shortcomings at this time and stand in solidarity. Calling the killing of Indian soldiers, including a Colonel, during the skirmish with Chinese forces in Ladakh “extremely unfortunate”, Mayawati said: “The provocation has come at a time when the government is making efforts to resolve border dispute and tensions between the two countries.” Urging the government to exercise extreme caution and meticulously plan its next step, she said, “The country believes that the government will take the right step at the right time to preserve the country’s dignity and will not allow anyone to usurp even an inch of Indian land. It would be better that people forget about the government’s shortcomings and unite at this delicate time. This is the time for the government to prove its mettle and meet people’s expectations.” Mayawati has also been largely endorsing the steps being taken by the government to tackle Covid-19, even blaming the Congress for the migrant crisis that led lakhs of people to return to their native places in last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-supports-centre-says-india-will-do-right-thing-at-the-right-time/articleshow/76434616.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Col Bikumalla Santosh Babu's death: Suryapet sinks into mourning||SURYAPET: The body of Col Bikumalla Santosh Babu who died in a clash between the Indian Army and PLA of China, was brought to Hyderabad from Leh late on Wednesday evening. The last rites will be performed in Suryapet town on Thursday morning with full military honours.  Col Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi along with her children, daughter Abhigna, 8, and son Anirudh Teja, 3, who earlier during the day arrived by a flight at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, went to Air Force Station, Hakimpet where she received the body of her slain husband. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, IT minister K T Rama Rao, GOC, Telangana and Andhra Sub Area, Maj Gen R K Singh were among those who laid wreaths and paid tributes. The body was sent to Suryapet in an ambulance. In Suryapet town, Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy and his wife, former MLA Padmavathi met Col Santosh Babu’s parents Upendar and Manjula and expressed their condolences to the family. The PCC chief also handed over condolence letters from Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. In the letter to his wife Santoshi, Sonia Gandhi said: “I am deeply grieved at the loss of your husband Colonel Santosh, who lost his life defending our motherland. His sacrifice, his patriotism and his bravery will never be forgotten and we will always honour his memory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suryapet-sinks-into-mourning/articleshow/76434167.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana intermediate results to be out today||HYDERABAD: Telangana education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy will declare the intermediate results at 3 p.m on Thursday. The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) had completed the evaluation process and had submitted a report to the education minister on June 16 to decide the date and time for releasing the results. The announcement came following the TSBIE secretary Omar Jaleel’s meeting with the education minister on Wednesday evening. Every year, intermediate results are declared by the third or fourth week of April. This is the first time that the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education is releasing the result in June due to Covid-19 pandemic that led to delay in evaluation. Close to nine lakh students had appeared for class 11 and class 12 exams. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intermediate-results-to-be-out-today/articleshow/76434192.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Business||Natco Pharma FY20 net falls 29%||Hyderabad: Pharma player Natco Pharma Ltd on Wednesday said that Covid-19 as well as a continued decline in its Hepatitis-C portfolio and pricing pressures in the oncology segment sent its consolidated net profit for the financial year ended March 31, 2020, tumbling 29% to Rs 458 crore as against Rs 642.4 crore in the previous year. This was on a 9% decline in consolidated total revenue to Rs 2,022.4 crore for financial year 2019-20 from Rs 2224.7 crore in 2018-19. For the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2020, the Hyderabad-based pharma player registered a nearly 23% fall in consolidated profit after tax at Rs 93.2 crore as compared to Rs 120.4 crore in the corresponding quarter of last year. The consolidated net revenue of the company slipped a marginal 2% for Q4FY20 to Rs 477.2 crore as against Rs 486.7 crore during Q4 FY19. Natco Pharma said it faced a slowdown in business operations during Q4FY20 on account of supply chain issues related to Covid-19, which were subsequently resolved. According to the company, while formulations exports accounted for revenue of Rs 825 crore during FY20, domestic formulations contributed Rs 540.5 crore and APIs Rs 355 crore. The company said its board of directors has recommended a fourth interim dividend of Rs 1 per equity share of Rs 2 each, which works out to a total dividend payout of Rs 6.75 per equity share for the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/natco-pharma-fy20-net-falls-29/articleshow/76433139.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Trichy||NIRF: Colleges in dists say there’s no level-playing field||Trichy: While National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020 was released last week, some of the institutions felt that there was no level playing field for arts and science colleges. Comparing colleges in the metropolitan cities with that in Trichy or in a small district is unfair as it doesn’t give level playing fields for colleges. In 2018, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College (SRC) Trichy managed to make it into the rank band of 150-200 in the NIRF Ranking. While this government aided arts and science college improved its performance in 2019 by making it into the rank band of 100-150, this year it was nowhere within 200 ranks. R Padmavathy, principal, SRC said that they don’t get students from other countries or other states. Same is the case with any college in small districts. Region diversity is a significant parameter in the ranking process. “But we are certainly doing a good job in terms of getting students from their neighbouring districts where there are no colleges. We still get first generation students to the higher education system from across 12 districts. Institutions that cater to the needs of rural students with optimum resources should be considered,” she said. Some government-aided colleges expressed their concern about the delay in getting approval for filling regular faculty positions from the state government. A government-aided college said that half of its sanctioned regular faculty positions are vacant which is adversely reflecting in the ranking as the quality of publications also goes down. “NIRF scoring strategy gives weightage for male to female ratio equivalence. There is no clear indication of how they will deal with all-girls or women's college. In which case, how would they deal with men's college,” said D Prasanna Balaji, director and head, department of physical education and sports sciences, National College Trichy (NCT).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nirf-colleges-in-dists-say-theres-no-level-playing-field/articleshow/76434754.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: More deaths, Telangana’s mortality rate spikes||HYDERABAD: Telangana has catapulted to the fourth spot in Covid-19 mortality rate in the country. Only Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh stand above Telangana in the high mortality rate (HMR) in coronavirus positive (confirmed) cases. Thanks to the sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases (5,675 as on June 17) after easing of lockdown guidelines and sharp increase in casualties (192 as on June 17), the state has leapfrogged the HMR charts in the last few days, officials said. The state’s mortality rate at 3.84% is higher than the country’s average of 2.87%. As per the data available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, only Gujarat (6.28%), West Bengal (4.33%) and MP (4.20%) have higher mortality rates than Telangana. A senior health official admitted that the state has a higher mortality rate. “We are conducting Covid tests on symptomatic patients. Of late, the death toll among the confirmed positive cases has been high,” he said. According to the statistics of the Union ministry of health, though Delhi and Maharashtra have been recording a large number of positive cases and deaths, the mortality rate is less when compared to Telangana which is recording a higher mortality rate in confirmed cases. Delhi’s mortality rate is 3.26% with 1,271 deaths and Maharashtra’s is 3.66% with 3,830 deaths. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is one of the few states which recorded the lowest mortality rate at 1.43%. In the last couple of weeks, Telangana has been recording positive cases in excess of 200 every day and deaths in double digits. With criticism mounting, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said his government would conduct 50,000 tests in 30 assembly constituencies in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sangareddy districts. The CM even claimed the government has been handling the coronavirus pandemic way better than several other states. The three states of Gujarat, West Bengal and MP have been conducting more Covid tests than Telangana. West Bengal conducted 3.24 lakh tests in the last couple of months whereas Telangana has been cagey on the number of tests done so far. So much so, it has not even furnished details on the tests for a million population and positivity rate to the Centre, sources said. On the recovery percentage of total positive cases, Telangana has 49.65% recovery. As many as 13 states have a better recovery rate among patients infected with coronavirus. States like Punjab and Rajasthan have 75% recovery, while Uttar Pradesh 60% and AP has 53.90% recovery. “The state government is taking measures to combat the pandemic. As per the ICMR survey, there is no community transmission in Telangana, which is a huge relief,” a senior government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-deaths-ts-mortality-rate-spikes/articleshow/76434184.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 18, 2020||Surat||Now, Aadhaar card must to get free five saplings||Surat: Next time you want a sapling or a bigger plant free-of-cost from the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), you need to submit your Aadhaar card details and upload the pictures of the planted sapling in your courtyard, garden or open space, on the SMC’s mobile application.This system has been introduced by the civic body to prevent misuse and to ensure that the saplings reaches people who genuinely want to help increase Surat’s green cover. Official sources said that the civic body has started a special tree plantation drive across the city during the monsoon season. While over 1 lakh saplings will be distributed to the residents, the civic body will be planting over 2.5 lakh tree saplings on its own in the open plots and public places across the city. Talking with TOI, garden superintendent of SMC, S J Gautam said, “In the past, there have been incidents where people would procure free saplings and would sell them to private nurseries. In many cases people were found not taking proper care of the saplings and even planting them in their native places out of the city.” According to Gautam, over 20,000 tree saplings have been distributed free-of-cost to the residents since June 5. Five tree saplings are given to the residents on one Aadhaar card. The distribution of the saplings will continue till September 15. Environmentalist from Nature Club Surat (NCS), Snehal Patel told TOI, “The Aadhaar card system for the free saplings is a welcome move. This will prevent the misuse and that genuine people will come forward for planting the trees.” According to the last tree census conducted in 2013, the Surat district had 14 lakh trees with the city alone accounting for about 3.48 lakh trees. The existing tree cover is considered insufficient as the ideal ratio is one tree per three persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-aadhaar-card-must-to-get-free-five-saplings/articleshow/76432026.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Biggest single-day spike, maximum deaths in past 24 hours||LUCKNOW: As many as 591 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in 24 hours. This is the highest single-day spike in UP. Earlier, the highest figure of 538 was reported on June 12. The total number of Covid patients crossed the 15k mark to reach 15,198 in the state. “In 24 hours, 591 new cases of infection have been reported from various districts of the state. With this, the total number of active coronavirus infection cases in the state has reached 5,477,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Prasad also stated that the state had achieved the 16,000 tests per day mark. “The total number of tests done in 24 hours was 16,149 which doesn’t include the data of pool testing. We now look forward to achieving the goal of 20,000 tests a day set by the CM,” he said. As per the bulletin, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 51 cases, while Lucknow saw 73 cases in 24 hours. Of the cases in Lucknow, 66 were reported by the chief medical officer on Tuesday evening, while the rest were recorded on Wednesday. Meerut and Ghaziabadfollowed with 44 and 37 entries. Prasad stated that the state’s recovery rate remained 61% even on Wednesday. “In all, 337 persons have been discharged from hospitals since Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,239. Thus, the recovery percentage remains around 61 per cent,” he said. The health department chief further stated that the Covid-19 toll list grew by 30 in 24 hours, taking the total to 465. The maximum number of deaths in a single day were also recorded on Wednesday. Health officials said that 30 Covid-19 related deaths had been reported in different districts. As many as 15 of the 30 deaths were reported in Meerut, taking the total number of casualties in the district to 77 which is now highest in the state. Agra, which saw three deaths and a total of 72, is now at the second spot. Four persons succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Ghaziabad, taking the district's total to 26. One death each was reported in Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi, Rampur, Hapur, Bahraich, Gonda, Bhadohi and Mainpuri. Stating that ASHA workers were constantly in touch with workers and visiting their homes to know about their well-being, Prasad said: “So far, they have tracked 17,50,583 workers. Out of these, symptoms have been found in 1,485 people and their samples are being tested. Taking forward the work of surveillance, 94,63,756 houses have been surveyed till date.” Other districts which saw double digit entries included Gorakhpur (21), Basti (20) Ghazipur (19), Agra (18), Mainpuri (15),Bulandshahr (17), Aligarh (17), Moradabad (17), Firozabad (16), Maharajganj (14), Rampur (13), Kanpur (13), Kushinagar (12),Baghpat (12), Chandauli (12), Sambhal (11), Mahoba (10) and Auraiyya (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biggest-single-day-spikemax-deaths-in-past-24-hrs/articleshow/76434662.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Confusion over P1/P2 norm puzzles traders||PUNE: The confusion over reopening shops following the P1/P2 system puzzled several traders on Wednesday, a day after most of the wholesale markets in Peth areas were granted permission to resume business. Shops on the either side of bylanes of Laxmi Road and other important streets opened in the morning, prompting action by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police officers. After deliberations, a formula was drawn about shops remaining open on the northern and southern sides of roads alternatively. Pankaj Oswal, a utensils trader from Raviwar Peth, said, “There was lack of clarity about P1/P2. Shops were open on both sides of roads in areas like Bohri Ali, Raviwar Peth, Guruwar Peth and others. We unanimously decided to keep shutters half-open of shops on one side of the road. I believe that trade associations in most areas are yet to decide on shops on which side of roads will remain open on which days. It must be decided mutually by shopkeepers.” The P1/P2 system for shops’ operations would be same as the parking norms followed in the city. Shops on one side of the road would be under the P1 category and remain open on odd dates. Likewise, shops on the other side of the road would be under the P2 category and operate on even dates. On FC Road, shops on the right side (Vaishali side) remain open these days on even dates, while those on the left side (Fergusson College side) remain open on odd dates. Some traders claimed that shopkeepers across the previously sealed areas, including Sonya Maruti Chowk, Vijay Maruti Chowk, Moti Chowk and Bohri Ali, opened establishments around 9.30am on Wednesday. “The police had to intervene and inform traders that it was an odd date, and only P1 shops could remain open. Later, the police allowed shops on the P2 side to pull shutters half-down and clean them,” said Akshay Patil, a customer. Footwear dealer Murtuza Poonawalla, whose shop is close to Pasodya Vithoba Mandir, said, “I am glad that traders are following the P1/P2 norm and other guidelines, and hope that markets will not be closed again.” Sumit Shah, a visitor to Peth areas, said, “At Laxmi Road, shops on only one of its sides were open. But shops on both sides of roads were open in most of the bylanes around it and some adjoining areas.” The secretary of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune, Mahendra Pitaliya, said, “When the shops initially started practising P1/P2, there was some confusion. Things will streamline in a day or two.” Pitaliya said the FTAP expressed its displeasure to the PMC over the spare parts market in Nana Peth, and the iron and steel market not being permitted to reopen on Wednesday. “The plans were changed at the last moment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confusion-over-p1/p2-norm-puzzles-traders/articleshow/76434177.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan University yet to act on warden facing corruption charges||JAIPUR: A committee formed by Rajasthan University to look into the allegations of mismanagement and corruption against the warden of Gokhale hostel of Maharaja College has failed to come up with any results even after three months of its formation. The panel was formed after the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sent a letter to RU vice chancellor R K Kothari and state government officials to take action against the warden. Students of Gokhale hostel after exhausting all options in Rajasthan had lodged a complaint against warden H S Palsania with the NHRC that their hostel lacked basic facilities. The complaint said the hostel had choked toilets, no clean drinking water, improper facilities in mess and misappropriation of hostel funds. The NHRC completed its own investigation found most of the claims made by students to be correct. Directions were issued to Rajasthan University and education officials of state government in January to take appropriate action and file a report within six weeks i.e. March 17, 2020. Kothari promptly removed H.S.Palsania from the position and set up a committee. Interestingly, Palsania continues to be the chief proctor of the university. A teacher said, “The chief proctor is responsible for all student-related issues. When NHRC has found that there are incidences of mismanagement in the hostel and Palsania was removed from the post of warden, how is that person is still eligible to be chief proctor of the university? A committee formed by university syndicate should be formed for proper results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-yet-to-act-on-warden-facing-corruption-charges/articleshow/76434196.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to rescue three missing fishermen||Madurai: A habeas corpus petition (HCP) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to rescue three Rameswaram fishermen who went missing after their boat capsized. Sahaya Denis Reejan, joint coordinator of Tamil Nadu Meenavar Urimai Padukappu Iyakkam at Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district, stated that after the lockdown conditions were relaxed, several fishermen ventured into sea for fishing, in nearly 800 mechanised boats on June 13. Since one boat did not return to the shore, the owner of the boat reported to the authorities that four fishermen - Reshin Baskar, Malarvannan, Austin Sujinder and Cheshu were missing. He stated that the fishermen also staged a protest in front of the fisheries department office on June 15, seeking to deploy helicopters to search and rescue the missing fishermen. However, no steps were taken. Meanwhile, fishermen from Pudukottai district rescued Cheshu on June 16, who informed that their boat had capsized and he managed to hold on to the wreckage. Cheshu had also told that the remaining three fishermen would be alive and can be saved if immediate steps are taken by the Centre and state to rescue them. Reejan stated that though he had submitted a representation to the central and state governments to conduct a search operation by deploying Air Force helicopters and naval vessels, no steps were taken so far. So, he filed the petition. It is likely to be taken up for hearing this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-rescue-three-missing-fishermen/articleshow/76434202.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Passengers throw covid caution off-track||BHOPAL: In spite of the rising Covid-19 cases, social distancing seems to have gone for a toss at Bhopal and Habibganj stations. TOI team visited both stations and found a casual approach to the Covid pandemic which is spreading at a fast pace. Just two weeks after special trains started following a stoppage of services due to the pandemic, people have cast aside all fears. When the Jan Shatabdi reached Bhopal station around 11 am from Jabalpur, passengers alighting from the train were found moving about normally, not taking care to follow social distancing. When asked precautions like wearing marks, a passenger reacted, “Are you seriously asking me about wearing it? Look inside the coaches. No one even is following anything. People are not wearing masks.” Interestingly, on June 1, when the first Jan Shatabdi from Jabalpur reached Habibganj, cops were seen instructing passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The situation was no different when the same train left Habibganj station in the evening. “We are asked to stand in a queue for screening. The way people are standing close to each other has forced me to believe that Covid has left the city and everything is now normal,” said Anand Sahu, a passenger. After being thermal screened, it was a free-for-all situation as passengers were loitering like pre-Covid days. It was a similar scene at Bhopal station too. Here, the only difference was that doctors were found asking the passengers to keep wearing masks, but again, social distancing was not being followed. A passenger said, “I had visited the same station on June 1 when trains were started. On that day, everyone appeared serious. Now, circles are still there on the platform, but no one seems to be bothered about it.” While boarding the train also, passengers hardly cared to follow social distancing. “It is true that passengers are themselves not serious about them. Despite several instructions, they continued flouting the norms,” said an official without quoting his name. The situation inside the coaches was even worse. Passengers were spotted removing their masks immediately after entering their respective coaches. “Whatever formality was left is limited to the thermal screening only. I think the railways has also realised that people are not ready to follow the social distancing and other norms. So they have also limited their work to thermal screening,” said a senior railway official. PRO, Bhopal railway division, IA Siddique said, “Railway has nothing to do with the facilities of thermal screening and such others. It is being done by the district administration only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/passengers-throw-covid-caution-off-track/articleshow/76433153.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Collector asks oil firm to expedite Kochi gas project||KOCHI: In a proactive step to expedite the works on city gas project, the district collector has asked Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt Ltd (IOAGPL) to come up with a proper schedule to give 40,000 piped natural gas (PNG) connections in the district within five or six months. Meanwhile, IOAGPL has started efforts to get extension for the project, the deadline of which is in October, 2020. TOI had on Monday carried an article regarding the slow pace of the project, which was launched in October 14, 2015. In the past four-and-a-half years, IOAGPL could give less than 2,000 connections whereas it should have given around 40,000 connections as per target. On Tuesday, collector S Suhas summoned IOAGPL officials and sought clarification for inordinate delay on their part in implementing the project. Then, the officials said that there were various reasons for the delay, including shortage of workers due to the lockdown and subsequent restrictions. Even though the lockdown has been eased, labourers who mainly hail from other states are not available, the officials said. In the next three months also, there may not be much progress in the work due to rain and shortage of workers. “The district collector has asked us to prepare a schedule for completing the project. We should give 40,000 PNG connections and set up 50 compressed natural gas (CNG) outlets as part of the city gas project. We will submit a report to the district collector in this regard in consultation with our head office,” an official with IOAGPL said. Efforts for seeking nod from Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) for giving extension for completing the project have also been made. According to IOAGPL officials, many man-hours were lost due to various reasons like floods in 2018 and 2019. “We expect that there will be a positive response from PNGRB,” an IOAGPL official said. According to IOAGPL officials, though the agency could give just 1,900 PNG connections so far, it has completed the plumbing works in around 15,000 households in various local bodies in Kochi. “Moreover, we have laid pipeline for supplying PNG. We have also started seven CNG outlets and work on another eight is progressing. So, we will be able to achieve the target without much delay,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collector-asks-oil-firm-to-expedite-city-gas-project/articleshow/76432041.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pvt hospitals resent new Covid tariff, seek amends||HYDERABAD: Though the state fixed the tariff for testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients in the private sector two days ago, these health facilities are still hesitant about accepting patients based on the new tariff, said sources. In fact, representatives of private hospitals have sought an appointment with Telangana health authorities on Thursday to seek clarity on the new rule. “When you want to have quality service, it cannot be done at a loss. We are already at a loss due to Covid-19 wards, where social distancing norms means less number of beds and increased expenditure on PPEs as well as keeping staff on quarantine. The hospital runs round the clock and even though at any given point of time half the staff is in quarantine, we still have to pay salaries to the entire staff. The tariff is just not feasible,” a representative of a corporate hospital said. “If the government forces hospitals to accept it (the cap), the latter may just say they don’t have beds available and turn away patients,” added another senior member of the industry. According to experts capping the tariff isn’t a solution. Instead, the focus should be on health insurance, the Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals’ Association president, Dr Bhaskar Rao said stressing the need to make insurance mandatory. “People land themselves in trouble with faulty lifestyle and habits. As a result, health problems and diseases, including infections like Covid-19 spread. The solution is to create awareness about following precautionary measures like wearing masks, observing social distancing norms and staying indoors. Under such a circumstance, health insurance is the only solution and not a price cap,” he added. The association will meet health authorities to press for doing away with the capping policy. “We don’t know what’s on the government’s mind. We need to talk about whether capping is applicable to certain patients like those below poverty line, or is it for the general ward, single room etc,” Dr Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-hospitals-resent-new-covid-tariff-seek-amends/articleshow/76434200.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Ahead of RS polls, BJP resorts to dinner diplomacy||BHOPAL: With just a day left for the Rajya Sabha election in the state, BJP resorted to dinner diplomacy on Wednesday by inviting its MLAs and those from non-Congress parties and independents at the state party office. Polling for the three seats to Upper House from the state would be held on Friday. The dinner was attended by the BJP central observers for RS polls in MP, Prakash Javadekar and BL Panda. Party has convened a crucial meeting of its MLAs on Thursday evening to finalise the plan for the polls, scheduled on Friday. MLAs from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Rambai Singh and Sanjeev Singh Kushwaha, Rajesh Shukla from SP and two Independent MLAs, Surendra Singh Shera and Vikram Singh Rana were also present with the BJP central leaders at the dinner. "It is a tradition in the party to invite all MLAs for an unofficial dinner. We have gathered here to discuss RS poll and other matters related to the party and development of the state," said BJP state president VD Sharma, who hosted the dinner. He further stated that the official meeting of the MLAs will be held on June 18. However, he parried queries on the presence of non-BJP MLAs during the crucial poll preparations. "On BSP and SP MLAs, I will not comment. It is already understood," said Sharma, hinting at a possible alliance and support from the three MLAs who had been supporting the Congress party during previous government regime. When asked, Independent MLA Shera said, "I had gone to the BJP office for dinner. We will support the government. Will talk in detail later." Apart from Javadekar and Panda, those present in the meeting included, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, former state president Rakesh Singh, former LoP Gopal Bhargava, cabinet ministers Narottam Mishra, Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput among others. Around 50 BJP MLAs were also present. The Rajya Sabha election will be a keenly contested affair after the BJP fielded two candidates - Jyuotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki - for the three vacant seats. The Congress has fielded two candidates, Digvijaya Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya. In the number game, BJP has an edge with 107 members, Congress 92, while the BSP has two and SP one. There are four independents who were supporting the Kamal Nath led Congress government. Thus BJP is sure to get two seats and Congress one of the three seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ahead-of-rs-polls-bjp-resorts-to-dinner-diplomacy/articleshow/76432016.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||‘Give increment to staffretiring on June 30 too’||Lucknow: The State Employees’ Joint Council has appealed to the chief minister to provide annual increment benefits to government employees retiring on June 30. The annual increment is applicable from July 1 each year. Council general secretary Atul Mishra said the annual increment is given to those who have worked from July 1 to June 30. It is not fair that those retiring on June 30 do not get the benefit despite having worked the entire year as the increment is given from July 1 and is payable in August. “Such employees lose increment, which also affects their pension benefits. This year, several employees are retiring on June 30 and they will not get increment benefits,” Misra said. The council also referred to a September 15, 2017 judgment of Madras high court which said: “The petitioner herein had completed one full year service as on 30.06.2013, but the increment fell due on 01.07.2013, on which date he was not in service. In view of the above judgment of this Court, naturally he has to be treated as having completed one full year of service, though the date of increment falls on the next day of his retirement… The petitioner shall be given one notional increment…for the purpose of pensionary benefits and not for any other purpose. No costs.” The Centre had filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the HC verdict, but it was dismissed. “We have written to the CM requesting that employees who worked very hard for a year should not lose benefits of increment just by one day,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/give-increment-to-staffretiring-on-june-30-too/articleshow/76434506.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Just 10 minutes of water daily in these ward-89 colonies||JAIPUR: Water crisis in the city does not seem to end. Residents of Krishna Colony and Modi Colony of ward no. 89 (old map) are facing severe water crisis from the past one month. Residents of the area said that water is supplied for 10-15 minutes every day in low pressure, not enough to fill even a bucket. Most of the residents are buying water from private tankers every week which is taking a toll on their pockets. Prahlad Tailor, a resident of Krishna colony, said, “For the past one month, we are getting water for just 10 minutes in low pressure. Most households have four to six members. It has become difficult to manage. So, we are buying water that costs about Rs 300 per tanker.” Most people are buying water with their neighbours to divide the cost. Anjana Modi, a resident of Modi colony said that because of low supply they are rationing their usage of water. “There has been no water supply in my area for the last two days. Earlier, we were using three coolers, but now only one. Men in our family go out to work so washing their clothes and two-time bath is important in pandemic, but water shortage makes it difficult. The government at least shouldn’t have reduced water supply this summer looking at the special scenario,” Modi said. According to residents, water is not being supplied in the interiors of Krishna Colony. In another lane, taps in a public park are being used to fill water and residents fetch multiple buckets every day to avoid purchasing water tankers. Girdhari Israni, another resident of Krishna colony, said that residents have filed written complaint to PHED many a times, but no action has been taken. Most of the PHED officials have stopped picking up calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/just-10-mins-of-water-daily-in-these-ward-89-colonies/articleshow/76434203.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Rajya Sabha elections: Congress hails MLAs for show of unity||BHOPAL: Congress legislative party (CLP) on Wednesday paid homage to soldiers of the Indian Army who were martyred in a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan in Ladakh. The state Congress had called a meeting of the CLP to plan a strategy for the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on Friday. The meeting was held at the official residence of former chief minister Kamal Nath and was attended by most party legislators, except four, including Kalapipal MLA Kunal Choudhary, who has been infected with Covid-19. Senior leaders Nath, Digvijaya Singh and AICC general secretary in-charge Mukul Wasnik headed the meeting. Three Upper House seats in Parliament are vacant in the state and Congress has 92 legislators in the House of 230 members. However, after 22 Congress MLAs quit in March and two more seats fell vacant after the death of sitting legislators, the present strength of the House is 206. Congress’ candidates are former chief minister Digvijaya Singh and scheduled caste leader Phool Singh Baraiya, who joined Congress last year before the Lok Sabha elections. Though Digvijaya seems comfortably placed to get his second term in the Rajya Sabha, it may be unlikely that Baraiyya can secure a second seat for the party. BJP has 107 MLAs in the assembly and has fielded Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki. There are four independents, two BSP and one SP MLA – and all of them kept away from the Congress’ meeting. Addressing the meeting, PCC chief Nath said, “We have gathered here for the Rajya Sabha elections, which are to be held on June 19. The Congress party’s candidates are Digvijaya Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya and since we have several first-time legislators, we have called you for a training on how to vote for the Upper House polls.” Wasnik hailed the Congress party MLAs for the unity they showed even as some drifted away to BJP. “The way BJP murdered democracy in Madhya Pradesh and brought down an elected government through allurement, it is commendable how the rest of our MLAs remained devoted and dedicated to the party. I hope that in future also, you will remain as dedicated and united,” he told the party leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-hails-mlas-for-show-of-unity/articleshow/76432035.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Rural areas raise concern, 44 positive in district||VADODARA: While 44 more tested positive for Covid-19 in the city since Tuesday evening, Vadodara registered another peak in the number of cases on a single day. The rural areas emerged as a major area of concern as the fresh cases included 10 from outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. With positive cases being reported regularly in the rural areas, those outside VMC limits now have 143 cases. Fresh cases have been reported from Padra, Manjusar and other areas. The remaining 34 new cases included 15 from the north zone of VMC, 10 from south zone, eight from east zone and one from west zone. The total number of persons who tested positive in Vadodara city and district now stands at 1,695 including 16 from outside the district who were found infected here. According to the details released by VMC, 13 Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Wednesday., taking the total number of recoveries to 1,105 persons. Now, there are 540 under treatment even as 50 have been declared dead by VMC so far. Those under treatment include 50 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 102 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 388 patients is said to be stable. 1,600 beds availableVadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Wednesday notified a bed capacity of 1,600 in the city and district for Covid-19 treatment. The capacity includes those in private hospitals as well as free beds in designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city. The free beds include 875 in SSG Hospital, GMERS, Gotri Hospital, Dhiraj General Hospital, Muslim Medical Centre, Parul Sevashram Hospital, ESIC Hospital, Infectious Disease Hospital and the Divisional Railway Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rural-areas-raise-concern-44-positive-in-district/articleshow/76431358.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hotdesking getting hotter in coronavirus era||HYDERABAD: If there is one office trend that’s set to get hotter in the post-Covid-19 era, its hotdesking or flexi workspaces as companies rethink the office of the future. With companies now configuring a higher work from home (WFH) component in their future business plans, hotdesking is now emerging as a serious workplace trend. “Companies are planning flexi workspaces as all employees don’t need to come into office daily and can do so certain days in a week. Whenever, an employee needs to come to office, he or she can be assigned a particular floor and desk for that day. We too are looking at a higher work from home (WFH) of about 30% in the long run and plan to have flexi workspaces,” says BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman, Cyient Ltd and former chairman of Nasscom. “It’s a big trend that’s catching on and will only get accelerated with Covid-19,” feels KS Vishwanathan, vice president-industry initiatives, Nasscom. “We saw the TCS announcement that not more than 25% of the workforce will come to work from office by turns. Several MNCs that have global capability centres (GCCs) in the country too are looking at splitting teams, rotating employees and hotseating,” he points out. Pointing out that hotdesking is quite popular in countries that have expensive real estate like Hong Kong, Singapore and US, Sanjay Shetty, head-strategic account management, Randstad India feels it will catch on in India too as mindsets are changing and companies are looking at optimal utilisation of space as they cut down on real estate costs. “Traditionally, technology, consulting and services companies have been at the forefront of hotdesking. But today, most companies are facing a cash flow crunch and real estate too is one big aspect. Hotdesking will become slowly common here too,” Shetty says. Agreeing, Joel Paul, general manager, Randstad RiseSmart India, says: “We see a crazy acceleration for hotdesking over the next six months. Companies coming up with solutions to hotdesk will do very well because the traditional lease model will not hold much longer.” He points out that in future, companies will shrink their office footprint with only a few employees permanently working in offices and more people rolling in for work once in a a while. “For instance, certain functions like sales & marketing don’t need to come in every day, so they can utilise hotdesking,” he adds. However, Reddy points out that hotdesking for companies like theirs is not so much about costs but more about prioritising health and safety of employees in a Covid-19 world and adapting to evolving office models. And hotdesking is not without drawbacks. Some fear it could mark the end to the emotional connect one has with one’s workplace. “There is also an emotional angle to the workplace. As human beings, we like to put up pictures of our kids, parents and pets on our desks. With hotdesking, all that will change as it will no longer be your desk. Usually people don’t realise this, but sensitivity training and orientation will be needed so that people can align to the new way working,” says Shetty. Another major aspect that companies will have to take care of with hotdesking in the light of the pandemic is hygiene and safety as multiple employees will be using the same desk, he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hotdesking-getting-hotter-in-coronavirus-era/articleshow/76434208.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad DEO creates YouTube channel to hold online classes||HYDERABAD: After Telangana State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), a district education officer created a YouTube channel to conduct online classes for students studying in government schools. Through the channel ‘Online Classes by DEO HYD’, classes will most likely start by the end of June, beginning with Class 10. Lessons for other grades will begin thereafter. “We are planning to create a website and conduct interactive classes for students. It will be a mix of live and recorded classes. Students will also be given a link to ask their doubts. Further, phone numbers of teachers concerned will also be provided to students so that they can be in touch with their teachers,” said an official. Teachers, meanwhile, said that except for a few ‘tech-savvy’ officials, many are not prepared or planning to start online classes. “Both teachers and students have been sitting idle since March. There is no plan of conducting any online classes, at least there is no involvement of teachers yet. At least now, the state should come up with a plan and start classes,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation. The teachers said that the state should take a cue from the Kerala and Maharashtra governments and start planning to reopen schools either virtually or physically. While Kerala has started virtual classes by broadcasting lessons through a TV channel, website, app and social media to ensure that even those kids with no internet access can continue their learning, Maharashtra is planning to reopen schools in non-red zones in July. Except for uploading recorded lessons in TSAT app, the education department has not done much when it comes to virtual classes. The SCERT is now using its YouTube channel to conduct webinars for teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-deo-creates-youtube-channel-to-hold-online-classes/articleshow/76434214.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||No masks: Inquiry ordered into PI’s farewell party||Ahmedabad: City cops, who have been regularly booking people for not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing or for gathering together, don’t seem to apply these to themselves. An inspector of Nikol police threw a farewell party, in which some 50 persons participated and no one wore masks or maintained social distancing. As photographs of the party went viral, DCP (deputy commissioner of police), Zone 5, Ravi Teja Vasamsetty, ordered an inquiry into the case against the police inspector, Hitesh Jhala, and other cops of Nikol police station. A source in city police said Jhala had on Tuesday thrown a party after collecting funds from police personnel. At the party, Jhala, who has been transferred to Surat city, was seen shaking hands with the cops and accepting their greetings. Some cops clicked pictures of the event and shared them on various WhatsApp groups. The pictures ultimately reached Vasamsetty, who directed ACP I division N L Desai to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. The pictures show Jhala and the others violating the rules and the notification of the city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia, by holding the gathering. No FIR has yet been lodged against Jhala or any other cop. A city police official said that various complaints have been moved against Jhala, which include that he gave a free hand to his aides who recently assaulted locals in Nikol and the involvement of some cops in bootlegging. “Before he could be suspended or transferred, he moved a plea for a transfer to Surat city and got it easily,” said the police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-masks-inquiry-ordered-into-pis-farewell-party/articleshow/76433216.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||HC directs sub-judge to inspect irrigation tank||Cleared/180 Words Madurai: The Aranthangi sub-judge has been directed to submit a report after inspecting the Edaiyathimangalam irrigation tank in Pudukkottai district. The Madras high court passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by P Duraimanikam, a resident of Pudukottai district, seeking to quash the proceedings issued to carryout kudimaramath work in the tank. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi also directed the public works department (PWD) officials to assist the sub-judge during his field visit and adjourned the case to June 22 for further hearing. The petitioner stated that the PWD officials issued a proceedings dated May 19, allotting Rs 93.49 lakh for carrying out kudimaramath work. The work was given to a person without following tender process and without consulting the water users at the village. He apprehended that if the work is permitted to continue, then the funds allotted would be misused and swindled. Hence, he moved the high court Madurai bench. During the previous hearing, the court had granted interim stay for execution of kudimaramath work at the tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-sub-judge-to-inspect-irrigation-tank/articleshow/76434215.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Bars closed, nuisance of tipplers in open space upsets housing societies’ residents||PUNE: Residents of housing societies along Law College, Sinhagad and Satara roads as well as Vimannagar, among other areas in the city, are tired of tipplers’ nuisance after consuming alcohol near liquor shops and leaving empty as well as broken bottles strewn all over the place, including footpaths. “Many people are consuming liquor at open spaces or on footpaths and there is hardly any check on their activities. Some of them are throwing empty bottles on road. At times, they get heavily drunk and pick up fights and hurl filthy abuses,” said a Law College Road resident, whose house is close to a liquor shop near Kanchan Galli. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Deccan Gymkhana police said, “People need to call the police control room or the police station immediately when they notice tipplers creating nuisance. We are always there to take strong action.” Consumption of liquor at public spaces is legally restrained. The closure of hotels, bars and restaurants for almost three months because of the lockdown is being cited as a reason behind the problem. At Katraj Chowk, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police had to install a bamboo structure around a compound wall of an open plot adjacent to a liquor shop to prevent people from scaling and sitting atop the wall for consuming liquor. “People would either sit on the wall or move into the open plot in front of a residential building. The drunk persons would often quarrel and pose nuisance,” said Katraj resident Kedar Salunkhe. Senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “Bars and restaurants have remained shut ever since the lockdown was first announced on March 24. The problem started after the opening up of liquor shops. Many people now buy their stuff and consume liquor at an open or public space, causing nuisance. We have acted on such complaints.” A similar issue was reported from a commercial-cum-residential complex at Vadgaon Budruk, off Sinhagad Road. “A number residents from the complex, including women and children, found it difficult moving in and out of the premises for evening walk as the site of men openly consuming liquor was disturbing,” Vadgaon Budruk resident Akash Sanap told TOI. Post-complaints, the Sinhagad Road police started sending beat marshals to the complex during the evening hours and warned of taking stern action against those found consuming liquor. Vimannagar resident Vinayak Ragho has three liquor shops in his neighbourhood. For the past few weeks, he saw public drinking and the subsequent nuisance, often triggering violence. “Such incidents have now gone down,” he said. “People used to gather at the stalls selling snacks outside the liquor stores earlier, and drink there. But that is not happening now. The stall owners are only providing snacks as a takeaway service, which is stopping the crowds from being formed,” Ragho, a part of the Vimannagar Residents Association (VNRA) collective, said. A few kilometres south in Wadgaonsheri, some residents stressed the police intervention ensured that fewer people indulged in public drinking outside liquor shops. According to a member of staffers at a liquor shop in the area, they have been keeping a vigil whenever their shop is open. “One of us is always outside the shop to maintain order and physical distance in the queue. We are also ensuring that people don’t gather here to drink. We have requested the snack stalls to move away for the time being, which has also worked,” said the staff member of a shop at Anand Park in Wadgaonsheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bars-closed-nuisance-of-tipplers-in-open-space-upsets-housing-societies-residents/articleshow/76434195.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Bear straying from the wild caught||Tirunelveli: A female sloth bear that had strayed out of the forest was captured by the forest department personnel in Kadayam range on Tuesday using a metal cage trap. Earlier on Tuesday morning, a seven-year-old female was trapped in Mudhaliyarpatti village and released into the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in Tenkasi district. The female bear, aged about eight years old, was trapped around 9.10pm on Tuesday in Bangala Kudiruppur located about four km from the forest boundary. Forest range officer for Kadayam range, C Nellai Nayagam said the cage trap was set in the jackfruit orchard of farmer Dhiraviyam. Deputy director of the Ambasamudram division of KMTR Kommu Omkaram led the operation. The animal was released in the Koviltheri beat around 8am on Wednesday. Department personnel said the place of release has a habitat for bears and this is the first release of a captured bear here in the recent times. Watch On cam: Bear attacks forest dept team, 2 injured||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bear-straying-from-the-wild-caught/articleshow/76434223.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Pvt sector to have key role in last phase||Kochi: The government hospitals and facilities in the district are playing a key role in the fight against Covid-19, but if the situation worsens private hospitals will also be roped in. The district administration will consider sending Covid patients to private hospitals only if there is community spread. A community spread is expected in the sixth and seventh stages. There are a total of around 6,576 IP beds in private hospitals in the district and as of now, 3,069 are occupied. Of the total 1,171 intensive care unit beds in the private hospitals, 618 are occupied now while 108 of the total 326 ventilators in the private sector are occupied. “We have held preliminary talks with the private hospital managements in the district. As per our current plan, a certain percentage of patients will be sent to private hospitals once there is community spread,” an official with the health department said. Health department has collected the details of facilities at 73 private hospitals in the district. However, the district administration will be making the facilities at PVS Hospital operational in the third stage itself. In the third and fourth stage, patients with moderate and severe illness will be sent to the hospital. Then, the hospital will be earmarked for patients with severe illnesses only. PVS Hospital is not operational now and so it is not being considered as an active private hospital. Authorities plan to send Covid patients to private hospitals only in the fifth, sixth and seventh phases. In the fifth phase, of the total projected number of patients, 70 with moderate illness and 20 with severe illness will be sent to the private hospitals. In the sixth phase, the plan is to send 900 patients with moderate illness and 70 patients with severe illness to private hospitals. In the final stage, the role of the private sector will increase. Then, all the patients with moderate illness (projected figure- 3375) will be sent to private hospitals. Besides this, around 600 of the total 1,125 patients with severe illness expected in the final stage also will be sent to private hospitals. There will be 260 ventilators available in the district for treating Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-sector-to-have-key-role-in-last-phase/articleshow/76432056.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 accused of embezzling Rs 35 crore||Ahmedabad: The Mehsana district registrar and official liquidator of the Visnagar Nagrik Sahkari Bank on Wednesday filed a complaint with Ellisbridge police, alleging that an official of Canara Bank along with three others diverted Rs 35.29 crore, from the cooperative bank’s account in Canara Bank, into the accounts of dummy companies by using forged documents. Pratik Upadhyay, a resident of Himmatnagar in Sabarkantha, 38, said he was appointed the official liquidator of Visnagar Nagrik Sahkari Bank in 2018 in connection with insolvency proceedings. He said Rs 35.29 crore was put into fixed deposits with Canara Bank in 20 different transactions between March 20 and May 27 for which receipts were also given. He said he could not get a bank statement for these transaction due to the Covid-19 situation. On Jun 5, Upadhyay managed to get the bank statements which showed that the money was transferred to five companies, which were later found to be non-existent. On inquiring further, it was found that a Canara Bank official, Sandip Shah, had diverted the funds into the accounts of these non-existent firms using forged documents. These companies were on paper owned by the accused, Mayur Jadav, Dinesh Somani and Imran Manek, states the FIR. Ellisbridge police registered a complaint of cheating, forgery and using forged documents as genuine against the four accused persons and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-accused-of-embezzling-rs-35-crore/articleshow/76433213.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||BJP to hold virtual rallies across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: BJP national president JP Nadda will hold a virtual rally to address party workers of Bikaner and Jodhpur on June 20 to mark the first anniversary of NDA 2.0. The announcement was made by BJP state president Satish Poonia during a press conference here on Wednesday. “The second virtual rally will be held by Union minister Nitin Gadkari for party workers of Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur division on June 27,” said Poonia, who informed that party has created around 44,000 WhatsApp groups and the invite will be sent in all these groups to make these rallies successful. Hitting at the statement of Congress leader Randeep Surjewala accusing Modi’s government failure resulted in the killing of Indian soldiers by Chinese troops, Poonia said the Congress leaders have no right to talk about China issue. “During Congress rule, the tribals attacked Kashmir in 1948 and annexed a large part of it, in 1962 China took away a piece of land from India again under Congress rule and in 1971, they handed over arrested 93,000 armed forces to Pakistan. They have no right to speak on the present the situation,” said Poonia. He said they would ask party workers to ban the use of Chinese products. BJP MLAs lodged at a hotel on Tonk Road started their day by yoga followed by paying respects to the soldiers martyred in Galwan Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-hold-virtual-rallies-across-state/articleshow/76434219.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists flay relaxation in building rules||Udhagamandalam: The new rules announced recently for building licence in the Nilgiris district have drawn flak from environmental activists, who said they would pave way for mushrooming of commercial buildings in the fragile hill district.The power to sanction permit for commercial buildings has been decentralized to the district-level from the hill area conservation authority (HACA). Relaxation in the building rules, especially commercial activities, will cause more damage to the hills, activists said.Making the procedural formalities easier, the government recently issued a circular stating that licence for proposed buildings extending upto 15,000 sqft can be sanctioned at the architectural and aesthetic aspects (AAA) committee-level after obtaining inspection report from the collector.Earlier, all commercial building licences were supposed to be forwarded to HACA after the formal procedure at the district-level committee and AAA committee.“As a concept, it is good to make the decision process at the district-level. It is nothing but decentralization of power but certainly a caveat,” said B J Krishnan, senior environmental lawyer. “The decision must integrate robust social monitoring by including environment and development activists, and scholars with proven integrity. They must be part of the AAA committee.”Krishnan was involved in deliberations around HACA in the late 80s along with Venugopal Dharmalingam of the Save Nilgiris Campaign. “Delegation of power from a state-level (HACA) to the district level committee (AAA) in authorizing commercial buildings lends a sinister meaning to ‘master plan’. The state government’s intention to fast-track the commercialization of Ooty and Coonoor towns and surrounding is clear,” said Siddhartha Krishnan, an environmental sociologist. “Let alone being the competent sanctioning authority, the AAA’s status as a conservation body itself needs a logical audit. As it is, Ooty and Coonoor towns are beyond aesthetic redemption.”In a circular in February, simplifying the HACA procedure, the government stated that if the no-objection certificate from the principal chief conservator of forests is delayed for more than a month, it may be considered as no-objection and the district-level forest officer’s NOC could be taken into consideration. Also, the circular stated that an NOC from the revenue divisional officer is a must.“Diluting the building licensing procedures sees no meaning for the high-level committee such as HACA meant for hill areas. If the government considers the hills on par with plains, then there is no hope for the hills”, said an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-flay-relaxation-in-building-rules/articleshow/76434221.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 scare: UPSRTC suffers Rs 50L loss per day||Agra: The Uttar Pradesh State Roadways Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) is suffering a loss of around Rs 50 lakh per day in Agra region with a large number of people avoiding public transports. The UPSRTC resumed services on June 1, but due to lack of passengers, only 30% of buses are playing in the Agra region. There are 583 UPSRTC buses in the Agra region, of which only 174 are being operated. During the 69 days of lockdown — from March 22 to May 31— UPSRTC Agra region had suffered a loss of Rs 50 crore. According to UPSRTC officials, “Our buses used to generate around Rs 75 lakh per day in the Agra region. Post-lockdown, however, only 30% of the buses are plying, but these too are not getting the sufficient number of passengers, and thus, incurring an operational loss of Rs 50 lakh daily.” UPSRTC regional manager MK Trivedi said, “We are not even getting the required 20% of passengers to earn a profit. Major losses are being recorded due to the lack of passengers. People are avoiding public transports due to the novel coronavirus scare, even as we ensure that all our buses are properly sanitised before pressed into service. Besides, strict directives have been issued to ensure social distancing in the buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-scare-upsrtc-suffers-rs-50l-loss-per-day/articleshow/76430932.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||BJP to hold virtual rallies across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: BJP national president JP Nadda will hold a virtual rally to address party workers of Bikaner and Jodhpur on June 20 to mark the first anniversary of NDA 2.0. The announcement was made by BJP state president Satish Poonia during a press conference here on Wednesday. “The second virtual rally will be held by Union minister Nitin Gadkari for party workers of Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur division on June 27,” said Poonia, who informed that party has created around 44,000 WhatsApp groups and the invite will be sent in all these groups to make these rallies successful. Hitting at the statement of Congress leader Randeep Surjewala accusing Modi’s government failure resulted in the killing of Indian soldiers by Chinese troops, Poonia said the Congress leaders have no right to talk about China issue. “During Congress rule, the tribals attacked Kashmir in 1948 and annexed a large part of it, in 1962 China took away a piece of land from India again under Congress rule and in 1971, they handed over arrested 93,000 armed forces to Pakistan. They have no right to speak on the present the situation,” said Poonia. He said they would ask party workers to ban the use of Chinese products. BJP MLAs lodged at a hotel on Tonk Road started their day by yoga followed by paying respects to the soldiers martyred in Galwan Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bjp-to-hold-virtual-rallies-across-state/articleshow/76437468.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh lodges plaint against Shivraj Singh Chouhan for posting ‘fake video’||BHOPAL: Two days after the state crime branch registered an FIR against Digvijaya Singh for posting an edited video of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on social media, the senior Congress leader on Wednesday morning walked into the crome branch office and filed a complaint demanding FIR against the chief minister Chouhan and Union minister Smriti Irani. On Monday, the crime branch registered a case against Digvijaya for posting an edited video of Chouhan in which he was seen advocating alcohol consumption. Digvijaya was booked under various sections of the IPC for defamation, forgery and mischief. Around 10:30 am on Wednesday, Digvijaya accompanied by former ministers Sajjan Singh Verma, Jaivardhan Singh, N P Prajapati, PC Sharma, Hukum Singh Karada and others submitted a complaint to the police with evidence allegedly of Chouhan and Irani posting fake videos of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on social media during the Lok Sabha elections last year. In the complaint, Digvijaya demanded that if FIR can be lodged against him for a video post, then going by the same yardstick, FIR should be lodged against Chouhan, Irani and their unknown accomplices involved in tweeting the fake Rahul Gandhi video. The Congress leader said that if police did not register FIR on his complaint then he will take the matter to court. He alleged that Chouhan also posted a video of a public meeting in Neemuch where Rahul Gandhi was addressing a large gathering. In the alleged fake video, Rahul Gandhi is seen addressing Bhupesh Baghel as CM of Madhya Pradesh and former minister Hukum Singh Karada as CM of Chhattisgarh. Digvijaya Singh said he has the original video where Rahul Gandhi correctly names Kamal Nath as MP chief minister and Bhupesh Baghel as CM of Chhattisgarh. The Congress leader further alleged that Chouhan’s alleged fake video got support from Irani who retweeted it. Speaking to reporters, Digvijaya said, “Recently, I raised the issue of the swindling money of tribals residing in Chouhan’s constituency of Rs4.5 crore. I wrote to the CM that either he initiates action against those involved in the cheating of tribals or I will sit in protest with the victims outside his residence. For this, he registered the FIR against me over a petty issue. The same offence has been committed by him and if there has been an FIR against me, there should be one against him also.” Meanwhile, BJP reacted strongly to Digvijaya’s demand for an FIR against Chouhan. Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “I am the health minister. All I can recall is the Covid-19 slogan, ‘humme bimaari se ladna hai, bimaar se nehi (We have to fight against the disease, not the infected). Digvijaya is trying to hide the mistake committed by him. He has been caught in the act and now brings out a one-year-old tweet. Why didn’t he register a complaint one year ago? He should stop this dirty politics.” BJP MLA Rameshwar Sharma said, "Digvijaya should lodge FIR against Rahul Gandhi who had promised to waive off farm loan in ten days but failed to keep his own words.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-lodges-plaint-against-cm-for-posting-fake-video/articleshow/76432044.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 18, 2020||Gurgaon||No end to Haryana horror: 13 die, 560 infected||CHANDIGARH: A total of 13 persons succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday and record 560 cases were reported during the day. With the latest figures, the coronavirus-related casualties in the state have reached 130 and the tally of positive cases stands at 8,832. Providing some respite to the health officials, 204 persons were also discharged on Wednesday, taking the count of recovered patients to 3,952 with a recovery rate of 44.75%. The doubling rate has also been pushed to 10 days. Now, the state has total 4,750 active cases, out of which 4,224 were reported over the less than last 10 days. On Tuesday, Haryana had reported 550 new Covid-19 cases. Of the 13 deaths, five each were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad, two from Sonipat and one from Karnal. This has taken the fatality rate to 1.47%. According to a government bulletin, 51 patients, who include 38 on oxygen support, are critical across the state. Faridabad district reported maximum 228 new cases during the day, where overall count has reached 1,807. Gurugram recorded 180 cases, taking the total count to 3,862, including 1,861 active ones. Total 37 new cases surfaced in Sonipat district, 19 in Hisar, 16 each in Karnal and Palwal, 15 cases in Yamunanngar, nine in Jhajjar, eight in Rewari and six cases were reported in Jind district. Five cases each came from Bhiwani and Kurukshetra, four each from Ambala, Panipat and Fatehabad, and two each from Panchkula and Sirsa. The testing rate in state has gone up to 7,799 tests per million per day. To date, 197,703 persons have been tested, out of whom 183,395 were negative. 17 deaths on Tuesday, The Haryana health department on Wednesday said the death count for Tuesday was 17 and not 18, as given in the bulletin. After correction, the government released the bulletin afresh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-end-to-hry-horror-13-die-560-infected/articleshow/76434228.cms||Manvir Saini
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid halts travel, but e-roadshows must go on||LUCKNOW: Even with Covid-19 restricting travel, UP government has made arrangements to push ahead with its programme to interact with potential investors, especially abroad. However, these roadshows will now be held virtually. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh, who, along with the industries minister Satish Mahana, was to have led delegations to various countries abroad ahead of a global investors summit (which was scheduled for later this year), will now hold webinars with various business councils and promote UP as an ideal state for investment. The programme is being coordinated by FICCI. Starting Thursday, Singh will be addressing business councils, investors and industrialists from various countries through webinars. The interaction will take place in three phases, with three meetings scheduled under phase-1 on Thursday. “In the first round of interactions on Thursday, I have meetings scheduled with industry representatives from Russia, Germany and UK. Subsequently, we will also be interacting with industry members of US, Far East etc,” Singh said. With UP focussing on attracting investors who are likely to be exiting from China in the post Covid-19 scenario, Singh said it was crucial to interact directly with potential investors and give them a first-hand account of what they can expect in UP. Along with presentations by the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, the state will put forward the various reforms in policy that have been taken of late to improve ease of doing business in the state, especially the electronic policy, the plan to create a textile hub in UP, its policy on parks, food processing, and incentives on capital investments. “The government has made several improvements to ease of doing business and provides facilities like Nivesh Mitra as a one stop portal for investment related issues. We will also tell investors about the infrastructure development in the state, including the upcoming Jewar Airport and the 700 acre electronic city that is being planned next to it,” Singh said. While the investors’ summit may not take place under the current circumstances, a business delegation from Japan, led by the Organisation for Industrial, Spiritual and Culture Advancement International, has expressed an interest in travelling to UP in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-halts-travel-but-e-roadshows-must-go-on/articleshow/76434535.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||RBSE exams resume today, 20 lakh students to appear in 6,000 centres||AJMER: After a gap of three months, the remaining exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will resume from Thursday at more than 6,000 centres and sub-centres across the state. The exams will resume with class XII maths paper from 8.30am, but as per RBSE directions, students have to reach the centres an hour before. Strict vigilance will be kept at every centre and police will be deployed to ensure social distancing of students while entering examination centres. Cameras will be installed inside and outside the examination centres. The board has made it clear that no student or teacher will be allowed to enter the centres without wearing masks. Every centre has been directed to keep sanitisers which will be used by students and teachers before entering the halls. There are more than 20 lakh students who will appear in class X and class XII board exams ending on June 30. The last board exam was held on March 19 following which all exams were postponed because of lockdown. The board has made arrangements to shift 40 per cent of students from each centre to other halls to follow social distancing norms. RBSE also asked police stations to ensure that the rules of social distancing are maintained without and lapses. The board has also constituted flying squads at different levels. The control room will start working early in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rbse-exams-resume-today-20-lakh-students-to-appear-in-6000-centres/articleshow/76434225.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Visitor entry to secretariat banned till further orders||BHOPAL: Visitors’ entry to the state secretariat has been banned from Wednesday. Only government officials and employees working in the secretariat or government employees with official work will be allowed to enter. Directives in this regard were issued by the general administration department on Tuesday. As per the orders, visitors to the secretariat would be allowed only on the recommendations of the CM’s office or a principal secretary rank official or above. The order will remain in force till further decision. The order came after the employees’ union met the additional chief secretary, GAD, on June 14 and demanded all visitors to the secretariat be banned as several employees have been found corona positive and safety measures must be strengthened. So far, visitors to the secretariat were allowed after thermal screening. The employees also pointed out the reliability of thermal screening in checking the spread of pandemic. Three secretariat employees and one employee of power management company, who would visit the secretariat regularly, have been found corona positive. One secretariat staffer also died due to coronavirus. Departments where corona positive cases have been found include excise, urban administration and development and power. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. The old building is called as Vallabh Bhavan 1, while the new buildings are called as Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III. Office of urban administration and development department of which the employee died was in Vallabh Bhavan II- the same building which houses the office chief secretary and chief minister, apart from the home minister. The power department office is also in the same building. There are multiple gates to enter the interlinked buildings, but employees said thermal scanners have been put only on the VIP entry gates. Fearing for their safety, the employees have been writing letters and handing over memorandums to top officials expressing concern over inadequate safety measures at the offices. At least five such letters and memoranda have been handed to the officials by the Mantralay in Karmachari Sangh. Sudhir Nayak, president of the sangh, pointed that the state secretariat, which is the war room of the state’s corona crisis, is not complying with safety guidelines. There is no soap in the soap dispensers at the washrooms in secretariat, he alleged. He also said that most of the sanitary workers in secretariat come from Covid-19 hotspot areas of the city. They do not use masks or follow social distancing, the union pointed out, demanding compliance of all safety measures in the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/visitor-entry-to-secretariat-banned-till-further-orders/articleshow/76433200.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Udaipur||BJP to hold virtual rallies across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: BJP national president JP Nadda will hold a virtual rally to address party workers of Bikaner and Jodhpur on June 20 to mark the first anniversary of NDA 2.0. The announcement was made by BJP state president Satish Poonia during a press conference here on Wednesday. “The second virtual rally will be held by Union minister Nitin Gadkari for party workers of Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur division on June 27,” said Poonia, who informed that party has created around 44,000 WhatsApp groups and the invite will be sent in all these groups to make these rallies successful. Hitting at the statement of Congress leader Randeep Surjewala accusing Modi’s government failure resulted in the killing of Indian soldiers by Chinese troops, Poonia said the Congress leaders have no right to talk about China issue. “During Congress rule, the tribals attacked Kashmir in 1948 and annexed a large part of it, in 1962 China took away a piece of land from India again under Congress rule and in 1971, they handed over arrested 93,000 armed forces to Pakistan. They have no right to speak on the present the situation,” said Poonia. He said they would ask party workers to ban the use of Chinese products. BJP MLAs lodged at a hotel on Tonk Road started their day by yoga followed by paying respects to the soldiers martyred in Galwan Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bjp-to-hold-virtual-rallies-across-state/articleshow/76437467.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem leads west TN’s Covid-19 tally||Salem: The district retained the top spot in the Covid-19 list when compared to the other districts in western Tamil Nadu with 25 new cases, including 16 indigenous, on Wednesday.“We have 256 positive cases. Of them, 193 people were discharged and 62 are active cases who are getting treatment in the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH). A woman died of Covid-19,” said deputy director of health Dr J Nirmalson. “Of the 16 new cases, six were from Salem and rest had returned from Chennai.”Dharmapuri district recorded 10 new cases including one imported case. The district had 20 cases and 11 were discharged. “We have 19 active cases, who are getting treatment at the Dharmapuri Government Medical College and Hospital,” said collector S Malarvizhi. “Five of them came from Chennai and one from Bengaluru.”Three new cases were reported from Krishnagiri district. “We had 41 cases and currently has 44 cases,” said collector S Prabhakar. Namakkal district, which had 90 cases, added two on Wednesday. “We have 10 active cases in the government hospital,” said collector K Megraj.Meanwhile, Coimbatore has 189 cases with two new cases while Tiruppur had no new case on Wednesday. The Nilgiris district reported five new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-leads-west-tns-covid-19-tally/articleshow/76434227.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Village co-ops to set up supply chain of farm products||JAIPUR: Principal secretary for cooperatives Naresh Pal Gangwar said village cooperatives would set up cold storage, warehouses, agro-processing units. He said after evaluating the region-wise conditions, proposals will be obtained based on utility so that a supply chain system of agricultural activities could be developed. Gangwar was speaking on Wednesday through video conferencing to the officers posted at the district level on agricultural processing, Kharif crop loan, Yield Living Loan Scheme, procurement of mustard and gram on MSP and other points at Pant Krishi Bhavan. He said that data of institutions registered under Rajasthan Cooperative Act 2001, Rajasthan Societies Registration Act 1958 and Sports Act should be made online by July 31 so that information could be shared with the public with transparency and better monitoring. He instructed that the District Sub-Registrar should complete this work on priority. The principal secretary said that good results have been achieved by adopting online system for crop loan distribution. Due to this system, Kharif crop loan of Rs 6,018 crore has been distributed to about 20 lakh farmers within two months. He directed that crop loans should also be provided to new farmers. He asked the managing directors of five districts with less than 50 per cent loan disbursement to improve performance by June 30. Managing Director Rajfed, Sushma Arora said that over 7.36 lakh metric tonne of mustard and gram have been procured from 2.91 lakh farmers worth Rs 3,452 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/village-co-ops-to-set-up-supply-chain-of-farm-products/articleshow/76434231.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Agra||Medical super, bank manager & health workers among 22 new Covid-19 cases in district||Agra: Mathura recorded 22 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 206. They included the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Mathura district hospital, a manager of a public sector bank branch, four health workers of a private hospital and four inmates lodged in a temporary prison. According to health officials, 16 people including five doctors have been quarantined by the health department, after the CMS tested positive for the infection, while the CMS was admitted to an isolation ward. Other primary and secondary contacts of the 22 patients are being traced by the health department to be put under home quarantine. Doctors said now, professionals working in almost every sector were being affected by Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/medical-super-bank-manager-health-workers-among-22-new-covid-19-cases-in-district/articleshow/76430949.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Social distancing goes for a toss at bus shelters||Madurai: As the Periyar bus stand in Madurai is under renovation as part of the Smart City mission, three temporary bus shelters near Periyar bus stand and five on TPK Road have been established for the convenience of the public, in Madurai. However, people at the shelters can be seen flouting social distancing norms to be followed for containing the spread of Covid-19. “There is no problem early in the morning and during the evening hours, but in the afternoons and peak hours, about 40 to 50 people are found crowded under the shelters to avoid standing in the scorching sun,” said Senthil Kumar of Virattipattu. Another commuter, G Thangam, said that it is difficult to tell people to stand at a distance and some of them get very angry. She added that she becomes very concerned when she sees people without masks standing at close quarters. “We see police personnel posted on duty in front of the tasmac shops, one or two of them can be posted near the bus shelters and direct people to maintain social distancing,” said A Asokan of Bibikulam. Ganeshan, a regular traveller, said that the district administration and corporation officials are taking many measures in other areas to control the spread of the disease with sanitizers being placed at many spots and people not wearing masks being fined, similar focus should be given to these bus shelters. “It would be better if temporary shamiyana shelters are erected near the permanent bus stops to provide more shade to the travelers and to prevent them from crowding under the small ones,” he said. Many of the traders, who come to the markets, are also using these bus shelters to travel back to their villages near Thiruparankundram and Thirumangalam and as few have recently tested positive with Covid-19 in the Paravai market, social distancing is a must in these shelters, said the passengers. Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that temporary shamiyanas would be established in these shelters to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-bus-shelters/articleshow/76434237.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Battle against rugose whiteflies intensified||Coimbatore: The district agriculture department has started distributing sticky yellow traps and eggs of chrysoperla, an parasitoid, as part of its activities to control rugose whitefly attack in coconut trees.An official said they had already sprayed water to wash away the pest from coconut leaves. The department started the initiative in April. “We have completed spraying water on infested trees on around 19,734 hectares. We used tractor-mounted forcible water sprayers.” Now, they are distributing sticky yellow traps and chrysoperla eggs. “We have got the traps, which are being distributed to farmers,” the official said.Chrysoperla, he said, was a beneficial insect that would eat up whitefly, thus controlling its spread. “We would source the eggs from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, our bio-control laboratory, and another breeder in Trichy and supply them to farmers.”Under the agriculture department’s integrated pest management scheme to control rugose whitefly, it would spend Rs 2,100 per hectare - Rs 1,000 on tractor-mounted water spray, Rs 800 on 20 yellow sticky traps and Rs 300 on 1,000 eggs of chrysoperla.Under the scheme, the state had released a fund of Rs 5.25crore in April. Of this, the district was allotted Rs 4.144 crore, the highest share. The scheme would cover an area of 19,734 hectares in the district, of which most fall in Pollachi and Anamalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/battle-against-rugose-whiteflies-intensified/articleshow/76434233.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Salem||17 booked for entering Salem without e-pass||SALEM: The city police on Wednesday registered cases against 17 people for entering the city without e-passes. Four of them tested positive for Covid-19, city corporation commissioner R Sadheesh said. “Those who want to enter the city should carry valid e-pass or any other government pass. Our officials are monitoring people in Hasthampatty, Ammapet, Kondalampatty and Suramangalam zones. Those who don’t have any pass will be considered as illegal entry and will be taken to the quarantine centres set up in the zones,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/17-booked-for-entering-salem-without-e-pass/articleshow/76434238.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ATS nabs man for threatening to blow up Sakshi Maharaj||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) has on Wednesday nabbed a man who had threatened to blow up Unnao member of Parliament Sakshi Maharaj. Identified as Mohammed Gaffar (30), the accused was arrested from Mandawali police station in Bijnor. Police said that Gaffar worked as a tailor and owned a small land. Police seized a mobile phone, a passport, Aadhaar card and an ID card of Kuwait city. ATS said that Gaffar worked as a driver in Kuwait till last year. Additional director general of UP ATS, DK Thakur said that Gaffar’s interrogation has revealed that he had certain issues he needed to be resolved. “Hence, his friends instigated Gaffar to make a call to the Unnao MP,” said Thakur. The officer said that in last week of October 2019, the MP had complained about the threat to the police. But since the number was from outside India, the probe was handed over to the ATS. “We started the probe on the basis of the phone number and traced it to Bijnor,” said Thakur. Thakur said that an FIR under the charges of intentional insults and provocation to a person and criminal intimidation has been registered against Gaffar. “A team is interrogating him and also checking a profile of his associates,” said the officer. Recently, two youths identified as Swadesh Gaur (22) and his younger brother Manish (18) were arrested from Tikar village in Chhapiya police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ats-nabs-man-for-threatening-to-blow-up-sakshi-maharaj/articleshow/76434544.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Reconsider concession: Kochi bus operators||KOCHI: Private bus operators in the city want the government to reconsider the policy of providing tickets at concessional rates to school and college students. Operators are of the view that they suffer huge losses due to the student population that take buses during peak hours. They say students hardly pay 12.5% of the ticket fare to travel by private buses. “There has been a spurt in the number of students travelling to schools and colleges. The government should consider limiting concession rates to students who belong to BPL category,” said M B Satyan, PBOA state president. According to operators, students occupy almost the entire bus during peak hours and it prevents other passengers from entering it. “It even leads to disputes between the crew and student community,” he said. Private bus operators made this demand in an online discussion on ‘Private Bus Operations in Kerala: Challenges and Way Ahead’ organised by Centre for Public Policy Research on Wednesday. In the post Covid-19 times, to help the private bus operators revive their businesses, each bus will have to generate a collection of around Rs 14,000 per day. It will be then possible for us to generate a profit of Rs 2,000-Rs2,500 per day. Kerala bus transport association state secretary, Gokul Das, said people are moving away from public transport. “It has further affected operations of private buses. In the times of Covid-19, the number of passengers using buses has to be around 250 per day. Before the calamity stuck, there were about 900-1,000 passengers travelling by buses,” he said, adding that the increase in diesel prices makes it impossible for bus owners to operate fleets. “Increase in fuel prices, spare parts and other expenses related to operations force bus operators to demand a hike in ticket fares. Otherwise, it will become impossible for us to remain in business. There must be a move to do away with the taxes imposed on fuel,” said Satyan. Then there are issues related to issuance of permits. Permits are being issued to operate numerable buses in one route. Route nationalisation has been carried out in the most unscientific manner. Government should come forward to open up new routes to private buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reconsider-concession-bus-operators/articleshow/76432075.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Cops tell shopowners to form monitoring panels||Pune: The city police on Wednesday urged shopkeepers to form “monitoring committees” comprising traders, civic officials and policemen to look after the sanitization of shops, health of stores’ workers and implementation of the scheduled business hours. Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde told TOI, “We have requested the shopkeepers to form such committees in their particular areas. They will have to shoulder some responsibilities to stop the spread of coronavirus.” The committee members would have to ensure that shopkeepers have digital thermometers to check temperature of their workers and sanitizers. They would also have to enforce the social distancing norms among customers and the mask-must rule among shopkeepers and workers, Shinde said. He said the committee members would have to keep a record on daily basis of the temperature and health aspects of the shopkeepers and regulate the opening and the shutting down of shops at the stipulated time. “The shopkeepers will have to manage the visitors and there should be no disregard to the norms of social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-tell-shopowners-to-form-monitoring-panels/articleshow/76434218.cms||---
June 18, 2020||World||Nepalese army chief visits border, talks of 6 new posts||PITHORAGARH: Days after Nepal’s parliament passed a new map, which depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as parts of its territory, Nepalese Army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa inspected a border post in Darchula near the Kalapani area on Wednesday. This is the army chief’s first visit to the area after the border dispute erupted with India. Accompanied by inspector general of Nepal Armed Police Force Shailendra Khanal, Thapa reached Chhangru — the last village in Darchula district along the Indo-Nepal border — and inspected the police outpost which was set up last month soon after Nepal had registered its protest at India inaugurating an almost 80km-long road till near the Lipulekh Pass. Nepal had claimed that 26km of this road passed through its territory and had thereafter started setting up armed police force outposts along the border with Uttarakhand. During the visit, Thapa inaugurated the newly constructed police headquarters in Darchula, sources said, adding that the army chief also inspected the Darchula-Tinkar Road on Wednesday. While interacting with officials, he said, “Six other border check posts will be constituted at Dumling, Darchula, Lekam, Lali, Malikarjun and Jauljibi areas of Darchula district. A 15-bed hospital will also be constructed at Chhangru for residents, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepalese-army-chief-visits-border-talks-of-6-new-posts/articleshow/76435379.cms||Prem Punetha
June 18, 2020||Pune||Gultekdi flower market to be back to business today||Pune: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) will open its wholesale flower market at Gultekdi from June 18. The market was closed from March 23 due to the lockdown. BJ Deshmukh, APMC administrator, told TOI on Wednesday, "We have decided to open the market with 50% shops of commission agents on a trial basis. After assessing the situation, we will take further decision. At the moment, our priority is to avoid crowding in the market since it is going to open after a gap of three months."Many cultivators had to abandon flower plantation across the district because of the closure of the market. "Farmers across the district have faced huge losses as they had to dump their produce. This is a crucial time for them as festival season like Ganapati, Navaratri and Diwali will be celebrated in the coming months. There is a demand for flowers in the market, so we have decided to open the market," Deshmukh added. The APMC officials held a meeting with flower commission agents recently and apprised them of the issues they might face in the market once it starts. "The space marked for flower trade is congested and, hence, overcrowding may happen. To avoid this, we have decided to open only half the wholesale shops," Deshmukh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-flower-market-to-be-back-to-business-today/articleshow/76434222.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Body of missing youth fished out of Periyar||KOCHI: The body of the 23-year-old youth who had gone missing in River Periyar on Tuesday at Nedumpara near Perumbavur was retrieved by scuba team from Kothamangalam on Wednesday around 10.40am. The deceased, Vaisakh (23) of Nedumpara along with his friend Basil Mathew (21) of Kuthuvazhi had gone missing on Tuesday. Body of Basil was found by the team on Tuesday. According to officials, Vaisakh was an expert swimmer and was trying to rescue Basil when he drowned. The incident happened when the duo along with eight others of Mar Elias College, Kottappady, gathered at Vaisakh’s house to celebrate the completion of their exams. The group was playing volleyball on the riverside when the ball fell into the waters. Basil had gone into the water to collect the ball when he started drowning. Vaisakh, who went in to rescue Basil, too drowned. A third among the group had also dived into the water to attempt a rescue. He however, came back ashore after realising that he was also in danger of being swept away by the strong undercurrents. Bodies of the deceased were handed over to their kin after inquest and autopsies. Meanwhile, the Perumbavoor police arrested a man, Shaju Kizhakkepurathkudi of Koovapady, for allegedly attacking another man with a sword. Shibu of Aimury who sustained injuries has been admitted to hospital. Shaju allegedly attacked Shibu after the latter side-lined him in wood business. In a separate case, Ernakulam rural police probing the attack on a youth by a gang of four near UC College, Aluva, formed a special squad to probe the case. Police also registered 11 cases for violations, arrested four and seized eight vehicles. Thirty were booked for not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/body-of-missing-youth-fished-out-of-periyar/articleshow/76432085.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath orders for microplan as cases surge in west UP districts||LUCKNOW: Alarmed over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in west UP districts, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday announced formulation of a detailed district-specific plan to handle the situation. Data suggests that while Covid-19 cases in most parts of the state went up by about 78% between June 1 and June 17, active infections in some districts recorded an average jump of 171%. These districts are Agra, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Firozabad, Moradabad, Aligarh and Bulandshahr is west UP and Kanpur, Jhansi and Basti in the remaining parts of the state. Additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “The chief minister has directed to formulate a solid action plan for west UP districts like Meerut, Ghaziabad, Noida, Hapur, Bulandshahr etc., in view of rising coronavirus cases. The CM has emphasized on maintaining a constant vigil on cities which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR).” “Expressing concern over the source of infection in these districts, the CM has asked the chief secretary and the principal secretary (health) to review health services in Meerut division and ensure that additional medical employees are deployed as and when required. They were also asked to double the bed capacity in hospitals in Meerut division,” Awasthi said. He said the state was passing through the fourth surge of pandemic. “The initial patients were people travelling to UP but the first surge came in the form of Tablighi Jamat attendees. It was followed by hospitals and health workers while migrant workers brought the third spike. The present leap is coming from western districts,” he added. According to officials, a plan would be drawn on the basis of the feedback from nodal teams sent to these districts which were selected on the basis of high number of active infections. Gautam Budh Nagar leads the state’s Covid tally as of now with active infections surging from 194 to 585 in two weeks. Likewise, Bulandshahr has recorded a spike of over 475% in active infections. Against 40 active cases on June 1, the district is now home to 230 active cases. Health teams are studying the situation in Hapur as well because the number of active infections in the district have gone up by 92% in the last fortnight. Officials are also keeping in view the number of Covid-19 deaths in these districts. Together they account for over 67% of total deaths in the state. “Teams deputed by the CM have been asked to study in detail the reasons for the quantum jump in the number of cases,” a senior officer said. The teams have also been asked to look into the deaths being reported in these cities. “Meerut, for instance, tops the list with 77 Covid deaths. Half of these deaths have occurred in the last fortnight. Therefore, the team has been asked to study the gaps in patient care infrastructure with specific reference to oxygen supply services and adherence to treatment protocol,” the officer said. The teams have been directed to assess possible delays at every level like delay in recognizing early symptoms, delay in reaching hospital or admission/extension of medical care, and co-morbidities. “Findings of these teams would serve as the blueprint for the plan which will be finalized as per the CM’s instruction,” a senior health officer said. The surge of cases in western districts was also discussed during the ‘unlock review meeting’ held later in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-orders-micro-plan-for-west-up-dists-after-sharp-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76434563.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 18, 2020||Surat||VNSGU postpones exams after students protest||Surat: After a group of students from National Students Union of India (NSUI) sat on dharna outside the vice-chancellor’s chamber since Wednesday morning, the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has postponed its annual exam for the sixth semester undergraduate students. As VC Shivendra Gupta wasn’t present in his office during the dharna, protesting students submitted their demands to the registrar. Ironically, VNSGU authorities had last week announced its decision to start exams from June 25. It has now stated that the exams will be conducted from July 13 while the exam schedules will be announced later. The varsity was forced to postpone the exams after the NSUI students started its protest for almost 10 days now. The group staged dharna in various colleges and submitted their demands to the district collector’s office as well. NSUI also started an online movement to demand cancelling the exams and tweets were sent to the education minister as well. ABVP too submitted a memorandum in the issue on Tuesday. The student leaders were protesting the announcement of exams that was being done in accordance with state government’s guidelines and without considering local issues. “University did not think of colleges that are within containment zones in south Gujarat. Further there were no clear guidelines about students who come from such containment zones,” said Manish Desai, president of NSUI. Bhavesh Rabari, a syndicate member, dubbed the postponement as “a victory of the students that the university had to change its decision”. He further said that soon after the exam was announced they made representations at various levels to make the university administration understand that it is not possible to conduct exams in the current Covid situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-postpones-exams-after-students-protest/articleshow/76432090.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||After UDF, CPI too finds fault with KSEB billing||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On a day when the opposition UDF observed ‘lights off protest’ to warn KSEB against issuing exorbitant electricity bills for customers, CPI – the second biggest constituent of LDF – demanded the government to intervene in the issue and settle genuine complaints. The CPI executive that met here on Wednesday observed that complaints are widespread about the billing and major allegation is the KSEB has billed for electricity which was not used by consumers. “The explanation given by KSEB is that the average of four-month bill was levied from customers. But, customers are not satisfied with the explanation. Opposition UDF and BJP have taken up the issue as a campaign. It is high time the state government has intervened and found a solution,” a resolution passed by CPI state executive said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala wrote a letter to CM Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday saying that KSEB’s calculation of bills hadn’t followed the approved pattern and hence the bills needed to be withdrawn urgently. “Thousands of people in the state have lost their means of livelihood following the crisis triggered by the pandemic. The government is looting them by slapping exorbitant power bills,” he wrote. Later in the day, thousands of families in the state joined the ‘Lights Off strike’ called by the opposition by switching off all lights in their houses for three minutes from 9pm. Ramesh Chennithala joined the protest at Cantonment House by lighting candles. Veteran leader A K Antony and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal observed the protest in their houses in New Delhi. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran joined the campaign at his residence at Ambala Nagar here while former CM Oommen Chandy joined the protest at his residence in Jagathy. Panakkad Hyderali Thangal, P K Kunhalikutty MP, P J Joseph and Jose K Mani MP also joined the protest from their residences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-udf-cpi-too-finds-fault-with-kseb-billing/articleshow/76432098.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan makes a strong case for Japanese investments||JAIPUR: The Indian embassy in Japan on Wednesday brought the government agencies and businessmen of the two countries together on a common platform to explore synergies for investment and trade in the western and central regions of the state. While these were exploratory exercises, the intent to expand the scope for investment and trade was clear, spurred by disquiet over investments in China. For Rajasthan government, RIICO MD Ashutosh Pednekar made a presentation drawing attention to the advantages that the state offers to investors, in terms of resources, processes and infrastructure. Listing out the advantages, Pednekar said, “The state offers easy access to 40% market of the country by population. Out of 44 identified economic corridors in India, eight corridors pass through the state. Rajasthan is home to the third largest network of national highways in the country and is the sole producer of zinc and lead in India.” From raw materials to manpower, logistics to financial incentives, Pednekar elaborated the entire ecosystem and successful experiment of Japanese zone to lure investors. Japanese AC maker Daikin’s Indian head Kanwaljeet Jawa also explained their experience in Rajasthan pitching the state as a location conducive to Japanese investments. Daikin has its manufacturing plants in the Japanese zone in Neemrana. Several other entrepreneurs from Rajasthan who also attended the webinar, where other states like Gujarat, Goa, and Chhattisgarh also participated, drew attention to areas where the state has natural advantages. Speaking to TOI, Dileep Baid, one of the well-known exporters in the state, said that Japanese companies have top class technology and expertise in ceramics and they can certainly look at Rajasthan. “The state has all the raw material required for ceramic products and the Japanese have the expertise and technology in this sector. Moreover, gas, which is a key component, is available. They can certainly look at the sector for investments,” Baid said. In recent weeks, the Rajasthan government is reaching out various countries seeking investments and explaining the state’s incentive structure for industries. It has also identified thrust sectors like automotive, ESDM, solar, textile and apparel, logistics, minerals, agro and food processing, petrochemicals and downstream products for which it provides additional incentives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-makes-a-strong-case-for-japanese-investments/articleshow/76434244.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Six succumb to coronavirus, 126 more positive in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 126 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the virus on Wednesday, with 40 of the new patients being from Ludhiana. Now, the number of cases in the state has risen to 3,497 and casualties to 78. This is the third straight day where Punjab has recorded more than 100 cases. Four deaths were in Amritsar district, which has gotten 659 cases so far, and one death each was confirmed in Ferozepur and Sangrur districts. The death in Ferozepur is of a railway officer who scuccumbed to the virus on Tuesday, but whose casualty was added to the state count on Wednesday. There have been 16 deaths in the state in four days — six on Wednesday, one on Tuesday, four on Monday, and three on Sunday. So far, 881 cases are active in the state. Eight people who returned from abroad, and are now in Jalandhar, are among the new cases. Seven people had returned from Delhi, and one each from Gurgaon and Tamil Nadu. Also, 68 new patients are contacts of positive patients. A police official was also tested positive in Tarn Taran district. Also, 31 cases came up in Jalandhar, 17 in Amritsar, six each in Ferozepur and Pathankot, five in Mohali, four in Bathinda, three each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa and Moga, two in Sangrur, and one each in Hoshiarpur, Faridkot, Fazilka, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala and Patiala districts. At the same time, 77 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. These include 46 patients in Jalandhar, nine in Sangrur, five in Mohali, three each in Kapurthala and Pathankot, two each in Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib and Moga districts, and one in Gurdaspur district. Of the 881 active cases, 263 are in Ludhiana, 180 in Amritsar, 98 in Jalandhar, 65 in Pathankot and 52 in Mohali. In Amritsar, a 62-year-old woman was one of the deceased. The resident of Lahori Gate was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on June 14. She was diabetic and had hypertension. On Wednesday, she suffered a heart attack, but couldn’t be resuscitated. Also, 10 of the new patients have influenza-like illness and two are contacts of previous patients. (With inputs from Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-succumb-to-virus-126-more-positive-in-punjab/articleshow/76434261.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court: Why mostly Muslims booked during lockdown?||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Wednesday asked Hyderabad police officials why it had booked a disproportionally high number of Muslims for violating lockdown rules. "Does it mean that there are no violators from other communities?" a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked while hearing a PIL on alleged police excesses during the national lockdown.  The judges also said, "Look at what is happening in the US where an African-American was killed by the cops and the entire country is now burning." The bench felt that the approach of the police towards minorities was high-handed. Social activist Sheela Sarah Mathews, who filed the PIL, narrated a series of incidents where the police have been accused of treating Muslims badly which resulted in severe injuries.  Her counsel Dipak Misra cited the case of Junaid, who had to undergo got 35 stitches on his face after cops beat him up. Junaid was supplying food to migrant workers and some cops when he was stopped by a constable. The bench rejected the police counter saying it did not contain a single statement of the victims.  In another case, Mohammed Asgar, who went to fetch groceries, fell from the top of a building and both his legs were broken. This was because people ran to a nearby under-construction building after police began lathicharge.  "Why are the victims in all these cases are Muslims?" the bench wondered. Asking the DGP to take action, it said: "Deal with delinquent cops in a stern manner and file a fresh affidavit by June 29."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-only-muslims-booked-for-violating-curbs-look-at-us-crisis-hc-to-hyd-cops/articleshow/76435381.cms||Sagarkumar Mutha
June 18, 2020||Pune||Civic body GB adjourned, safety norms followed||Pune: The general body meeting of the Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday, held after two months following social distancing norms, was adjourned without taking any decisions. Around 100 corporators attended the meeting. Only two elected members were allowed to sit on each bench, which otherwise can seat three. The middle seat was kept vacant to maintain physical distance. The primary health screening of corporators was done before allowing them and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials in the meeting room. Their body temperature and oxygen-level were also checked. A group of elected members demanded details of the PMC’s action plan for the next three months to fight against Covid-19. But no discussions were conducted, and the meeting was adjourned. “The number of elected members and people attending this meeting is very high. So, as a precautionary measure, we have to adjourn the meeting,” said mayor Murulidhar Mohol. Voting was called on the proposal of adjournment and the majority favoured it. According to PMC officials, general body meetings were conducted in April and May, but hardly any elected members attended them because of the lockdown and other restrictions. If any corporator remains absent for the general body meeting continuously for three months, his or her membership can be suspended as per law. As a part of the procedure, letters were issued to them for attending this meeting and complete the legal mandate of being present for the general body meeting at least once in three months. “Wednesday’s meeting was a part of legal compliance,” said a senior official of the PMC’s municipal secretary department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-gb-adjourned-safety-norms-followed/articleshow/76434245.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shopping experience gets an appointment makeover||PUNE: Unlock 1.0 has changed many facets of Puneites’ lives and shopping experience is one of the many things that has undergone a major shift. Numerous shops have launched an appointment system requiring customers to book a time slot in advance to shop. According to traders, such a system was necessary to prevent crowding and ensure the safety of customers and staff. Rashmi Patwardhan, owner of Rush Me Fashions located off Prabhat Road, said that an appointment system has become the new normal. “Even before shops were permitted to open, we had been thinking of options to make customers feel safe while they’re in the store. We decided to set up the appointment system and it has become extremely convenient for us and customers. We have provided online booking of appointments with 30-minute and 60-minute time slots. Many customers, who cannot physically visit the store, are also shopping through video calls,” she explained. Owner of Pari Fashhions in Mukund Nagar said, “Appointments are given over the phone only. In case of back-to-back appointments, we keep some buffer period in case a customer takes more time. We also inform the next customer to come a little late in such cases. We are trying to ensure that only one customer is in the store at a time.” Several jewellers have also opted for such appointment software to maintain social distancing at their outlets. Vipul Ashtekar from Krishna Rajaram Ashtekar Jewellers said, “We have shared links for appointments on our website and social media pages. Customers can click the link and request a time slot by mentioning their requirement. A time slot is provided depending on whether they want to buy new jewellery or give something for repair. Chairs are sanitized and arranged at the appropriate counter for the customer and one staff member is allotted to them before the customer walks in. At our larger stores, we can accommodate up to eight customers at a time while maintaining social distancing and about three customers can be accommodated at smaller outlets.” Further, Ashtekar added that time slots are also being provided for home visits. “Several people visit jewellers to get their baby’s ears pierced. It is not prudent to get infants out of their home so we have started providing home services. Our staff don personal protective equipment and visit customers, who have booked appointments as per the auspicious time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopping-experience-gets-an-appointment-makeover/articleshow/76434241.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Student develops thermal scanner with in-built cam||KOCHI: In an effort to support the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, an engineering student of a city college has come up with an automatic thermal scanning device that records the body temperature of people along with their photographs for easy handling of data by health officials.  The device ‘Auto Temp’ was developed by Divins Mathew, a last year B.Tech computer science student of Rajagiri College of Engineering and Technology Kakkanad. ‘AutoTemp’ is a box like device that could be placed at entry points. It can sense human temperature through infrared sensors. People have to just wave their hands before it and stand in front of the sensor. If the body temperature is higher than normal, which is preset, the device’s camera will take a picture of the person and it will be transferred to the connected computer server through wifi. Health workers can use this data in their mobile or in a desktop for further use. Health workers can place this battery-operated device anywhere without engaging closely with people. The device also leaves messages like ‘see a doctor’ and ‘you are fine’ in accordance with the temperature of a person. Mathew developed the equipment under the guidance of Sminu Isudheen, HOD, computer science. “It uses a mechanism similar to a thermal gun with IR sensors. But manual intervention is required for using thermal guns. Our device is fully automated and it can be mounted at entry points. The LED display will give messages to people and the green light will blink if their temperature is normal. If the red light blinks, it indicates abnormal temperature. The concerned officials can access the data stored through the mobile app Auto Temp,” said Isudheen. She added that the expense of the equipment is around Rs.4,000 and the college is in discussion with authorities for its mass production. “We are perfecting the model and calibrating the sensors with the help of a doctor at IMA. A startup has shown interest in the commercial production and discussions are on,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/student-develops-thermal-scanner-with-in-built-cam/articleshow/76432144.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Surat||Surat connected with lone flight||Surat: High flying Surtis are left dangling on a lone wing after Spice Jet on Wednesday announced the suspension of its Delhi and Hyderabad flight operations from Surat till June 30. The Surat airport is now operating with only a single flight by IndiGo between Surat and Delhi. When domestic flight operations resumed on May 25, both Spice Jet and IndiGo were operating flights connecting Surat to Delhi and Hyderabad. According to the latest data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), about 6,500 passengers travelled to and from Surat airport since May 25. There were about 174 flight movements at the airport, out of which 100 were commercial flights. Spokesperson of Spice Jet told TOI, “We have suspended flights from Surat to Delhi and Hyderabad till June 30 due to operational issues. Once these issues are sorted out, flight operations will resume normally.” The airlines are therefore unable to operate pairing flights from bigger airports due to parking issues. Also, passengers are avoiding air travel due to the mandatory quarantine rule for 14 days. Pre-lockdown, there were about 20 flight movements per day from Surat airport to various important destinations across the country. About 4,000 passengers were travelling from the airport every day. President of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ketan Desai said, “Majority of the business travellers from Surat are avoiding air travel due to the mandatory 14 days quarantine rule and flights are operating at less than 50% capacity. It is expected that operations will be normalised after July 1.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-connected-with-lone-flight/articleshow/76432132.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Ordnance Factory workers vote for strike||Nagpur: Unions in the ordnance factories have claimed to have got more than the required mandate for the strike ballot that was moved from June 8 to June 17. The unions had called for an indefinite strike against the government’s move on corporatisation of the ordnance factory board (OFB). The OFB currently is a government department, and corporatisation will make it into a public sector undertaking. Once a PSU, it will have to be self sustaining. The unions now plan to discuss the way ahead for an indefinite strike from July 2 onwards, said a joint press release issued by the three major unions, including the RSS-linked Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh There are 41 ordnance factories in the country. The decision comes at a time when there is tension on the Chinese front. The joint press release has said that the unions have got an overwhelming response for the strike ballot. The plan to corporatize the ordnance factory set up was a part of the post Covid-19 revamp moves. Last year, in August, the government had mooted the corporatisation plan after which the unions had gone on an indefinite strike following which the plans were put on hold. The government had assured that the unions will be consulted if any such step is taken in the future. If the unions go on a strike again, then it is expected to leave a major impact on the defence production. Most of the factories were already closed till June due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordnance-factory-workers-vote-for-strike/articleshow/76425266.cms||Shishir Arya
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Congress questions Centre’s ‘silence’ on standoff||JAIPUR: Congress on Wednesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh on their ‘silence’ over the Chinese infiltration into the Indian territory in Ladakh and the violent face-off with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley wherein 20 Indian soldiers were martyred. “China captured our land and martyred our soldiers,” asking what did the Prime Minister and defence minister do except for keeping silent? AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters at a hotel here where the Congress MLAs are camping before the Rajya Sabha elections. He said, “According to an Indian Army statement, officers and soldiers of our Army were martyred on Monday night when the process of de-escalation was going on in the Galwan Valley. Will the PM and the defence minister take the nation into confidence on how our officers and soldiers were martyred when the Chinese army was de-escalating from our territory in the Galwan Valley? The central government should tell how and under what circumstances our Army officers and soldiers were martyred.” He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other opposition leaders have been urging the Centre to come clean on the situation at the border. But a careless and inept government kept busy in conspiracies to topple elected the state governments of opposition parties and hid the truth of the border from the country. “The priority of the BJP government is not the country, but rule of the party,” he alleged. “There is a ban on ‘questions' and ‘secrecy’ under the Modi dispensation. The Modi government needs to remember that its secrecy or silence has no place in a democratic form of governance. The PM should take the nation into confidence on this issue,” he said. But does the Modi government have any answer for those mothers who sacrificed their sons for defending the country?” he asked. Surjewala said the entire country and the Congress party was standing with the government on every issue of national security and integrity, but the government will have to take the nation into confidence. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-questions-centres-silence-on-standoff/articleshow/76434259.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||SHO suspended after his tutorial audio on corruption goes viral||LUCKNOW: An inspector in Rae Bareli was suspended hours after his audio advising subordinates how to indulge in corrupt practices went viral on Wednesday. SHO of Kheero police station Manishanker Tiwari in a 3.59-minute audio is heard telling subordinates how he managed to run a police outpost because of his connections with not only an MLA, but also with a minister in the previous government. In the same audio Tiwari is heard telling juniors,“In charge ka kaam hai management karna, aurapka apradh karna” (The work of incharge is to manage things, while your work is to commit crime). Tiwari is also heard citing how during his stint as police outpost incharge of Kalli Paschim in Kotwali police station he earned lots of money. “Nobody, was able to remove me because of my links with a block pramukh who has good rapport with a cabinet minister in the erstwhile government,” Tiwari said. Superintendent of police, Rae Bareli, Swapnil Mamgain said that the inspector was suspended with immediate effect. “We have ordered an inquiry against the cop,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sho-suspended-after-his-tutorialaudio-on-corruption-goes-viral/articleshow/76434557.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Snag-hit Chetak copter brought to naval base||KOCHI: A Chetak helicopter, belonging to the Southern Naval Command (SNC) of the India Navy, which had to make a precautionary landing on a school ground following a technical snag on Tuesday, was brought to the Kochi naval base by road. The helicopter CH-441 that was airborne from the Naval Air Station Garuda of SNC for a routine sortie developed a technical snag, reportedly in the engine side, shortly after take-off. As it was noticed by the pilots, they carried out a precautionary safe landing at St. Mary’s School premises, Chellanam, Kochi at 12:04pm. Both the pilots onboard are safe. “The technical teams are looking at the snag and it will be fixed soon. The precautionary landing was made to prevent any emergency,” said naval spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/snag-hit-chetak-copter-brought-to-naval-base/articleshow/76432162.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: GI tag for Banarasi Langda, Chausa soon||LUCKNOW: Mango varieties from Uttar Pradesh are set to make an even bigger imprint on the world. The Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) has started working with the state’s Mandi Parishad to obtain a geographical indication (GI) tag for mango varieties Gaurjit, Banarasi Langda, Chausa and Rataul. The GI registration will help the varieties get a good market within the country and also abroad. Malihabad’s Dussehri mango already has GI registration. GIs are used for products that have a specific place of origin. The distinctive feature and reputation of these products is due to their origin from a region. The indicator ensures product quality and origin of production. GI tag means that no person, institution or government can use the name of this product other than an authorized user. CISH director Shailendra Rajan said, “After certification, farmers will have to face less competition during marketing. It is enough to say that this is a GI tagged product. GI can also be considered as a standard of quality in many ways.” Traders can also get help in trading mango fruit produced from GI certified areas. This will have a direct impact on the price the farmers get. GI tag has special importance in foreign countries. Buyers do not hesitate to buy such products because GI registration is available on a standard basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gi-tag-for-banarasi-langda-chausa-soon/articleshow/76434589.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Polls to co-op societies put off by 3 mths||Pune: Elections to all co-operative societies stand postponed by three months, the state government said in a notification on Wednesday. There are nearly one lakh cooperative societies in Maharashtra, including housing societies and cooperative banks. “It will take some time to contain the spread of the virus and there is a daily rise in number of Covid-19 cases. In such times, it won’t be proper to hold polls of cooperative societies. These polls must be held in a fear-free, open and transparent environment. So, such polls (except where mandated by the HC/SC) have been postponed by three months,” the notification stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/polls-to-co-op-societies-put-off-by-3-mths/articleshow/76434258.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 18, 2020||Pune||MPSC prelim exams on September 13||Pune: The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) announced the revised dates for preliminary and other exams on Wednesday. The MPSC preliminary exam will be conducted on September 13, the state second class service group B combined pre-test will be held on October 12 and the Maharashtra Engineering Service prelims will be held on November 1. The announcement of the revised dates has come as a relief for thousands of candidates. The MPSC had stayed the recruitment exam fearing a spread of the coronavirus. A few days ago the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) had also announced dates for exams to be held in October. In the announcement, the MPSC stated that the commission would review the situation periodically and conduct the exam accordingly. MPSC Students Rights, an association of candidates, expressed concern over the pending results of exams conducted earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-prelim-exams-on-september-13/articleshow/76434249.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Bharat Nagar veggie market sealed after Covid-19 positive vendor dies||HYDERABAD: The Bharat Nagar vegetable market in Moosapet has been sealed after a vendor, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on June 15. Subsequently, five positive cases have been identified in close vicinity of the market. “The vendor was quarantined since June 2,” said a GHMC official, adding that he had not visited the market since June 2. However, residents of Moosapet said that their locality and the market was not being sanitised. “Staffers who clean the area and empty bins do come regularly. But the area has not been disinfected yet,” said M Srinivas, a resident of JP Nagar in Moosapet. As per norms, sodium hypochlorite solution should be sprayed twice a day in the localities where positive cases are identified. Around 80 vendors sell vegetables at the market. The yard adjacent to the market where vegetables are stored also sees high footfall. Moosapet circle covering Bharat Nagar, JP Nagar and parts of Kukatpally Housing Board colony has witnessed nine positive cases in two days and 59 samples from the locality have been sent for testing. But officials say that not all the cases in Moosapet circle are related to the vendor. “We are waiting for the test results of the 59 samples, based on the result, an action plan for the area will be rolled out,” said an official on Covid-19 duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-nagar-veggie-market-sealed-after-covid-19-positive-vendor-dies/articleshow/76433286.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||15 youths battle for 80 hours to save crocodile in Gujarat||VADODARA: These group of relentless crocodile hunters from the city are tired, but won’t give up in their mission to save a three-and-half-feet long crocodile out alive from a 70 feet well. Reaffirming their faith in getting successful in seemingly mission impossible on World Crocodile Day, the team asserted: “We will keep making efforts to rescue it even if it takes some more days!” For, the group of 15 youngsters, including a few mountaineers, has been waging a war against time for 80 long hours till Wednesday to rescue the crocodile that fell into the well in a village of Waghodia taluka four days ago on Sunday. The youths would take turns to climb up and down the well in their attempts to get hold of the reptile, but it seems to be contented living in the confined space feasting on toads inside the well and evading ‘arrest’. “A few villagers who saw the reptile crawling towards the well and slipping inside it immediately informed us. Our team rushed to Narshipura village and began rescue operations, which in itself has proved to a most daunting expedition,” said Hemant Vadhwana, animal activist who is leading the group. The reptile ventured out of a canal about two kilometres away, he added. On the first day, the group dropped an automatic cage inside the well hoping that the reptile will crawl inside. But it failed. Then Hemant decided to climb down the well with the help of a rope. “We first emptied some water from the well so that I could go down and catch the crocodile. But it kept slipping away as the surface is full of garbage and even has thorny plants,” the 22-year-old activist told TOI. “It can survive inside the well but it will forever be at the risk of being suffocated owing to the garbage dumped in the well by the villagers,” said Ketan Raval, another team member, who added that they hope to catch it soon. Read this story in BengaliWatch Vadodara: 15 youths battle for 80 hours to save crocodile from 70 ft well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/15-youths-battle-for-80-hrs-to-save-croc/articleshow/76431072.cms||Tushar Tere
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Min orders spl audit of waqf boards to check corruption, anomalies||Lucknow: At least 50% employees of both Shia and Sunni waqf boards have either been promoted, appointed or given extension by wrongful means in last 15 years in violation of the provisions of the Waqf Act, 1955. Minority welfare minister Mohsin Raza on Wednesday ordered an inquiry after the irregularities came to light. In a meeting of minority department on Wednesday, it was also decided that a special audit of all waqf properties with income of Rs 50,000 and above would be done to gauge the level of corruption in both the waqf boards. The meeting was attended by the CEOs of both the boards, director, joint director, deputy director and secretary of the department, among others. In a decision which would affect the public directly, people will not have to visit to Lucknow for waqf property related document. It was decided that instead of Lucknow offices of the two boards, the documents will be provided through respective district administrations of every district. For this, records of all waqf properties will be digitised and uploaded on the websites so that printout of the online document, verified by the district magistrate and district minority welfare officer, can be made available for people. Hasan Waseem, spokesperson of the minority welfare minister, said: “It has been noticed that in last 15 years, during the tenures of last two chairpersons of the Shia and Sunni boards, at least 50% of permanent and contractual employees benefitted illegally. Under Section 24 of the Waqf Act, 1955, government employees can serve till 62 years of age but a few employees were given extension beyond the age of 65.” A panel will be constituted for special audit of the two boards and another committee will be set up to suggest ways to develop waqf properties and increase their income. “The Act, under Section 109/110, also provides for enactment of rules and regulations. This was never done but now it will also be taken up,” Hasan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-orders-spl-audit-of-waqf-boards-to-check-corruption-anomalies/articleshow/76434569.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 97 fatalities in 16 days in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana has witnessed 97 Covid-19 deaths in the past 16 days. On June 1, the state had 20 deaths due to the viral infection. Till Tuesday evening, the toll had reached 117. The toll included 67 persons with co-morbities while rest were due to Covid-19. On Tuesday, Haryana saw 18 deaths and 550 cases, recording a Covid count of 8,272 cases. Once below .50%, the death rate in the state over the past one fortnight has gone up to 1.41%. Among the dead, 80 were males and 38 females across all age groups. Most deaths have been reported from NCR districts, with Gurugram and Faridabad accounting for most. Almost 80% of the cases have come from NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Sonipat, Panipat, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh and Rewari. “We are monitoring the situation continuously. Every staff member is working extra to ensure the situation remains under control and they save maximum lives. Certainly deaths are unfortunate, but we have sufficient system in place when it comes to life support system for patients. So far, most of the deaths have been found to be of patients with co-morbidities,” said ACS (health) Rajiv Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/97-fatalities-in-16-days/articleshow/76434308.cms||Manvir Saini
June 18, 2020||Rajkot||Three Jamnagar villages under containment zone||Rajkot: After three positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from three villages on the outskirts of Jamnagar city, the Jamnagar collector and district magistrate have put Sanchana, Mota Thavaria and Padna villages under containment zones. In a notification issued from the office of the Jamnagar collector and district magistrate, several areas of Sanchana village including Talav Fali, Hansheshwer Mahadev temple of Gameli vadi area, the stretch between the house of Akbar Dawood Kakal and the houses of Razak Kakal and Saleem Juma Ganthar have been put under containment zones. “These three villages have been placed under containment after each of them reported one positive case each. Apart from milk and medical shops and people with passes, all other shops and business establishments have been ordered to be closed. Flouting of orders will invite action,” reads the notification. Jamnagar city and district have so far recorded 92 Covid-19 cases and three deaths. A total of 133 people are under quarantine at government facilities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-jamnagar-villages-under-containment-zone/articleshow/76432184.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||High consumption: KSEB||Kochi: KSEB has informed the high court that higher consumption during the lockdown resulted in higher power bills. The submission in the form of a statement was in response to a plea by Vinay Kumar MC through advocate Mathew Kuzhalnadan. He has sought for a monthly billing system and to spread out the ‘exorbitant’ bills issued during the lockdown period across multiple bills. Staying indoors has lead the consumers to use gadgets for more time than usual and this led to more consumption of electricty. There was continuous usage of almost all the gadgets of the household. This is an isolated incident attributable to the lockdown, KSEB’s statement said. The bimonthly billing, followed for more than 30 years, has been accepted by consumers, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/high-consumption-kseb/articleshow/76432201.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh orders CBI probe as firm alleges irregularities||HYDERABAD: South Korean company Dasan Network Solutions on June 14 wrote a letter to the current managing director of AP State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) alleging partiality in dealing with the companies that executed the project. The letter has gained significance as AP government has asked for a CBI probe into alleged irregularities committed during the previous regime in Fiber Grid project by APSFL. The company has made several allegations in bid finalisation during tendering to execution. Dasan has provided multiple products for fixed broadband services to APSFL since 2016. In the letter written by Dasan vice-president Vincent Choi, the company alleged, “Even after Dasan being L1(lowest) in Optical Line Terminal tender, the then APSFL authorities were not interested in giving purchase order to Dasan. After MD’s involvement, the purchase order was issued for 200 low cost OLTs leaving the high cost OLTs to their company of interest any time.” Although Dasan has completed all works from its side, the then APSFL officials indirectly blocked Business Support Systems (BSS) integration. APSFL team had made operators buy OLTs at three times higher price than L1 bidder’s (Dasan) price. “As per the agreement if they are any issues which cause delay in supply and are beyond control, Dasan should not be imposed with any penalties. The officials then added more penalities on Dasan. Vendors who fail to supply after a month have to be blacklisted by adding 10% penalty. However, APSFL didn’t blacklist any vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-orders-cbi-probe-as-firm-alleges-irregularities/articleshow/76434337.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Southern dists step up monitoring of small roads to stop people sneaking in||Madurai: With Tirunelveli (522), Madurai (493) and Tuticorin (487) topping the districts in Tamil Nadu in Covid-19 cases other than those in the northern parts of the state, authorities have ramped up steps to contain the spread of the disease. These include tightening vigil along porous village roads through which many have been sneaking in.Now, there has been an increase in the local cases with 405 in Madurai, 304 in Tuticorin and 229 in Tirunelveli. Attributing most cases to Chennai returnees and their contacts, Madurai collector T G Vinay said that earlier the district had 18 check posts, which have now been increased to seal smaller roads through which those without e-pass were entering the district. “This is especially on the Trichy-Madurai, Dindigul-Madurai and Sivagangai-Madurai directions,” he said.For early identification of fever cases, 155 clinics have been set up in the corporation. “Contact tracing and quarantine of all the positive case and a project to protect the elderly and vulnerable people including those with comorbidities through a door-to-door survey are being carried out,” Vinay said.Tuticorin district administration is working on a two-pronged strategy. “On one side we are monitoring the local influenza like illness cases and their source and contact tracing. Over 90% of our cases are from Chennai and Maharashtra and their contacts. So the second way is to prevent spread from them,” says Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri.Five small village roads have been closed to prevent infiltration as people without pass were reaching their destination by skipping the three major inter-district check posts. A second RT-PCR machine worth Rs 15 lakh is to be installed at the Thoothukudi government MCH to double daily sample screening capacity to 500 from this weekend, he added.In Tirunelveli too, most cases now are those coming from Maharashtra and Chennai region. “We analysed that out of 204 villages in the district 82 have returnees from various states. So is the case with 11 of 18 town panchayats and in the municipality. We have organized health screening, survey, disinfection drives and awareness programmes there in a scheduled manner,” Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said.She added that self-reporting is increasing, which is good. The district maintains a list of all travellers. Home quarantine is ensured by checking them through a call centre. The village vigilance committees inform officials about those skipping testing or those with influenza like illness symptoms. They are followed up by the medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-step-up-monitoring-of-small-roads-to-stop-people-sneaking-in/articleshow/76434288.cms||M K Ananth
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: An umbrella can help you maintain social distancing||KOCHI: Kudumbashree is all set to launch an umbrella campaign at all local bodies in Ernakulam next week to create awareness on social distancing. The umbrellas, collected from manufacturing units in Ernakulam and Alappuzha, would be distributed to community development societies (CDS). They will then sell these umbrellas to members of neighbourhood groups (ayalkoottam). A sales event will be held at each local body. “The idea is to create awareness among people about importance of social distancing while stepping out of their houses. A total of 2,073 umbrellas will be sold to ayalkoottam members. Currently, we will distribute umbrellas to 101 CDS. They will have identify one or two ayalkoottams in each panchayat. We are planning to sell 16 umbrellas to an ayalkoottam in panchayat level and 26 in city areas. The idea is that when one opens an umbrella, we can maintain one meter social distancing norm,” said Arun P R, Kudumbashree programme manager (marketing) in the district. CDS would buy umbrellas from manufacturing units at wholesale price. They will then sell each umbrella with 10% price hike, of which 5% will go to ayalkoottam fund and the rest to CDS. If all members in an ayalkoottam prefer to buy umbrellas, they can use the amount from the fund and repay the amount in 12 months to avoid financial burden. If more ayalkoottams want to buy umbrellas, Kudumbashree will tie-up with manufacturing units in the district. The campaign is also to help umbrellas manufacturers, whose stock got piled up due to the lockdown. More than 22,000 umbrellas, manufactured by various units are being used to create awareness on social distancing in all local bodies in the state. The first such campaign in Kerala was started by Thanneermukkom panchayat in Alappuzha district in April to support small-scale umbrella manufacturing units and to create awareness on social distancing. Later, Kudumbashree was taking it up as a campaign at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/an-umbrella-can-help-you-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/76432207.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Hourly updates on hospital Covid beds soon: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Families have often been facing a harrowing time, running from one packed hospital to another, trying to find a bed to admit their Covid-affected relatives. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who held a meeting with doctors’ forum and senior state officials on Wednesday, had a word of assurance: an information system was being developed that would send out hourly update on bed vacancy in both state-run and private hospitals. “Patients’ families will no longer have to grope in the dark once the system is in place. They will get to know which hospital they should go to,” Banerjee said at Nabanna. The CM has also appealed to non-Covid hospitals not to keep patients with serious ailments waiting till they produce a certificate, stating they had not contracted the novel coronavirus. “A patient having a cardiac arrest can’t wait. He should get treatment first. The same applies to a kidney patient in need of dialysis or an accident victim. Such patients should not be asked to produce a no-Covid certificate. It isn’t that simple to get a Covid report. It takes more than 24 hours. Serious patients can’t be left without treatment for such a long time,” the CM said. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha will sit with CEOs of private hospitals on Thursday to set things in order. In its bid to ramp up the infrastructure to tackle the novel coronavirus outbreak, the state has set up 104 “safe homes” in addition to the existing 77 dedicated hospitals in Bengal. “These safe homes are meant for treatment of patients with mild Covid symptoms, such as low fever. It happens that a few members of a family contracting the virus throw up mild symptoms, while others’ condition gets serious. We want to keep the hospital beds for serious patients. Doctors will visit the safe homes twice a day and offer treatment,” the CM said. Banerjee also announced an incentive package for house staff, junior residents and interns in order to rope in more medical professionals in the Covid-treatment pool. Under the package, a house staff treating a coronavirus patient will get a 10% weightage while applying for PG admission. Covid has been included in the “difficult area” category, under which applicants working in rural health centres and hills get an additional weightage. Junior resident doctors treating Covid patients will get a deduction in the compulsory three-year service in rural areas. “The number of months they serve Covid patients will be deducted from the three-year period,” the chief secretary said. The government has also announced a financial incentive and a Covd-warrior certificate for interns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hourly-updates-on-hosp-covid-beds-soon-mamata/articleshow/76433289.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Congress protests with effigy of Xi||Tirunelveli: Congress cadre hanged the effigy of China president Xi Jinping from the terrace of their office in the city to condemn the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in the standoff with the People’s Liberation Army of China in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night. They also hailed heroes in the Indian Army for safeguarding the borders. Led by the party’s Tirunelveli city president K Sankarapandian, the protestors raised slogans condemning China. Asking the Centre to ensure the safety of defence personnel as well as the citizens from such attacks, they said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should resign as he failed to protect India from such a deadly attack. “We have lost the lives of more than 20 soldiers in the attack that took place at their place of stay. A week ago party leader Rahul Gandhi was urging the Centre to analyze the border issues but Modi maintained silence. The government should give a fitting tribute to the martyrs by giving a fitting reply to China,” Sankarapandian told reporters. During the protest the Tirunelveli city police personnel recovered the effigy before it was set ablaze by the protesters. There was a minor scuffle between the protesters and the police, with the former even questioning the police about their patriotism as the effigy was taken away from them. The police said that the protesters will be booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code for violation of the 144 promulgation that prohibits assembly of more than four persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/congress-protests-with-effigy-of-xi/articleshow/76434271.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||‘Admit patients to depts concerned’||Kolkata: The health department has asked teaching hospitals, which have been designated as tertiary Covid-care centres, to admit a patient suffering from a particular medical condition and also found to have contracted the novel coronavirus to the department concerned. For example, sources said, a cancer patient, who had contracted the novel coronavirus, should be admitted to the cancer unit and not in the isolation ward for Covid patients. The patient will get treatment for cancer, whether it is a surgery or radiotherapy. According to the advisory issued on Wednesday from the office of the director medical education, all departments will function normally and Covid patients would get multidisciplinary service, as required. “For academic purposes, all departments should function normally...” said the advisory. This advisory comes in the wake of a demand by medical students that they were denied the right of clinical classes as the designated hospitals were catering to only Covid patients. “We started admitting general patients recently. If a Covid patient requiring treatment for another disease comes here, he or she will be treated in the department,” an MCH source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/admit-patients-to-depts-concerned/articleshow/76433301.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Times Group launches Ei Samay Gold||Kolkata: The Times Group has launched a one-of-its kind infotainment portal, www.eisamaygold.com, which offers a bouquet of original, entertaining world-class audio content in Bengali across multiple genres. The collection of podcasts and associated articles have been painstakingly curated, produced and specially adapted from leading international sources. The content can be seamlessly accessed across devices, whether it’s your smartphone, tablet, laptop or desktop. And that’s not all: if you prefer to read, you can get the podcasts as articles, too. The audio format is particularly enticing to modern multi-taskers because it lets them effortlessly mix business with pleasure: you can get your dose of digital ‘Bangaliyana’ while driving, doing household chores, or even during breaks from a boring workday meeting. No matter what you like, we’ve got you covered. Whether it’s current affairs, science, documentaries, sports, economy, history, spirituality, art and literature, life lessons, relationships, even original series — you’ll find something to pique your interest… and much, much more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/times-group-launches-ei-samay-gold/articleshow/76433296.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra taps Facebook to steer blood donation drive||PUNE: The State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has decided to reach out to potential donors through social media to shore up its depleted stock across 341 blood units in the state. Currently, SBTC has stock for next 15 days, officials said. "With no regular drives, we are reaching out through social media so that there is a sustained effort to shore up the stock. Volunteers can register on Facebook and approach blood bank in their area for donation," said SBTC officials. The officials said that if any blood bank needs blood, it will put up a request on the Facebook page. Blood donors in the city registered on Facebook will be notified about the requirement. State health secretary Pradip Vyas, the blood donation tool on Facebook is being used along with the blood donation camps organised by social organisations to help needy patients. Currently, 71 government blood banks across the state are registered on the Facebook platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-taps-fb-to-steer-blood-donation-drive/articleshow/76434275.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 18, 2020||Madurai||HM held for misusing e-pass||Tuticorin: The headmaster of a school was arrested on charges of misusing an e-pass obtained with a fake medical report to shuttle people between Tuticorin and Chennai earlier this month. K Amulraj, 47, of Rajiv Nagar in Kovilpatti was arrested by the Kovilpatti West police on Tuesday night. He was subjected to Covid-19 test and result is awaited. His car was seized. Police said Amulraj, who is the headmaster of a school in Veerapandiapuram, had obtained an e-pass to Chennai with a medical record saying the test had to be performed in Chennai. While there were heavy restrictions to travel to Chennai, he took a person from Manjanaickenpatti village in Kovilpatti block to Sriperumbudur in Kancheepuram district. He then picked up two people from Ashok Nagar in Chennai and dropped them at Mayilodai near Kovilpatti. The incidents happened between June 5 and 7 but it surfaced only on Tuesday based on a tipoff to Kovilpatti tahsildar Manikandan. Pandavarmangalam VAO Subbaraj conducted an inquiry on the allegation. On confirming the allegations, he lodged a complaint with the Kovilpatti West police. Efforts are on to test those travelled with him from Chennai. Amulraj was booked under Sections 188 (punishment for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of The Epidemic Diseases Act. Further course of action will be taken against him based on the outcome of the Covid-19 test result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hm-held-for-misusing-e-pass/articleshow/76434297.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||BSF soldiers brave 50°C to guard Indo-Pakistan border||JAISALMER: Despite mercury touching 50°C in India-Pakistan border areas, the Border Security Force (BSF) jawans are carrying out patrolling job seamlessly. They are performing their duties round-the-clock while wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Jawans have also launched campaign to protect people at the border villages from corona and in area of water shortage they are quenching their thirst and arranging water for cattle. BSF IG Amit Lodha said that Indo-Pak border is reeling under severe heat but jawans are bravely guarding the border. They are taking all preventive measures from corona and also taking care of the border population, he said. BSF DIG Madan Singh Rathore said jawans have been provided with goggles, caps along with water bottles and during the duty in daytime they are provided lemon water many times. Jawans are provided with onion, glucose etc. also. At the border outposts, duct cooling system has been installed at their barracks. BSF is also trying to prevent the border population from getting infected by coronavirus. We are providing soaps to the villagers and asking them to wash hands frequently . Water tanks are coming to the border outposts. The villagers are provided water from the tankers along with directions have been given to fill the water tanks for the cattle so that cattle too get respite from the heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-soldiers-brave-50c-to-guard-indo-pak-border/articleshow/76434298.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Man kills self due to financial issues||HYDERABAD: A 51-year-old man killed himself in his house in Abdullahpurmet as he was facing financial issues. The deceased was identified as Kanduri Laxminarayana from JNNURM colony. The body was shifted to OGH mortuary and a case of suspicious death was registered. In another incident, an unidentified man was found hanging to a tree at Cheruvukatta, Batasingaram.  A case was registered after the body was shifted to the mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-self-due-to-financial-issues/articleshow/76433304.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||Centre rejects Uttarakhand’s plea for felling of chir pine trees||Dehradun: The ministry of environment, forest, and climate change has rejected Uttarakhand's plea to fell all the dead and dry chir pine trees at an altitude above 1,000 metres. In a recently held video conferencing session, the Union forest ministry rejected the plea and sought a revised detailed study on climate change and ground water table of the chir pine (Pinus roxburghii) forests. These conifers cover 26.07% of the state's total forest area. A study conducted by Forest Research Institute (FRI) in 2016 was presented in support of felling chir pines. However, the central committee pointed out that the report is filled with "lacunae". “We had presented our case with FRI’s study and told them that the chir pine trees have a negative effect on the health of forests but the Centre wants to know the impact of these conifers on both climate and water regime of the respective forests,” said Jairaj, head of forest force, Uttarakhand. The central committee has directed FRI to conduct a re-study. "After the new report comes in, we will try to persuade the ministry to get a go-ahead in order to seek the final clearance from the Supreme Court,” said forest minister Harak Singh Rawat. Sources said that the proposal was put forward to generate revenue for the state from selling of timber. Besides, scientific felling of trees will help officials ascertain the exact state of forests. as chir pines have not been felled for past 40 years. Consequently, our forest lines are now covered with new chir pine trees. Felling of these conifers will help the state generate some revenue and employment opportunities for the communities staying close by forest. Not to forget, this will also control forest fires.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-rejects-ukhands-plea-for-felling-of-chir-pine-trees/articleshow/76432208.cms||Shivani Azad
June 18, 2020||Surat||Promoted, but Surat students appear in test||Surat: When students have been opposing annual exams at most of the higher education institutes in the city in the present scenario, there are some 20-odd Class IX students of P H Bachkaniwala School in Udhna who have chosen to appear for exams despite being promoted to their next class. These students performed poorly in the earlier exams in a particular subject but want to make their base strong and thus have opted to be tested so that they prepare well for their Class X board exams next year. These students and their parents had requested the school management to hold the exams. Considering their request, the school started the exam of specific subjects for these students from Tuesday. The exams were held with social distancing and the students were allowed to appear with their face mask and after cleaning their hands with sanitizers. “My nephew was weak in a couple of subjects while other kids in our family scored good marks. Since he is going to appear in Class X next year we wanted that his base should be strong,” said Mitesh Jariwala, a businessman. “My son was already promoted to the next class but he wanted to appear in the exams. He prepared for it during the lockdown and we requested for the test,” said Sabir Shaikh, another parent, who also wanted his son to prepare well before getting promoted to Class X. Jariwala’s family contacted the school and requested them that they did not wish that children to be promoted without exams. “Since it is an order from the government to promote the children, the parents requested for exams for those students who are going to appear in the board exams next year and which will enable the students to gain confidence,” said Rita Fulwala, principal of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/promoted-but-surat-students-appear-in-test/articleshow/76432264.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Tiger kills youth inside Wayanad forest||KOZHIKODE: The badly mutilated body of a missing youth was found inside the Pathiri reserve forest, under south Wayanad forest division, near Pulpally, on Wednesday.Forest officials, who examined the scene and the partly devoured body, expressed suspicion that the tribal youth, Shivakumar, might have fallen prey to a tiger. Shivakumar, 23, son of Madhavadas of Bassavankolly Kattunayikka Colony at Kaduvakkunnu, had been missing since Tuesday noon, after he had gone to collect firewood. Colony residents, forest officials and police launched a search for the missing youth on Wednesday morning, and found his footwear, machete and purse inside the forest, some 400 metre from his house. Blood was also seen on the ground. The search party followed drag marks, and found the remains of the man’s body around 750 metres away. Officials said the animal had eaten most of the body, except the head. “Considering the fact that the body was dragged around 750 metres from the location of the attack, and most of the body has been eaten, we suspect it to be an attack by a tiger,” south Wayanad divisional forest officer P Renjith Kumar said. He said that the department had placed nine camera traps near the location to identify the animal, and efforts were on to capture it. Cage traps would be deployed on Thursday. Kumar said the deceased man’s family would be provided compensation. A team of officials were camping near the area and patrolling has been intensified. Sulthan Bathery MLA I C Balakrishnan and other officials visited the spot. The deceased youth, an autorickshaw driver, is survived by mother Janaki and sister Manju. According to the Tiger Census Report, 2018, Wayanad is home to 80 of the state’s 190 big, striped cats. In a similar incident, tribesman Jadayan, 58, was mauled to death by a tiger inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) on December 25, 2019. Jadayan of Pachadi Kattunayikka Colony near Vadakkanad in the fringes of WWS, went missing after he had gone to collect firewood and forest produce. The next day, forest officials found his body about 400 metres inside the Pachadi forests under Kurichiad range. The tiger had eaten part of the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tiger-kills-youth-inside-wayanad-forest/articleshow/76432216.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||UP transport dept fixes ‘speed limit for vehicles in rural areas’||Bareilly: Regional transport authorities in Uttar Pradesh will be now implementing a fixed speed limit for vehicles plying on the outer areas of the city - the rural areas that do not fall in nagar nigam limits. The rule, so far, was there for vehicles plying within the city limits.Officials at RTO said that transport authorities in Barabanki already imposed the rule while it is now being followed by Bareilly RTO. For vehicles, including two-wheelers, three-wheelers, plying in the city's outer areas, the speed limit is 50km/hour, eight-seater vehicles 70km/hour, vehicles above nine-seater 60km/hour.Speaking to TOI, senior assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), Bareilly, RP Singh said, "The speed limit for different vehicles, so far, was only applicable within the city limits in UP, however, the transport authorities recently stated that the rule also be applied to the vehicles while operating on the city outer and rural areas. Transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu directed all regional transport authority officials to ensure compliance of the rule and legal action to be taken against those exceeding the designated speed limit."ARTO RP Singh added, "Transport authorities in Barabanki already implemented the speed limit rule and it is also being followed by Bareilly regional transport office. Other districts have also been directed to follow suit and apply it across at the earliest. Interceptor vehicles will remain deputed to keep a check on vehicle-operators complying with the set speed limits and in case of violation, challan will be issued."According to the information from RTO, legal action will be initiated in case of violation as per Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, section 183 (driving at excessive speed, etc). The penalty shall be imposed ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 4,000 depending upon heavy or light vehicle. In case of repeated or subsequent offence, the driving licence shall be impounded.Emergency services such as fire brigade, ambulance, police vehicles, vehicles deputed for maintaining law and order, those associated with disaster management authorities, among others, have been exempted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-transport-dept-fixes-speed-limit-for-vehicles-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76431058.cms||Maria Khan
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Corona +ve woman flees from NRS||Kolkata: A Covid positive patient who had visited the fever clinic at state-run NRS Medical College and Hospital allegedly fled from the hospital after being told that she needed to be admitted for treatment. The hospital authority has lodged a complaint with the police and also informed officials at Swasthya Bhawan. According to sources in the hospital, the woman in her 60s had got her swab samples tested at a private lab on OPD basis few days ago. The Convent Road resident walked into the hospital’s fever clinic and approached the doctors with the report. She wanted to know what the report had mentioned about her Covid status. Doctors told her that she needed to be hospitalised for treatment as she tested positive for the virus. She was asked to wait at the hospital. As the officials were arranging an ambulance for her admission in another hospital, she reportedly disappeared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-ve-woman-flees-from-nrs/articleshow/76433309.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Former MLA assaulted by women at Pali NREGA site||JODHPUR: Former MLA and senior Congress leader from Pali Bheemraj Bhati was critically injured when a few women working as MGNREGA workers attacked him at a work site at Kalali village in Pali district on Wednesday morning. Bhati was first taken to a hospital at Rohet but was referred to Pali on account of serious injuries on his nose. Pali SP Rahul Kotoki said a case had been registered and eight women had been arrested for attacking Bhati. According to information, Bhati has been visiting MNREGA work sites in various villages of Pali for the past few days. He had reached Kalali village on Wednesday morning, where he had been talking to workers about the facilities and issues ailing them, if any. Suddenly, some women workers began a verbal spat with him regarding a murder, which had taken place in village few days ago. Village women questioned his role in the matter and expressed their anger with him. When the argument turned heated, a woman suddenly hit him with a spade, which hit his nose and he started bleeding profusely. He was instantly attended by his followers, who rushed him away from the spot. Even then, the women hurled stones at him and abused him consistently. A police officer said he was first taken to a hospital in Rohet, from where he was referred to Bangur Hospital in Pali after primary treatment. According to doctors, he has a serious injuries in his nose and treatment was underway. They, however, confirmed that he was absolutely out of any danger. As information spread, party leaders and workers began rushing to the hospital to inquire about his condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/former-mla-assaulted-by-women-at-pali-nrega-site/articleshow/76434312.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Board: Only 25% of complaints tenable||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With protests rising against the KSEB for the high domestic energy bills during the lockdown, the utility has claimed that most of the complaints it received were addressed to the satisfaction of consumers and it was committed to settle all complaints on case-to-case basis. According to senior officials, the board had received close to 1.25 lakh complaints of ‘mistakes’ in the bills. Of them only less than 25% were found tenable, they said. There are around 1.3 crore domestic consumers. “In most cases, the higher bills were due to increased power use during the lockdown period. But in around 25% of the complaints, it was found that the generation of bills on the basis of average consumption in the previous billing cycles lead to staggering bills,” said an official. There were complaints that several consumers were denied of the benefits of telescopic tariff, which allows the use of power up to 250 units at a subsidized rate. If the monthly consumption crosses this threshold, the consumers should pay a higher rate (Rs 5.8/unit) for the entire units consumed. Many complained that delay in carrying out the meter reading had denied them of the benefits of telescopic tariff system. Officials said the consumers who have already paid an ‘exorbitant’ bill won’t be losing their money if the actual billing proved the demand notice issued as higher than the real consumption. “In that case, the excess amount paid would reflect in the ‘advance’ column in the bill,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/board-only-25-of-complaints-tenable/articleshow/76432259.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 18, 2020||Madurai||400 regulars to Paravai market screened after 11 test +ve for Covid-19||Madurai: After 11 people at the Paravai market in Madurai tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, authorities tested 400 people for the disease on the market premises on Wednesday.Health department sources said that they had decided to screen 2,000 regular visitors to the market, and 400 people were screened at the temporary market on Thursday. Sources said that more people would be screened in the coming days.When the Koyembedu cluster led to large-scale spread of Covidi-19 cases there, authorities stepped up the vigil and restricted the number of shops to 400. Two days ago, district collector Dr T G Vinay ordered to shut down the market after a wholesale trader, his family members and workers tested positive for Covid-19. It is now functioning at a temporary site.Traders from the southern districts of Sivaganga, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai procure vegetables from Paravai market, which has nearly 700 shops. The market, where more than 2,000 people work, functioned during the lockdown even after the district authorities shut down the central vegetable market at Mattuthavani for failing to maintain social distancing. Lorries with vegetables from other districts and states visit the market every day, where the peak business hours are between 9pm and 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/400-regulars-to-paravai-market-screened-after-11-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76434307.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Gold coin unearthed at Agaram near Tamil Nadu's Keeladi||MADURAI: A gold coin, similar to the one which was widely used during the 17th century AD, has been unearthed at Agaram near Keeladi where excavations are being carried out by the Tamil Nadu archaeology department. Deputy director of archaeology R Sivanandam, who is in charge of the sixth phase of excavations, said the gold coin they found measured one cm in diameter. It weighed about 300mg. The coin has a U-like symbol referred to as ‘Naamam’ in front along with a sun-like symbol in the middle and a lion below it. There are 12 dots on the backside. Below the dot, there is a figure having two hands and two legs. He said these types of coins were in use during the 17th century and known as ‘veerarayan panam.’ Two more burial urns were found in Konthagai, which is believed to be a burial site. Pots and a large number of snail shells were found in Manalur. The sixth phase of the excavations is going on at the ancient Keeladi site. In the present phase, excavations are carried out in neighbouring Agaram, Manalur and Konthagai villages, as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gold-coin-unearthed-at-agaram-near-keeladi/articleshow/76434351.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Ensure kids below 18 not engaged in NREGA: Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: After complaints were received by the state commission for protection of child rights about children (below 18 years) being engaged in MGNREGA works in Barmer, Nagaur and Banswara, the commission chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal wrote to deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot regarding this. Pilot directed the department to investigate the matter and asked them to take disciplinary action against those officials who were responsible for violating the set norms (to not engage children below 18) and to ensure not to engage children in NREGA works. “We received complaints from three districts (Barmer, Nagaur and Banswara) about children being engaged in NREGA work instead of their parents. I wrote a letter to Pilot requesting him to look into the matter. Today, (Wednesday) he replied saying ‘directions have been issued to the district collectors to investigate the matter and also asked the department officials to ensure not to engage children below 18 in NREGA works,” Sangeeta said. MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan, in a letter to the collectors, directed them to take disciplinary action against those officials who violate departmental orders in this regard and ensure not to engage children below 18 in NREGA works. “Actually, as per the Act, children below 18 years can’t be issued job cards or engaged in NREGA work. At the time of issuing job cards, the age of the worker is verified. When we inquired, the complaints were found to be baseless. It may so happen that children accompany their parents to the work site. But, the muster rolls were not in the name of the child. No irregularity was found in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-kids-below-18-not-engaged-in-nrega-pilot/articleshow/76434344.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Focus on protein in corona diet||Kolkata: The state has recommended a daily protein-rich diet for all Covid patients in government hospitals. Egg, fish or chicken, dal and seasonal vegetables have been introduced in the revised food chart for Covid patients. Apart from the quality, the state health department has also revised the quantity. Now, Covid patients admitted to government facilities will be served diet rich in protein and carbohydrates, which will not only improve the immunity but also provide energy to fight the virus better. In a recent order, the health department has revised that rate for cooked meal provided to Covid patients in order to enhance the quality of food served to them. Earlier, they were served the same menu that is being given to general patients. “The rate for a day’s meal for each patient earlier was Rs 56. Now the rate has been scaled up by almost three times to Rs 150 per day per patient,” said a source in the health department. Patients will be served meals three times a day and it will comprise bread, boiled egg, banana and milk for breakfast; rice, dal, vegetables, fish/chicken and curd for lunch and rice/roti, dal, vegetables and chicken/fish for dinner. The specific quantity has been communicated to all hospitals. “Curd, banana and milk have been added and the frequency of fish and chicken have been increased. We have also been asked to serve fine rice,” said a vendor of a state-run hospital, that has been made a Covid hospital. This packaged food will be served to all indoor patients in Covid hospitals. Doctors and dieticians said that though all individuals need a balanced diet, those infected by Covid-19 requires it even more. “A proper balanced diet enhances the immunity. Therefore, a balanced and nutrient-rich platter is very important for a Covid patient,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas. “It is a good initiative. We have already started serving this menu to our patients,” said Nandan Banerjee, superintend of Ayush Hopsital in Midnapore, which is serving as a level 1 Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-protein-in-corona-diet/articleshow/76433324.cms||Sujay Khanra
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Hit China on economicfront also, says SP chief||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav urged the Centre to respond to the violent action of China. He said along with other option the government should also give a befitting reply to China economically. He said that in the national interest the Samajwadi Party would support any such initiative of the government. “Looking at the violent action of China, the Central government should respond strategically against it. Apart from military options the government should explore economic channels as well to take on China,” Akhilesh said adding that the government must suspend contracts awarded to Chinese companies and stop imports from China as well. “Any such step taken by the Centre in national interest would be supported by the Samajwadi Party wholeheartedly,” Akhilesh said in a tweet. He expressed grief over the death of Indian Army officer and jawans on LAC and saluted their martyrdom. Earlier, Akhilesh had tweeted a video of SP founder Mulayam Sigh Yadav’s address in Lok Sabha in which he had pointed out that China was as unreliable a neighbour as Pakistan and a real threat which must be handled. Akhilesh said Mulayam Singh, who had been defence minister, had warned the Centre against China time and again, but no one paid any heed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hit-china-on-economicfront-also-says-sp-chief/articleshow/76434603.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Locked house burgled at Agamaiahnagar colony in Vanasthalipuram||HYDERABAD: Unidentified burglars stole Rs 2.8 lakh worth gold ornaments and other valuables from a house at Agamaiahnagar colony in Vanasthalipuram when the residents were away. The complainant had travelled to his native place on June 11.  On Wednesday, his neighbour alerted him about the burglary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locked-house-burgled/articleshow/76433316.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Hold GIB census: Forest department to Wildlife Institute of India||JAISALMER: The forest department has written to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), requesting it to conduct a census of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB). As the annual census of GIB has not taken place since last three years at the DNP, it is not known how many of the state birds are left in habitat areas in Jaisalmer. The last census was held from March 17 to 25 in 2017. In the counting done on full moon nights, only 19 GIBs were found, which is a very low number than the expectation of the forest department officers and is a matter of concern. Only four GIBs were sighted in Pokhran, Ramdeora areas, while 15 were sighted at the DNP. The forest department has now written to WII and requested it to conduct a census and a survey in scientific, biological and other methods. The GIB is listed in the schedule first of wildlife and is on the verge of extinction. Maximum of these birds are found in Jaisalmer and as per an estimation, the number was considered to be around 100, but there is uncertainty over the correct number, as the last census was done in 2017. DNP dy conservator forest Kapil Chandraval said that the last census was done in 2017 and both forest department and the WII together used to do the census. Since last three years, the census has not taken place, therefore the department has written to WII and requested it to conduct the census. A wildlife census was done on June 5 and 6 at the waterholes in DNP and other areas. There are total 132 waterholes in this area. Chandraval said that in the census done at waterholes, only 19 GIBs were sighted, 15 at Sudasari range of DNP and four at Ramdeora and Pokhran areas. The main reason behind this is 2-3 days ago, it had rained and water had accumulated at many places in the jungle, so they did not come to the waterholes as they found water nearby and in such situations, census could not be accurate. He said that apart from GIBs, 76 desert cats, 237 Indian fox, 2,553 chinkaras, 206 desert fox and 1,932 peacocks were also sighted. It is known that the last census was done from March 17 to 25 in 2017 under the supervision of WII Department of Animal Ecology & Conservation Biology scientist Dr Y S Jhala, then CCF Dr G S Bhardwaj, then DFO Anoop K R and WII GIB conservation project scientist & census enumerator Sutirtha Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hold-gib-census-forest-dept-to-wii/articleshow/76434331.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Health infra on ventilator as cases soar in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Of the 693 ventilator beds available in Delhi, 471, or 70%, are occupied, according to latest data from hospitals across the city. Only 222 beds with ventilator support are vacant, 133 of them in government hospitals and 89 in private hospitals designated for Covid treatment. On June 1, only 42 Covid-19 patients were on ventilator support in Delhi, as per the data. Critical care specialists say that given the speed at which new corona cases are rising, Delhi may soon be facing a crisis of ventilator beds. Ventilators are required for 1-2% of all Covid-19 patients because they are unable to maintain oxygen saturation despite oxygen therapy and supportive medication. “By July-end, it is estimated that Delhi will have around 5.5 lakh Covid cases according to the state government’s own estimates. Of this, 50% may be active cases and the rest, we hope, will have recovered by then,” said Dr Sumit Ray, head of critical care at Holy Family Hospital in south Delhi. “Even if you consider that possibility, 2,500 to 3,000 ventilator beds will be required and we are acutely short of that.” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal acknowledged this shortage of critical facilities on Wednesday. He tweeted: “We may need more ICUs in the coming days. Discussed wid doctors of our Del govt hospitals on how to increase no of ICUs (sic).” Government data shows that among public facilities, Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) Hospital has the maximum — 43 — ventilator beds, followed by AIIMS, Jhajjar (34), Lok Nayak (18), Lady Hardinge Medical College (10), Ram Manohar Lohia (9), AIIMS, Delhi (8), Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty (7) and Deep Chand Bandhu (4). Safdarjung Hospital doesn’t have any. Among the private institutions, Max Shalimar Bagh, Max Patparganj, BLK, Sir Ganga Ram, Jaipur Golden, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Aakash Healthcare and Fortis, Vasant Kunj, didn’t have ventilator beds available on Wednesday. Indraprastha Apollo had four ventilator beds. Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, critical care medicine at Apollo, said ventilator support was given as a last resort to a Covid-19 patient with extensive lung damage due to the infection. “The outcome among patients who are intubated for ventilator support isn’t good. Global data shows nearly 80% of such patients die,” Chawla said. Chawla said the hospital tries its best to help the critically ill recover with oxygen support, non-invasive ventilation or ventilation through the high flow nasal cannula. “Covid-19 patients under home isolation should rush to hospital if the oxygen saturation goes below 94%. Timely oxygen support can help prevent the need for mechanical ventilation,” he said. Another doctor said that beds could be put in stadiums and hotels to treat persons with mild to moderate Covid symptoms, proper management of severe and critically ill patients was critical to save lives. He added that it might prove difficult to scale up ventilator beds to the desirable strength at short notice, but through strict containment measures and enforcement of lockdown in areas with high concentration of infection, it was possible to prevent the healthcare infrastructure from getting overwhelmed. He noted, “Despite Italy and Spain having an excellent health infrastructure, the fatality figures there were very high because the system was overwhelmed by the sudden rise in cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/health-infra-on-ventilator-as-cases-soar/articleshow/76434875.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 18, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: SSB man among 27 positive in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 27 positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, including eight from Kangra district, seven from Hamirpur, four each from Solan and Una, three from Chamba and one from Sirmaur. Also, seven patients recovered, including three in Chamba and one in Mandi. The state’s tally is now 585 cases, of which 198 are active, 11 have migrated out of state, 368 have recovered and six have died. In Hamirpur district, four positive cases have been reported from Barsar and two from Bhoranj, while details of one are being checked. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapti said a 44-year-old personnel of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), posted with Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), who had come from Delhi on June 13 had tested positive. He said the MHA staffer had developed fever at the institutional quarantine centre in Dehra, after which he was shifted to zonal hospital in Dharamshala and tested for the virus. A 34-year-old woman and her two daughters (7 & 3) from Bhawarna have also tested positive for the virus. The DC said they had returned from Gurugram on June 12 and were in institutional quarantine at Parour, from where they were being shifted to Dedicated Covid Health Centre Dharamshala. In another case, a 55-year-old man and his 46-year-old wife and another 23-year-old man have tested positive. All three had returned from Delhi on June 9 and were at paid institutional quarantine in Palampur. All of them are being shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre at Dadh, along with a 30-year-old woman from Marhoon, he added. In Chamba district, two men aged 27 and 22 from Thanoli, and a 30-year-old man from Chuwari were the new patients. In Solan district, a 58-year-old woman who was in quarantine in Baddi and an 18-year-old man from Kishanpura tested positive. In all, 50,905 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Wednesday. Of them, 31,649 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 19,256 are under active surveillance. So far, 57,478 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 56,126 have tested negative and results of 782 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ssb-man-among-27-ve-in-himachal/articleshow/76434349.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dist asks govt to sanction sand reaches in E Godavari||Visakhapatnam: The district administration has requested the government to sanction a few sand reaches in the Godavari river in East Godavari district and enhance the number of reaches in Srikakulam district to meet the needs of the public in monsoon. With the onset of the monsoon, officials have begun taking steps to ensure smooth supply of sand. Joint collector M Venugopala Reddy reviewed the progress in curbing sand smuggling in the district, problems in the software for booking sand and others issues related to the supply. He instructed APMDC technical staff to solve technical glitches and ensure that sand supply is stopped by 6 pm every day. The state government has reportedly instructed the district authorities to stock around 7 lakh tonnes of sand to ensure smooth supply of sand. On its part, the district administration has given permission to mine sand from local streams and is chalking out plans to set up more checkposts to address smuggling. The district has 1.5 lakh tonnes of sand at the stockyards that is sufficient for the next four months. As per consumption statistics, the district has been utilising 30,000 to 40,000 tonnes of sand per month. “The present stock would be sufficient for the next four months. We are permitting four tonnes of sand and bulk for government projects and other constructions. We are mulling plans for the people who wish to take smaller quantities such as one tonne for repairs,” Venugopala Reddy told TOI. Head of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Ajitha Vejendla, said, SEB Visakhapatnam has seized around 550 tonnes of sand so far. “We are planning to put up one more checkpost at Anandapuram apart from existing checkposts at Parawada and Duvvada,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dist-asks-govt-to-sanction-sand-reaches-in-e-godavari/articleshow/76413844.cms||Siva G
June 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Archdiocese says sorry for priests’ misconduct||KOZHIKODE: The Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tellicherry has tendered an apology to the believers for the alleged misconduct of two of its priests. In an explanatory note issued on Sunday, the archdiocese also said action has been taken against the duo for their inappropriate behaviour. The archdiocese said Fr Mathew Mullapally and Fr Joseph Poothottal, who had earlier served as priests at the Pottenplavu parish in Kannur, have been barred from priestly duties pending inquiry in the wake of ‘serious allegations’ raised against them. The note said that the archdiocese had set up an inquiry commission to look into the allegations against Fr Mullappally, who was a priest of the Pottenplavu parish, as soon as an audio clip of a telephonic conversation went public. Following the scandal, the archdiocese had transferred Fr Mullappally to another parish. The note also added that as Fr Poothottal belonged to another congregation, and that the archdiocese had asked the authorities of the congregation concerned to initiate action against him. He had also served as priest in the Pottenplavu parish previously. The audio clip circulated on social media referred to an alleged relationship of one of the priests with a woman. Apologizing to believers, the archdiocese noted that the priests should have set examples of righteous living. A senior official of the archdiocese said that it had launched a probe based on the audio clip, and that it had not received any complaints. Also, the explanatory note alleged that certain vested interests were trying to use the scandal to target the archdiocese even though it had taken speedy action the moment it came to know about the allegations from the audio clip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/archdiocese-says-sorry-for-priests-misconduct/articleshow/76432320.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Room service: Making of a ‘five-star’ hospital in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It’s like going into battle under-equipped and after a very short training. As the city struggles to boost the capacity to accommodate more coronavirus patients, Delhi government's plan to convert hotels into Covid care centres has begun in earnest. Hotel Suryaa, a five-star facility in New Friends Colony has been attached to Holy Family Hospital for the treatment of corona patients. “We have to close the gap between hospital and hospitality, and we don't have much time," said Kannu Sharma, a staff member of Holy Family Hospital, who conducted an hour-long training with 75 hotel workers on Wednesday. The conversion began on Tuesday after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspected the hotel. When TOI visited the Suryaa 24 hours later, the hotel was ready with a contingency plan — an area earmarked for biomedical waste, each room disinfected and the central air conditioner set to the required 24 degree Celsius. The hotel had also set aside 200 rooms for medical purposes, of which 100 were ready for use and the others to be up by the end of the week. Each patient will be charged over Rs 5,000 per room daily. But the hotel’s human resources are the real agents of the change. These 75 unlikely warriors, including some top managers, are uncertain but willing to fight the pandemic on the front foot. Once members of the housekeeping department as chefs, front-desk executives and security men, they will now aid doctors and nurses in treating patients with a highly contagious disease. The Suryaa management is extending help and advice to all its staff members. It has asked elder staff members to stay home, with only those aged below 50 reporting for duty for the next few weeks. “Our biggest concern was for our employees. When they heard the hotel would take in corona patients, everyone panicked,” said Greesh Bindra, vice-president, operations. “These people have not been trained in medicine or disaster management, so they had a lot of questions.” Bindra, who had gone to court against the state government's order, said the management is now taking it one day at a time, ironing out creases as they appear. He has had a tough time answering staff questions, but he is ready to serve his city. “We have increased the beverages and tea bags in the rooms. We have left everything else untouched, even though we could have removed the carpets and other surfaces that will need cleaning when we resume normal operations after the pandemic,” he revealed. According to the government order, hotels will be used to accommodate patients with mild symptoms, with the more serious ones to be admitted to hospitals. The protective equipment and hospital devices required will be the responsibility of the hospitals to which the hotels have been attached. Work like changing linen and towels that requires close contact with infected patients will be carried out by trained professionals, while waste will be cleared by municipal workers. According to Bindra, the hotel needs at least 80 employees for proper functioning if all 200 rooms are occupied by patients. On regular days, Suryaa employs 400 people. “We can't have all staff present to ensure that vulnerable people are not exposed to the infected patients. From the very beginning I have been clear that our staff will only aid health workers,” said Bindra. As Holy Family Hospital’s Sharma, accompanied by two nurses, gave the staffers a quick crash course on hand hygiene, donning and doffing the PPE suits and categorising and discarding biomedical waste, the hotel workers listened in rapt attention. But moments of vulnerability and doubts stood out. After the training session, a worker from the hospitality department got up and articulated the thought that was probably uppermost in the minds of everyone in the room: “We can't become nurses or doctors in two hours, but we know it's important to fight this pandemic together. So, we will stand with you, the hospital staff, to help others get better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/room-service-making-of-a-five-star-hospital/articleshow/76434884.cms||Anam Ajmal
June 18, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray talks medicines, exams & ventilators with PM Narendra Modi||MUMBAI: The state has been battling Covid-19 through aggressive testing, contact-tracing and ramping up of hospital facilities, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told PM Modi on Wednesday, and urged the Centre to allow a wider use of some medicines found effective in treatment to help save lives. Raising the prickly issue of final-year examinations, he put the ball in Modi’s court, asking the Centre to issue uniform guidelines for exams for professional and non-professional courses governed by central councils. When Thackeray’s turn came during the PM’s video conferencing with CMs across the country, he also spoke about how the country’s economic engine is warming up under Mission Begin Again, the situation post-unlocking and the worst-hit state’s need for more ventilators and PPEs, especially for the districts. 500 ventilators, PPEs sought from CentreHe pointed out the state has signed MOUs worth Rs 16,000 crore with 12 companies recently that will generate 14,000 jobs. Its ‘chase the virus’ policy helped curb Covid cases in Dharavi, the biggest slum in Mumbai and a worrying hot spot, said Thackeray, going on to enumerate the health infra added (see P 3). However, indicating the shift of focus to preventing deaths, he pointed out a few medicines have shown positive results, and pressed for their wider use and easy availability. Before attending the meeting, health minister Rajesh Tope had said the state would raise the issue of remdesivir and tocilizumab, two medicines that have shown promise, with the PM. “We are using these drugs on Covid-19 patients on a case-to-case basis with the permission of ICMR. However, it should be made available to all Covid-19 patients. We expect the Centre to make available both drugs at affordable prices,” Tope said, adding the state has decided to request for 500 ventilators. Public health department data show the state currently has 3,500 ventilators, including 757 in Mumbai. Thackeray informed Modi that the state would be unable to conduct exams anytime soon. “The state has decided final-year students would be awarded average marks based on their performance in previous semesters with an option to improve grades later. Therefore, the Centre should issue uniform guidelines, which will give justice to all across the country,” said Thackeray. Governor B S Koshyari, chancellor of universities, has opposed the state stand on final-year exams, calling it arbitrary, unprecedented and one that would jeopardise the future of students. In a letter to the CM, he had said examinations cannot be made optional. Weighing in on the matter, former Mumbai University vice-chancellor Rajan Welukar said, after studying the performance of final-year students from three city colleges last year, he found only a marginal difference if their cumulative grade point average (CGPA) from semesters 2 to 5 are compared to that of all six (including final) semesters. “The state can take into account their performances in second to fifth semesters, which can be convincing for students too as they don’t take the first semester seriously. To keep the final-year exam decision pending for long may have an adverse impact on students’ careers,” said Welukar. At Wednesday’s meeting, Thackeray urged Modi to issue directives to nationalised banks to provide loans to farmers with immediate effect. He also pointed out the state spent over Rs 97 crore on ticket fare to send more than 12 lakh migrant labourers home. “There is no demand for any more train as of now,” he said. (With inputs from Yogita Rao)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-talks-meds-exams-ventilators-with-pm/articleshow/76434886.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Blaze at photo frame godown, huge property loss feared||HYDERABAD: A fire broke out at a godown in Goshamahal in the wee hours of Wednesday. Though no loss of life was reported, the blaze gutted wooden photo frames stored there. Around 4.30 am, a fire engulfed the godown, which is located close to Goshamahal police stadium. “We are yet to find out the cause of the fire. Photo frames were gutted in the blaze at the godown, a shed which collapsed due to the intensity of the flames,” station fire officer Rajkumar said. Four fire tenders were rushed to the place and it took firemen more than eight hours to douse the flames. “There have been no casualties as the godown was closed. However, property damage is huge. We are yet to ascertain the loss of property,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/blaze-at-photo-frame-godown-huge-property-loss-feared/articleshow/76433344.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Six feet long crocodile rescued from Lalbaug||Vadodara: When the city was asleep early on Wednesday, a crocodile was out for a walk in Lalbaug area. The six-feet-long reptile had crawled out of a pond nearby and was seen moving around under the Lalbaug flyover at about 3 am. A state reserve personnel (SRP) jawan spotted the reptile on the road and contacted the activists. “We reached the spot and saw that the reptile was trying to move to some other areas. It is a densely located area so we immediately rescued it and handed it over to the forest department. It is our first crocodile rescue call after it started raining in the city,” said Hemant Vadhwana, animal activist. A pond under the Lalbaug flyover is home to a couple of crocodiles including an adult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-feet-long-crocodile-rescued-from-lalbaug/articleshow/76431092.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, U’khand and UP forest forces to conduct joint ‘air, water and ground’ patrolling during monsoon||Dehradun: For the first time, the forest forces of both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will conduct joint patrolling using water boats, drones as well as foot patrolling this year. Frontline security against poachers was stepped up ahead of the monsoon, as rains make most terrains inaccessible and mar network connectivity, making patrolling difficult. Moreover, workers who have returned to Uttarakhand, having lost their jobs in other states, are increasingly turning to poaching. A total of 20 check posts have been set up between Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and three forest divisions of the Western Circle which have been marked as “most vulnerable” in terms of poaching and will see intensive surveillance this year. Western Circle comprises Haldwani, Ramnagar, Terai East, Terai West and Terai Central. The forest forces of the Western Circle and PTR will primarily engage in protecting tigers. PTR is home to some 65 big cats while Western Circle has over 120 tigers. Western Circle, which won the prestigious national “baagh mitra” award last year for its “remarkable tiger conservation efforts”, has always been the target of poachers, despite not being a tiger reserve. A source from Western Circle said that considering that fact that the notorious Totaram gang was likely to strike any time now, joint scanning of the forests (by forces of Uttarakhand and UP) was good news. Chief conservator of forests, Western Circle, Uttarakhand forest department Parag Madhukar Dhakate said, “For the first time, forests attached to Nanak Sagar in Udham Singh Nagar and Sharda Sagar, which shares its border with Nepal, will be patrolled using boats. Due to the presence of two major rivers, a majority of these forests were left out of patrolling. We will be monitoring these landscapes using drones, boats and rigorous foot patrolling.” According to authorities, the four months of monsoon, starting July and lasting till October, are marked by shoddy connectivity and lack of resources, which weakens the morale of the frontline forces. As it cuts off most parts of the forests, monsoon offers a golden opportunity to poachers to kill wild animals and smuggle timber through difficult terrains during heavy downpour. The task is all the more imperative this year as a majority of poachers have already been nabbed during the lockdown who had returned to the state after losing their jobs. TOI reported such incidents from Rudraprayag, Pauri and Haridwar forest divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-ukhand-and-up-forest-forces-to-conduct-joint-air-water-and-ground-patrolling-during-monsoon/articleshow/76432314.cms||Shivani Azad
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru taluk receives 116mm rain; 305mm at Belikere||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district continued to receive copious rain in the last 24 hours. The district received an average rainfall of 67.8 mm as against 5.3 mm rain that the district received during the same period last year. Mangaluru taluk received the highest rain at 116.5mm followed by 71.5mm in Belthangady and Bantwal, each. The least rain was recorded at Sullia taluk at 36mm. According to KSNMDC, the highest rain of 304.5 mm was recorded at Belikere, Ankola taluk, in Uttara Kannada, in the last 24 hours. It stated that widespread moderate to heavy rain is likely over coastal and adjoining parts of Malnad districts in the next 24 hours. It warned fishermen not to venture into the sea as squally weather with wind speeds reaching 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail over the Arabian Sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-taluk-receives-116mm-rain-305mm-at-belikere/articleshow/76432316.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||New flyover at Kalavasal junction fails to reduce traffic congestion||Madurai: The flyover that has come up at Kalavasal junction, which is the city’s most congested junction after Goripalayam, is yet to have any major impact in reducing the traffic congestion. The flyover that was inaugurated 10 days ago has come up at Dindigul Road. Commuters say that since the intersecting Theni road is busier than Dindigul road, only a section of road users benefit from it.P Selvam, a resident of Bethaniyapuram said that nothing much has actually improved after the inauguration the new flyover. The traffic has not come down and the waiting time has come down only by a few seconds. Only trucks and cars plying on the Dindigul Road use the flyover. Town buses are using the service roads on both sides, which is also one of the reasons the congestion has not come down, he said. “Buses plying to and fro from Arapalayam Bus Terminal are creating traffic jams clogging up the main road. Remember, school and college are shut now. When they are opened, things are going to get even worse,” Selvam added.V P Manikandan, a social activist, said traffic signals are yet to be installed at the junction. The traffic police are still managing the traffic using a hand-held mike. Bright signals with large timer display need to be installed at the earliest. Street lights should be installed at the flyover and prominent display of signboards should also be ensured at both ends of the flyover, encouraging commuters to use the facility, he said.A traffic police officer said that installation of signal post is underway, and that the work would be completed in a couple of weeks. He said that it would ease the traffic if the town buses started using the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-flyover-at-kalavasal-junction-fails-to-reduce-traffic-congestion/articleshow/76434369.cms||V Devanathan
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Test results in no time: Antigen kits to help check Covid spread in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the government receiving 50,000 rapid antigen detection test kits, their use is expected to start in the capital from Thursday. Experts believe that the antigen kits will play a crucial role in the containment and mitigation of the novel coronavirus because it gives results within 30 minutes, thereby leading to quick identification of positive cases. The use of antigen tests was planned in two high-level meetings after which Delhi government health officials started receiving extensive training in operating the kits. The training was conducted on Wednesday too. “Health personnel in all 11 districts have been given the description of the testing kits and trained in using them,” said an official. The tests will start in containment zones where the chances of infection are high. Currently, there are 242 active containment zones out of 309 created till date. As of now, North district has the highest red zones (36) followed by South West (34) and South (31). Among the active zones, scaling down operations have started in 22. The rest are completely sealed with no resident allowed to move outside. “Antigen tests will be conducted in containment zones on all symptomatic people with influenza-like illness (ILI). Direct and high-risk contacts with comorbidities of confirmed cases will also be made to take the antigen tests,” an official said. In hospitals, the antigen tests will be done on all symptomatic ILI patients and asymptomatic patients who are hospitalised in high-risk groups, like those undergoing chemotherapy, transplant, senior citizens with comorbidities, among others. ICMR and AIIMS independently evaluated the standalone antigen tests for quick detection of Covid-19. The test was found to have a very high specificity with moderate sensitivity. ICMR recommended the use of the kits in combination with the gold standard RT-PCR test. According to ICMR recommendations, symptomatic individuals who test negative on the antigen kits should be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out Covid infection. Those with a positive report need not undergo reconfirmation with the RT-PCR test. An official said, “Besides boosting testing, tracking and treating to contain the spread of the virus, the rapid antigen tests will also aid in better clinical management of patients. The test can be interpreted as positive or negative after 15 minutes with the maximum limit being 30 minutes. The reading of the test results does not require specialised equipment.” Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah had asked authorities to conduct triple Covid testing in the city. By Saturday, Delhi is preparing to conduct 18,000 tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-results-in-no-time-antigen-kits-to-help-check-covid-spread/articleshow/76434891.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||AAP seeks waiver of power bills in Ajmer||AJMER: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) launched a protest here on Wednesday demanding waiver of electricity bills of the last three months because of the lockdown. The protest march ‘Chowk se Chorahe Tak’ started from Gandhi Bhavan where AAP members gathered and shouted slogans against the state government. During the rally, the members covered Chuddi Bazaar, Naya Bazaar and Kachari road asking the shopkeepers to support the protest. AAP division president Kirti Pathak said because of the lockdown, the common man was unable to pay electricity bills. She said that it was the duty of state government to provide relief to people so that they can regain their business and work. AAP warned that they initiated awareness agitation in Ajmer, but if state government do not give heed to the voice of common people, the protest could turn big in the days to come. The party is also collecting videos of common man and will send those to the Rajasthan government to inform authorities about the problems the common man was facing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/aap-seeks-waiver-of-power-bills-in-ajmer/articleshow/76434379.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC likely to oust Narsapuram MP||Amaravati: The YSRC leadership is likely to oust Narsapuram MP Kanumuri Raghuramakrishnam Raju from the party. Raju has become an irritant for the party as he had made a series of adverse comments against the state government and chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy. Raju’s latest barb on Monday was that all the key posts in the government were grabbed by one particular community and a coterie was misleading the chief minister. Raju, it is believed in political circles, enjoys a good rapport with the BJP leadership in New Delhi. On Tuesday, the chief minister summoned West Godavari district minister Ch Ranganatha Raju, in-charge minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) and legislators in Narsapuram Lok Sabha constituency to the CM’s camp office and discussed the MP’s attempts to tarnish the party image. Sources said that legislators requested the CM to take disciplinary action against the MP without allowing him to further damage the party. Speaking to the media after the meeting, minister Nani said that Raghurama Raju could not get ticket to contest the elections in 2014 even after changing three parties. “We have the elections only with Jagan’s image and hard work. Raju has shown no gratitude for the party,” said Nani. He said Raju could leave the party if he wanted. Housing minister Ranganatha Raju said that the MP got fewer votes than the MLAs and there was no truth in that legislators emerged victorious only due to his presence. Meanwhile, Raghurama Raju lashed out at the party legislators and ministers for criticising him. “I demand the MLAs to first quit the assembly if they are so confident to win the elections with Jagan’s image,” challenged Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-likely-to-oust-narsapuram-mp/articleshow/76413879.cms||Samdani MN
June 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s peelu trees to bloom in Delhi||JAISALMER: Salvadora trees, locally known as peelu (meethi jal), found in the desert areas of western Rajasthan will soon be seen at parks, including the one at Sansad Bhawan in New Delhi. The tree’s fruit is not only tasty, but also has many medicinal values. IMG Sanstha of Gurugram has ordered its seeds from a farmer in Jaisalmer and will be sown in many parks in Delhi. This Sanstha has developed a nursery at Aravalli Diversity Park in which there are more than 150 varieties considered important from Aravalli and Thar landscape. Salvadora, which is locally known as peelu or Rajasthani angoor is on bloom in desert area. A team of scientists from New Delhi had come to Jaisalmer and after research they went to Sanvta village and requested farmer Sumer Singh Bhati to send the seeds to IMG Sanstha Gurugram. Bhati said the dried fruits were sent to the sanstha through courier and will be grown in their nursery after which the saplings will be planted at many parks, adding that there is now demand for the seeds from many places, including Lucknow. Sanstha’s Dr Vijay Dasmana said he works on eco-restoration project in the entire country and this fruit is called salvadora. He got information about this fruit from farmers of Jaisalmer and he has ordered the seeds. This fruit is an important variety with regard to Aravalli and Thar landscape. The seeds will be sown in the nursery and later the saplings will be planted in various parks. Another SBK College scientist Professor Shyamsunder Meena said it is a leading variety of desert. Generally all trees and plants dry up during drought and severe heat, but this tree remains green and gives fruit, which fulfills the need of water and other necessary elements. It has vitamin C and carbohydrates in abundance. Meena said its green shoots and leaves are being used by people over 3,000 years as toothbrush and mouth freshner. Apart from this, its fruit, leaves, flowers and other parts are used as traditional medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthans-peelu-trees-to-bloom-in-delhi/articleshow/76434370.cms||Vimal Bhatia
June 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Sero survey in all districts of Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has decided to conduct a sero survey in all districts of the state for a test named ‘Covid Kavach Elisa’ to examine the community prevalence of Covid-19 in the state. Haryana is among the few selected states in the country for conducting this type of investigation.  Anil Vij, health and family welfare minister, Haryana, said this test would identify the anti-bodies being produced in the body to combat corona. In this test a blood test is conducted, which will detect whether a person is corona-infected or has had any such infections before. He said in the initial phase this survey would be started in the NCR, hotspot areas and high-risk areas. Priority will be given to blood screening of doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, police and other frontline workers of Gurgaon, Faridabad and NCR. Managing director, Haryana Medical Services Corporation, Saket Kumar said it had been planned to examine blood samples of people. The entire cost of testing will be borne by the government. He said this test kit had been developed by the ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune, and was completely indigenous. It has been used in 83 hotspot districts of the country. During this period, more than 26,400 people of the country have been investigated and positive results had been yielded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sero-survey-in-all-districts-of-haryana/articleshow/76434382.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||‘Smart’ study centres to help bridge digital divide||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a bid to reach out to students who are being deprived of online classes due to circumstances at their home, local bodies will set up smart classrooms in community halls and libraries under state library council. Local self-government department (LSGD) has directed all local bodies to finalize a list of students within their respective locale who would require alternative study facilities to access online classes. The authenticity of the list of such students with genuine needs will be affirmed by chairperson of local bodies, chairperson of health and education standing committees, school heads, ward members and councillors. Local bodies will collect a list of students requiring alternative study facilities with the help of school heads. As per the plan, libraries recognized by state library council and community halls of anganwadis will be identified for setting up study centres. Television sets, enabled with cable connectivity and internet facility, will have to be ensured in such centres. The gadgets and equipment available in smart classrooms as part of high-tech school and high-tech lab projects in state will be used to set up alternative smart classrooms in community halls and libraries. And 75% of the expense required for television set will be met by KSFE. The rest of the amount will be met by local bodies through sponsorship. SC promoters, ST promoters, saksharata prerak and volunteers will be monitoring such alternative smart classrooms. The participation of students will be ensured with the help of headmasters/ headmistress. Special priority will be given to students from SC/ST settlements, isolated families, fishermen community and slums. A provision is also being arranged for students in Tamil and Kannada languages. Once lessons for these media are ready, local bodies will take steps to bring students without adequate facilities to such study centres. The new initiative will also cover disabled students of special schools and a special curriculum, being prepared by department of education, will be made available to such students. There are 4,545 televisions, 1,00,472 speakers, 1,19,054 laptops, 69,943 projectors, 23,098 screens set up as part of high-tech schools and high-tech lab project being implemented by KITE and funded by KIIFB in state. After education department started the new academic year with online classes in the wake of Covid restrictions, cases of students without basic facilities and access to online classes were reported from various parts of the state. A student had reportedly ended her life after she couldn’t access online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/smart-study-centres-to-help-bridge-digital-divide/articleshow/76432322.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for stealing onions at Uppal vegetable market in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old man was arrested by Rachakonda police on Wednesday for stealing bags of onions.  The accused, Abhisekh Dixit, a resident of Gowlipura market, committed the theft by diverting the attention of onion vendors at Uppal vegetable market. He used to shift the onion bags through trolleys from Gowlipura market. According to police, he has committed three such offences. Police seized 91 bags of onions worth Rs 1.5 lakh from his possession and booked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-stealing-onions/articleshow/76433365.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Random pool tests in Kolkata's high-rises to start today||KOLKATA: Witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases from city’s high-rises and housing complexes and as part of a strict micro level Covid-19 containment managing policy, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started random pool tests of Covid suspects living in such places. The decision to introduce such random pool tests was taken after multiple positive cases were found from high-rises and apartment buildings in Kankurgachi-Ultadanga-Phoolbagan belt recently. “We had to conduct a random pool test among residents of high-rises, housing complexes and apartment buildings in large areas of north Kolkata after we struggled to keep the deadly virus at bay. The last such patient we found was from Arvind Tower, a high-rise on Aranbindo Sarani near Khanna intersection. On Thursday, we will conduct a random test among residents of high-rises,” said a KMC health department official. Similarly, the KMC Covid-response team will conduct such random swab tests at several high-rises in south Kolkata after many residents of these high-rises tested positive. Some of the areas where these high-rises are located, include Hastings, Alipore, Kidderpore, Tollygunge, Anwar Shah Road, Lake Gardens, Golf Green and areas located off EM Bypass. Earlier, KMC health department was collecting swab samples from slums and markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/random-pool-tests-in-high-rises-to-start-today/articleshow/76433357.cms||Saikat Ray
June 18, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch psychologists help fight post-Covid depression||Rajkot: People who have suffered job loss or are facing problems in adapting to the new normal post the coronavirus pandemic, are in dire need of counselling. Six doctors from Kutch have taken up the task of providing such people with free online counselling as well as through social media. The idea of counselling was floated by Dr Devjyoti Sharma, who runs a suicide prevention centre in Bhuj, Kutch. His organization has been providing free counselling to people suffering from depression and anxiety over phone and in person too. To help those in need, Sharma has also launched a portal. He, along with other doctors, have created a team comprising five psychiatrists and one clinical psychologist. Sharma also added one yoga teacher from Bhuj in the team. This team has been interacting with people through webinars every morning, five days a week, since the past one month. “According to a few studies, suicidal tendencies have increased by 15-20% because of Covid-induced lockdown. If we don’t address such tendencies in time it has the potential of getting converted into suicides. So, we have started this counselling sessions. Joining psychological counselling with yoga has helped us in providing help to people with mental health issues like anxiety disorders, depression, stress and also suicide prevention.” Dr Sanjeev Gupta, one of Sharma’s team members and former superintendent of mental health hospital in Bhuj said, “This kind of counselling proved useful for people like policemen and health workers who work under high stress levels.” “Post lockdown life is not as it was before. Life of many people have been disrupted due to job loss, depression and the fear of getting infected with Covid-19. For these reasons, the counselling activity needs to continue for a longer period.” The other team members include Dr M P Tilwani, Dr Tushar Agravat, Dr Dhaivat Mehta and Urvashi Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-psychologists-help-fight-post-covid-depression/articleshow/76432309.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 18, 2020||Goa||Lobo accuses Khaunte of indulging in ‘childish politics’||Calangute: Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo on Tuesday said that Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte is using the Covid pandemic to stay in the limelight. “He makes daily statements about the Covid-19 situation, criticising the state government. Does he have a magic solution to this problem? This is kiddish politics,” Lobo told reporters. The MLA further claimed that the letters that Khaunte has been writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the Pramod Sawant-led government are all dumped in the dustbin. Lobo also accused Khaunte of targeting him in a bid to deter him from working with BJP partymen in Porvorim. “I'm not against him personally, but Khaunte is trying to throw his weight around. He is trying to frighten the people in Porvorim constituency who speak against him. He does not want any person from Porvorim to contest against him,” the minister alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-accuses-khaunte-of-indulging-in-childish-politics/articleshow/76434384.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kochi||Collector acts, Srikanth’s home gets power supply||ALAPPUZHa: Srikanth, the Class X student from Kanjikuzhy who was forced to study under candlelight, has reasons to smile. The youngster is able to access online classes at home and can study even at night under the bright light of an electric bulb thanks to district collector A Alexander’s intervention. The collector made arrangements to ensure power supply at the student’s home after TOI published a story titled ‘Srikanth still studies in the light of kerosene lamp’ on Wednesday. By Wednesday noon, Srikanth’s home got power supply. He also got a phone. The collector said that it is our duty to ensure equal opportunity to all students and ensure their education. “No student must face difficulty to get education in the district. I immediately arranged power supply to Srikanth’s home with the active support of Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, revenue officials and KSEB,” he said. “I don’t know how to express my happiness. Like my friends, I can attend online classes at home and there is no boundary for my happiness,” said an excited Srikanth. Srikanth’s sister Sreelakshmi is pursuing dialysis technician course. When their friends were busy attending online classes, Srikanth and his sister – who hail from a poor, SC family from Kanjikuzhy in Alappuzha, couldn’t attend online classes as their house lacked electricity and a smartphone. “There is an electric pole just 20m away from our home and it stands on the land of grama panchayat. Though we approached many times, panchayat authorities did not help us earlier to get a connection,” said Jyothi, the boy’s mother. Grama panchayat president MG Raju said that they had made all other arrangements for the family on Wednesday to ensure power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collector-acts-srikanths-home-gets-power-supply/articleshow/76432343.cms||Sajimon P S
June 18, 2020||Surat||Blind students attend classes on mobile phones||Surat: Along with their counterparts in normal schools, even 150 visually challenged students of Andhajan Shikshan Mandal, Ghod Dod Road, are taking classes online till schools reopen.So that the blind students even from remote locations do not miss on learning during the Covid break in schools, these students from Class II to XII from different south Gujarat districts are being given audio lessons daily through mobile phones. Before the lockdown happened, nearly 120 such students living in hostels were sent home. They are now being taught lessons of all subjects including music through various audio files which are shared over mobile chat application. “We have created WhatsApp groups of different classes,” said Manish Gajjar, principal of the school. Teachers of various subjects prepare their audio lecture and share it in the group. While listening if student have question they can send question in audio format, Gajjar added. Interestingly, the school had trained the students to use mobile phone and computers which is proving to be a boon now when they can use various features and applications on the phone. The students operate the phone with voice commands. “We use TalkBack App feature of phone which doesn’t require touch or typing. This is a better option for us as we can continue learning even while being at home,” said Shubham Bhavsar, a Class XII student from Parvat Patia area. Due to limitations, the mathematics teachers face difficulties in teaching through audio files and require physical presence of the students, the school officials informed. “I miss my school and learning in school is the best option. But till school reopens, this is the best way to keep learning. We are comfortable in learning through this method,” said Suhani Tandel, a Class X student from Navsari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blind-students-attend-classes-on-mobile-phones/articleshow/76432335.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-engineering student denied bail in drugs peddling case||VADODARA: A sessions court denied anticipatory bail to an engineering student of a private university for her alleged involvement in a drugs racket which was busted by special operations group last month. The student Oshin Khan, who is a native of Valsad, was summoned by police for questioning last month. However, she did not appear and applied for anticipatory bail on June 3. Khan, whose name was revealed by the two kingpin Narendra alias Chenaram Chaudhary and Pankaj alias Vikram Mangukiya, told court that she has been in her native place since she finished her studies and never visited Vadodara after that. She pleaded innocence on the ground that her name was never mentioned in the FIR and she was named accused based on the statement given by Chaudhary and Mangukiya. The additional public prosecutor Atul Vyas while arguing against the bail plea told court that when Khan was studying in Vadodara, she used to buy the drugs from the two accused and used to sell them to other addicts. The investigating officer also informed the court through an affidavit that since Khan was involved in a serious offence, her custodial interrogation was necessary. Agreeing to the arguments made by the public prosecutor and the investigating officer, the court of sessions judge H I Bhatt turned down Khan’s bail plea. Chaudhary and Mangukiya had revealed several names of peddlers including that of Khan. They were nabbed near Dena crossroads with methamphetamine worth Rs 47 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-engineering-student-denied-bail-in-drugs-peddling-case/articleshow/76431122.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Voters’ list for local body polls published||Thiruvananthapuram: The state election commission published the voters’ list for local body elections 2020 here on Wednesday. The voters’ list has a total of 2.62 crore voters which include 1,25,40,302 males, 1,36,84,019 females and 180 transgenders. 14.79 lakh voters have been newly included in the list. The new voters include 6,78,147 males, 8,01,328 females and 66 transgenders. 4,34,317 voters have been excluded from the new voters’ list. The excluded voters are either deceased or those who do not reside permanently in a local body ward. The draft voters’ list was published on January 20 and included 2,51,58,230 voters. The final voters’ list was published by electoral registration officers based on applications and complaints received till March 16. Local body elections will be held in 941 gram panchayats, 152 block panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 86 municipalities. Those voters whose names have not been included in the list published on Wednesday will get two more opportunities to enroll themselves in the list. It is learnt that the election commission and state government is moving ahead with a plan to conduct local body poll in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/voters-list-for-local-body-polls-published/articleshow/76432351.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||41 patients test positive||tnnLudhiana: Forty-one patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Wednesday, taking the tally to 456 in the district. Besides them, 136 patients from outside the district have tested positive here to date. At present, 199 patients from Ludhiana district and 39 from outside are admitted to city hospitals as active cases.“On Wednesday, 1,042 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, of which 35 tested positive and 1,006 negative, while one sample will be re-tested,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Other six cases were from a private hospital. Dayanand Medical College and Hospital medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, said, “Six patients tested positive at the hospital, including two from outside the district. The four from Ludhiana include a 48-year-old woman from Luvkush Nagar, Bagga Kalan, a 29-year-old man who is staying at DMCH’s Dumra Hostel, a 38-year-old woman from Rajguru Nagar who visited the ENT department and a 51-year-old from Dugri Preet Nagar. Besides them, a 27-year-old man from Pathankot, who visited the hospital with complaints of fever, and a 26-year-old man from Ahmedgarh, who came with complaints of anxiety, also tested positive.”29 cases from containment zonesAs many as 29 cases were reported from containment zones: 10 from Chawni Mohalla, 10 from Sensi Mohalla and nine from Habib Ganj. With them, the total cases reported from Chawni Mohalla stand at 42 and of Sensi Mohalla and Habib Ganj at 55. Three from Hambran RoadTwo girls of 15 and seven and a boy of five from Mayur Vihar Colony, Hambran Road, have contracted the virus from their family members.Influenza-like illnessA 47-year-old woman from Khanna with influenza-like illness (ILI) has tested positive.Three othersA 13-year-old boy from Amarpura, a 25-year-old man from Talwandi Rai and a 13-year-old girl have also caught the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/41-patients-test-positive/articleshow/76432327.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer: FIR against news anchor for remarks on Sufi saint||AJMER: The khadims of the Ajmer dargah lodged an FIR against a TV news anchor for allegedly making derogatory remarks on the Sufi saint here on Wednesday. The city police registered a case against news anchor Amish Devgan under IPC Sections 153A, 295k, 298 and Section 66F of the IT Act. The journalist later apologised on Twitter. “In 1 of my debates, I inadvertently referred to 'Khilji' as Chishti. I sincerely apologise for this grave error and the anguish it may hv caused to followers of the Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti, whom I revere. I have in the past sought blessings at his dargah. I regret this error,” Devgan tweeted. The FIR said that there was anger among the khadims after the video went viral on social media in which the anchor allegedly uttered derogatory words that hurt the sentiments of the people residing in Ajmer. The khadims said that the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti of Ajmer is a Sufi place where people from every religion and community come to offer prayers for harmony and prosperity and using derogatory words for it has hurt the sentiments of thousands of people. After the video went viral, khadims and the Anjuman committee members gathered in the dargah and condemned the words used against the Sufi saint. They later went to the dargah police station and registered an FIR. Another complaint was lodged by activist Muzaffar Bharti at the office of Ajmer SP. He accused Devgan and his team of trying to incite riots through “misleading and objectionable debates on communal issues”. Bharti said Devgan made highly objectionable remarks on the revered saint, which shall not be tolerated. “The dargah is a symbol of brotherhood and harmony and crores of people of different religions all over the world have deep love and faith in the saint,” he said. Dargah SHO Hem Raj said a case has been registered in the matter for outraging religious feelings and investigation has begun. (With inputs from agency)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/fir-against-news-anchor-for-remarks-on-sufi-saint/articleshow/76434385.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||With 2,414 fresh cases, Delhi goes past 47,000 mark||NEW DELHI: The capital’s Covid-19 count crossed 47,000 mark to reach 47,102 with a record 2,414 cases reported on Wednesday. The previous highest spike in daily fresh cases — 2,224 — was recorded on Sunday. The spike in new coronavirus cases comes with the increase in testing. As per the government data, 8,093 swab samples were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, up from last week’s 5,000-5,500 tests a day. On Wednesday, 67 more fatalities due to the disease were also reported, taking the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the national capital to 1,904. As per the health bulletin, issued by the Delhi health department, 17,457 people have recovered from the disease till date. There are total 27,741 active cases, of which 5,518 are admitted to various hospitals. At least 850 patients are requiring ICU support and more than 200 are on ventilator. In the past 24 hours, the data shows, 535 Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals. Only those with moderate to severe symptoms are admitted to hospitals. Those with mild to moderate symptoms are admitted to Covid health centres that have basic medical facilities, including oxygen support. The government said 138 patients were admitted to various Covid health centres as on Wednesday while 1,333 patients were kept in isolation at Covid care centres. Many others are under home isolation, an official said. From June 12 to 14, over 2,000 cases were reported every day in Delhi. Over the past two days, the numbers went down with 1,647 and 1,859 cases being reported on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. “The surge in new cases in Delhi is happening because more people are being tested,” said an official of the health department. The daily figures are likely to increase further in the coming days, but “the good thing is most patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms that can be managed at home also”, he added. Only those with comorbidities such as diabetes, heart disease or cancer need extra care and admission even if the symptoms are mild, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-2414-fresh-cases-delhi-goes-past-47000-mark/articleshow/76434893.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Two Bengal politicians test +ve||Kolkata/Siliguri: Two prominent political leaders in Bengal, Trinamool chief whip Nirmal Ghosh and prominent CPM leader and Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) board of administrators chairman Asok Bhattacharya tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Ghosh’s test results came nearly a week after his son Tirthankar tested positive. Bhattacharya, however, was taken to hospital after he complained of chest pain on Tuesday. Around 12 persons, who were in direct contact with Bhattacharya, have been advised home quarantine, said the SMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-bengal-politicians-test-ve/articleshow/76433383.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Gachibowli: Man dies after bike rams into median||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old private employee died and his wife sustained injuries when the bike they were riding crashed into a median at Gachibowli. The victim, J Pandu, from Nethaji Nagar in Patancheru, and his wife, Kavita, were travelling towards Gachibowli for a function. When they reached HCU second gate, Sudershan Nagar, Pandu lost control of his vehicle and hit the road divider.  Due to the impact, the vehicle hit the tree. As a result, the couple fell on the road. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-bike-rams-into-median/articleshow/76433380.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||New spray of life: Locked out of jobs, not spirit||NEW DELHI: The Covid lockdown robbed Mohammed Mustafa and Mohammed Amir of their jobs at the madrassa. But the duo, with great presence of mind, have come up with a way to mix business with pleasure, or rather, earn something for themselves while engaged in their passion for socially beneficial work. Mustafa, 32, taught at the Jamia Hussainia Madrassa in Loni, Ghaziabad, where Amir, 23, was an employee. Being the only earning members in their family, the two were despondent when the madrassa closed after the lockdown was announced. “My family was worried about the future, about how we were going to survive,” says Mustafa. For some times, the two and their families survived on their meagre savings, but when the gradual lifting of the lockdown was announced, they went out in search of employment. It so happened that they were at Lok Nayak Hospital on a job-hunting foray when they noticed the large number of patients arriving by e-rickshaws, autorickshaws and cars at the Covid-designated government hospital. Hitting upon the idea of disinfecting the vehicles coming to the hospital, the two men went to Chawri Bazar, bought a knapsack pump sprayer for Rs 2,700 and some sodium hypochlorite. The next morning, they were at the hospital, carefully prepping their chemicals. They scribbled the sanitisation charges on a sheet and began their new venture. Today, they use up around four litres of sodium hypochlorite every day. They initially brought their own water for the disinfectant solution, but the hospital, recognising the value of their work, told them to avail of the campus water for free. In return and as a gesture of respect for their work, Mustafa and Amir disinfect all ambulances arriving there but do not charge anything for it. “After buying the disinfectants from Chawri Bazar every day, we have from Rs 200 to Rs 600 rupees left in our pockets daily,” smiles Amir. His smile becomes broader when a constable steps out from a police control room van to attest, “These two are doing a great job. When people are even afraid to come near hospitals for fear of corona infection, they spend hours on this social work.” E-rickshaw driver Shivcharan hands over Rs 20 to Amir instead of the Rs 10 listed on the chart. “Bhai ijjat se kama rahen, bhagwan aplogon ka bhala karega (God help you for your honest work),” Shivcharan says. These days, auto and taxi drivers also drive up to the duo in Loni to have the vehicles disinfected. Amir came to Delhi from Bihar two years ago with his newly married bride. Mustafa lives with his wife and three kids. They are a contented lot. “Hum itna sukun se kabhi soye nahi raat ko (We’ve never slept so peacefully at night),” says Amir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-spray-of-life-locked-out-of-jobs-not-spirit/articleshow/76434899.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
June 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hit by lockdown, people displaced by BSL demand jobs||BOKARO: People displaced by the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and other protesters hit the streets on Tuesday, demanding jobs. The district administration has imposed Section 144 of CrPC till June 30 to prevent further escalation of tension. The Electrosteel Steel Limited (ESL) is also facing similar protests from its workers allegedly retrenched by the company. The incident happened when the administration is putting focus on employing over 13,000 migrant workers who have returned to the district due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, the BSL management deployed a large number of security personnel at the residence of its executive director (personnel and administration, Mukul Prasad in Sector-4 here as protesters under the banner of Bokaro Mrit Karamchari Sangh threatened to gherao it demanding jobs. The protesters were sons of BSL employees who lost their lives while working in the plant. BSL chief of communications, Manikant Dhan, said, “We are holding negotiations with the agitators who had planned the protest. However, no protest occurred at the residence of the executive director.” Neeraj Choubey, who is leading the agitation against BSL, said, “We assembled at the Majdoor Ground in Sector-4 to gherao the executive director’s residence. We are demanding jobs to 500 youths whose fathers died during work at the plant. But BSL officials stopped us promising to hold negotiation talks on June 16.” Earlier on Monday, several displaced workers under the banner of Jharkhand Navnirman Sena (JNS) staged a dharna at Gandhi Chowk in Sector-4. JNS chief Gulab Chandra said, “The BSL management has to provide jobs to 20,000 displaced people on whose land the plant is set up. The displaced persons, who used to work in other states, have now returned because of the lockdown. BSL should give employment to them or return their unused land.” Contract workers of ESL, who were allegedly retrenched, have also protested. Recently, JMM leader Vijay Rajwar and former labour minister Umakant Rajak of Ajsu-P met DC Mukesh Kumar, seeking his help to reinstate around 700 ESL workers. ESL had, however, clarified in April that it has not retrenched anyone but asked them to stay home because the plant has stopped production because of the lockdown. Kumar had met with ESL management on June 13 to take stock of the situation. He said, “ESL officials told me that no worker will be removed from their jobs during the lockdown. They said wages for 15 days in April and 12 days in May were paid to the workers who were told to stay at home. No regular worker has been sacked. I have instructed the labour superintendent to keep a constant watch.” A senior ESL officer, S Venkatraman, informed the DC that a total of 5,773 contract workers were employed before the lockdown, out of whom 2,288 were asked to stay at home. “Many workers have rejoined. At present, 5,144 contract workers are back and the remaining 629 will be asked to rejoin by July end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hit-by-lockdown-people-displaced-by-bsl-demand-jobs/articleshow/76412698.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||2 patients flee from hospital||Two Covid-19 patients fled from civil hospital on Wednesday. While one of them is from Shivpuri, the other is from Dugri. Even as more than 30 police officials are deployed at civil hospital, the two managed to give them the slip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-patients-flee-from-hospital/articleshow/76432353.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana rides on ordinance to defer staff pay, pensions||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Tuesday night hurriedly promulgated an ordinance which allowed it to defer salaries and pensions of its employees without getting into legal tangles. The Telangana Disaster and Public Health Emergency (special provisions) Ordinance,2020, allowed the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to even defer payments to institutions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the state’s reduced revenues. Telangana high court had on Monday pulled up the state for deferring pensions after a number of employees challenged the decision to impose salary and pension cuts for the past three months. The judges said that even the Disaster Management Act did not give the government such powers. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan issued the ordinance through a gazette notification that came into effect from March 24, the day the national Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The gazette notification gives the state government immunity from legal scrutiny. The ordinance reads: “To make special provision for the deferment of any payment in party, due and payable to any person, institution and any pay, pension and remuneration in part, to any employees, any pensioner and any other person, in the event of disaster and public health emergency in the state and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” In the ordinance, the government has even defined disaster, employee, pay, pension and public health emergency empowering the state government to defer payment in the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease. The government has been imposing a cut in the salaries of all employees except some departments such as police, doctors and sanitation workers, public representatives and pensioners. While 50% salaries deferment is being imposed for government employees, All India Service officers’ salaries have been cut by 60%. Similarly, while elected representatives including CM, ministers, MLAs, MLCs and even local bodies representatives such as mayors have seen a 75% cut. The government said the ordinance would be tabled in the state assembly during next session or within six months from the date of ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-rides-on-ordinance-to-defer-staff-pay-pensions/articleshow/76434914.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 18, 2020||Goa||Shift waste out of Campal promptly: HC to CCP||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday directed the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) to immediately shift the unremediated waste from the parade ground, Campal, to an alternative authorised site near Heera Petrol Pump. The court directed that the waste be remediated in accordance with law. The court also said that CCP is responsible for restoring the parade ground to its original status. The court issued the clarification to ensure that CCP does not attempt to pass the buck to other authorities. Shifting of the remediated waste from Campal should be completed by November-end, so that the parade ground can be used on December 19, Liberation day . A division bench comprising Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar said, “We clarify that the primary responsibility with regard to restoration of the parade ground at Campal to its original status, will be that of the CCP. This clarification is necessary because, in future, we will not appreciate a situation where the CCP attempts to pass the bucks to GWMC and vice versa.” “We are sure that the commissioner realises the seriousness of this matter and will henceforth take all necessary measures to ensure that the parade ground at Campal is not used as a site for dumping of garbage,” the court said. The court ordered the director of health services to visit the site and to file an affidavit in two weeks as to whether the existing waste at the site can be a potential source for ailments, like dengue, malaria, etc. The director will have to also file an affidavit, indicating whether any additional measures are required with regard to this waste at the parade ground. During the hearing, advocate general D Pangam submitted that the CCP will immediately shift the unremediated waste to the alternative site near Heera Petrol Pump. He said that the remediated waste will also to be transported in a phased manner to the cement factories in Karnataka. Meanwhile, appropriate measures, including covering of such remediated waste with tarpaulin, will be undertaken, he added. Accepting the government proposal, the high court directed the shifting of the waste. Advocate Norma Alvares, appeared as amicus curiae in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-to-ccp-shift-waste-out-of-campal-promptly/articleshow/76434430.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Denied PMAY aid after 4 years, couple stages protest||LUDHIANA: A city couple — Lal Jha and Meera Jha — on Wednesday staged a protest outside the Zone A office of the municipal corporation, alleging that their application for financial aid under the PM Awas Yojna (PMAY) was rejected on technical grounds by the officials after sitting on it for full four years. The man claimed he had applied for the subsidy under the scheme for construction of house four years back, but now the officials are asking him to apply under the scheme for rural areas, saying his locality does not fall within the corporation limits. However, senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra assured him of finding solution to his problem and said he would ask the mayor and the municipal commissioner to take action against the erring officials. Giving details of his case, overlock worker Lal Jha said, "I had applied to avail Rs 1.5 lakh aid under the PM Awas Yojna, as I have a small plot in New Ashok Nagar at Jassian Road." He said when he had submitted the application, the civic body officials had advised him to start construction work to avail the subsidy. So, he took a loan of Rs 1 lakh from bank and started the construction work. “But, even after four years, I have not received anything. The officers are now telling me verbally that his area is outside MC limits, so I should try again under the scheme for rural areas,” he said. Interestingly, in January this year, the officials had issued a letter to the couple, which said since they had not started construction at the site as per the scheme’s condition, they would send the subsidy money back. The senior deputy mayor, who heard the couple, said the officials should have got field verification done right after Jha applied for the aid four years ago. In all such cases, the officials should give in writing to the beneficiaries whether their sites fall within the corporation limits, instead of causing harassment to public at a later stage, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/denied-pmay-aid-after-4-yrs-couple-stages-protest/articleshow/76432344.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
June 18, 2020||Chandigarh||After NSUI, ABVP hits out at Haryana plan||CHANDIGARH: Within days of NSUI seeking parity between students from Haryana and outside, the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), a frontal organisation of BJP, on Wednesday also raised questions over the examination schedule issued by the universities of state. Seeking postponement of exams, the ABVP team headed by Purnoor, the member of state executive, submitted a memorandum to the Panchkula administration for the chancellor. “First, keeping in view the present situation, we don’t think this is the right time for exams. We are in the third week of June and seeing 300-500 new cases every day, including from districts. Hence, universities should postpone the exams, or if at all it has to be conducted, it has to be conducted for all,” said Purnoor. She said no differences should be made between students. If required, the universities and colleges should make boarding arrangements or they should make examination centres in home districts or some alternate arrangements for examinations, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-nsui-abvp-hits-out-at-hry-plan/articleshow/76434445.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||IG Jayaraj exonerated of all charges||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has exonerated IG E J Jayaraj of all the charges of official misconduct and dereliction of duty levelled against him. The officer was facing serious disciplinary charges for misbehaving in a drunken stupor in public along with his driver Santhosh, and thereby lowering the image of state police force before the public. According to the order issued by the chief secretary in this regard on June 3, the hearing officer for the disciplinary proceedings and principal secretary A Jayathilak found that none of the charges against E J Jayaraj stand proven and recommended the government to exonerate the officer of all the charges. Interestingly, the previous inquiring officer, DGP N Shanker Reddy, had on August 6, 2018, submitted his findings against the officer stating that the charges against the officer stand proven. On the basis of the report, the government had reached a conclusion that the officer stands proven for misconduct and dereliction of duty. As penalty, the government had then decided to punish the officer with increment bar for one year, and had informed the Union Public Service Commission for its advice in the matter. The commission had returned the proposal for awarding the penalty to the officer and also directed the government to grant one more chance for a personal hearing for the accused. However, Jayaraj refused to be heard by the same authority who had found him guilty of charges. The government then decided to appoint A Jayathilak as the fresh inquiring authority, who then heard the officer and submitted a report to the government, absolving him of the charges. The incident happened in October 2017, when Jayaraj’s official vehicle was apprehended by the police after it was found recklessly moving around near Anchal in Kollam. The officer and his driver were found in an inebriated condition. A blood test conducted on them found heavy alcohol content. State police chief Loknath Behera reported to the government that the actions of the IG were grave and brought disgrace to the police force and strong disciplinary action should be taken. The officer was then suspended from service pending an inquiry. In June 2018, a suspension review committee revoked his suspension and reinstated him in service, with the recommendation that he should be posted to an insignificant post. However, disciplinary proceedings continued against the officer. Jayaraj is currently IG (crime branch), Kozhikode. He is due to retire in May 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ig-jayaraj-exonerated-of-all-charges/articleshow/76432395.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops, attorneys quarantined day after sub-inspector tests positive||Ludhiana: A day after a Shimlapuri police station sub-inspector tested positive for Covid-19, 12 officials, including nine cops and three attorneys, were quarantined in Ludhiana on Wednesday.The cops include Shimlapuri SHO inspector Amandeep Singh Brar and two sub-inspectors, among others. Police officials said the 52-year-old sub-inspector would complain of fatigue. During random testing of cops, the sub-inspector was also tested and his reports came positive on Tuesday. The Shimlapuri SHO said, “Besides the cops, the sub-inspector had also come in contact with two deputy district attorneys, Harkeerat Singh and Dinesh Kumar, and assistant district attorney Rajbeer Singh Chahal.” “His other contacts are sub-inspectors Ranjeet Singh and Simranjeet Kaur, ASIs Jarnail Singh, Ranjeet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Ajmer Singh, head constable Swaran Singh and my gunman constable Talwinder Singh,” he added. “We have no clue from where the sub-inspector contracted the novel coronavirus,” the SHO added. While some of the officials have been home isolated, other cops have been sent to the quarantine centre — Sigma College of Nursing, Southern Bypass. On Tuesday, 20 cops of Division 2 police station, Janakpuri police post and civil hospital police post were quarantined after a drug peddler and a snatcher tested positive. On June 11, a Division 2 police station constable had tested positive after which eight cops of the station were quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-attorneys-quarantined-day-after-sub-inspector-tests-positive/articleshow/76432362.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Seven suicides by hanging reported in a day in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Seven suspected suicides—all by hanging—were reported across the city on Wednesday, the youngest victim being a 10-year-old boy. Police said no suicide note was found in any of the cases. “While we still believe the death of the 10-year-old could have been an accident, we are yet to ascertain the actual reason. We also need to consult psychiatrists,” said a Lalbazar officer. The first death, that of a 57-year-old resident of Baisnabghata Township, was discovered around 5.30 on Wednesday morning. A hosiery hawker at Gariahat, Naresh Saha was reportedly under a huge debt. Pointing out his financial troubles were not new, police said they were investigating if the lockdown had played any role. For the police, the most “mysterious death” was that if 10-year-old Sunny Mondal at a building on Dhakuria Station Road. The Lake police said the boy’s mother worked in that building and he mostly stayed at her employer’s residence since he was six years old. Around 2 pm, Sunny reportedly claimed he was going to the terrace to pick up drying clothes. When he did not come down for a long time, residents and cops started a search to find him hanging from an iron hook, projected from a window near a balcony. “We need to ascertain whether it was accidental or a deliberate act,” said an officer, adding no one had lodged any complaint so far. Among the victims were two 19-year-olds, one found dead at Patuli and the other at Muchipara. Rohit Gupta (19), a resident of Moore Avenue, was found hanging using a gamchha around 6.30am. His parents, who live in Bombay, told police the boy was alone in Kolkata and the loneliness during the lockdown might have had impacted him. Toton Das of Muchipara is the other 19-year-old to have reportedly ended his life on Wednesday afternoon. Around 8am, two deaths were reported, that of Mohan Bandhopadhay (40), a resident of Hazra Road, and 70-year-old Nokul Mondal, who lived on the ground floor of a two-storey building on Canal Road in Behala. Around 9.30am, a 30-year-old resident of Kalitala Bose Lane in Beliaghata, Indranil Karmakar, was found hanging on the top floor of a four-storey building with a nylon rope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seven-suicides-reported-in-a-day/articleshow/76433407.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Girl pregnant after father rapes her||HYDERABAD: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped and impregnated by her 35-year-old father during the lockdown in Dundigal. The survivor is said to be five months pregnant. The incident came to light when the minor developed pain in the stomach and her mother took her to a hospital for a check-up. “The doctors said that she was pregnant. On being coaxed, the survivor confided in her mother,” A Venkatesham, Dundigal inspector, said. According to the police, the survivor and her mother had gone to several hospitals to get an abortion done, but the hospitals refused. The girl and her mother later lodged a complaint against the accused with the Dundigal police. A case was registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the accused has been taken into custody. Watch Hyderabad: 14-year-old girl pregnant after father rapes her||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/girl-pregnant-after-father-rapes-her/articleshow/76433411.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Dist markets being shut as Covid cases tumble out||Madurai/Vellore/Trichy: The sense of fear that the Koyambedu cluster managed to instil initially after Covid-19 spread to various districts from the wholesale market seems to have vanished if the cases tumbling out from other local markets are anything to go by. Various district administrations are now closing down markets and stepping up focused testing to prevent fresh outbreaks. Vellore district collector A Shanmuga Sundaram has ordered closure of the retail vegetable and fruits markets in Nethaji market from Thursday after three fresh cases cropped up after reopening earlier this month. The market had the first case two months ago when a lime vendor tested positive, and had remained closed during the lockdown that ended in May. The collector said the number of cases in the district had climbed to 232 with 59 fresh cases on Wednesday. These include those who visited the busy Nethaji Market, Long Bazzar, Sarathi Market and Mandi Street. The retail market has been shifted to a private school on Officers Lane while wholesale vegetable shops will be permitted only between 10 pm and 6 am and will remain closed on Sunday. Madurai collector T G Vinay ordered closure of the Paravai wholesale vegetable market from Monday after 11 people – a wholesale trader, his family members and workers – tested positive. With over 700 shops, it is one of the biggest in south Tamil Nadu attracting traders from Sivaganga, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai procure vegetables. When the Koyambedu cluster emerged, 300 shops here were closed to maintain social distancing. Now, only around 200 to 250 markets are permitted at a temporary place close by. On Wednesday, 400 people associated with the market were tested. Trichy Corporation has collected samples from 232 people associated with the Gandhi Market and onion market near Palpannai after two people associated with these markets tested positive. One of them, a trade union leader, had attended a meeting at the corporation office called to discuss the reopening of the Gandhi Market. Samples have been collected from 122 traders and workers at the private onion market after the relative of an onion trader tested positive recently. (With Input from Karal Marx, Padmini Sivarajah and Deepak Karthik) ——————————————————- Bullet Points * Vellore – Retail vegetable and fruits markets in the Nethaji Market closed from Thursday following spike in cases * Madurai – Paravai wholesale market is closed and samples to be collected from 2,000 persons after 11 tested positive * Trichy – Samples collected from 232 persons associated with Gandhi Market and onion market after two tested positive * Decentralisation of main markets prevented Koyambedu like situation in many districts (Eom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dist-markets-being-shut-as-covid-cases-tumble-out/articleshow/76434432.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||House owner held for faking robbery||2 DAYS ONTimes News NetworkLudhiana: The police on Wednesday claimed to have solved the June 15 Heera Nagar, Kakaowal Road, robbery, with the arrest of one.The house owner, Rashneet Kaur, 31, had concocted the robbery story as she wanted to help her parents financially. She has been arrested and the stolen cash and gold recovered. She had hidden it in her house, said police.On June 15, Rashneet, wife of Amarjeet Singh who owns a machine and tools manufacturing unit in Miller Gunj, had said that when she was alone at home, two women posing as Covid-19 surveyors barged into her house around noon. “The women overpowered me, attacked me with a blunt weapon and escaped with cash and gold jewellery. After gaining consciousness, I called up my husband. He asked a relative who lived nearby to rush to my aid,” she had told the police.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Rashneet had concocted the robbery story. She has confessed that she wanted to financially help her parents, who live in Phagwara. After planning the robbery, she executed it when she was alone at home. She banged her forehead against a wall to convince everyone that she has been attacked. She had hidden under a bed 150g gold and Rs 4.35 lakh.”Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur said, “Rashneet and her family said that she was under depression and did it due to it. She has been arrested.” On how police zeroed in on Rashneet, the sub-inspector said, “We scanned all the CCTVs installed in the locality. We also checked call details and tower dumps to trace cellphones active at the spot at the time, but found nothing suspicious. Besides, Rashneet did not have any other injury other than the one on her forehead to prove the two women overpowered her.” Top cop’s advice to residents Don’t step out of your house wearing expensive watches, gold jewellery and with costly cellphonesPrefer commuting on main roads than inside lanesDon’t give lift to any unknown person Avoid carrying more cash than requiredGet CCTVs installed at the main gate of your house or magic eye door||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/house-owner-held-for-faking-robbery/articleshow/76432372.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid patient delivers baby boy in Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A week after a baby was born to a Covid-19 patient in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi followed suit with a patient giving birth to a healthy baby boy at TMA Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital. The two coastal districts added a dozen new cases to their tally of existing Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with Dakshina Kannada accounting for eight and Udupi four. The 22-year-old woman underwent emergency Cesarean delivery. She hails from Karkala, and was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. She is recovering. It was necessary to carry out emergency surgery due to obstetric reasons. This is the first surgery performed on a Covid-19 patient in Udupi. The team of obstetric surgeons included Dr Shashikala K Bhat and Dr Surbhi Sinha, and the anaesthesiologist Dr Roshan Shetty, and they were assisted by a nursing team comprising Veronica, Ashwini and Jayashree. Paediatric care was given to the newborn baby by Dr Ashish Gupta and Dr Chaitanya. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said while lauding the medical team at TMA Pai Hospital for handling a critical case, that they have appraised him of steps that will be taken to prevent the infant from contracting the disease. “We will test the child before the mother and child are discharged from the hospital,” the DC said, recalling they had successfully treated the first case of a pregnant woman from Uttara Kannada, before discharging her. Referring to the total cases in the district on the day, Jagadeesha said three cases were reported from among those who returned from Mumbai, and one case is a primary contact of a previous case. Since Maharashtra returnees form a special category, they were tested and found positive, the DC said. Udupi presently has 130 active cases out of 1,039 total positive cases reported thus far, with 908 patients haven been discharged, and one confirmed as a positive case after death. Out of the 80 test reports received during the day, eight were positive, said Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh. Five of these cases are primary contacts of earlier patients, and two are returnees from Saudi Arabia on June 8 and one patient returned from Mumbai. A patient was discharged during the day, taking total number of those discharged to 170. Two patients are in the ICU at the Covid hospital, and Dakshina Kannada has 209 active cases at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-patient-delivers-baby-boy-in-udupi/articleshow/76432366.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai woman hands over third girl child to adoption home||MADURAI: A 36-year-old woman from a village near Checkanurani in Madurai district, who gave birth to her third child, a baby girl, on Tuesday, handed over the newborn to the child welfare committee (CWC), stating that she cannot raise the children due to her financial situation. Her husband, a daily wage labourer, had died four months ago due to cardiac arrest. The woman, who is a farmhand, is staying in her parental house. Her other daughters are studying in Class IX and X. CWC member B Pandiarajan said that the mother, soon after delivering the baby, informed the duty doctor at the Checkanurani primary health centre (PHC), Dr Divya that she was not in a position to raise her, and sought her help to admit her in a home. The doctor immediately informed the officials concerned. Pandiarajan and district child protection officer A Ganesan visited the PHC and received the baby. She was handed over to an adoption home at Karumathur. Since it would be difficult for the woman to raise her other daughters as well, they promised to help her by admitting them in a home and to ensure their education in a decent school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-36-hands-over-third-girl-child-to-adoption-home/articleshow/76434450.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Waqf posts to be filled through PSC||Thiruvananthapuram: The cabinet on Wednesday decided to handover appointments to Waqf board to the state public service commission. The cabinet also decided to recommend the governor to promulgate an ordinance in this regard. The cabinet also decided to grant a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family of Surendran, who lost his life waiting for a bus when KSRTC employees went on a flash strike in the capital on March 4, from the chief minister’s distress relief fund. The cabinet also issued clearance to continue the temporary posts of 1,200 police constable trainees and 200 women police constable trainees in the armed police battalion in the state. Also, the circle inspector posts in the general executive category of state police force will be renamed as inspector of police.The cabinet decided to extend the benefits of pay revision to 24 employees made permanent in the Kerala shops and commercial establishments labour welfare board. Appointments: The cabinet appointed water resources secretary B Ashok as the chairman and managing director of the civil supplies corporation. The cabinet also reappointed incumbent chairman and managing director P M Ali Asgar Pasha as the general manager of the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/waqf-posts-to-be-filled-through-psc/articleshow/76432398.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Sakhali gets new civic chief||Bicholim: Yeshwant Madkar was elected as the chairperson of Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC) on Wednesday. With this, the chief minister Pramod Sawant who is the local MLA has regained control of the municipality after many years. The post had fallen vacant after former SMC chairperson Dharmesh Saglani, who was the Congress candidate against Sawant in 2017, was voted out of office on June 9 through a no-confidence motion, by a margin of 7-5 votes in the 13-member council. Councillors Yeshwant Madkar, Shubhada Sawaikar, Anand Kanekar, Dayanand Boryekar, Rashmi Desai, Bramha Desai and Rajesh Sawal had moved the no-trust motion against Sanglani. While councillors Yeshwant Madkar, Kunda Madkar and Dharmesh Saglani had filed their nominations for the post, Kunda had withdrawn her nomination. Sanjit Rodrigues was the returning officer for the election, held in the presence of SMC chief officer Pravinjay Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-gets-new-civic-chief/articleshow/76434454.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government promotes 20 IAS officers as ACS||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has promoted 20 IAS officers to the post of additional chief secretary. Among the IAS officers who have been promoted, nine are from the 1988 batch and 11 are from the 1989 batch. The promotion of the two batches, due in 2018, was approved by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Additional chief secretary, appointments, Mukul Singhal told TOI that all officers from the two batches had been promoted to the ACS post. Alok Kumar I, Rajneesh Dubey, Rajan Shukla, Navneet Kumar Sehgal, NVS Rami Reddy, Manoj Kumar Singh, Turamalla Venkatesh, Arvind Kumar and S Radha Chauhan of 1988 batch; and SP Goel, Devesh Chaturvedi, Monika S Garg, Aradhana Shukla, Dimple Verma, Prashant Trievdi, Manoj Singh, Amit Mohan Prasad, Suresh Chandra, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy and Anil Kumar of 1989 batch have been promoted as ACS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-promotes-20-ias-officers-as-acs/articleshow/76434651.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: University exams likely to be postponed, meet today||HYDERABAD: University exams are likely to be postponed by the higher education department officials in view of rising Covid-19 cases in Telangana. The exams, which were scheduled to be held from June 20 in many colleges, are expected to be postponed during a review meeting that will be held on Thursday. Following numerous representations and complaints from students, chief secretary (education) Chitra Ramachandran is all set to convene a review meeting to discuss university exams and future course of action. Subsequently, a higher level meeting is also expected to be held by the education minister later during the week. “We are keen on postponing the exams by a couple of weeks for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students. For other students, we can conduct exams even in August as they are not due to be awarded degrees,” said an official, indicating the government’s interest in conducting the exams. Sources said that officials will review feasibility in conducting the exams at various colleges keeping in view social distancing norms, sanitation and hygiene at exam centers, and transportation among other factors. During the meeting, officials are expected to review arrangements and decisions taken by other states and come up with its own set of guidelines for university exams. Meanwhile, students continue to seek promotion without exams in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases across the state. “When the SSC exams were called off due to Covid-19, why can’t university exams be called off? When Punjab and Maharashtra could promote degree students without any exams, why can’t Telangana do the same,” questioned Venkat Balmoori, state president, National Students Union of India (NSUI), that has filed a writ petition urging the high court to promote BTech and degree students without exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/university-exams-likely-to-be-postponed-meet-today/articleshow/76433434.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Alerted by ‘I-quit’ post on Facebook, cops and friends save Tollywood scriptwriter||KOLKATA: Barely 72 hours after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, Tollywood almost lost an assistant director-scriptwriter to a similar tragedy on Tuesday but timely intervention by his friends, colleagues and a team of 15 cops saved him. The 28-year-old reportedly locked himself up in a secluded flat and consumed pesticide but cops from the Regent Park police station managed to track him down just in time, after an hour-long operation. A fight with his girlfriend might have been a reason for the drastic step, police said. According to police, the assistant director of serials, like ‘Netaji’ and ‘Seemarekha’—the eldest among three brothers—had told his parents that he was going to a shop near the Kudghat Metro station to buy some papers to write a new script. But once he stepped out around 11am, he reportedly posted on Facebook, “When I quit”. Tollywood pressed the panic button as soon as the message popped up. A member of the film industry, Srijoni Roy, who has known him since 2019 when he was an assistant director of a serial, ‘Aloukik na Loukik’, went over to his house, along with colleagues Suman Das and Vickram Bhattacharya. “Soon, four of his colleagues joined us. When I finally got through to him over phone, he started crying profusely. Before we could speak, he disconnected,” said Roy. By afternoon, director Aniket Chattopadhyay, who was in Birbhum’s Labhpur, posted online, seeking help to trace the scripwriter. “I know him very well, he’s a promising writer. His café is right opposite my studio. Tollywood isn’t an insular industry... Sushant’s incident kept playing in my mind and I didn’t want to leave any stone unturned in tracing him. I informed joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma,” Chattopadhyay said. Sharma immediately told DC (SSD) Pradeep Kumar Yadav and OC Mrinal Kanti Mukherjee of Regent Park police station to step in. Four teams were formed and one reached the scriptwriter’s Kudghat residence. The cops started tracking his mobile tower and since, the last call he had received was from Srijoni Roy, police easily traced him to the Regent Park area. “He runs a café in the Baruapara area close to Madhuban Cinema and also has a small flat behind it,” said an officer. Police reached the flat but found it locked from outside. “We broke open the two locks and found him lying on the floor, unconscious. There were pesticide packets all around. We took him to SSKM Hospital, where doctors washed his stomach and gave him injections,” the officer added. Once he recovered, he was united with his family. “We are arranging for his counselling,” Yadav said. His friends in the industry were relieved and happy that he could be snatched back from harm’s way. “We will meet him soon. People often don’t take social media seriously. But had we not spotted his post and reacted, we might have lost him. I am happy Tollywood, which has high social media usage, could save a precious life,” Roy said. Barely 48 hours ago, police commissioner Anuj Sharma had posted on Facebook as well as Twitter, assuring citizens of help if anyone felt emotionally stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alerted-by-i-quit-post-on-fb-cops-and-friends-save-tolly-scriptwriter/articleshow/76433431.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 18, 2020||Hubballi||Chitradurga is now covid free||DAVANAGERE: Chitradurga has become covid-free with the recovery and discharge of last of the 43 positive cases recorded in the district, said DHO Dr Palakaha on Wednesday. As many as 68 suspected cases tested negative on Wednesday, he said. However, 2,989 people are placed under home quarantine in the district, he added. Davanagere has 17 active cases out of 230 cases reported so far. As many as 207 patients were cured and discharged from the designated covid hospital, said Davanagere DHO Dr Raghavendra Swamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/chitradurga-is-now-covid-free/articleshow/76432397.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||District goes in for micro containment zone model||Ludhiana: The district has adopted the government’s model to go in for micro-level containment in areas where less than 15 cases of novel coronavirus have been reported. On Wednesday, the health department identified two micro containment zones — New Model Town and New Janta Nagar. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat visited New Model Town along with other health officials and did spot mapping, defined exact boundaries along with the population in the zones. The department has taken immediate action on micro containment so that infection spread could be stopped. On Thursday, the team will visit New Janta Nagar. The two areas have reported five cases each.Prior to this, there were three containment zones — Chawni Mohalla with 42 positive cases, Prem Nagar with 19 cases and Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj and Sensi Mohalla with 55 cases. The health department has identified nine high-priority areas from where two or more positive cases were reported. These include Chandar Nagar, Madhopuri, Doraha, Khanna, Samrala, Bohpur village, Isher Nagar, SAS Nagar and Model Town Extension. Dr Bhagat said, “Micro zones are different from containment zones, as we will cordon off smallest possible area so as not to affect large number of people. In these zones we will not allow entry or exit, except for essential services. There will be a physical barrier manned by the police and house-to-house screening.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The idea is to go micro and pick cases early rather than let them increase to 15 or 20. We will factor in distribution of cases, physical continuity of the area and epidemiological link of the positive patients while drawing the map for such zones. A dedicated committee will also make a plan for searching active cases.”For micro containment zones, a district technical committee — comprising civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, district epidemiologists Dr Divjot Singh and Dr Ramesh Bhagat, nodal officer from administration Sanyam Aggrawal, World Health Organisation representative Dr Gagan Sharma, an MLA, councillors, presidents of residential societies, community leaders and local NGOs — will be formed. What is a micro containment zone? It is a street or two adjoining ones, a mohalla or a residential society, either whole in case of small societies or a part of it in case of large ones, depending on distribution of cases. In rural areas, it may be a part of the village or the whole village, again depending on distribution of cases.Containment zones (which have reported more than 15 cases)1. Chawni Mohalla-42 2. Prem Nagar-19 3. Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj, Sensi Mohalla-55 Micro containment zones (which have reported more than five cases)1. New Model Town - 5 2. New Janta Nagar - 5High priority areas (which have reported more than two cases) 1. Chandar Nagar2. Madhopuri3. Doraha4. Khanna5. Samrala6. Bopur village7. Ishwer Nagar8. SAS Nagar9. Model Town Extension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-goes-in-for-micro-containment-zone-model/articleshow/76432394.cms||Mehak Jain
June 18, 2020||Business||Continue free grain scheme, urge 10 CMs||NEW DELHI: Government procurement of wheat has scaled a new peak with purchases this year topping 382 lakh tonnes, with the 390 lakh tonnes mark now in sight with two weeks to go for the season to end. The development comes at a time when at least 10 state chief ministers have approached the Centre to continue the scheme to provide 5kg grains to the poor for free to help them combat the dislocation caused by Covid 19. Additional 5kg of free foodgrains under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana are available only up to this month, prompting CMs cutting across party lines pitching for an extension of three months, sources told TOI. From BJP-ruled Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Assam to Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan or Bihar, where BJP has a coalition with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), states want additional grains as several migrant workers have returned home for want of work. A final decision on the issue is expected to be taken over the next few days. But the procurement numbers are expected to provide a much-needed comfort to the Centre, given that stocks are near a record high of around 970 lakh tonnes, almost two-and-a-half times the buffer requirement at the start of July. While there were fears that the lockdown may impact procurement, which was delayed and will only end at the last week of June, Food Corporation of India and the state government machinery have ensured a near-glitch free operation, while also ensuring that sufficient stocks were available across the country to meet the requirement of twice the quota of grains for the 80 crore poor covered by the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. With less than a fortnight to go, FCI is expecting Uttar Pradesh, which has been one of the laggards in procurement, to purchase around three-four lakh tonnes, while another another two lakh tonnes are expected from Rajasthan, which is set to scale a new peak. Madhya Pradesh, which has for the first time beaten Punjab in wheat procurement, may buy another one lakh tonnes, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/continue-free-grain-scheme-urge-10-cms/articleshow/76435389.cms||Sidhartha
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese Army chief visits Kalapani border area||Pithoragarh: Days after Nepal parliament passed a new map, which depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as parts of its territory, Nepalese Army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa inspected a border post in Darchula near the Kalapani area on Wednesday. This is the Gen Thapa’s first visit to the area after the border dispute erupted with India. Accompanied by inspector general of Nepal Armed Police Force, Shailendra Khanal, Thapa reached Chhangru, the last village in Darchula district along the Indo-Nepal border and inspected the police outpost, which was set up last month soon after Nepal had registered its protest at India inaugurating an almost 80-km-long road till near the Lipulekh Pass on May 8. Nepal had claimed that 26 km of this road passed through its territory and had thereafter started setting up armed police force outposts along the border with Uttarakhand. During the visit, Thapa also inaugurated the newly constructed police headquarters in Darchula, sources said, adding that the Nepalese army chief also inspected a road connecting Darchula with Tinkar. While interacting with officials, he said, “Six other border check posts will be constituted at Dumling, Darchula, Lekam, Lali, Malikarjun and Jauljibi areas of Darchula district. A 15-bed hospital will also be constructed at Chhangru for residents,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-army-chief-visits-kalapani-border-area/articleshow/76432408.cms||Prem Punetha
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Rights body claims police inaction in woman’s assault case||Ludhiana: Even as the Punjab State Women’s Commission has written to Khanna police to probe a case of a woman allegedly being beaten, held hostage and subjected to attempt to rape in a Doraha village, the SSP denies having received any such letter, claimed a rights body on Wednesday.On June 4, the women’s panel had reportedly written to the senior superintendent of police (SSP) to present a status report on the case in 10 days.Satnam Singh Dhaliwal, president of Universal Human Rights Organisation (UHRO), said after they saw a video of a woman being dragged by two persons in the social media, they contacted the woman, a widow.According to Dhaliwal, during the lockdown, the woman had sought ration from the sarpanch, after which one of the accused threw an indecent proposal at her. As she complained to the panchayat about it, the next day, on May 2, the two accused brothers and their wives dragged her out of her home and rape was attempted on her. They also took her to their home, where her hands were allegedly tied and clothes torn, and she was beaten up, said the rights body chief.“The incident of dragging and attempt to rape was captured by the elder son of the woman, while her other son called police, who got her freed. Later, the accused — two brothers, their father and wives — were booked on various charges, including bid to outrage her modesty. Finding the charges mild, UHRO approached the Khanna SSP, and fresh charges like wrongful restraint and house-trespass were added to the FIR,” he said.However, still not satisfied with the charges, the UHRO wrote to the Punjab State Women’s commission.“We are demanding that the police add attempt to rape and abduction sections also in the FIR. The Women’s Commission in its order on June 4 had asked the SSP to present an action-taken report within 10 days, which is over, but they have called neither me nor the woman and as per my information, they have also not sent the action-taken report,” said the petitioner. Meanwhile, SSP Khanna Harpreet Singh said he has not got any such orders from the woman’s panel. If they receive any such orders, they would definitely send a report, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rights-body-claims-police-inaction-in-womans-assault-case/articleshow/76432407.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Workshop conducted on drone forensics||MANGALURU: The Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) across the world have increased the use of drones during the pandemic. For instance, Bengaluru City police have been using drones to enforce lockdown. With this, the misuse of drones too has increased worldwide. Experts are raising awareness on the considerable risks that the drones are already beginning to pose at a staggering rate and the advanced threats that may occur if drone misuse is not taken seriously, including risks to public safety. In a bid to counter the rising instances of drone misuse, Midhun Jyothis, CEO, Flotanomers, a start-up at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management and Ananth Prabhu G, professor, and cyber security expert at Sahyadri College, conducted an online workshop on Google Meet platform for 55 LEA officers 17 drone forensic consultants and enthusiasts across India on Sunday. Ananth Prabhu G told TOI, “During our survey in Andhra Pradesh, we faced multiple drone system failures which led us to investigate drones more deeply. We could figure out the potential use and advantage of drones to find out crimes and mitigate it because of its intractability feature.” The workshop intended to create more individuals to work on security aspects by encouraging participants to create more indigenous machines to tackle the present potential threat of drones. The aim was to bring a small group together to discuss technology, create a local network of experts thus building an efficient system for our own nation. Prabhu said, drones come with a wide spectrum of advantages. But, along with the positives, the sad truth about drones is that there are certain burning flaws like sudden crashes, hacker risks, and privacy issues that plague the technology. During the lockdown, the Gujarat police nabbed two persons after they allegedly tried to deliver pan masala using a drone. The swarm of explosive drones on the oil processing plant in Saudia Arabia, last year, spurred a new arms race to acquire inexpensive weaponised drones as well as build defensive counter measures. “Many people are wary that the technology is vulnerable. Drones have cameras, and with them being more accessible, it could be used to violate privacy of others. They could be the ultimate tool for corporate espionage. They open an array of new avenues for hackers. Not only can drones be hacked in flight, causing them to crash, the craft also can be used for stealing sensitive information from the public. It would not be hard for a drone to hover 150 feet above a park, broadcast a WiFi signal overhead, and then grab sensitive information from anyone using the network. Drones can collect data and images without drawing attention, in this way the rights of privacy may be in jeopardy if government entities were to use drones to monitor the public. Although there are cons present, the pros outweigh the cons,” he said. The workshop also discussed top five counter-drone (anti drone) technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/workshop-conducted-on-drone-forensics/articleshow/76424362.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Central University of Punjab gives online exam option||BATHINDA: In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda (CUPB), has given students an option of appearing in final semester exams from their homes via online mode. It has also offered them the freedom of choosing exam dates and time slots (out of available) to appear in a particular examination. According to CUPB examination branch, the University’s Academic Council has decided to conduct final semester online exam to avoid delay in completion of process. Vice-chancellor Prof R K Kohli said the varsity will hold the exams, starting July 6, as per University Grants Commission guidelines. CUPB will only release the examination schedule and students may choose dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cup-gives-online-exam-option/articleshow/76434464.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||‘Disinfect hosps 10 times a day to protect docs, patients’||Madurai: Hospitals should carry out disinfection activity at least 10 times a day to ensure the safety of doctors and patients, former director of public health Dr P Kulandaisamy has said. He was addressing doctors from around 200 hospitals in a meeting organized by the Madurai Corporation on Wednesday to create awareness to private hospital authorities. Kulandaisamy said that doctors, paramedical staff and workers should be sensitized on handling Covid-19 and fever cases. He urged the authorities to provide a formal training to them. With rising infections, Covid-19 can be controlled only through coordinated efforts from various stakeholders including district administration, local bodies and doctors, he said. “Hospitals should have visitors’ timings distributed in the morning, noon and evening so that overcrowding can be avoided. Steps should be taken to ensure that outpatients and in-patients do not come in contact with each other,” he said. Doctors should insist their patients to wear masks, wash their hands frequently and avoid venturing out of their houses unnecessarily. They should discourage elderly people going out of their houses, unless the visit is unavoidable, he added. “Madurai Corporation has identified and pasted stickers in houses where elderly people live, to discourage others from visiting the house,” Kulandaisamy said. Corporation commissioner S Visakan, assistant city health officer Vinoth Raja and founder of Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation Dr C Ramasubramanian also took part in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/disinfect-hosps-10-times-a-day-to-protect-docs-patients/articleshow/76434458.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad flood-prone spots worry locals||HYDERABAD: With rains lashing the city, residents are raising alarm over the numerous inundation spots dotting the city. They say this could increase the spread of vector-borne diseases at a time when the city is already facing the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic. Bramiah Tallam, a resident of Srinivasa colony in Nizampet, said, “The approach road from our colony to the main road is in a terrible condition. A few weeks ago, it was dug up for a drain line, but the work has not been completed and now this has become a water stagnation point.” Tallam said there is a lack of planning, adding, “Officials knew that the monsoons are approaching, they should have ensured that the road is restored.” In Sai Durganagar, Boduppal, the road that leads to Nacharam via Chilkanagar is in permanent state of inundation. This problem is exacerbated during the monsoon as water from the neighbouring Raa Cheruvu flows onto the streets. “The situation has worsened with the rain. In spite of making several representations over the years to authorities nothing has been done to solve the issue,” says Navoday Kumar Veludandi, a resident. He said residents of the area fear for their health. “With coronavirus cases rising, we do not want vector-borne diseases to worsen the situation,” he said. In Attapur, Srinivas Reddy from Vasudev Reddy Nagar complained of similar issues. He said: “Internal roads are filled with water. The lockdown should have been used to boost infrastructure. in all areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-flood-prone-spots-worry-locals/articleshow/76433461.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Heavy rainfall warning to continue on Thursday||PANAJI: With an increase in rainfall activity over the state, the India meteorological department (IMD) has issued a heavy rainfall warning for Thursday as well. In its previous forecast, the warning was only for 48 hours, which was to culminate on Wednesday. IMD has attributed the reason for the torrential showers to the development of a circulation over the North Konkan region. “For 48 hours, Goa received a good amount of rainfall owing to the circulation. The system has intensified, and its extension reach is 7.6km from the main sea level. This intensification has kept the monsoon active over Goa,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. Along with this phenomenon, there is a shear zone passing through the North interior Karnataka. This has further intensified the rainfall activity due to which very heavy showers will prevail on Thursday as well. IMD has therefore continued with its orange warning. Though the circulation is intensifying, IMD said that it will not develop into a cyclone. In its weather bulletin, IMD has said that heavy rainfall is very likely at a few places from June 18 to 21. All the rain gauge stations across the state crossed the 100mm-mark owing to the torrential downpour. Old Goa received the highest amount of rainfall with 189.7mm while Sakhali received the second highest amount of rainfall with 169.5mm. The lowest was recorded at Dabolim with 104.6mm rainfall. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Maharashtra coast till June 18, the IMD bulletin states. Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off the coast during the above mentioned period. Incidents of trees and branches falling on roads were reported from many places across Salcete. Sources in the fire and emergency services, Margao, said they received three calls of trees falling on roads and blocking traffic. A tree fell on the road leading to the railway station at Aquem, Margao, causing damage to a compound wall. At Chinchinim, electricity lines were snapped as a tree fell on them near the village cemetery, and paralysed traffic movement for quite a while. A tree also fell on the road near the mosque at Sirvodem, Navelim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rainfall-warning-to-continue-today/articleshow/76434474.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Schools to ignore govt, start online classes for all kids||Nagpur: Unaided Schools Forum (USF), a pan-Maharashtra association of schools, has decided to ignore the government’s decision not to allow online classes till Std II. The Mumbai-based association says the education department has issued a ‘circular’ not ‘government resolution’ (GR), hence following the pointers is not mandatory. State’s school education minister Varsha Gaikwad and additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna remained unavailable for comments. Subhash Chandra Kedia, honorary secretary of USF, confirmed that his member schools have been asked to proceed with online classes for all. “We have gone through the circular, and those are simply guidelines. We feel not holding online classes for kids will deprive them of learning,” said Kedia. In Nagpur, USF has over a dozen members, which comprise mostly high enrolment CBSE schools, and each one may implement the association’s decision in their own way. Some of the schools will be sending e-content like recorded videos to students, while at least one has decided to conduct regular online classes. Others, who are members of other associations too, are sticking to the government’s circular. USF is aware that this will immediately attract action from the education department. “Once they send us a letter questioning the move, I can then approach the court and challenge it. The current circular is simply a list of guidelines, due to which it can’t be legally challenged,” said Kedia. While USF has based its decision on a technicality, it’s more likely to do with financial implications. Many schools are worried that if no online classes are conducted till Std II, why would parents pay the fees. Kedia said the entire ‘no-fee’ controversy is heading towards a disaster for many families. “If no fees is paid, we won’t have anything to pay salaries, which constitute minimum 70% of our costs. We will have no choice but to lay off teachers and support staff. A large number of maids are employed in pre-primary section and their income supports their families. They will all be out of jobs,” said Kedia. He added that the state government is to be blamed completely for the current situation. “It started with the no-fee-till-lockdown circular in March and things have snowballed. They have created a controversy where none existed,” said Kedia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-to-ignore-govt-start-online-classes-for-all-kids/articleshow/76434482.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 18, 2020||Goa||Goa struggles to find infection source as ‘isolated’ cases grow||PANAJI: Even as Covid-19 continues to spread its tentacles to new parts of the state every day, the health department is none the wiser on how infections are being detected in individuals in areas with no direct connection to established locations. On Wednesday, Porvorim and Sada, with a case each, made their debut on the coronavirus charts even as the state grapples with as many as 20 “isolated” cases. “No link has been found in cases mentioned as isolated...,” health secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters on Wednesday. She was responding to a question on whether the increasing isolated cases are an indication that the virus has spread throughout the state. Apart from the cases marked “isolated”, the government has been linking cases in hitherto unaffected locations to the Mangor Hill containment zone. As of Wednesday, 294 persons from Mangor Hill have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, but 172 others, who are not from Mangor Hill, have been “linked” to the containment zone. Meanwhile, health officials continue to struggle to find a source of infection in the isolated cases not linked to Mangor Hill. The state’s isolated cases so far include eight in Curtorim, four in Quepem, two each in Margao, Betim and Raia, and one each in Sada and Porvorim. On Wednesday, a 65-year-old man with no travel history tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, on Monday. After the man, who is asthmatic, tested positive, the government began tracing his contacts. This week has also seen the state’s second doctor, a private practitioner from South Goa, test positive for the novel coronavirus. The first Covid-19 positive doctor is from Vasco, and had tested positive earlier this month. As cases spread, Mohanan called for citizens to be vigilant and take precautions against the virus. The state’s active tally reached 560 on Wednesday, a day that also saw 11 persons cured and discharged. Among the day’s 27 new cases were three policemen, two of these had been posted in Mormugao, Mohanan said. One of them is suspected to have got the infection from his brother, who tested positive last week. The policeman’s two colleagues then got the virus from him. Two more cases were detected in Baina, bringing the area’s total up to 29. Tuesday saw three buildings declared micro-containment zones, the third in the state after Mangor Hill and Ghodemal in Sattari taluka’s Morlem village (which saw two new cases). Sada saw four new cases on Wednesday, three of which were linked to Mangor Hill. New Vaddem, too, reported a new case on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Betim security guard who was taken to hospital in a critical condition and had to be put on ventilator, has made a speedy recovery, Mohanan said. “His condition has improved,” she said. Another person, who shared a living space with him in Betim, has also tested positive. Wednesday saw 15 suspects admitted on isolation wards. Out of 1,949 samples tested, 1,333 returned negative, and 569 reports were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-isolated-cases-grow-govt-struggles-to-find-source-of-infection/articleshow/76434468.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 18, 2020||Trichy||South TN reports 2 deaths, 189 new cases||MADURAI/TRICHY: Two Covid-19 related deaths were reported in south Tamil Nadu on Wednesday with the fresh positive cases touching a new high at 189. With this, the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 2,634. The deceased include a 63-year old man from Madurai and a 68-year-old man from Dindigul, both with co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 65 new cases, most of them from three delta districts, taking the total tally in the central districts to 1,423. Ramanathapuram reported 51 cases, the highest in southern districts. Among them, 50 are local cases. Thoothukudi reported 50 cases, which include 43 local cases, taking the district total to 487. Madurai reported 27 cases of which three were cross notified to Chennai, taking the local cases to 24. They included a one-month-old child from Vilangudi. Most of those who tested positive had a persistent headache and cough. A 67-year-old man from Kamarajapuram managed to sneak out of the isolation ward at the GRH on Tuesday, and health workers found him at his house. He refused to return to the hospital citing that he had a son with disabilities to take care of. Later, with the help of police, he was taken back to the hospital. Now, all his contacts would be traced and tested, said sources. Among the other districts, Dindigul and Tirunelveli had 15 new cases each. Sivaganga had 12, Kanyakumari 9, Tenkasi 5, Theni 3 and Virudhunagar 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-2-deaths-189-new-cases/articleshow/76441239.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 2 deaths, 189 new cases||MADURAI/TRICHY: Two Covid-19 related deaths were reported in south Tamil Nadu on Wednesday with the fresh positive cases touching a new high at 189. With this, the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 2,634. The deceased include a 63-year old man from Madurai and a 68-year-old man from Dindigul, both with co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 65 new cases, most of them from three delta districts, taking the total tally in the central districts to 1,423. Ramanathapuram reported 51 cases, the highest in southern districts. Among them, 50 are local cases. Thoothukudi reported 50 cases, which include 43 local cases, taking the district total to 487. Madurai reported 27 cases of which three were cross notified to Chennai, taking the local cases to 24. They included a one-month-old child from Vilangudi. Most of those who tested positive had a persistent headache and cough. A 67-year-old man from Kamarajapuram managed to sneak out of the isolation ward at the GRH on Tuesday, and health workers found him at his house. He refused to return to the hospital citing that he had a son with disabilities to take care of. Later, with the help of police, he was taken back to the hospital. Now, all his contacts would be traced and tested, said sources. Among the other districts, Dindigul and Tirunelveli had 15 new cases each. Sivaganga had 12, Kanyakumari 9, Tenkasi 5, Theni 3 and Virudhunagar 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-2-deaths-189-new-cases/articleshow/76434469.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh’s Rs 2,000 more to 1.4 lakh workers in June||SHIMLA: The Himachal government would provide an additional instalment of Rs 2,000 for the month of June to all the 1.37 lakh workers registered with the HP Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCW) as a relief amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday. Interacting with beneficiaries of BOCW through video conferencing, he said already Rs 2,000 each has been provided to the beneficiaries for the month of April and May. With this amount, the beneficiaries would get additional amount of Rs 27.42 crore. He also announced increase in the education assistance up to two children of the registered workers. Thakur said 1,37,119 workers have been registered under this Board and government was providing them various benefits. He said any worker between the age group of 18 to 60 years with at least 90 days work experience either as MNREGA or as BOCW in past 12 months could register themselves with the board to derive benefits of various schemes started by the board for their welfare. He also announced enhancement in marriage assistance of registered workers and for their two unmarried children from Rs 35,000 to Rs 51,000. He said with this, an increase of about Rs 20 crore was likely to be incurred during the current financial year by the board. He said the board was also providing education claims and assistance to children of registered workers. He said that Rs 15 crore was this during the year 2019-20 whereas Rs 20 crore was likely to be spent during the current financial year. He said now from Class I to VIII, the annual assistance for girl students would be enhanced from Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 and for boy students Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000. He said Class IX to XII girl students would be provided Rs 11,000 instead of Rs 10,000 and boy students Rs 8,000 instead of Rs 6,000 per annum. He said in graduation classes, the girl students would now be provided Rs 16,000 in place of Rs 15,000 and for boy students it would be Rs 12,000 in place of 10,000, whereas for postgraduate and diploma courses, the girl beneficiary would be given Rs 21,000 instead of Rs 20,000 and boys Rs 17,000 instead of Rs 15,000. Similarly, the girls pursuing medical/engineering/PhD would be provided Rs 36,000 in place of Rs 35,000 and boys Rs 27,000 instead of Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hps-rs-2000-more-to-1-4l-workers-in-june/articleshow/76434473.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt to spend Rs 1,700 crore to redress droughts in Palnadu||GUNTUR: Rekindling the hopes of farmers of perennially drought-hit Palnadu region of getting dedicated irrigation water, the state government has decided to take up comprehensive drought mitigation project with a cost of Rs 1,700 crore. The project will cover several mandals of Macherla, Gurazala, Vinukonda, Sattenapalle, Narasaraopet in Guntur district and Yerragondapalem constituency in Prakasam district. It is expected to provide irrigation water to about 1.5 lakh acres in the upland areas. All the legislators from Palnadu region, including Ramakrishna Reddy (Macherla), Mahesh Reddy (Gurazala), Janga Krishna Murthy (MLC), Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy (Narasaraopet), Bolla Bramhanaidu (Vinukonda) and MP Lavu Srikrishnadevarayalu met the chief minister in the assembly on Wednesday and thanked him for allocating funds for the project. The long-pending Varikapudisela lift irrigation scheme has been included in the drought mitigation project. The proposed lift irrigation scheme would cover nearly 50,000 acres in Veldurthi mandal of Macherla constituency. “Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy promised to take up all the projects in Palnadu region during his padayatra and cleared the project within a year after coming to power,” said Gurazala legislator Kasu Mahesh Reddy. Irrigation department is getting ready to launch the work on Varikapudisela lift irrigation scheme with a cost of Rs 250 crore in the first phase. The scheme has been hanging fire for the past two decades as successive governments failed to take it up. Moreover, with a certain portion of the project area falling under reserve forest (RF) area, the forest department had repeatedly refused to grant permissions for the project. Government whip and Macherla legislator Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy exerted pressure on the irrigation authorities and got a Detailed Project Report (DPR) ready. After receiving the DPR, the chief minister directed the forest department to consider giving green signal to the project as it would help local farmers. Only recently, the forest department is reported to have granted its approval for the lift irrigation scheme allowing the irrigation department to call for tenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-spend-rs-1700-crore-to-redress-droughts-in-palnadu/articleshow/76432443.cms||Samdani MN
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Assembly adjourned sine die, furore over arrest of TDP netas||Vijayawada: The AP assembly was adjourned sine die after approving the 2020-21 annual budget and clearing the appropriation bills on Wednesday, the second and last day of the budget session. Speaker Thammineni Sitharam adjourned the House. This was the shortest-ever session of the assembly, which also saw the introduction of state budget after the governor’s speech on the same day. It was also for the first time that the governor, Biswabhushan Hairchandan, addressed members online from Raj Bhavan. The governor usually addresses the joint session of the House, but this time he opted to address the members live and the Houses were commenced separately. While the MLAs were seated in the assembly, the MLCs were seated in the legislative council during the governor’s address. The government saw to it that some of the important bills were passed in the House when finance minister Buggana Rajendranath tabled the annual budget. The key bills for repeal of APCRDA and decentralisation were passed by the assembly for the second time, as they were earlier referred to the select committee in the legislative council. During discussion on the budget and appropriation bills, the House witnessed heated discussions on corruption during the previous TDP government and the arrest of TDP leaders including former ministers. While the TDP legislators headed by party chief and leader of opposition N Chandrababu Naidu insisted that the House take up discussion on the arrest of TDP leaders, the treasury benches justified the arrests and ruled out the possibility of the issue being discussed. At one point of time, during the course of address on the budget, senior minister Botcha Satyanarayana said the present government was saving public money through reverse tendering, corruption-free governance and avoiding wasteful expenditure. He alleged massive corruption during the previous TDP government. He said the present government has initiated investigations into various corrupt practices of the previous government. “Purchase of RTC buses too saw massive corruption. This is being enquired and this government will take stern action against those responsible,” the minister said. He said the previous government had purchased buses in other states at higher prices and this is being enquired. “Naidu was a party to this corruption. He did not warn the ministers and officials against corruption. They (TDP) have eaten away a lot of public money. They have to pay the price,” Botcha said, even as TDP members protested against the allegations and demanded an opportunity to speak in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/assembly-adjourned-sine-die-furore-over-arrest-of-tdp-netas/articleshow/76432457.cms||Gopi Dara
June 18, 2020||Goa||1,452 seamen to disembark in Goa on Thursday||PANAJI: A total of 1,452 stranded seafarers will be the first to disembark directly at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) upon their arrival from Mumbai on Thursday. The seamen were stranded on two vessels in Europe and the US and were shifted onto Infinity Celebrity in Mumbai. Their swab samples will be taken either outside the vessel or on board upon their arrival at MPT, after which they will be sent back to the vessel for two days till their results come out. Ports secretary and nodal officer for stranded seafarers P S Reddy, said the seamen would not be forced to undergo institutional quarantine if they test negative. “As per the new SOP, those who test negative will be sent on 14 days of home quarantine while those who test positive will be admitted to the Covid hospital or Covid care centre,” he said, adding that the company agreed to disembark the crew directly in Goa only after much negotiation. Thereafter, the vessel is likely to proceed to Egypt. The rest of the 3,149 stranded seafarers have been brought to Goa on flights chartered by their companies, via sea to the Mumbai port and on charters to Mumbai airport after which they travelled to Goa by road. SOPs for seafarers has changed considerably since the first group was brought to Goa at the end of April and sent to paid institutional quarantine for 14 days. Other companies are also being convinced to sign off crew from Goa directly at MPT. On April 23, health minister Vishwajit Rane shared images of health workers and doctors readying testing facilities and kiosks at MPT to receive Goan seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-1452-stranded-seamen-to-disembark-directly-at-mpt-today/articleshow/76434476.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||PMR health officials stick to death toll, say no additions||Pune: A day after the health department added 1,328 deaths to the state's Covid-19 tally and attributed 85 fatalities to the Pune Metropolitan Region, the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Zilla Parishad health officials said they had their figures right. While they stood by their data of 527 deaths till Tuesday in the PMR, state health officials said the backlog of 1,328 Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra has been duly scrutinized. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health at Pune Municipal Corporation said, “Our line-list of Covid-19 fatalities is updated and up to the mark. There is no backlog of deaths. Hence, there won't be any addition to the death count.” Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, said their list of Covid-19 fatalities in rural parts of Pune too has no extra addition. “We stand by our data,” he added. The state health officials said the 1,328 victims were confirmed Covid-19 victims but their cases needed scrutiny and auditing which took time due to missing medical papers and insufficient information. “No one can hide a death. PMC and other health officials in Pune will have to prove that the names of these 85 casualties is there in their line-list. I will investigate the matter,” Satish Pawar, additional director of the state health department, told TOI. The multiple entry points for uploading data and different portals at district, state and Union government level may have caused the confusion, Wavare said. “The Union government portal has glitches that need rectification. There is always some discrepancy in the data of cases and deaths on its portal,” Wavare said. A state health official involved in overseeing cases and casualties said that the state government should have consulted local bodies and health officials before declaring the inclusion of 1,328 deaths in the tally. “It was added without proper scrutiny at the district level. The top state official simply matched the figures of the Union health ministry portal with the state figures and arrived at the conclusion. There could be issues with not updating death figures,” the official said. Despite repeated attempts, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation's senior health official Pawan Salave could not be contacted for his comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-health-officials-stick-to-death-toll-say-no-additions/articleshow/76434487.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||RTOs to resume driving licence tests from June 22||Nagpur: Both the Nagpur City and deputy RTO East offices will resume tests for learner’s licence and permanent driving licence from June 22. The decision has been taken following nod from state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe, said City RTO Dinkar Manwar. Channe had on Tuesday stated that learner’s and permanent driving licences would be issued at all 50 RTOs in Maharashtra. The tests will be conducted following new rules while ensuring Covid distancing and related safeguards as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs). Quotas will be decided by each RTO on how many applicants can come for learner licence test daily, said Manwar. Assistant RTO (Nagpur City) Martand Newaskar said the city office is reworking on reducing the existing quotas of both learner’s and permanent driving licences tests. “We may reduce the quota of both tests by 20%,” said Newaskar. The department will face challenges in following the Covid guidelines while conducting learner’s licence test. Apart from maintaining at least six feet distance between two candidates appearing for computerized test, we will have to sanitize computer and keyboard after every round, he said. Though the City RTO is yet to decide on exact slots for both the tests, its counterpart — East RTO has already reworked learner’s licence slots from 200 to 75. Similarly, slots for permanent licence test will be reduced to 60 from 140 a day. Priority will be given to those applicants who could not appear for the permanent driving test due to lockdown, he said. To a query, Newaskar said permanent driving licences whose validity has ended since February this year will be treated as valid till September 30. The ministry of road transport and highway had issued a notification to this effect. The RTO has already resumed the work of registering new vehicles. Now, it will also restart more works in staggered manner. Testing Times Reworking quotas for both tests for learner’s licence and permanent Sanitizers for visitors and licence applicants Wearing mask, Covid distancing in exam room/hall must Dept to sanitize vehicles, computers, keyboards after every test Priority to applicants who could not appear for permanent licence test due to lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rtos-to-resume-driving-licence-tests-from-june-22/articleshow/76434502.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||Madurai||Put off plastic ban for one year: TN grain traders||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu foodgrains merchants’ association limited has written to the chief minister seeking one year extension to implement the ban on using plastic materials meant for primary packing of food products. The representation was in connection with the government order (GO) 37 dated June 5 that bans single use plastic items. Association president S P Jeyapragasam stated that there is no alternative for plastic bags and materials to pack food products. He said the ban is contradictory to the food safety and standard Act 2006, rules and regulations 2011, that allows use of polyethylene, styrene polymers, polyvinyl chloride, polyproppylene , ionomer resins, Ethylene Acrylic Acid, Poly alkylene terephathalates, Nylon 6 Polymer, Ethylene Vinyl Acetate and Ethylene Metha Acrylic Acid to pack food items.Coupled with the Covid-19 pandemic, the ban on plastic meant for primary packing of food products will lead to closure of food products production and distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/put-off-plastic-ban-for-one-yr-grain-traders/articleshow/76434477.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mysuru||Baby kidnapped from hospital rescued in three hours in Karnataka||MYSURU: A six-day-old baby boy that was kidnapped by a woman from Chamarajnagar district hospital on Wednesday, was rescued by the police within three hours. The accused Ranjitha has been detained by police in Hunsur, and is being brought to Chamarajanagar. Police were quick to respond after the mother approached them and lodged a complaint that a woman took her son from the hospital around 1.30 pm on Wednesday. They immediately rushed to the spot and launched an investigation. They learnt that the accused travelled to Hunsur in a bus, from an autorickshaw driver. She had taken an autorickshaw from the hospital to the bus stand. An officer said that they alerted their counterparts in neighbouring districts and finally traced the accused at Hunsur bus stand. Cops there shared a photo of the woman and the baby via WhatsApp. An ambulance has been sent to bring back the baby from Hunsur. The baby was brought to the hospital as it fell sick at noon on Wednesday. A woman who was roaming in the hospital, befriended the baby’s grandmother, and then took the baby from her, under the pretext of helping her, but later fled from the spot after deceiving the aged woman. According to sources, Ranjitha was childless, and she took the baby due to her desire to have a child. She hails from Hunsur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/baby-kidnapped-from-hospital-rescued-in-three-hours/articleshow/76432434.cms||---
June 18, 2020||India||Congress axes Sanjay Jha as spokesman after column critical of party, China post||NEW DELHI: Days after Sanjay Jha criticised the party in a column in the TOI, Congress on Wednesday sacked him as AICC spokesperson while appointing two others to the media panel. What appeared to have riled Congress further was Jha’s tweet on Wednesday on the Chinese aggression in which he diverged from the party line of seeking answers from the Modi government — a charge led by party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. He tweeted, “This is a time for great mature political consensus within India in responding to China’s dangerous aggression. I don’t care if Modi made several outrageous rhetorical comments against our Congress/UPA government in the past. We must rise. Let’s be different. Let’s be one.” This is a time for great mature political consensus within India in responding to China’s dangerous aggression. I d… https://t.co/A2hk7Jv2ZK— Sanjay Jha (@JhaSanjay) 1592368162000The decision to drop Jha clearly appears to be a disciplinary action in view of his critical comments in which he accused Congress of being rudderless during the corona pandemic and of not filling the vacuum created by the inept handling of the pandemic by the Modi government. He had also lamented that Congress lacked any internal mechanism to address the complaints or consider the suggestions of Congress members. Meanwhile, Congress appointed local MCD councillor from New Delhi Abhishek Dutt and Sadhana Bharti as media panelists who will appear on television debates to put forth the party view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-axes-sanjay-jha-as-spokesman-after-column-critical-of-party-china-post/articleshow/76435391.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Holistic plan will resolve Panaji flooding: Expert||Panaji: Indian Institute of Architects – Goa chapter chairman Manguesh Prabhugaonker attacked bodies like the Corporation of the City of Panaji, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation, public works department and others for failing to identify grey areas and efficiently connect storm water drainage networks over the past year to avoid urban flooding in the capital city. “Over the years, we have heard whispers of drafting of a digital survey with invert levels of existing storm water drains and critical flood prone areas and preparation of holistic master plans to find solutions to urban flooding,” he said. Several attempts have been made through different initiatives with no much result seen in terms of solutions, Prabhugaonker said a day after the city’s streets were inundated following heavy downpour on Tuesday. He said that due to Rua de Ourem and St Inez creeks, besides the city’s pre-Liberation storm water drains, it’s almost impossible to have flooding in Panaji, except in areas which are below flood levels like Camra Bhat and Mala Lake. Preparedness of authorities for storm water drainage management is going to be highly dependant on the work done last year on identification of grey areas with solutions and actions, he said. The architect said that the storm water drainage management needs a holistic approach through short and long-term solutions. “Cleaning and basic maintenance by the civic authorities is required and so is the preservation and revival of pre-Liberation storm water drains,” he said suggesting short-term solutions. For long-term solutions, he said that the storm water drainage network needs to be looked at in a way that water doesn’t percolate but just looks for the catchment areas and beyond. “The current smart city initiative has been a welcome opportunity to address this which needs appropriate planning by the authorities with accountability toward its tax payers,” Prabhugaonker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/holistic-plan-will-resolve-panaji-flooding-expert/articleshow/76434499.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Manish Sisodia tells railways to control heat inside isolation coaches||NEW DELHI: Inspecting the Covid-19 isolation coaches at Shakurbasti station on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asked Northern Railway to sort out the heat problem as these facilities are non-airconditioned. “This is a good concept and will certainly help us. But in these temperatures, it may get extremely warm inside the coaches. It will be difficult for medical staff in PPE kits to work in such a condition, but we hope they find a solution,” Sisodia said. Rajiv Chaudhary, general manager (NCR), said they had identified two to three materials for insulating these coaches. “Our isolation prototypes were non-AC and we may have to find a new prototype if airconditioners need to be accommodated. For these coaches, we will look at insulation and the temperature condition will improve,” he added. The railways is readying 503 isolation coaches at nine stations in the capital to accommodate Covid-19 patients. Out of these, 317 can already house patients, Northern Railway said. In a webinar, Chaudhary said only patients with mild and very mild symptoms and preferably without any respiratory or comorbidity issue would be accommodated in these coaches. The railways is following the Union health ministry’s guidelines issued on May 6, he added. While 267 coaches are stationed at Anand Vihar station and 50 at Shakurbasti, another 50 coaches will be placed at Sarai Rohilla, 21 at Safdarjung, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 13 at Delhi Shahdara, 33 at Delhi Cantt, 26 at Patel Nagar and 13 at Tughlaqabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-tells-railways-to-control-heat-inside-isolation-coaches/articleshow/76434503.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 18, 2020||Rajkot||Goon gets life sentence for murder of teenager in 2011||Rajkot: A sessions court in Rajkot on Wednesday sentenced history-sheeter Firoz alias Aadil Juneja to life imprisonment for murder of an 18-year-old boy in 2011. Additional sessions judge R L Thakkar termed the murder of teenager Bilal Khan Pathan over a petty issue by Juneja as a heineous crime. Juneja has at least 29 offences registered against him. According to case details, in May 2011 Pathan was returning home with his minor cousin sister on a two-wheeler. As he reached near his residence in Bajrang Wadi, Juneja came before his vehicle. When Pathan rebuked Juneja, the latter stabbed him with a knife. The incident took place near Pathans house. Pathan’s mother seeing this jumped on her son to save him from another blow. Pathan was rushed to hospital where he succumbed after five days. Pathan, the only child of his parents had just cleared HSC exam when the incident happened. After his death his mother went into the shock. She despite being a key eye witness in the case, could not be summoned because of her psychological condition. According to prosecution, Juneja had killed the boy to create fear among the residents. Additional public prosecutor Mahesh Joshi said “Court relied on Pathan’s dying declaration and his cousin sister’s testimony, who was also an eye witness to the murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/goon-gets-life-sentence-for-murder-of-teenager-in-2011/articleshow/76432466.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Assembly pays tributes to martyrs||Vijayawada: The AP assembly paid rich tributes to the 20 soldiers who died in a skirmish with Chinese forces on the Indo-China border on Monday. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy moved the condolence motion in the House and said their sacrifice will be remembered for ever. The House observed two minutes of silence in honour of the martyrs. The assembly also conveyed its deep sympathies to the bereaved families. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/assembly-pays-tributes-to-martyrs/articleshow/76432468.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||550 test positive in Pune, its highest 24-hour tally||Pune: A record 550 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, pushing the region’s tally up to 13,235. Besides, 13 more patients succumbed to the contagion in Pune on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 540 so far. Of the total new cases, 444 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, which was the highest 24-hour tally for the area so far. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported 42 cases, while rural and Cantonment areas together reported 57 new cases. In the last three days, the region has added more than 1,300 positive cases. On Tuesday, PMR had recorded 442 new cases. while 318 on Monday. PMC health officials said the collection of swabs had been ramped up and rigorous tracing had been under way. On Wednesday, 2,841 swabs were collected and sent for testing. A total of 3,449 patients were admitted in various hospitals and Covid centres in the city, the officials said. Besides, 232 patients were in critical stage, of whom 44 were on ventilator support. “As many as 117 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours,” a disrict health official said. Among the patients who succumbed to Covid-10 on Wednesday, most were aged over 50. Three patients died at the Sassoon General Hospital, including a 40-year-old man from the Wadarwadi area, a 68-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 48-year-old man from the Pandavnagar area. A 56-year-old man from Bopodi died at the district hospital in Aundh. The patients who died at private hospitals include a-78-year old man from the Hadapsar area, a 59-year-woman from the Wadarwadi area, a 57-year-old man from Kondhwa, an 86-year-old woman from the Dandekar bridge area, a 63-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 76-year-old man from Kasba Peth, a 57-year-old man from Kondhwa, an 86-year-old man from Bibvewadi. Besides, two patients, including an 81-year-old woman form Dhule district and a 50-year-old man from Lonavla also succumbed to the contagion at private hospitals in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/550-test-positive-in-pune-its-highest-24-hour-tally/articleshow/76434497.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman questions roadside bash, man urinating in public; assaulted||Bengaluru: A 54-year-old woman has alleged that she was abused and assaulted after she objected to a gang consuming alcohol on the road and a person urinating in public over Covid-19 concerns. Avalahalli police have registered a case of sexual harassment, criminal intimidation and assault against 10 persons based on the complaint from the woman, a resident of Kadubeesanahalli. The woman told police she was returning home around 4pm on June 10, when she saw six men consuming alcohol on the road and she objected to it. The miscreants abused her and refused to stop partying. So, the woman took photographs and video of the gang before leaving the spot. Later, she shared the photos and videos with the local residents’ association. “Later, I was walking near my residence around 6.30pm, when I found a man urinating on the roadside. I objected to the man’s conduct, but but he flashed me,” she said in the complaint. Avalahalli police said Jayarama Naidu, a local resident, arrived at the spot and questioned the woman over her opposition to people partying and urinating. Naidu held the woman by her hair and dragged her to the spot where the man was urinating. “She told us that even Naidu flashed her intentionally. We are investigating,” a police officer said. Watch Bengaluru: Woman questions roadside bash, man urinating in public; assaulted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-questions-roadside-bash-man-urinating-in-public-assaulted/articleshow/76432827.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka woman stabbed to death in lodge||MANDYA: The naked body of a woman with multiple stab wounds was found in a lodge in Srirangapatna on Tuesday. Employees of the lodge told police that the girl had checked in with a man claiming to be her husband. The unidentified man left the lodge at noon and when the victim failed to respond to calls for hours, the staff broke open the door and discovered the girl lying in a pool of blood, said police. The victim may have come from Mysuru and they may have been in an illicit relationship, they added. A case was registered at Srirangapatna Police Station. Youth drowns at BalamuriIn a separate incident, a youth drowned at Balamuri, a picturesque spot downstream KRS reservoir in Srirangapatna taluk, on Wednesday. According to police, 26-year-old Abhishek from Bengaluru was at Balamuri with his friends. When they ventured into river for swimming, Abhishek was swept away by strong current. The victim’s body is yet to be fished out, said police. A case was registered at and KRS Sagara Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-stabbed-to-death-in-lodge/articleshow/76432470.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Metro work gains pace after Jayadeva flyover demolition||Bengaluru: Work on Bengaluru’s first road-cum-rail flyover between Ragigudda in Jayanagar and Central Silk Board (3.2km) is progressing after demolition of Jayadeva flyover. The elevated double-decker flyover consists of a road flyover — with two lanes on either side — at the first level and Metro flyover at second level. “We were planning to complete the road-cum-rail flyover, except the portion at Jayadeva, by the year-end, but it’s likely to be ready only by next year because of the Covid-19 situation,” said a BMRCL official. “Demolition of Jayadeva flyover was one of the complex tasks and work will speed up once migrant workers who have gone home start returning to the city,” said an official. “The demolition was done in two phases. While razing of the Banneraghatta loop was taken up between August 15, 2019 and October 10, 2019, main flyover demolition work conducted between January 20 and June 5 this year. “Over 1 lakh man hours have been spent,” said a BMRCL official. The busy Jayadeva junction will get six levels of infrastructure to accommodate an additional elevated road and interchange Metro station of Reach 5 line (RV Road to Bommasandra) and Reach 6 line (Gottigere to Nagawara).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-work-gains-pace-after-jayadeva-flyover-demolition/articleshow/76432875.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mumbai||Now, take virtual group tours of Warsaw, Bogota, Venice... with real-time guides||MUMBAI: For his birthday celebrated last month during the Covid lockdown, Gurugram-based Dr Vinayshil Gautam was joined by his daughters—one in Singapore and the other in Toronto—and relatives in the UK for a “tour” of St Petersburg in Russia. The unexpected trip was the grand finale of the surprise party his Singapore-based daughter Tanvi Gautam had planned. Going on a holiday during the lockdown isn’t easy, but she had only one hurdle to cross—that of matching time zones of Canada, Singapore, the UK, India and Russia—to select a suitable hour for the visit. For, it was a virtual trip, done on the Zoom app, but with a tour guide in St Petersburg who walked around with a phone camera. “We joined in from three different continents at 7.30pm IST on a Zoom call. He cut the cake and then I announced, open the second Zoom link for the birthday gift,” said the daughter. All this while, she was in touch with Alexander Shmidke, the tour guide, who was standing near Winter Palace Square in St Petersburg with his mobile phone camera ready for the 45-minute virtual tour. The “birthday boy” and his global family opened the second Zoom link to find themselves virtually transported to the Russian port town. “We were expecting just a walk-through. Instead, it was a very engaging trip. My five-year nephew from Toronto is a history buff. When he asked Shmidke in all seriousness, ‘have you heard about the Russian revolution,’ we burst out laughing,” she said. Her father, Dr Gautam, founder, IIM Kozhikode, had questions about the Russian economy and Shmidke surprised the family with his answers, she said. Self-guided virtual tours of museums and galleries are passe. What the pandemic has brought on the scene are guides with mobile cameras who give you your own special virtual tour—the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw, safari trips in Serengeti, Jerusalem old town, the hidden streets of Venice, trips on tequila making, the Maasai tribe in Tanzania, the street art of Delhi, and so on. “When coronavirus hit, all summer bookings were cancelled. Tour guides are not on regular salary, they get paid for each booking. We then decided to start online experiences,” said Gaurav Kumar, founder, TourHQ, a travel company based mainly out of Hong Kong and Singapore. “We have 30,000 tour guides worldwide. A month ago, we started virtual tours and currently offer around 20% of our tours, that is, about 150 of them online. We add about five to 10 tours daily,” he added. Not all tours can go online though. The wifi strength along the route has to be good, permission from local authorities is needed in places under lockdown, tour guides need to be educated about technology and camera gimbal to stabilize image, among other things. Booking is simple. Go to the travel company website, select the tour, the date, pay, and a Zoom link is sent to you. “Virtual tours with guides are picking up because people are bored, being house-bound due to Covid. Many have senior citizens in family and so cannot travel any time soon. Then, there are many Indians who do virtual trips to far-off expensive destinations like Bogota. Or, there are those interested in a Narcos trip where the guide takes you to Pablo Escobar’s grave, the place where he was killed, where he lived,” Kumar added. “Lots of our bookings come from families spread across the world in different cities. People celebrate milestones with a virtual trip and prices that range from US$8 to US$200 for a group of 10,” he added. Though niche yet, there are a few other players as well. TripAdvisor, for instance, has webinar-style, virtual tour packed with photos, videos, quizzes, and a question-and-answer session with an expert at the end of it. A Florence guided virtual tour, for instance, costs Rs 848. For tour guides, virtual trips have softened the impact of the pandemic. Shailesh Jethva, a guide who conducts tours around Kumbarwada in Dharavi, said he earned more in May this year than in last. “I got married in February. I was in a financial crisis due to the lockdown, till the virtual tours happened,” said Jethva, who calls himself a “third-generation Dharavi resident”. “Dharavi virtual tours are popular as people want to see the place where the movie Slumdog Millionaire was shot. I show them around my house, show pottery at work, tell about the Dharavi economy,” he added. Delhi tour guide Gajendra Singh was stranded in his hometown of Kishangadh, near Ajmer in Rajasthan during the lockdown. “I did a few virtual tours with clients from the US and Switzerland. I walked around the Kishangarh fort, along the banks of the Gundolav lake, and showed them Mokham Vilas palace,” he said. For St Petersburg guide Shmidke who started virtual tours just a month ago, it was about interacting with a different clientele. “I was shocked when five-year-old Yohan (from the Gautam family tour) asked whether Lenin was in the winter palace during the revolution? I have been a guide for the past 15 years. I generally deal with cruise passengers, I show them around and take them back. Some of them don’t have a clear idea of who Lenin was, and these are people in their sixties and seventies,” said Shmidke. What he is more popular for, though, are his vodka tours. “I never thought of doing vodka tours virtually, but it’s working. I keep vodka and appetizers like sour cabbage, cured cucumbers and cured herring ready. Tourists from around the world prepare their own vodkas before the session begins. I make a toast, speak about vodka’s history, different types of vodka, how to have it,” he said. So, how do you have vodka? “Keep an appetizer of cured herring on rye bread ready. Immediately after you down the vodka shot, you chew on the bread. It’s oily, watery and perfect for washing down the burning sensation the vodka gives you,” he said. Now, that’s what virtual trips are about, you learn about a culture from an insider without ever having set foot on that land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-take-virtual-group-tours-of-warsaw-bogota-venice-with-real-time-guides/articleshow/76431593.cms||Manju V
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Couple found dead in Vikarabad||HYDERABAD: A month after she was allegedly married to a man against her will, a Chevella mandal woman died by suicide along with an electrician with whom she was in a relationship. Nawabpet police said that electrician Sarla Karthik (21) and K Sara Meena (21) were found hanging from a tree in Poolpally village late on Tuesday evening. Police recovered a suicide note purportedly left behind by Karthik in his pocket. Karthik said they both went into a depression ever since Meena was forcibly married to another man. “Karthik and Meena were in a relationship for the last few years. When the parents of Meena came to know about it, she was forced to marry a man from Maheshwaram mandal a month ago,’’ Nawabpet police said. A local farmer from Poolpally saw the bodies on his way to his agriculture field and alerted the cops. Police said both the deceased hailed from Gollapally village in Chevella mandal. A case of suspicious death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-found-dead-in-vikarabad/articleshow/76433337.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||No plan to impose another lockdown, Modi tells KCR||HYDERABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a video conference on Wednesday told chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao that the Centre has no plans to re-impose a total lockdown. The PM also told KCR that the country is getting ready to ease lockdown curbs further. Modi gave this response when the CM had asked for clarity on re-imposing the lockdown following rumours floating around across the state. “There will not be any lockdown in the country. The four phases of lockdown are over. Unlockdown 1.0 is happening now. We all should discuss on what to do about unlock 2.0,” CMO sources quoted PM as saying. KCR earlier said people have been speculating a lot over another lockdown announcement. “I have been telling people that you (Modi) will not take a decision on the locking without talking to all the CMs,” he said at the meeting. The CM also said the government has been making all efforts to contain Covid-19 cases in Telangana. “Covid-19 is under control in the state. The death rate is registering a low percentage. We are confident that with the efforts put in by both the Centre and the state, we will register a decisive victory over Covid-19,” he said.  Migrant workers, hamalis and labourers from various states are ready to come back to the state, especially those from Bihar, KCR told the PM. On reports that Bihar CM Nitish Kumar is not allowing workers from his state to travel to Telangana, the CM reacted in a lighter vein. “Nitish ji, we are taking care of hamalis coming from your state very well. Our chief secretary is also a Bihari. Please send the hamalis,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-plan-to-impose-another-lockdown-modi-tells-kcr/articleshow/76433299.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Sita Bhateja hosp to close after 55 years||Bengaluru: Sita Bhateja Speciality Hospital in Shantinagar, one of the first maternity care centres in Bengaluru, is all set to become part of the city’s history. Founded by renowned gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Sita Bhateja in 1965, the hospital has announced it will be closing its in-patient services on June 30 and outpatient services on July 31. Dr Bhateja was known for practising medicine till the age of 90 when she died in December 2018. In a media release issued on Wednesday, the hospital announced it’s shutting down. “The decision to close Sita Bhateja Speciality Hospital was made over a year and a half ago,” Dr Arvind Bhateja, the founder’s youngest son, who’s a neurosurgeon and managing trustee and medical director of the hospital, said in the release. The hospital’s specialists will be moving to Sparsh Specialty Hospital on Infantry Road. It was started as a nursing home in 1965 by Sita Devi Sachdev (Dr Sita Bhateja’s maiden name). She was the go-to doctor for many women facing gynaecological issues and preferring to be examined by a female doctor. The hospital which initially catered to the fields of obstetrics and gynaecology went on to expand its services in neuro and spine surgery, orthopaedics, intensive care, internal medicine, urology, plastic surgery and maxillofacial surgery, after Dr Arvind joined his mother in the hospital. “The hospital was always run by the family. The next generation has chosen to pursue fields unrelated to medicine. Hence, we have made the conscientious decision to move on to the next chapter. Although this announcement happens to coincide with the current Covid-19 crisis, it has nothing to do with it,” said Dr Arvind. “We are grateful and humbled to have played a significant role in the history of Bengaluru. We have been able to help thousands of patients and their families and have always given it our all. This was the vision of my mother and we will continue to be of service to our community in other ways,” he said. However, Dr Sita Bhateja’s Nursing Home Charitable Trust that runs and manages the hospital will continue its charitable activities, added Dr Arvind. He runs the Giving Back programme through the trust, for which he raises funds for those needing spine surgery through his cycling tours and expeditions. So far, over 250 spine surgeries have been conducted under the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sita-bhateja-hosp-to-close-after-55-years/articleshow/76432787.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Patient made to shuttle between hospitals dies in Vadodara||VADODARA: State-run SSG Hospital on Wednesday witnessed a ruckus as family members and relatives of a Fatehpura resident alleged negligence by medical staff of both SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. According to the family, Fatehpura resident Mukesh Rana, who was facing breathing problems since last couple of days, was brought to SSG hospital on Tuesday evening but was made to shuttle between the two hospitals in ambulance till he died. “After some primary treatment, the medical staff at SSG Hospital told us that he was Covid-19 positive and should be taken to Gotri hospital. They had not carried out any test but simply declared him as positive case,” said Jignesh Macchi, who stays in the Ranavas neighbourhood. “When we took him to Gotri hospital, just as we reached there, we were not even allowed to bring him out of the ambulance. We were asked to simply return to SSG Hospital. In fact, they also put another patient from Anand, in our ambulance and asked to return to SSG,” said Macchi. He added that while the patient from Anand passed away when ambulance reached near Kalaghoda circle, Rana passed away just when the ambulance entered SSG at around 9.30 pm. “My father died due to medical negligence. They could have provided timely treatment instead of making us shuttle between hospitals,” said Vishal, son of the deceased. Rana was also suffering jaundice, family members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patient-made-to-shuttle-between-hospitals-dies/articleshow/76431167.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain piles up misery on Jawaharnagar locals||HYDERABAD: Recent showers have compounded the misery of Jawaharnagar residents with many complaining the stench from the dumpyard has been increasing. Despite several representations to the pollution control board, residents have so far received only acknowledgement letters. “The rains have made living here unbearable. We can only expect the situation to worsen,” said Venkat Subba Rao Nagineni, a resident of Dammaiguda. Karthik Garrepally, a resident of Anjanadrinagar colony, was among those who complained to the CPCB on May 20. He received a mail this month where in the complaint was acknowledged and the Telangana Sate Pollution Control Board was asked to respond in the matter. The letter addressed to the member secretary of the TSPCB, reads: “It is requested that necessary action be taken by your office and action taken report be sent to the complainant under intimation to this office within 15 days of receipt of this letter.” Garrepally hopes that this may finally prompt some change on ground. He says residents’ health is deteriorating because of the polluted air and ground water. “Last year too, a meeting was held to discuss the issue with all stakeholders. But no action has been taken till date. Our elders are especially suffering from headaches and dizziness owing to the bad smell,” said another resident, Rajesh Nandalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-piles-up-misery-on-jawaharnagar-locals/articleshow/76433320.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw ordinance on pension, demands Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress slammed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for promulgating the ordinance allowing state government to defer a part of payment of salaries and pensions during disaster and public health emergencies. “The ordinance promulgated by the Telangana government on Tuesday night allows it to defer payments till the situation becomes manageable. Such an ordinance will only trigger fear psychosis among employees and pensioners. The government has been paying deferred payments to the employees and pensions in the last three months. It’s a draconian move by the government,” said Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy, secretary of AICC and former MLA. Stating that payment of salaries to the employees is certainly not a matter of charity, he said GO No. 27 was violative of Article 300-A of the Constitution“Neither the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897, as amended by the ordinance of 2020, nor the Disaster Management Act 2005 has provisions for deferment of salaries or pensions,” Reddy said. BJP, employees JAC condemn move The Telangana BJP termed the state government’s move as anti-employee. Speaking to media, BJP MLA T Raja Singh and MLC Ramachander Rao demanded the immediate withdrawal of the ordinance. Ramachander Rao alleged that some people claiming themselves to be union leaders had colluded with CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and said that state government employees and pensioners will be protesting the move. Meanwhile, the joint action committee of employees, teachers and pensioners condemned the move and demanded full salaries and pension for June. The Telangana unit of Centre of Indian Trade Unions has called for a state-wide protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-ordinance-on-pension-demands-cong/articleshow/76433374.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Officials look to Dharavi for plan to tame Covid-19 in slums||SECUNDERABAD: The state health department is wary about a possible spread of coronavirus in the thickly populated slums under Secunderabad zone over the coming days. Authorities said they are studying the Greater Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s containment plan for Dharavi to keep the virus spread in check. The state health department has noticed that most cases are coming from areas such as Addagutta, Bholakpur, Patigadda, Chilkalguda, Boiguda, Kummari Basthi, Lalapet, Pan Bazar (Ujjaini-Mahakali temple), and Hamali Basthi. According to the department, 120 cases and nine deaths have been reported in the Secunderabad zone while between 50 to 70 contacts have been advised to undergo treatment in hospitals. Experts have compared the areas to Mumbai’s Dharavi, not in terms of size but its layout with interconnected and narrow lanes that connect hundreds of shelters. The largest slum in Asia, spread over 650 acres and housing a population of nearly 10 lakh, was seen as a major challenge after the first case was reported on April 1. Wasting no time, BMC authorities took up immediate measures to map clusters and ramped up testing. These measures have helped reduce the doubling rate from 18 days in April to 80 days in June. However, some a few problems remain as local authorities say many were not following basic prevention norms. “All localities are packed with a thick population and norms like social distancing and wearing masks are not being followed. Cases have increased to double digits since the lockdown,” Sitaphalmandi deputy DM&HO, Dr Sakku Bai told TOI. “Till date, there are 40 cases reported under my jurisdiction and special teams have been deployed at the areas and they are educating residents on following preventive measures to control the spread of the virus,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-look-to-dharavi-for-plan-to-tame-virus-in-slums/articleshow/76433263.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 14-year-old burgled shops in CBD to buy smartphone||BENGALURU: Police probing serial burglaries in central business district area were in for a shock when investigation led them to the door of the suspect, a 14-year-old boy. The teenager said he stole cash to purchase a smartphone because most of the boys in his neighbourhood had one. In the wee hours of June 9, the suspect first broke open the front doors of two shops on Vittal Mallya Road but found nothing in the cash boxes. He later burgled another shop on St. Marks Road and fled with Rs 4,000 cash. In the fourth shop on Lavelle Road, he found Rs 4 lakh. Cops from Cubbon Park station collected CCTV footage and traced the suspect to a house in Neelasandra. However, on landing at his doorstep, they found he was a minor and sent him to a juvenile home. “According to him, most boys of his age in the locality had one mobile phone each, while he had none and felt ashamed. His main intention was to buy a phone and get into social media,” an officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boy-14-burgled-shops-in-cbd-to-buy-smartphone/articleshow/76432798.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
June 18, 2020||Rajkot||Cong protest against petrol price hike, leaders detained||Rajkot: Congress leaders of Rajkot city were detained before they could take out a cycle rally to register their protest against the increase in the prices of petrol and diesel on Wednesday. “We wanted to take out a cycle rally from Trikonbaug to lodge a protest against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. However, before we could take out the rally, our party members were detained,” said Viral Bhatt of Rajkot Congress. Those detained included Rajkot Congress president Ashok Dangar, Gujarat Mahila Congress president Gayatriba Vaghela, Rajkot Congress former president Mahesh Rajput, Dr Hemang Vasavada, Jashwantsinh Bhatti, Mansukh Kalariya, Mukesh Chawda, Dr Dinesh Chowatia and Suresh Bathwar. “We were maintaining social distancing at the venue. And yet, we were detained. This shows that the police are acting at the behest of the ruling BJP government and that the BJP is attacking the fundamental rights of the citizens to lodge peaceful protest against the government which is guaranteed by the Constitution of India,” added Bhatt. Meanwhile in Patan, as many as 11 Congress activists were rounded up for protesting against the sky rocketing prices of petrol and diesel on Wednesday. “About 30 activists staged a peaceful Dharna at about 10 am. Hardly after an hour police detained 11 activists. Our programme was peaceful respecting the regulation of social distancing,” said Babuji Thakor, president of Patan district Congress. Police, however, claimed that the people were detained for staging a dharna without seeking permission from the authority. Later, all those detained were released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-protest-against-petrol-price-hike-leaders-detained/articleshow/76432501.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||ITMS CCTV pole collapses, narrow escape for many||Bhopal: Traffic camera pillar at Roshanpura intersection collapsed following thunderstorm, here on Wednesday. Nobody was injured, but few vehicles had a narrow escape. Earlier in 2018, a gantry installed near Banganga intersection had collapsed in similar fashion. According to eyewitness reports, the left flank of the installation fell apart, forcing the traffic police to divert traffic in the area. Traffic coming from New Market and going toward Polytechnic was affected. The installation is part of over three dozen pillars installed by Bhopal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (BSCDCL). The CCTV cameras fitted in the installation are linked to the Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS) of BSCDCL and linked to its control and command centre at Govindpura. A private company has been appointed to run the facility. “We have taken immediate measures to make sure there is no immediate threat to public from the structure,” said a BSCDCL official. Questions over safety of the installations have once again come to the fore after Wednesday’s incident. Earlier, in 2018, a gantry installed by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) and run by maintained by a private company fell in similar fashion. Two people were injured and several cars damaged in the incident. It should be noted that three monsoons later, the slated poles have not been corrected. After that incident, an investigation into safety measures and audit was conducted by the BMC. It was found that the operator had installed the poles without getting a certificate of structural safety. A team of experts from MANIT was formed to look into safety of gantries in the city. Wednesday’s incident is yet another reminder, of lack of oversight by the BMC and BSCDCL. On Tuesday, TOI article had pointed out that one ITMS pillar was built during the lockdown at Polytechnic square. The pillar has been installed by not completed. The structural stability of many of the pillars to make our roads safe, are not going as per plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/itms-cctv-pole-collapses-narrow-escape-for-many/articleshow/76432487.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||16 more pvt hospitals to set aside 50% beds for nCoV treatment||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday added 16 more private hospitals to the list of Covid-19 centres and reserved 50% of their beds for patients who have tested positive.These hospitals will now have to provide treatment as per the price cap set by the state government. Some of these hospitals are empanelled under the state government's health scheme for the poor, the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. The addition brings up the number of Covid-19 hospitals under the PMC to 27.Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India (Pune branch), the Indian Medical Association's hospital wing, said the 16 new hospitals will supplement the 11 private establishments that have been designated as Covid-19 care centres. He said, “Covid-19 treatment will not be free at these hospitals. Only those covered by the state health scheme can claim free treatment. The rest will be under the price cap set by the state.”The newly added centres are Sahyadri hospital (Yerawada); Ratna hospital; Devayani hospital; the Seth Tarachand ayurvedic hospital; KEM hospital; Ruby Hall Clinic on Sassoon Road; Sanjeevan hospital; MJM hospital; Jehangir hospital; the Rising Medicare hospital; Jupiter Lifeline hospital; Columbia Asia hospital; Shree Criticare and Trauma Centre, Villoo Poonawalla hospital; AIMS hospital in Aundh; and Inamdar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/16-more-pvt-hospitals-to-set-aside-50-beds-for-ncov-treatment/articleshow/76434504.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Cops get 60 days to end riot probe||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has granted 60 days to Delhi Police’s Special Cell to conclude its investigation in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots that took place in February this year. The court was hearing the case against former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, ex-Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, besides students and activists, including Safoora Zargar, Natasha Narwal, Khalid Saifi, Meeran Haider, Gufisha Fatima, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha. Police, through prosecutor Irfan Ahmed, sought extension till September 17 to conclude the investigation under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Zargar’s counsel, Trideep Pais, argued that her bail was dismissed on the submission that the investigation against her was complete and the prosecution could not take a ‘U-turn’ saying it was pending. Tanha’s counsel Sowjhanya Shankaran argued that the prosecutor’s plea was akin to the first remand application for her client. She submitted that police were already armed with sufficient evidence to invoke IPC, Arms Act and UAPA, therefore, further time could not be granted. Special judge Dharmender Rana, however, relied on a report filed by the prosecutor to observe that it not only disclosed the status of the probe but also justified further custody of the accused. “It is evident from the case diary and the report of the additional public prosecutor that investigation on certain material counts is pending. Therefore, the contention that the investigation is complete is factually incorrect and deserves to be discarded...permitted to conclude the pending investigation within 60 days till August 18,” the court held. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-get-60-days-to-end-riot-probe/articleshow/76434516.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Viral load to now determine patient segregation||Ahmedabad: A new strategy of segregating Covid-19 patients based on their viral loads has begun in Ahmedabad district. The exercise aims to curb the disease spread. The state health department has approved this strategy which relies on a recent revelation made by a scientific institution in Ahmedabad. The institution had announced on June 2 that Covid-infected people bearing a high viral load spread the infection at a rate almost eight times higher than those with a low viral load. The study was conducted by a team at the ICMR-National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad. The methodology has been recommended by the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, as well. According to the press release issued on Tuesday, the district administration is segregating patients with high viral loads based on cycle threshold (Ct) values. This value is generated from the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid. The value is inversely proportional to the viral load. If the Ct value is between 17 and less than 24, it is a high viral load. A Ct value between 24 and less than 31 indicates a moderate viral load. A Ct value between 31 and 38 points to a low viral load. The NIOH, Ahmedabad, had segregated 140 Covid-19 positive cases. Of the patients, those with a high viral load accounted for only 7% of the infected population. Moreover, 9% had a moderate viral load, whereas 84% of them had a low viral load. “We are concerned about patients with high viral loads,” said district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu. “Each can pass the infection to at least six persons. Such patients will be housed in special rooms at hospitals. We will ensure medical teams giving care to such patients are better protected.” Babu said Ct values of patients will help implement better containment measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viral-load-to-now-determine-patient-segregation/articleshow/76433584.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||Forest watcher trampled to death by tusker, fourth death in jumbo attack this year||Dehradun: A 51-year-old daily wage worker deployed as a watcher in Nandhaur range of Haldwani forest division was trampled to death by a tusker on Wednesday. The victim Bhuwan Ram was a resident of Chorgaliya and while patrolling Karakot's second beat, a pachyderm crushed him to death. After a brief struggle with the herd of tuskers, forest officials could somehow rescue Bhuwan's body. The officials of Haldwani forest division will provide Rs 3 lakh relief to the bereaved family as per guidelines. It is the fourth human death in a tusker attack in Uttarakhand this year. The other three deaths took place in Rajaji Tiger Reserve and at Terai central. According to forest department data, more than a dozen people have already lost their lives to human-wildlife conflict in the state since January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-watcher-trampled-to-death-by-tusker-fourth-death-in-jumbo-attack-this-year/articleshow/76432515.cms||Shivani Azad
June 18, 2020||Pune||Case surge prompts three-day shop closure||Pune: The administration from Wednesday started implementing stricter measures, including closure of shops barring those selling essential commodities for three days, at Gokhalenagar, Janwadi and Wadarwadi after the Covid-19 positive cases in these localities surged over 275. Kishori Shinde, the head of Ghole Road-Shivajinagar ward office, said, “People were venturing out despite repeated requests to remain at home. This prompted the administration to plan stricter measure for three days.” The administration has also urged the local police to intensify the vigil and implement the measures in the area. Wadarwadi alone has reported over 140 cases so far, while the positive cases at Janwadi have reached the 85-mark and at Gokhalenagar around 50. Shinde said survey teams had been deployed in every locality with focus on senior citizens having co-morbid conditions and immediate contact tracing of positive cases. The areas were included in the list of micro-containment zones at the beginning of June and continued to remain so in the revised list of the Pune Municipal Corporation released on Tuesday. MLA Siddharth Shirole said containment measures were in place and steps were being taken to intensify the testing, besides closure of shops for three days to prevent people from stepping out. “The three-day closure is an attempt to break the chain and bring down the positive cases,” he added. The entire area became vulnerable in the last week of May, when the initial few cases were reported. Some neighbouring localities, including Pandavnagar health camp, which has reported over 80 cases, and Vaiduwadi with two cases are also under surveillance of the civic administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-surge-prompts-three-day-shop-closure/articleshow/76434510.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 18, 2020||Pune||Bopodi slums emerge as new hotspots, record over 200 patients in a fortnight||Pune: Coronavirus-free till the last week of May, three slum pockets in Bopodi have recorded a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks, surpassing even the Patil Estate slum’s tally of 176 patients. The three slum pockets, survey number 24, 25 and 26, fall under the Aundh-Baner ward office and have a population of about 20,000. Between May 24 and June 15, they have recorded 223 positive patients, a majority of whom were asymptomatic and detected in the last two weeks. “Patil Estate slum has so far recorded a maximum of 176 positive cases among the slums in Shivajinagar, followed by Wadarwadi. But this slum area in Bopodi that comes under Aundh-Baner ward has surpassed them. Cases are doubling up fast there as compared with slums in other neighbouring ward offices,” Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said. Local corporator Prakash Dhore also confirmed the development and said health officials have taken up a massive screening in the slums pockets and surrounding areas. “On an average, throat swab sample of 150 residents are being drawn for testing every day. Over 200 close contacts of positive patients have been quarantined in a school nearby,” he said. The first case was reported in the slum pockets in a nurse on May 24. She succumbed to the infection two days later. “Initially only two pockets, survey number 24 and 25, were affected. The two slum pockets had reported 71 positive cases within 12 days of the outbreak in the area. The cases surged significantly after June 6. We are reporting an average of 25 to 30 cases every day since then in all the three slum pockets,” Dhore said. PMC health officials started mass screening for high-risk people. “We drew and tested throat swab samples of around 1,100 high-risk people living in the slums over the last week,” said a civic health official involved in the surveillance work. About 80% of the households in the slum pockets have personal toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bopodi-slums-emerge-as-new-hotspots-record-over-200-patients-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/76434520.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress & cubs killed to protect mahua brewery in TATR buffer||Chandrapur: Park rangers of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) have cracked the mystery of suspicious death of a tigress and its two cubs. Investigations have revealed that the poachers were involved in brewing mahua liquor in the forest under buffer zone close to Kondegaon Lake and eliminated the tiger family to neutralize the threat of being attacked while carrying out their illegal activities. Petrified carcass of full grown tigress was found in forest under Moharli (buffer) zone close to Sitarampeth-Kondegaon road on June 10. While foresters were searching for cubs of the tigress, they had found two carcasses of one-year-old cubs and two langurs on June 14. During the investigations, foresters came to know that a bunch of people were brewing mahua liquor illegally in the forest close to Kondegaon Lake. Accordingly they had arrested three accused identified as Suryabhan Thakare, Shravan Madavi and Narendra Dadmal from Kondegaon village on Tuesday. Earlier, it was suspected that the tiger family and two langurs might have died of poisoning of waterhole. Autopsy reports failing to confirm the cause of death too added to the mystery. TOI was first to report the arrests and the way tiger family was eliminated by poisoning wild boar carcass. However, forest officials of TATR were elusive about the motive behind the killing. Sources on Wednesday claimed that investigations have now revealed that the accused poachers had a mahua liquor brewery in the area. They were terrified of the tiger family prowling the area. Their customers, who came to the place to get the liquor, also complained of tigers having habitat in the area. Thus to eliminate the threat, the illicit liquor brewers poisoned mahua flowers and killed a wild boar with it. They later hacked the boar into pieces and poisoned it. The tigress and its cubs consumed the poisoned kill and died. Sources claimed that the two langurs found dead in the area too died after consuming the poisoned mahua flowers, which was meant to kill wild boars. The accused trio has given a statement confessing their crime to TATR officials. This has, however, brought to fore serious lapses in protection and conservation of forest and wildlife in buffer zone. Failure of foresters to detect the carcasses of mother tigress for three days and its cubs for almost a week and presence of a brewery close to the core zone indicate that the area was least patrolled. Meanwhile, search for the third tiger cub of the Kondegaon tigress proved fruitless. It is also being suspected that more persons may be involved in the poaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-cubs-killed-to-protect-mahua-brewery-in-tatr-buffer/articleshow/76434522.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 18, 2020||Goa||‘Need stamp in honour of Dr Juliao Menezes’||Panaji: It was on June 18, 1946, a little over 7 decades ago, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia and Dr Juliao Menezes started the civil disobedience movement against Salazar’s dictatorial regime in Goa. Yet, no stamp or even a special cover has been issued in honour of Menezes. “These two freedom fighters were responsible for ushering in a revolution that eventually got Goa her civil liberties. While Lohia wasn’t a Goan, he fought for Goa’s liberation. But he wasn’t the only one. Not much is heard or known about Dr Juliao Menezes who was also an important part of Goa gaining freedom from the Portuguese,” said M R Ramesh Kumar, president of the Goa philately and numismatics society. “It is thanks to them that June 18 is known as Goa Revolution Day and Goa finally regained civil liberties. Yet, there is still no mention of Dr Juliao Menezes today even though it can be said that the freedom movement began at his residence in Assolna,” he said. The society has appealed that commemorative stamps and special covers be released by the department of posts to honour the great freedom fighters of Goa and various landmark events and places associated with the freedom struggle. The central government has however issued a postage stamp in the honour of another freedom fighter, Tristao de Bragança Cunha who is credited for pioneering the resistance to Portuguese rule in Goa in the 20th century. Popularly known as the ‘Father of Goan nationalism’, he died on September 26, 1958.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-stamp-in-honour-of-dr-juliao-menezes/articleshow/76434532.cms||Nida Sayed
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||2.34L locals have returned to U’khand from other states||Dehradun: Among the 3.14 lakh migrant workers who had registered themselves with the Uttarakhand government to come back to the Himalayan state during the lockdown period, as many as 2.34 lakh people have already returned. Authorities opine that the majority of these people have returned and efforts are underway to bring back the rest. Urban development minister and state government's spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the majority of the locals who were stranded in other states have been brought back. “Initially, some people registered themselves but later showed reluctance in coming back. We are examining each and every case and trying to contact the individuals. The state government has made best possible efforts to bring back locals stuck in nearby and far off states through bus and rail services,” added the senior minister. According to data, 89,415 people have returned from Delhi, followed by 35,410 from Uttar Pradesh, 28,749 from Haryana, 17,107 from Maharashtra, 14,405 from Punjab, 10,584 from Chandigarh, 10,071 from Rajasthan, 8,487 from Gujarat, 7,656 from Karnataka, and 12,405 from other states. The district wise data of the state government – as of June 16 – shows that 44,211 people have returned to Pauri district, followed by 36,132 to Almora, 32,186 to Tehri, 27,253 to Haridwar, 19,240 to Nainital, 18,463 to Dehradun, 15,801 to Bageshwar, 9,862 to Champawat, 9,298 to Rudraprayag, 5,800 to Pithoragarh, 5,256 to Chamoli, and 4,944 to Udham Singh Nagar Meanwhile, out of the 94,660 residents of other states who were stuck in Uttarakhand and had applied to move to other states, 90,962 people have already left till June 16. Also, a total of 2.09 lakh state residents have moved from one district of Uttarakhand to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-34l-locals-have-returned-to-ukhand-from-other-states/articleshow/76432532.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||23,485 returnees apply for MGNREGA job card, 17,237 get work||Dehradun: As many as 23,485 locals who returned to the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic have applied for job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April 20, according to official data. Officials say that among these people, 17,327 have already been enrolled in various projects and the others will be provided jobs soon. At present, works on 26,771 projects are underway in the state and 3.64 lakh people have been provided employment in these. Mohammad Aslam, state's nodal officer for providing migrants with jobs, told TOI that the maximum 4,450 job card requests came from Tehri, followed by 4,014 from Udham Singh Nagar, 3,122 from Uttarkashi, 2,164 from Bageshwar, 2,011 from Pithoragarh, and 1,673 from Pauri. The official pointed out that at present, the thrust is on two projects – water conservation and individual asset creation. “Under water conservation, we are focussing on digging ponds, trenches, recharge pits, water harvesting systems, and check dams. There are many locations in the state where we are running such programmes and they are highly successful,” he added. The senior official further pointed out that under individual asset creation, the state government is helping in construction of sheds for cows, sheep, and goats. “Besides, land development programmes are also being promoted for individuals and a protection wall is being constructed to safeguard the agricultural produce from animals,” he said. Aslam added that targets have been fixed for each project. “The work is being monitored on a daily basis and it is pleasing to see that a high number of people who have returned during the lockdown period have applied for job cards. Our focus is to provide job opportunities to maximum people in the state,” added Aslam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/23485-returnees-apply-for-mgnrega-job-card-17237-get-work/articleshow/76432540.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 18, 2020||Mangaluru||6k candidates opt to take PU exam outside DK||Mangaluru: Nearly 25% of PU students who are supposed to take the exam in Dakshina Kannada, have opted to write their last examination in other districts. As many as 6,326 students will not return to Dakshina Kannada on Thursday to take the exam, and only 46 students from other districts have opted to take the examination in Dakshina Kannada, stated the PU department. The last subject of the PU examination – English—which was supposed to be held on March 23, was postponed due to the pandemic, after which the lockdown was clamped. “With government giving the option to students to take the examination in a centre of their choice, as many 6,326 students who earlier appeared for the exam, here in Dakshina Kannada, have opted to take it elsewhere. On June 18, as many as 26,942 students will write examinations in 51 centres,” said Mohammed Imtiyaz, DDPU, Dakshina Kannada. “Even if they decide to come back to their home district to appear for the examination, they can do so,” he added. Most of these students, who opted out of taking the PU exam in Dakshina Kannada, are students in private educational institutions. “It is convenient as well safe for the students to take the examinations in centres close to their home. All educational institution campuses have been closed a few hours before the lockdown, and it will become a hassle for students to come back to take just one exam,” said a person who heads a private college. The Dakshina Kannada district administration has made elaborate arrangements for 1,137 students from Kerala to appear for the examination in the district. Imtiyaz said that Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has spoken to her counterpart in Kasaragod for making the required arrangements. As per the plans, the Kasaragod district administration will ferry the candidates till the Talapady border and other Karnataka-Kerala border areas in Sullia. After a health check-up, they will be transported to the respective examination centres in the district, and after they finish taking the exam, buses will drop them at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/6k-candidates-opt-to-take-pu-exam-outside-dk/articleshow/76432526.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward now has most micro-containment clusters||Pune: The Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward now has the highest number of micro-containment zones in the city — 11. It also has the largest area currently under Covid-19 restrictions, followed by the Bhavani Peth ward. These latest figures are part of a fresh list of micro-containment zones the PMC released on Tuesday. The number of areas currently under curbs has also increased, from 66 to 73.The total area of the city under micro containment is now 6.64 sqkm. Nearly 1.35 sq km of that area is in the Wanworie-Ramwadi ward. Another 1.31 sqkm is in the Bhavani Peth ward office limits. Both wards then form a Covid-19 containment zone of about 2.66 sqkm. The rest of the 3.98 sqkm is spread across 13 wards. Warje-Karvenagar ward now has the lowest number of locations as well as the smallest area under curbs. It has just one micro-containment zone and about 0.013 sqkm under containment. Kondhwa-Yewalewadi ward too has only one cluster, covering a tiny 0.079 sqkm.In the fresh list of microcontainment zones out on Tuesday, the PMC removed 24 zones while adding 32. Pune city now has 6.645 sqkm of containment zones, down from the 9.93 sqkm it had on May 3. Nearly 2% of PMC limits is now under active infection control measures. On May 3, it was around 3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wanowrie-ramtekdi-ward-now-has-most-micro-containment-clusters/articleshow/76434530.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: Why mostly Muslims booked during lockdown?||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Wednesday asked Hyderabad police officials why they had booked a disproportionally high number of Muslims for violating lockdown rules. “Does it mean that there are no violators from other communities?” a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked while hearing a PIL on alleged police excesses during the national lockdown. The judges also said, “Look at what is happening in the US where an African-American was killed by the cops and the entire country is now burning.” The bench felt that the approach of the police towards minorities was high-handed. The bench asked DGP M Mahendar Reddy and the Hyderabad police commissioner to take stern action against errant cops. Social activist Sheela Sarah Mathews, who filed the PIL, narrated a series of incidents where the police has been accused of treating Muslims badly which resulted in severe injuries when people were out to fetch essentials. Her counsel Dipak Misra cited the case of Junaid who had to undergo a major surgery with 35 stitches on his face after cops beat him up. Junaid was supplying food to migrant workers and some cops when he was stopped by a constable from Golconda police station. The bench rejected the police counter saying it did not contain a single statement of the victims. “We do not wish to go by what you said,” the CJ said. In another case, Mohammed Asgar, who went to fetch groceries, fell from the top of a building and both his legs were broken. This was because people ran to a nearby under-construction building after police began a lathicharge. In another case, Mohammed Khaleem went out to buy milk for his daughter and was chased by police. He fell into a drain and broke his leg. A handicapped person came out early in the morning to sell mangoes. Mir Alam police seized his auto and made him sit in the police station. Cops from Falaknuma police station damaged some vehicles parked in a residential area, while Moghulpura cops were seen abusing locals and seizing their vehicles in a video which had gone viral. “Why are the victims in all these cases Muslims?” the bench wondered. “Your (police) counter says that Falaknuma cops were merely tapping the vehicles with their lathis to test whether the vehicles have Covid or not? Can there be a more incoherent statement than this,” the CJ asked. While dealing with other pleas which also raised cops’ high-handed behaviour with a journalist, the CJ wondered as to why these people were shown as withdrawing their complaints. “None of the medical reports that narrate the nature of injuries was filed along with the counter,” the bench said. Asking the DGP to take action, it said: “Deal with delinquent cops in a stern manner and file a fresh affidavit by June 29.” Earlier, appearing for other victims, senior counsel L Ravi Chander sought stringent action against the errant cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-why-mostly-muslims-booked-during-lockdown/articleshow/76434978.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal emerging as new Covid hotspot near Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Of the 153 Covid cases registered so far in Daskroi taluka, nearly 45% of the cases have been recorded in Bopal. The Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika falls within the taluka. Over the past week, the nagarpalika has reported 27 cases. From March 17 to May 10, the nagarpalika had reported only 39 cases. The nagarpalika shares a boundary with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Officials are uncertain about the source of infection in at least 25% of the cases reported within the past week in the nagarpalika. For instance, a couple from Aarohi Crest in Bopal has been working from home and has not gone out of the area. In Aarohi Twin Bungalows, the only person who tested positive had not ventured out of the society. Officials said that the problem stems from vegetable and fruit vendors of the area, whose health is not monitored. Small tempos drive to the nagarpalika daily from villages of Dholka and Sanand. These vendors do not have health cards. Moreover, vendors based in the area have had no recent health check-ups. Recently, an elderly woman and her daughter-in-law tested positive, possibly after coming in contact with a vegetable vendor. Then a woman from Iskcon Platinum was infected and officials suspected a similar source. A couple from Aarohi Elysium has tested positive; the contact history has not been declared yet. Arun Mahesh Babu, the district development officer of Ahmedabad, said that with restrictions easing, people are being careless. Babu said people aren’t taking precautions when meeting vendors or neighbours. “We can say for sure that the cases in Bopal and Ahmedabad have been spurred by local transmission,” Babu said. “Community transmission has not yet begun.” Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika president Jigisha Shah said that strict surveillance has been launched in the area. ‘Testing highest in Ahmedabad district’District development officer of Ahmedabad Arun Mahesh Babu said that Ahmedabad district records the highest number of tests. On average, the district conducts 800 to 1,000 tests, he said. “We have increased testing and hence there has been a rise in the number of cases in the district.” The district is not carrying out contact tracing but is determining movement through the Aarogya Setu app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-emerging-as-new-hotspot-near-ahmedabad/articleshow/76433587.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bhopal||Ladakh martyr from Rewa married six months ago||BHOPAL: The first call martyr Deepak Singh’s family received said his ID card had been “found”, and he was missing in action. After two nerve-wracking hours, the family got to know from another soldier that Deepak was among the 20 bravehearts who had laid down their lives at Galwan in Ladakh. He had married just six months ago. Signs of the wedding are still there on the soldier’s home in Faraida village, about 100km from Rewa district HQ and 550km from Bhopal. Deepak’s wife, who went to visit her parents just a couple of days ago, is on her way back, numb with shock. His elder brother Prakash, who is also in the Army, is rushing home from his posting in Rajasthan. “We have been informed that his body will leave from Ladakh at 10am on Thursday and will reach our native village late in the night,” said Rakesh Singh, a cousin of Deepak. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan saluted the brave warrior, tweeting: “My tributes to India’s son and Vindhya’s veer Deepak Singh. A tiger is gone. My heart bleeds for him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ladakh-martyr-from-rewa-married-six-months-ago/articleshow/76433575.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Soon, Banarasi paan, langda & 8 other state products to get GI tag||Varanasi: Soon, the famed Banarasi paan, Banarasi Langda mango, Barabanki handloom besides seven other exclusive products of Uttar Pradesh will get the prestigious Geographical Identification (GI) certification which will provide them legal protection and boot their exports. State’s ODOP (One District One Product) Cell of MSME department, in association with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and Varanasi-based organization Human Welfare Association (HWA), has already initiated an exercise in this regard. So far, UP’s 26 exclusive products, which have specific geographical origin and possess qualities or reputation of that origin, have received the GI certification. The terracotta art of Gorakhpur, the home district of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, was the last to join the league of GI tagged goods recently. HWA president Dr. Rajni Kant, who is an expert of GI and has been assigned by the state government to look into the matter, said that the list of prospective goods include Banarasi paan, Banarasi Langda mango, Adamchini rice, Ramnagar baigan (brinjal), Barabanki handloom, Muzaffarnagar gud (jaggery), Agra leather footwear, Bagpat handloom, Jalaon handmade paper and Jailsar Ghati ghunghroo. “The work is almost in final stage for applying to the GI Registry in Chennai,” he told TOI on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soon-banarasi-paan-langda-8-other-state-products-to-get-gi-tag/articleshow/76430292.cms||Binay Singh
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Rs 100 fine levied on those found not wearing masks||Vijayawada: Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz conducted surprise inspections at Mahatma Gandhi Road in the city and imposed a fine of Rs 100 to around 20 people who were caught on the street without masks. Imtiaz, on Tuesday, passed orders imposing a Rs 100 fine for those who were caught on the street without wearing masks. While on the way to work on Wednesday evening, Imtiaz saw a few children playing on the street without wearing masks. He immediately spoke to their parents and warned that the government would shift them to quarantine centres if they continued playing on the road without masks. The collector then distributed free masks. Collector Imtiaz also conducted surprise inspections at a few pan shops and tea stalls in Patamata. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-100-fine-levied-on-those-found-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76432537.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Rajkot||Five injured in attack over trivial issue||Rajkot: Five persons, including three women, were injured after they were allegedly attacked by four assailants over a trivial issue in Bhichari village on the outskirts of Rajkot on Tuesday. Police said the accused Munna Chawda, Jyotsana Dangar and her two unidentified sisters allegedly attacked Pinak Rathod, Vishal Dangar, Shobhana Rathod, Shanta Rathod and Sita Rathod. According to the police, the accused allegedly attacked them with iron pipes after the victims objected to them hurling abuses. Complainant Pinak alleged that he and Vishal had gone to Bhichari village to pay a visit to his family’s house. “When Pinak and Vishal reached the former’s family’s house, they found that the accused had gathered there and were hurling abuses at Pinak’s family members. When Pinak and Vishal told them not to use abusive language the accused attacked them with iron pipes,” said B D Bharwad, head constable with Kuwadava Road police station. “We have booked the accused on the complaint of Pinak and launched a manhunt for them,” added Bharwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-injured-in-attack-over-trivial-issue/articleshow/76432534.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Alert NGO saves 3 trees being cut in housing society||Nagpur: After a tip off by a tree lover, green activists managed to save three fully grown trees being chopped without permission in a residential premises on Wednesday. The incident took place on Wednesday at Mitra Apartments, Pande Layout, Khamla. Around 11am, members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation received a call from an alert citizen regarding tree cutting in the area. Members rushed to the spot and found that three fully grown neem, raintree and subabul trees were being brutally chopped off by 12 people. “When we tried to stop them, they landed up in a scuffle with us. Almost 30% of the trees had been chopped off by them,” said NGO founder Kaustav Chatterjee. A resident of the apartment had ordered the trees cut, fearing that the branches of the trees were sloping towards the road and might cause an accident. “On inspecting the site, we found that the trees or branches posed no danger,” said team lead of Green Vigil Surbhi Jaiswal. Activists also complained to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s garden department, whose permission is mandatory before cutting trees or even trimming a single branch. Officials reached the spot and conducted a panchnama. “The reason to cut trees was not justified,” officials said. At last, the activists were successful in stopping the illegal felling. The resident who had ordered the felling also wrote an apology letter to the garden department, stating that the decision to chop the trees was taken after discussions with some other flat members. “I was not aware that cutting branches of trees needed permission from NMC. I apologize and assure that I will undertake compensatory plantation against the felled branches,” he wrote. TOI has been constantly highlighting the increase in number of cases of illegal tree felling in residential premises. NMC officials have stressed that trees inside personal premises too are NMC property and its permission is required to carry out felling or trimming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alert-ngo-saves-3-trees-being-cut-in-housing-society/articleshow/76434539.cms||Manka Behl
June 18, 2020||Pune||Civic team on door-to-door visit detects 400 new +ve individuals in 2 small pockets||Pune: The Ramtekdi and Vaiduwadi slums, within the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward, have been registering a surge in Covid-19 cases since lockdown relaxations in late May. “A total of 400 people have tested positive since May 26,” said Pune Municipal Corporation’s zonal medical officer Dinesh Bhende.“There has been a breakdown of discipline here,” Bhende added. “Among residents, there is this general feeling that nothing further will happen because the lockdown has been relaxed. These are reasons why there has been a surge in cases in the slum pockets.”The civic official said cases were detected through door-to-door surveys. Bhende said, “We have sealed the slum pockets, but only precautions can break the transmission chain. Wanowrie gaonthan also has cases.”Corporator Ashok Kamble said some residents had delayed medical treatment as well. “Two slum dwellers died recently. Their funerals were attended by a large number of people. Most residents of the slum pockets are not wearing masks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-team-on-door-to-door-visit-detects-400-new-ve-individuals-in-2-small-pockets/articleshow/76434541.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC has over 100 zones under Covid restrictions||Pimpri Chinchwad: The number of micro-containment zones in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have increased to 107 amid fresh cases from new spots. There were around 81 micro-containment zones in the PCMC limits a week ago. “The containment zones now are dynamic in nature. What we are doing now is sealing 100x100 metre area. If we consider 107 containment zones, they cover less than one square km of the city area. The total city limits is 180 square km, which means containment zones do not even cover 1% of the city area,” additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI. Patil said the micro-containment zones were being strictly observed for new spots only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-has-over-100-zones-under-covid-restrictions/articleshow/76434537.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Greens oppose move to recognize ‘forest rights’ in Melghat core||Nagpur: A group of leading NGOs and individuals working for wildlife conservation have opposed the move to recognize individual forest rights (IFRs) in the core area of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Semadoh range. The district level committee (DLC) headed by district collector is the second topmost body to decide on granting community forest rights (CFRs) and IFRs under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. On Friday, the DLC granted IFRs in core area of Semadoh under Sipna Wildlife Division. The meeting was held in the absence of deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Dr Sivabala S, who is also a member. A memorandum submitted by NGOs to Amravati district collector Shaileshkumar Nawal says 76 people have filed claims to get IFRs in which 190.83 hectare tiger reserve forest area in Semadoh range is involved. The sub-divisional level committee (SDLC) had not recommended these cases in 2008 and 2011. Talking to TOI, Nawal said, “The 76 cases for IFRs from Semadoh were placed before the meeting on Friday, out of which we took cognisance of 22 cases based on documents produced by these individuals. Our team will conduct a survey before finalizing any claims. Let us wait for the minutes of the meeting.” DyCF Sivabala said he could not attend the DLC meeting as forest minister Sanjay Rathod was on tour of Melghat. “I’m examining the cases and will submit my comments on their eligibility for IFR under Forest Rights Act. Granting of these pattas will involve more than 12 hectare forest land,” he added. Satpuda Foundation president Kishor Rithe, who was part of the delegation that met the collector, said, “Semadoh village is crying out for resettlement and a few individuals feel they will get more benefits if they become land holders or have more land in their name.” “So, there is a spurt in encroachments on forest lands, especially during the last three years in Melghat. This is a serious issue and state government, including the Governor, has failed to stop fresh encroachments on forest lands. I’m surprised to see people in Mumbai fighting to save few trees from development and politicians also respond promptly. On the contrary, virgin forests like Melghat are being destroyed by encroachments but no one bothers,” said Rithe. Honorary wildlife warden Vishal Bansod said Semadoh village is included in core/critical tiger habitat of MTR. The inquiry conducted by SDO of Dharni under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, had recommended resettlement of Semadoh. Based on SDO report, the government issued notification of Melghat Wildlife Sanctuary. “If there had been any claims the SDO would have mentioned them in his report. The CTH notification of Melghat WLS was issued in 2007 when there were no such claims,” said Bansod. Another honorary warden Jayant Wadatkar said, “These claimants are trying to cultivate on forest land where there are standing trees. The issue has also been brought to the notice of the Supreme Court. In such a situation it would not be proper to recognize IFRs.” “It is clearly visible that Semadoh people are encroaching upon forest lands and filing claims under FRA. No decision should be taken unless a transparent committee reviews the situation by conducting a site visit. Satellite imagery of before and after the cut-off date of December 13, 2005, should be taken,” said Nishikant Kale of Nature Conservation Association, Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-oppose-move-to-recognize-forest-rights-in-melghat-core/articleshow/76434547.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad city has 21% active Covid cases, district 20%||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) data till June 16 reveals that out of total cases, now only 21% cases are active. The city had recorded 16,672 cases till June 16 out of which 3,487 were active. “Out of the total active cases, 23% cases are in North zone, followed by 20% in West zone and 17% in East zone,” said a health official. “Earlier, Central zone was recording the maximum cases. But now the number has gone down to 11% of total active cases.” Officials said that the wave pattern – peak in some of the areas and ebb in some others – is the best possible scenario for management of the disease and infrastructure. “The focus of cases has shifted to some new areas. But as long as the number is within a permissible limit, the availability of doctors and hospitals would not be a problem,” said the official. Ahmedabad has so far recorded discharges of 11,980 patients and deaths of 1,205 patients. On Wednesday, Ahmedabad district outside AMC areas recorded 650 cumulative Covid-19 positive cases with addition of 25 new cases. Of the total, 10 were from Dholka, five from Daskroi, three from Sanand, while two each from Bavla and Mandal, and one each from Detroj, Dhandhuka and Viramgam. The district’s death toll reached 44 with the deaths of two more persons reported on Wednesday. COUNCILLOR TESTS POSITIVE: BJP municipal councillor from Vejalpur, Dilip Bagharia, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. A senior BJP leader in the AMC said that Bagharia’s condition was stable at SVP Hospital. “A report regarding his health is being provided at frequent intervals to the political leadership,” said a senior AMC standing committee member. Bagharia had been active in conducting Covid awareness drives. PM BRIEFED ABOUT COVID-19 SITUATION: The state government briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the steps being taken to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state, during a video conference which the PM had with chief ministers of all states. CM Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and CS Anil Mukim participated in the meeting. Nitin Patel said the PM was briefed about the series of actions taken to control spread of Covid-19 and to revive the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-has-21-active-cases-district-20/articleshow/76433624.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BJP to retain posts of mayors as candidates face no opposition||NEW DELHI: BJP is going to win the posts of mayor and deputy mayor unopposed in the three municipal corporations. The elections will be held on June 24 and Wednesday was the last day for filing nomination papers. In North Delhi Municipal Corporation, former standing committee chairman Jai Prakash has been nominated for the post of mayor and Rohini’s Ritu Goel for that of the deputy mayor. Unhappy with the decision, former leader of house Tilak Raj Kataria sent his resignation to Delhi BJP. In his letter to the Delhi BJP president, he wrote, “I am disappointed to say that the dedicated party workers are no more respected or required.” Unless one gets some executive position, it is difficult to change the system, he told TOI. Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta told TOI that he hadn’t received the resignation yet. “He has been a senior party worker and that’s why he has been given important positions in the past three years. But it’s time to give opportunity to other young, talented and hard-working councillors ,” he said. In the south corporation, Hari Nagar councillor Anamika Mithlesh has been nominated for the mayor’s post and CR Park’s Subhash Badana for that of the deputy mayor. In east Delhi, BJP has fielded Shahdara councillor Nirmal Jain for the mayor’s post and Saboli’s Hari Prasad Bahadur as his deputy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-to-retain-posts-of-mayors-as-candidates-face-no-opposition/articleshow/76434545.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sanitisers do a roaring business||PATNA: With a sudden surge in demand for hand sanitisers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many big firms as well as local artisans have started their production. According to Bihar Mahila Udyog Sangh president Usha Jha locals, who used to make Madhubani paintings, are trying their hand at making sanitisers. “Since alcohol is not available in Bihar, they use herbal techniques that are effective and skin-friendly. Their sanitisers are available in a price range of Rs 60 to Rs 150,” Usha told this newspaper on Wednesday. Jeevika (non-form and micro enterprises) manager Devesh Kumar pointed out that alcohol-based sanitisers, which are in huge demand, were being produced in Bhojpur, Gaya and Madhubani. “We have also sent the samples to the state health department for getting its approval, after which we will start their marketing and sale,” he said. Since the supply of alcohol-based sanitisers is low in Bihar, Devesh also expects to earn good revenue from the sanitizer, which are made by Jeevika didis. The production and sale of sanitisers have, however, been a tough journey for Samrat Laboratories in Samastipur. “Surviving in a market, which is flooded with sanitisers, is not easy. The competition is quite difficult,” claimed the company’s owner Jaspal Singh. Now that sanitisers have become an indispensable part of people’s lives, health experts lay emphasis on buying those with at least 60% alcohol content. Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, head of microbiology department at the Patna Medical College and Hospital, said alcohol in sanitisers helped kill viruses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sanitisers-do-a-roaring-business/articleshow/76431342.cms||Archi Rani
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Schools in Vijayawada start classes online, demand six months fee upfront||VIJAYAWADA: Preparing children for online classes has become a major concern for parents as the majority of private and corporate schools in the city have started the new academic year online. Most of the schools that started classes online classes have insisted that parents pay half the fees in advance, which is worrying the parents. The coronavirus pandemic has severely impacted the education sector. Schools were shut down without conducting final examinations and all students from class 1 to class 9 were promoted. The state government has been conducting classes on the Doordarshan Sapthagiri channel and many private and corporate schools have followed in the footsteps of government and started the new academic year online. Parents who welcomed online classes were shocked to see fee notices issued by schools. The state government had fixed the fees for corporate schools based on the infrastructure and teaching faculty available at the schools. At the same time, the government gave permission to schools to collect only one term fee’s from the parents. But many schools have ignored these guidelines. “The school management has been repeatedly calling us and insisting we pay half the year’s fee, though schools have not reopened. We welcome online classes and understand the situation of teachers in private schools. But how can school management demand half a year’s fees in advance,” asked K Sai Ram, a worried parent, who works at a private firm. A few schools have been insisting parents buy smart gadgets such as tabs and laptops with a specific configuration, which is causing a huge burden to parents. “A basic laptop or phone is enough to access online classes. But school managements have been suggesting we buy devices with a specific configuration and smart class material. Coronavirus has ruined the financial situation of middle-class families. Buying laptops is an added burden. The government should restrict schools,” said Ch Jayasri, a homemaker. Student union have been demanding the state government impose a ban on online classes for students till class 5, the way the Karnataka state government did.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/schools-in-vij-start-classes-online-demand-six-months-fee-upfront/articleshow/76432552.cms||Venu Lanka
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Child rights bodies want SSC exams cancelled||VISAKHAPATNAM: Child rights organisations in the state have appealed to AP governor Biswabhusan Harichandan, seeking his intervention to advise the state government to cancel the SSC examinations for the safety of students in view of Covid-19. Around 6.39 lakh students will attend the exams scheduled start from July 10. Narava Prakasa Rao, secretary of Bala Vikas Foundation (BVF), said while the government decided to promote students from class 6 to 9 without any exams due to the pandemic, it plans to conduct SSC exams. “Services of around 50,000 teachers, 15,000 other staff for invigilation work and about 20,000 police personnel would be needed for exams to be conducted. At a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise and July happens to be rainy season, bringing children to exam centres is not safe. Many other states have cancelled their board exams. AP should too,” said Rao in his letter to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/child-rights-bodies-want-ssc-exams-cancelled/articleshow/76438519.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Goa||Tree crashes on moving vehicle||A huge tree branch crashed on a moving vehicle on one of Panaji’s busiest streets—18 June Road—on Wednesday. While the occupants escaped with minor injuries, the department of fire services put in their efforts to clear the debris. Panaji alone received a total of six calls for tree falls and of an internet cable which snapped at Mala, inadvertently suspending services for a few hours. Across the state, such incidents kept the officers of the engaged throughout the day. About 33 calls were received by the fire services control room on Wednesday from 7am to 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-crashes-on-moving-vehicle/articleshow/76434548.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Patna||Victim was in depression||Her mother Gauri Devi told the police on Tuesday that Ishika was in depression for not performing well in her class X examination. She said Ishika had been continuously watching the news of Sushant’s suicide on TV channels and social media platforms in her cellphone till late Monday night. Ishika’s mother even tried to convince her several times not to watch such news but she didn’t listen. PMCH temporary police outpost incharge Amit Kumar said her mother had gone for a stroll on the terrace when Ishika hanged herself inside the bedroom. “She tied her mother’s sari to the ceiling fan to commit suicide. The mother along with neighbours brought Ishika down and rushed her to PMCH,” he said. Kadamkuan police station SHO Nishikant Nishi also quoted Ishika’s mother .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/victim-was-in-depression/articleshow/76412990.cms||Ramashankar
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tahsildar held for corruption, husband kills self||HYDERABAD: Amid allegations of harassment and nine days after Sheikpet tahsildar Ch Sujatha was arrested for being in possession of Rs 24 lakh unaccounted cash, her husband Ajay Kumar ended his life by jumping from an apartment complex in Chikkadpally on Wednesday. His family alleged harassment from ACB sleuths drove Ajay, an assistant professor in political science at the Osmania University, to end his life. Around 7.30am, Ajay, 47, went to the terrace of his sister’s five-storied apartment Lalitha Mansion in Chikkadpally and jumped to death. He died on the spot. Police shifted the body for a post-mortem examination to Osmania General Hospital and registered a suspicious death case. During the preliminary investigation, police found that for the past eight days Ajay, who was a resident of flat number 404 in Madhava Mansion Apartment at Gandhi Nagar, was staying with his sister at Lalitha Mansion’s flat number 101 as he was depressed after the arrest of his wife Sujatha on June 8 by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths. “As Ajay Kumar was depressed, his sister called him to her house. There was no suicide note, but on Wednesday morning he sent a message to a student asking that person to take care and jumped to death from the terrace of his sister’s apartment complex,” Chikkadpally inspector P Shiva Shankar Rao said. Police said the tahsildar, currently lodged at the Chanchalguda women’s prison, secured permission from court to attend the last rites of her husband. Family members of Ajay alleged that harassment of ACB officials had forced him to end his life. “Have they caught Sujatha taking bribe? On Tuesday, ACB officials called him, asking him to come to their office for questioning. My brother said he was feeling depressed and offered to come on Wednesday. My brother was innocent,” Ajay’s sister alleged. In his complaint to police, Ajay’s brother-in-law Pradeep stated that the academic was upset due to recent developments and ended his life. However, ACB officials said Ajay’s statement was recorded during the search at their house on June 6 when Rs 30 lakh worth property, including Rs 24 lakh cash was seized. “The tahsildar and her husband could not provide details of source of the cash. The tahsildar’s husband claimed he sold 1.5 acres of ancestral property in Jangaon to family members and the cash was from that sale. During our verification, we found that he only had 13 guntas of land. The investigating officer seems to have called him for verification of details,” ACB deputy director M Ramana Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/arrested-tahsildars-hubby-leaps-to-death/articleshow/76433593.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Why many Delhi University hopefuls are left in lurch||NEW DELHI: Dhriti Sharma has been practising Kathak for more than eight years. The Class XII student has participated in several national-level dance competitions and was aspiring to join Delhi University this year. However, she was disappointed to hear that the university would not be conducting any admission in the extracurricular activity (ECA) quota this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. For many students like her, ECA was the option through which they could get admission in DU. “It is disheartening for hundreds of students who will not be able to appear for ECA trials this year. As a parent, I can only implore the university to reconsider its decision,” said Deepak Sharma, Dhriti’s father. Another hopeful student, Shantanu Sharma had been participating in debates since when he was in Class VII. As an average student in academics, he was hopeful that his participation in debates would help him get a seat in one of the colleges in DU’s north campus. “But I have heard that the university is not going to conduct ECA admissions and I feel terribly disappointed about it. I had so many plans. If sports admissions can be done through certificates, why not ECA?” he asked. Last year, as many as 1,027 students got admissions in DU through the ECA quota. Several school principals also want the university to hold ECA admissions through certificates. “Why should a child who has worked hard for several years be denied an opportunity? Just like sports, ECA certificates are authentic enough and DU should reconsider its decision. Unlike sports, most ECAs are not group activities. If the university wants, it can easily conduct online trials. When a school can conduct online appointment interviews, why cannot DU?” asked Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School. However, a member of the DU standing committee explained that admissions cannot happen solely based on certificates in ECA. “Many had raised concerns about the authenticity of certificates.” Students say the absence of ECA admissions may also have an impact on the cultural space of DU, known for its many cultural societies. Varnika Sharma of Lady Shri Ram College’s DramSoc theatre society said that “ECA was the way through which people got the opportunity to get into prestigious colleges through the medium of music, dance and others. For them, the situation is scary. I know some juniors from my school who worked hard in the past few years so that they could improve their skills and get admission in DU.” “No ECA admissions may also have an impact on the cultural space.” According to Satyamitran Guruhari of Hindu College’s dramatics society ‘Ibtida’, there could be an impact on the overall quality of the arts space in DU with the absence of ECA quota admissions. However, according to Srinidhi Sritharan, a member of the PGDAV college music society, “no ECA admissions at DU could work in the favour of lesser known colleges where talented students with less academic marks would get admissions and add to the talent pool of their societies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-many-du-hopefuls-are-left-in-lurch/articleshow/76434562.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CID arrests 8 for duping over 3,000 ex-servicemen||VISAKHAPATNAM: A team of CID officers arrested eight people on charges of duping retired defence employees to the tune of over Rs 24 crore on pretext of allocating house sites. Majji Seethamma, widow of Appala Reddy (retired army employee) and 94 others had lodged a complaint with the airport police on June 16, 2018 stating that the executive board members of Ex-Servicemen Mutually Aided Cooperative House Building Society with the support of the then zilla sainik welfare officer (ZSWO) P Satya Prasad, (total 12 people) had motivated 3,594 retired servicemen to join the society and collected around 24 crore on pretext of providing house sites. The case was later transferred to CID, Visakhapatnam, given the amount of money misappropriated. CID officers arrested the accused on June 15 and produced them before the court of chief metropolitan magistrate, designated court for cases under AP Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishment Act 1999 who remanded them in custody till June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cid-arrests-8-for-duping-over-3k-ex-servicemen/articleshow/76432578.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Heavy rain forecast for Maharashtra, Pune receives over 20mm||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded 20mm-plus rainfall at both of its reading stations in Pune, as well as heavy rain in most of the region, which it accorded to regular monsoon weather, as well as a cyclonic system. The Lohegaon station recorded 26mm of rainfall till 5.30pm on Wednesday, with the Shivajinagar station recording 22mm of rainfall. Other areas in the region also received heavy rainfall, with the hill resort of Mahabaleshwar receiving 39mm of rain on Wednesday. The IMD added that the ghat areas in the region will receive isolated heavy rain in the next 48 hours as well. Ratnagiri recorded the highest rainfall in the state on Wednesday at 79mm. “This weather is largely due to the monsoon. And there is also a cyclonic depression that has formed around the north Konkan-Gujarat area and is circulating in the region. There will be widespread rain over the next few days in the Konkan-Goa region, and we have also issued warnings of heavy-to-very-heavy rain for some parts. Westerly winds with moisture and high wind speeds are also causing the weather system that is there now. Areas of central Maharashtra, like Pune, will also receive rainfall due to the weather system over the next 48 hours, but the intensity will reduce,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather at IMD Pune, told TOI. Kashyapi added that the progress of the monsoon across the subcontinent, which had stalled over the past few days, will resume from June 19 and 20, heading through Madhya Pradesh and reaching A cyclone on June 3 had battered Pune district after veering off course. The monsoon arrived in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-rain-forecast-for-state-pune-receives-over-20mm/articleshow/76434556.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Mysuru||Annual revenue of temples across Karnataka may go down by 30% this year||MYSURU: Every muzrai temple across Karnataka has suffered losses to the tune of crores of rupees of revenue, in the form of offerings, during the lockdown, and the annual revenue of temples is likely to reduce by 30% this year. There are 34,500 temples across Karnataka, and of them, around 500 are Grade A and Grade B temples. E-seva services too are not available at present. Not just temples, even churches that are solely dependent on offerings, from their members, have struggled in the last two-and-a-half months. Now that the doors of places of worships, irrespective of faiths, have been opened to the public, it is expected to improve the situation. Muzrai minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said that each Grade A temple received offerings to the tune of crores of rupees every month, but during the lockdown, no revenue was earned in the form of offerings. Sri Mookambika Temple, Kollur, Udupi, alone collected Rs 7 crore in April and May in 2019, but during the corresponding period this year, it has earned nothing. In Grade A temples, priests and staff are appointed by the government. “We haven’t stopped paying salaries to our staff, despite there being no revenue earned in the last two-and-a-half months. Now that temples have reopened, we’re hopeful that the situation will improve, though annual revenue of temples may fall by 30%,” the minister said. Mysuru muzrai tahsildar Yathiraj said annual offerings made at Mysuru temples, including Sri Chamundeshwari Temple, is around Rs 33 crore on an average. According to an estimate, there is a dip in revenue of Rs 7 crore from temples in Mysuru, during the lockdown. Since E-seva and E-kanike are interlinked, both were stopped since the closure of temples, and they will be started soon, he stated. Bishop of Mysuru, Rev K A Williams, said that churches too have borne the brunt of the lockdown. “Managing places of worship that solely depend on offerings, have become difficult, without revenue being earned in the form of offerings. Members of several churches in Mysuru diocese, which comprises four districts, and has nearly 90 churches under it, have lost their jobs, and are facing difficult times,” the bishop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/annual-revenue-of-temples-may-go-down-by-30-this-year/articleshow/76432553.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag authorities to complete land acquisition by June end||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district administration is planning to complete the land acquisition for the government’s housing for poor scheme by the end of June. It has already acquired more than 90% of the required land and developed layouts and plantations on it. Since the distribution of house sites was delayed, the district received an additional 25,207 new applications, which required another 750 acres of land. For 7,925 new beneficiaries in Visakha rural, 190 acres of land is needed, of which 127 acres of government land has been identified. The scheme will be launched on July 8. “We need small parcels of land around two to four acres in rural area and more is needed in the urban area,” joint collector Venugopala Reddy said. District authorities have acquired land from around 3,000 farmers, including pattaland and assigned land. All those who had to give up their land were given land pooling ownership certificates (LPOC). The government has planned to distribute around 27 lakh house sites to the poor across the state. More than 2.4 lakh people are set to benefit in Visakhapatnam district alone. As per the guidelines, beneficiaries in the rural area will get 72 square yards of plot and 50 square yards in urban area. “We have acquired the land, including government, assigned and small chunks of patta land. We have formed 897 layouts, including 767 layouts in government land in rural areas, including Yalamanchili and Narsipatnam municipalities, and 65 layouts in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation limits,” Venugopala Reddy added. GVMC has around 1, 78,397 beneficiaries, of which 25,080 will get houses from Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Tidco) that was commissioned by the previous government. For the remaining beneficiaries, the district authorities have acquired 3,816 acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-authorities-to-complete-land-acquisition-by-june-end/articleshow/76432569.cms||Siva G
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMA welcomes inclusion of health services in MSME||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday welcomed the move of including small and medium hospitals, nursing homes and clinics officially in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. The sector was also provided serial and code number. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA Gujarat, said that it was a long-pending demand by the medical fraternity. “With the move, the hospitals will be able to get credit facilities through financial institutions at lower rate of interest, easy availability of finance, collateral free loans, lower electricity bill, stamp duty and property tax among other benefits,” he said. “It will be more beneficial for the smaller set-ups than the bigger hospitals. We are going to launch a campaign to create awareness among our members for registration.” The members added that in the shadow of Covid-19 epidemic that has witnessed drastic footfalls in majority of hospitals, it’s a welcome move and will help healthcare industry to get back on feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ima-welcomes-inclusion-of-health-services-in-msme/articleshow/76433622.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||18 booked for defaming 24-year-old||Pune: The Sangvi police on Tuesday registered an offence against 18 users of different social media accounts for defaming a woman and also posting messages to create a rift between two communities. The incident was a fallout of 20-year-old Viraj Jagtap’s murder on June 8. A similar offence has been registered with the Loni Kalbhor police. The 24-year-old who lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police on Tuesday said the men had published her personal photographs on the social media with the obscene comments. “We have traced 18 such accounts on different social media platforms and have registered an offence,” said an officer from the Sangvi police. Meanwhile, the Chatushrungi police have registered an offence under the Prevention of Atrocities Act against four men for posting such messages and audio clips on their social media accounts and on a local web news channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/18-booked-for-defaming-24-year-old/articleshow/76434549.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Awareness, checking drives after Covid cases in MIDC||Nagpur: Two women workers of one family at a pharma unit at MIDC Hingna did not inform the management when a kin tested positive for Covid-19. They were tracked to work by NMC’s contact tracing campaign, and eight workers of the unit were found to have been infected by Covid. Industrialists now admit there has been laxity at some units in following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) laid down to prevent infections. After the pharma unit was sealed by authorities, a meeting of industry associations was held by district collector Ravindra Thakre. Squads have been formed to conduct surprise checks in the factories. Even as the association leaders have decided to start an awareness drive, it is also being accepted that safety guidelines were not being followed. “It is true that in some units Covid distancing is not maintained on the shop floor and even office areas. This can be a potential source of infection spreading,” said a source in Butibori MIDC. “It has been seen that distance could not be maintained in units where the manufacturing process includes manual packaging of the end product. There are units where the workers engaged in packaging — like those in pharmaceutical industry — sit along a long table in proximity,” said an industrialist requesting anonymity. There have been lapses in sanitizing the area and equipment too in some of the units, said sources. Sources who attended the meeting with the collector said over a dozen workers were sitting at the same table in the pharma unit where Covid positive workers were found. Workers who tested positive were also working in packaging. A source in the company said, on condition of anonymity, that it began with two women of a family working in the unit. Their kin had got infected but they did not inform the management, and were themselves asymptomatic.Later, as a part of its tracking exercise, NMC officials reached the factory and found that other workers too had got Covid. The source said even as Covid distance was maintained, the workers keep moving about and strict compliance cannot be ensured all the time. The sources said distancing norms could be verified from CCTV records. Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), said the association now plans to circulate the SOPs among industries once again, and see to it that compliance is ensured. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, of MIDC Industries Association (MIA) at Hingna, said except a handful units all companies have been following the safety mandate. The association will once again be carrying out awareness drives, he said. “We are open to inspection by authorities. In fact, industries which had pressed for starting operations should also see to it that safety measures are followed or a ban may be imposed again,” said Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), who was also present at the meeting with the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/awareness-checking-drives-after-covid-cases-in-midc/articleshow/76434559.cms||Shishir Arya
June 18, 2020||Pune||Online IUCAA events during solar eclipse||Pune: The Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune, has organized a series of online talks, presentations and interactive sessions to celebrate the annular (ring-shaped) solar eclipse which will be seen in some regions of Northern India on June 21. IUCAA’s scientific public outreach programme (SciPOP) will host these events live. A person can log onto https://www.youtube.com/user/IUCAASciPOP to attend the online events. On Sunday, June 21, the live online session will combine feeds from all over the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-iucaa-events-during-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76434560.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||SEBI challenges HC stay on FT e-voting||AHMEDABAD: To protect the interests of investors, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has filed an appeal in the Gujarat high court against a single-judge bench’s stay on Franklin Templeton’s decision to hold e-voting and a meeting of unitholders, over its winding up of six fixed-income schemes worth Rs 28,000 crore. In its appeal filed on Tuesday, SEBI contended that it is the statutory body for such decisions. It argued before the single judge that the e-voting and the extraordinary general meeting should be concluded as expeditiously possible because this would best serve the interests of unitholders. SEBI took exception to the stay order passed on June 3 by the HC on a petition filed by Areez and Persis Khambhatta and their Khambhatta Trust, who first moved the HC through advocate Paritosh Gupta, objecting to the process of e-voting and the meeting. SEBI also challenged the HC’s June 8 decision confirming the stay and extending it till the forensic audit report comes into the public domain, so investors can make informed decisions. SEBI contended that the single judge was also informed that it had ordered a forensic audit of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, and the audit report to be received by SEBI would be an internal document. The report would help SEBI take enforcement action, if so warranted against the company and is not a public document. The HC still confirmed the stay and rejected the company’s application that stalling the closure would adversely affect more than 3 lakh investors. Moreover, SEBI stated that the Khambhattas had also made a complaint before it much before they moved the HC. SEBI was already seized of Khambhatta’s application and the forensic audit was ordered on the basis of such complaints. SEBI urged the HC to lift its stay and allow Franklin Templeton to move ahead with its extraordinary general meeting so the winding up could be expedited. SEBI’s appeal may come up for hearing later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sebi-challenges-hc-stay-on-ft-e-voting/articleshow/76433618.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Prime suspect in abduction attempt case in cop net||Pune: The Pune rural police arrested a 23-year-old man of Kodit village in Purandar taluka on June 13 for attempting to abduct the son of a restaurant owner for Rs50 lakh ransom in February. The suspect, Tukaram Sakharam Badade, and his six accomplices attempted the abduction. A case against them was registered with Jejuri police. The police arrested Badade at Boribhadak village, off Pune–Solapur highway. The police had earlier arrested the group members. The police said Badade was the prime suspect. They recovered a pistol and two live cartridges, totally worth Rs51,000 from him. They questioned Badade and he confessed to the crime. The restaurant owner’s business was in Jejuri. In February, the victim and his uncle were standing in front of the hotel when the suspects reached there in an SUV and motorcycle. They were armed with sharp weapons and issued threats.They assaulted the uncle and forced the victim into the SUV and drove away. But, victim managed to escape, the police said. However, the suspects kept calling the restaurant owner demanding extortion money and issued threats of abducting his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prime-suspect-in-abduction-attempt-case-in-cop-net/articleshow/76434558.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hubballi||Septuagenarian woman dies of Covid in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: A woman, who was a septuagenarian, from neighbouring Davanagere district, who was admitted to the Covid hospital in Shivamogga, died on Tuesday night. The woman was from Channagiri taluk in Davanagere district, and was suffering from age-related diseases. She had visited Harapanahalli in Davanagere, to attend a family ceremony. She fell ill after returning to Channagiri, on Friday last week. Her son had taken her to Channagiri taluk hospital. Her swab sample was collected and sent to a laboratory in Shivamogga. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday last week. She was then admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Shivamogga, and died three days later on Tuesday night. The Davanagere district administration carried out contact tracing for her, and listed 20 people as her primary contacts. Shivamogga deputy commissioner K B Sivakumar said that the woman had been suffering from various diseases. The woman’s condition was critical, and she was admitted in the ICU, he said.Her body has been handed over to the Davanagere district administration, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/septuagenarian-woman-dies-of-covid-in-shivamogga/articleshow/76432594.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||2 Van Gujjars hurt in clash with forest officials of Rajaji Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: In a violent clash between Van Gujjars and forest staff on Wednesday, two forest dwellers sustained injuries. The clash took place in Asharodi forest range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve where eight Van Gujjar families reside. Reportedly, the forest officials escaped the spot in a rush fearing that one of the Van Gujjar had died. In the process, the officials even left their caps and cans at the spot. The two victims had to be rushed to Coronation Hospital for treatment. "One of the foresters tried to assault my daughter on Tuesday but she somehow saved herself. Later, he came with the entire forest force and started attacking women and men here," said Gulam Mustaffa Chopra, father of one of the assault victims. Following the clash, Chopra went to the Clement Town police outpost to lodge a complaint but police officials allegedly refused to do so. "They didn’t register any complaint and asked us to put an application in the complaint box. When we sought a receiving for the same, they even refused to give us that. Till now, no police official has come to the spot. The Supreme Court has allowed us to live here and forest officials just can’t assault our women or drag us out of our homes,” added Chopra. He further said that repeated calls to Dial 100 also remained unanswered and no one came for their rescue. Notably, the eight families in Asharodi still do not have an official permit slip allowing them to reside in the forest and thus, officials often try to evict them, say Van Gujjars. Meanwhile RTR director Amit Verma told TOI, “This is a regular complaint that they try to level against forest officials whenever they go to ask them not to expand their boundary further. Today (June 17), they attacked four of our forest guards who had to get stitches. We will ensure fair investigation in the matter but any kind of attack on forest staff is not acceptable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-van-gujjars-hurt-in-clash-with-forest-officials-of-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/76432571.cms||Shivani Azad
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man who slit father-in-law’s throat arrested||VADODARA: Mitul Tailor, the man who murdered his father-in-law and tried to kill his mother-in-law and a prostitute, was formally arrested on Wednesday after he tested negative for Covid-19. Police said that Tailor was detained on June 15 but kept under custody away from everyone after he had submitted his swab samples for the test. Cops said that on Thursday he will be produced before a judicial magistrate. Tailor, a resident of Sun Pharma Road, had killed his father-in-law Jaiprakash Darji in a fit of rage after the the latter sought divorce for his daughter. When Darji’s wife Paresha had intervened, Tailor stabbed her. Before arriving at his in-laws’ house, Tailor had stabbed a prostitute at a hotel on Waghodiya Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-who-slit-father-in-laws-throat-arrested/articleshow/76431194.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Liquor permit holders defer renewals to avoid Civil hospital in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: For someone in Gujarat who has a liquor permit, on health grounds, getting it renewed was a priority given the long procedure involved. However, the fear of contracting Covid-19 is keeping many permit holders from visiting Civil Hospital for renewals. According to state prohibition department officials, except senior citizens, all holders are supposed to get a medical check-up done to get permits renewed. Against the usual 100 health check-ups for permit applicants a week at the Asarwa Civil Hospital pre-Covid, there are barely any now, even though renewal work resumed a fortnight ago, said a senior official at the hospital. “I’ve been a permit holder for ten years and mine expired this April. While renewal work has resumed, we still need to go to Asarwa Civil Hospital for medical check-ups after which the applications go further. However, it is risky to go there for renewal because of the number of Covid-19 patients getting treated there. I hope the government provides some relief on this front,” Manish Dewani, a city-based permit holder. Some holders expect that the government will extend the validity of permit for a few months. “Under these special circumstances, it would be better if we get an extension of six months on our permits. We are also ready to pay whatever fee the government decides,” said Ashok Vaswani, whose permit expired a month ago. The state prohibition department officials said everything will be done to ensure permit holders are not inconvenienced. “There is no resistance from the prohibition department as far as renewal is concerned. We have asked all our district offices to help renew permits according to the rules. After all, liquor sales also yield tax revenues for the state,” said Sunil Kumar, director, prohibition and excise, government of Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquor-permit-holders-defer-renewals-to-avoid-civil/articleshow/76433664.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Gang of cyber criminals busted in Azamgarh, 5 held||Varanasi: Azamgarh police busted a gang of cyber criminals engaged in withdrawing money from the accounts of others by changing or cloning their ATM cards, with the arrest of five members including their kingpin, on Wednesday SP Azamgarh Triveni Singh said that with these arrests and disclosure of the names of their other accomplices, a 24-member inter-range gang of cyber criminals has been registered. History sheet of each of 24 members of this gang is being opened while process to confiscate their properties will also be initiated. Singh said that in following the complaints of withdrawal of money from many accounts, a team led by ASP crime Sudhir Jaiswal had been assigned the task of busting the gang. Following a tip-off regarding presence of some criminals near Surahan crossing under Didarganj police station in the morning, the team cordoned the area and started searching for them. On noticing men in khaki five persons standing there tried to escape but the alert policemen foiled their bid and arrested all of them. The arrested miscreants were were identified as Navin Gautam, Shivam, Pravesh, Sikandar Rajbhar and Avinash. Police have also recovered 12 ATM cards and a country-made revolver from their possession. During initial investigation of the police it came to light that 14 criminal cases were lodged against Navin, who is the gang leader and had already gone to jails 14 times in past. Six cases were lodged against Shivam and three against Pravesh. Singh said that the arrested cyber criminals divulged the names of 19 other members of their gang which operates in Azamgarh, Jaunpur and adjoining districts. They also revealed that members of this gang stay near the ATMs and in the name of helping bank customer facing difficulty in withdrawing money, they change or clone their debit cards. Later, money is withdrawn from the account of such customers and distributed among the gang members. Following the identification of all 24 members of this gang, SP Azamgarh said, the process of registering an inter-range cyber criminals gang has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gang-of-cyber-criminals-busted-in-azamgarh-5-held/articleshow/76430354.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman loses Rs 93,000 to ‘hotelier’ she met on dating site||PUNE: A 28-year-old woman marketing professional lost Rs 93,000 to a ‘hotelier’ she had befriended on a dating website between December 2019 and May this year. Police said the suspect (30), who claimed to be a hotelier, proposed marriage to the woman and collected money from her on the account of medical treatment of his ailing mother. He also told the woman that he had suffered huge losses in his business. The woman fell for the trick and realised that she had been duped only after the suspect refused to marry her. She then registered an FIR with the Kondhwa police under the relevant sections of the IPC on Tuesday after police reached out to the woman following the arrest of the suspect in another case. The case has been transferred to the crime branch of the Pune police for further probe. Senior inspector Datta Chavan of the crime branch (unit V) said, “The woman got friendly with the man on a dating website in December 2019. The suspect lured the woman by saying that he was the owner of five restaurants, which the woman never verified. Later, she started visiting his residence after he promised to marry her.” Chavan said the suspect was arrested on June 13 on the charge of stealing cash and ornaments, collectively worth Rs 1.74 crore, from a businessman’s flat in Bibvewadi. “He will be in police custody remand till Thursday,” he said, adding that he had duped more women of lakhs of rupees by using the same modus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-loses-rs-93k-to-hotelier-she-met-on-dating-site/articleshow/76434566.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Caste system makes life difficult for the young: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday reunited a man with his pregnant wife, who was separated from him by her family members even though the couple was provided police protection after marriage. While reuniting the couple in Palanpur court upon the woman’s wish to join her husband, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria observed, “The caste system in the country is making it more and more difficult for young people to decide their own life partner and the rigidity in the minds of adults in the family becomes the serious cause of division of human relationship. It is also making it extremely difficult for the administration to handle this social and emotional upheaval which eventually turn into legal battleground.” The court observed so after the woman’s mother threatened she would commit suicide if her daughter preferred to go with her husband. The court felt that the girl’s family members were not agreeable to the union because the man was from a different caste. In this case, the couple had approached the high court for protection from the wife’s family members after getting their marriage registered in January. On February 10, the high court ordered Banaskantha police to provide protection to the couple. But they were separated when they visited a relative’s place in Rajasthan. The husband lodged a complaint of abduction against his in-laws at Gadh police station in Banaskantha, but when he felt that there was no development in the matter he filed a habeas corpus petition for custody of his wife. The woman was produced before the HC through video conferencing form Palanpur district court. After completion of hearing, the HC asked additional sessions judge Robin Mogera to ensure that the couple safely reaches their home. The judge has also been asked to refer the case to mediation centre for reconciliation between the woman and her family members. The HC ordered police protection for the couple for next four months and asked the district superintendent of police to extend it further, if there is a need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caste-system-makes-life-difficult-for-the-young-hc/articleshow/76433637.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Godowns sans fire NOC, but department has no records||NAGPUR: The fire at a ground-plus-3 storied godown in Itwari’s Maskasath area has brought the functioning of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services department under lens. The department was active in declaring unsafe any high-rise commercial building, hospital or coaching class without firefighting compliance or no-objection certificate. However, it has done nothing in case of godowns in residential areas. Ganjipeth fire station officer Anil Gole told TOI that his office would probe into the multi-storey building used as godown by Ashok Nachankar’s Jangluji Dhondbaji Enterprises. The godown that caught fire had goods like paint, plastic ropes, carpets etc which is why there was lot of smoke. It did not have any fire NOC or safety apparatus, he said. “As per records, the building was to be used as residential purpose,” he said. “We will inquire whether the building flouted the sanctioned plan,” he said. Gole admitted that many such godowns are functioning in residential areas in Central Nagpur, especially in Itwari area, without fire NOC. To a query, he said the Ganjipeth station has no record of the number of godowns functioning without NOC under its jurisdiction. Now, it will launch a special inspection drive to identify such godowns in the locality. If any godowns are found without fire NOCs and proper building plans, Satranjipura zone will be recommended to initiate action under MRTP Act. Residents of the locality too claimed that most of the mutli-storey buildings have been allegedly converted into godowns without firefighting arrangements. Already congested, godowns from this part of the city also pose hardships for firefighters to tackle any emergency situations like fire accidents. On Tuesday’s fire, due to congested lanes, the department had to park all the 10 fire tenders and two bowsers almost 300 meters away from the spot, said Gole. Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane too pointed out that in the recent past many residential premises in Central Nagpur, especially in Itwari and Gandhibagh, have been converted into godowns. According to him, not only fire department, but the zone office and town planning departments should be vigilant in giving NOC to godowns in residential areas. Till now, the department has been focusing just on commercial complex, hospitals and coaching centres and it does not think twice before giving them NOC, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/godowns-sans-fire-noc-but-dept-has-no-records/articleshow/76434565.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 18, 2020||India||Over 11,000 displaced by Assam gas-well blowout||DIBRUGARH: The gas well blowout at Baghjan, in Assam’s Tinsukia district, has become a major humanitarian crisis as over 11,000 people have been displaced from the area. Staying in relief camps since the incident, all of them want to go back home as soon as possible. “We have survived floods and erosion for years but have never seen such a man-made disaster,” Rupali Saikia, a mother of two kids who have been staying at a relief camp since May 28, said. “After the gas well exploded, we fled. We could carry only a few clothes. Everything was left behind. We are farmers. We are worried about our future as the oil spill has damaged our crops and fields,” she added. Ranjan Gohain, a resident of Rangagora Natun Gaon, said, “The 500-odd families of our village fled. The people were dependent on crop farming, animal rearing, poultry farming and fish farming. Most of the farms have been damaged by the oil spill. People are worried.” District officials said on Wednesday the blowout triggered an exodus of 2,000 families, or approximately 11,020 individuals, from the area. While 1,510 displaced families (8,540 people) have taken shelter in relief camps, another 450 families (2,480 people) have been shifted to other places, including homes of relatives and acquaintances. The well blowout has also affected 3,160 farmers. According to official data, 1,210 hectares of agricultural crop area and 470 hectares of small tea gardens were affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-11000-displaced-by-assam-gas-well-blowout/articleshow/76435408.cms||Rajib Dutta
June 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC gets its deposits stuck in Yes Bank back||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), which was dealt a huge blow after its deposits worth Rs 984 crore got stuck in Yes Bank in March, has recouped all its money now, putting to rest all doubts about the integrity of the institution and its chief. “There was no illegality. All the money has come back. We also got a higher return of around 8% against 5% currently offered even for fixed deposit account. We were getting better services as well as higher returns. Now, everything is kept with the Bank of Baroda and will continue to be with the public lenders till the state government thinks otherwise,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. The PCMC’s experience also led the state government to pass a resolution directing civic bodies to only keep their money with public sector lenders. Some opposition leaders have also questioned the civic body’s procurement of Covid-related equipment, sanitisers and gloves in March. When asked about it, Hardikar said, “Our decisions were always bonafide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-gets-its-deposits-stuck-in-yes-bank-back/articleshow/76434574.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC saw urgency, Vadodara court saw none||Ahmedabad: Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, the Gujarat high court had on March 23 ordered all courts in the state to hear urgent matters only. A court in Vadodara followed this ruling so zealously that it refused to entertain a request by litigants to withdraw their case. The withdrawal can wait, the court said. The Gujarat high court, however, heeded the request and permitted the parties to withdraw the case on Tuesday. The case involved Ajay Patel and three others as well as Multimode Enterprise Pvt Ltd. Patel and others filed a commercial suit in a Vadodara court last year taking exception to a sale deed executed in 2014. The demand was to declare the sale deed illegal. However, the parties reached a compromise and approached the court requesting it to allow them to withdraw the commercial suit. The additional senior judge took up the matter on June 2 and said that there was no “impending urgency”. The judge said that since courts were not functioning in the full-fledged manner due to the pandemic, no urgent order would be necessary. Denied the withdrawal of the case, the parties approached the high court. Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala heard the matter and observed, “We are of the view that the court below ought to have passed an appropriate order permitting the plaintiffs to withdraw the commercial suit in view of the fact that the parties to the suit have arrived at an amicable settlement.” It is to be noted that the judiciaries in India and in the state toil to reduce the huge backlog of cases, which is perceived as a big hindrance in the quick dispensation of justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-saw-urgency-vadodara-court-saw-none/articleshow/76433668.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Trespassing into disputed property: Complainant booked for 3rd time this year||HYDERABAD: After ACB arrested a Banjara Hills sub-inspector (SI) and Sheikpet revenue inspector (RI) based on complaints lodged by Mir Alam Mandi resident Syed Abdul Khalid, the complainant was booked for the third time this year by Banjara Hills police for trespassing into a disputed property. Based on Khalid’s complaint, ACB sleuths had laid a trap and caught Sheikpet RI Nagarjuna Reddy on June 6 when he took Rs 15 lakh alleged bribe to favour him in a land dispute issue. On his complaint, the ACB sleuths arrested Banjara Hills SI A Ravinder for taking Rs 1.5 lakh alleged bribe from Khalid to favourably settle the two cases booked against him in relation to the land dispute. The two cases were registered against Khalid based on complaints lodged by then tahsildar Ch Sujatha, who was later arrested by the ACB. “First case was registered for trespassing into government property on Road Number 14, Banjara Hills in January, while the second one was booked for removing government board at the property in April,” an ACB official said. After the recent arrests of Sheikpet tahsildar Sujatha, RI and Banjara Hills SI by the ACB, Khalid started construction work on the 4,865 square yard disputed land on Road Number 14, Banjara Hills and in-charge tahsildar Chandrakala lodged a complaint against him on June 13. “We have registered a case against Khalid under Sections 447,427 of the IPC, Section 3 of PDPPA. He is absconding and a picket was put in place at the disputed property,” Banjara Hills inspector N Kalinga Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complainant-booked-for-3rd-time-this-year/articleshow/76433629.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Relocation of tortoise sanctuary paves way for registration of boats||Varanasi: The Varanasi Nagar Nigam has initiated the process of registration of boats in all categories soon after it was decided to relocate the tortoise sanctuary from Varanasi to a stretch between Mirzapur and Prayagraj. In the initial phase, the VMC will collect basic data from the boatmen and permit them to restart boat operations in river Ganga, which had been banned with the beginning of Covid-19 lockdown in March, from Thursday. Further process of their registration by prescribing fee for boats in different categories will be restarted after monsoon. Regarding the decision taken on beginning the registration process for boats and boat operations in the Ganga, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI, “Under smart city project the VMC has activated a portal (https://varanasismartcity.gov.in/#/e-services/boating). Currently it has been started for collecting basic data of the boatmen like their name, other personal detail, size and capacity of boat, its operation mode including manual or diesel motor operated and ghats where their boats are anchored.” The basic registration process for this date collection will also be done manually at the VMC’s zonal offices concerned. After completing these formalities, the boatmen will get an acknowledgement letter and on the basis of same they will be allowed to start their boat operation in the Ganga from Thursday, he said adding, final registration process of boats with deposition of prescribed fee will be started after monsoon, when boat operation in the river normalises following flood season. The VMC and local administration has also kept the financial problems of boatmen, which increased during lockdown due to ban on boat operation and collapsing of tourism trade, in view. Thus, it has been decided to start final registration after financial condition of boat will start normalising, added DM. On Tuesday, divisional forest officer of the Kashi Wildlife Division Mahavir Kaujalgi had informed that the order has been received for the relocation of the tortoise sanctuary from Kashi’s river front to 30-km area away in the stretch between Mirzapur and Prayagraj as it was found fit for being the habitat of the turtles. Just a day after it, the VMC made its new portal for boatmen operational. The DM admitted that due to existence of tortoise sanctuary the registration process especially of the diesel motor operated boats was not being done by the VMC. According to VMC, as the boats in river Ganga were operating without any registration, keeping details about their size, capacity and fitness with it was proving impossible. Monitoring of the boats and checking problem of overloading in it were also proving to be difficult exercise for this agency. VMC said that now not only ensuring the implementation of all safety norms will become possible with the beginning of registration of the boats but possibility of accidents will also reduce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/relocation-of-tortoise-sanctuary-paves-way-for-registration-of-boats/articleshow/76430379.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 18, 2020||Pune||Engineer stalks former colleague||Pune: An engineer (28) was booked on Tuesday for stalking his former colleague for a year. The woman lodged an FIR with Nigdi police after the man touched her inappropriately. He was booked for stalking and outraging the woman’s modesty. He too filed a complaint against the her father, alleging he misunderstood him and attacked him with a bag of stones. “We are probing the case,” an officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineer-stalks-former-colleague/articleshow/76434570.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Bareilly||Two illegal firearms factories busted, three held||Bareilly: In a major breakthrough, Sambhal police on Wednesday busted two factories where illegal firearms were being manufactured. Police have also seized finished and semi-finished country-made pistols from the spot and have arrested three accused – identified as Mohammad Aqil, Shamshul and Yaseen. Superintendent of police (SP) Yamuna Prasad said that the accused confessed to having received orders to supply firearms as the panchayat elections are approaching. “Similar to JCB machines, that are used to clean up silts and heaps of garbage from localities, we have been catching the anti-social elements. In our drive, named after such machines, we arrest criminals involved in heinous crimes. Several incidents have been reported in the recent past where, owing to personal enmity, people used illegal firearms causing fatal injuries to their opponents,” Prasad said. The police officer said that acting on a tipoff, they raided two different spots in the district and arrested three criminals with a huge consignment of illegal firearms. Divulging details of the seized weapons, Prasad said that 10 country-made pistols and a rifle were recovered from a mango orchard under Behjoi police station limits in the district. Besides, 11 semi-finished firearms, cartridges and equipment used to manufacture weapons were also seized from the spot. Police said that one of the accused revealed that they sold a country-made pistol for Rs 6,000 and a rifle for Rs 17,000. “Since panchayat elections are scheduled to take place next year, the culprits confessed to have started receiving orders to produce and supply firearms on demand,” SP said. The police officer said that in a similar raid carried out at Khanpur Khummar village under Nakhasa police station limits, two accused – Shamshul and Yaseen – were arrested. Police recovered 11 country-made pistols and 11 semi-finished pistols from their possession along with cartridges and other equipment. All accused have been sent to jail after an FIR was registered against them under Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-illegal-firearms-factories-busted-three-held/articleshow/76431435.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Two more test Covid positive in Kashi||Varanasi: Two new cases of Covid-19 positive were detected in Varanasi on Wednesday while with addition of one more case the total figure of Jaunpur reached to 445. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said that 362 test reports were received from BHU lab on Wednesday confirming two positive cases. A 34-year-old medical practitioner, who was in contact of a infected person of Sundarpur area under Lanka police station, and a 67-year-old woman of Badi Piyari hotspot were tested positive. After being tested negative consecutively for second time, two patients were discharged from ESIC hospital. A senior resident doctor of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, who was tested positive, was also discharged from BHU. The HBCH spokesperson said that the doctor will join his duties from next week. All high risk contacts in hospital as well as his family members have been tested negative. With fresh developments the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi has reached to 293 of which 216 have been cured while eight had died and there are 69 active cases now. Sundarpur was included in the list of hotspot while Badi Piyari, which had been turned into green zone, was declared red zone again. Now total hotspots in the district are 150 of which 69 are in active category. In Jaunpur, no new case of Covid-19 positive was reported on Wednesday. But, as one of its native undertreatment in a hospital of Bhadohi district and was tested Covid-19 positive, the tally of corona cases in Jaunpur reached 445, said DM Jaunpur DK Singh. The Jaunpur native who was found infected in Bhadohi had returned from Mumbai on June 8. Active cases being treated in different hospitals are 166 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-more-test-covid-positive-in-kashi/articleshow/76430395.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||FTII-NFAI’s flagship course moves online||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic has helped the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and National Film Archive of India (NFAI) move their flagship summer film appreciation course online after years of demand by potential applicants. The course began on Monday and will end on July 11, keeping the same time frame of three weeks as in the classroom course. Filmmaker and screenwriter Arunaraje Patil will direct the course. About 50 participants are expected to log onto the online classes. Unlike an earlier online course in May, which was complimentary for participants and was considered a dry run to the flagship course, the FTII and NFAI imposed a few rules for the course, as is the norm for the course in its regular setting. A release from the FTII said that of the 50 students, a total of 21 are women and they hail from 15 states in the country. The course will also see participants of all ages, the youngest being 19 years old and the oldest is aged 61. The online move of the flagship course has also enabled students from abroad to join in. FTII officials said that two of the participants are from Ohio in the United States and from Prague, Czech Republic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-nfais-flagship-course-moves-online/articleshow/76434581.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Nisarga smites 1,540 schools, loss pegged at Rs 27.92 crore||PUNE: The education department is grappling with the loss to school infrastructure caused by Cyclone Nisarga that hit the state on June 3. The assessment report indicates damage to 1,540 schools in six districts. The engineering department has estimated the loss at more than Rs 27.92 crore. Officials said efforts are on to repair the schools before July. Raigad with 938 schools was worst-hit followed by Ratnagiri (289) and Pune (254). Roofs were destroyed or blown away in most of the damaged schools. The rain also damaged LCD TVs or computers, books and other study material that schools are equipped with. In Pune district, schools in Mulshi, Maval and Khed talukas suffered the maximum. “ The panchnama assessed the damage in each area. In some parts, walls of buildings have been damaged. In most cases, the roofs were damaged, and water entered the school and laid to waste the study material,” a senior official from the education department said. Efforts were on to complete the repair work so that there is no delay when schools reopen next month. Education commissioner Vishal Solanki said, “The revenue department would be funding these repairs. We have requested the government to release funds on priority as it is a pre-requisite to open the schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nisarga-smites-1540-schools-loss-pegged-at-rs-27-92-crore/articleshow/76434579.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Holding exams not feasible: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union minister of human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, asking him to cancel the remaining CBSE classes X and XII board exams. This is the second time that Sisodia has made the request. In a letter written to Pokhriyal on Wednesday, the education minister explained how it would be impossible for government schools to hold exams as they are being used for several purposes to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. The deputy CM’s letter comes at a time when a PIL has been filed in Supreme Court by parents demanding cancellation of board exams. On Wednesday, the court sought a response from the Central Board of Secondary Education on the issue. “I hope you agree with me that board exams, especially Class XII, are a high-stake exam for children. Hence, subjecting them to appear in such an uncertain and anxiety prone situation would not be fair to the students,” Sisodia said. The Delhi education minister highlighted that by July 31, the number of Covid-19 cases was likely to touch 5.5 lakh. “In such a situation, if a candidate or a family member tests positive, he or she will have to skip the exams causing further stress. Though as per current plan of CBSE, a school in a red zone would not be used as a centre. But there is no clarity on how a child from a containment zone would come out to appear for the exam,” Sisodia claimed. In case of government schools, around 250 of them are currently being used as ration distribution centres, 33 schools have become hunger relief centres, 39 are acting as shelter homes, while 10 have been turned into transit migrant camps. “These schools would not be in a position to conduct exams from July 1. Delhi government is also planning to use auditoriums in nearly 242 schools to set up as additional beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/holding-exams-not-feasible-sisodia/articleshow/76434587.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Meerut||Ladakh face-off: Greatest fear came true, says wife of slain Havaldaar Bipul Roy||MEERUT: A resident of West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district, Havaldaar Bipul Roy lived in Meerut till 2018, after which his unit was sent to the next destination, Ladakh. But his little daughter and wife stayed back. Rumpa Rai, the wife, last spoke to him on June 9 over the phone. On Tuesday, Rumpa was restless since morning. And by night, her “greatest fear came true”. Havaldaar Roy was one of the 20 soldiers who were killed by Chinese army men in Ladakh. “I was restless since Tuesday morning, and was just changing news channels to get as much information as possible. Earlier it was told that three army men had died. Later, the number increased to 20. At 11:30pm, I got the call and the voice on the other side told me to hand over the phone to someone male. I gave it to Nikhil (our landlord’s son). I knew something was not right, and it wasn’t,” Rumpa said as her puzzled daughter, 6, looked on. Roy was posted at 81 Mount Brigade (Signal Core) and is survived by his wife and daughter Tamanna. He stayed with the family in Meerut until 2018 for a couple of years after which he moved with his unit to Ladakh. As the news broke out, several senior district and army officials rushed to Roy’s rented accommodation in Kundan Kunj Rohta Road, offering whatever help she needed. Rumpa expressed desire to go to the family’s native village Bindipara in Jalpaiguri. According to sources in the army, Rumpa will be taken to Delhi. From there she will go to her village in West Bengal with the husband's body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/greatest-fear-came-true-says-wife-of-slain-havaldaar-bipul-roy/articleshow/76429328.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hit by lockdown, people displaced by BSL demand jobs||Bokaro: People displaced by the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and other protesters hit the streets on Tuesday, demanding jobs. The district administration has imposed Section 144 of CrPC till June 30 to prevent further escalation of tension. The Electrosteel Steel Limited (ESL) is also facing similar protests from its workers allegedly retrenched by the company. The incident happened when the administration is putting focus to employ over 13,000 migrant workers who have returned to the district due to the lockdown. On Tuesday, the BSL management deployed a large number of security personnel at the residence of its executive director (personnel and administration, Mukul Prasad in Sector-4 here as protesters under the banner of Bokaro Mrit Karamchari Sangh threatened to gherao it demanding jobs. The protesters were sons of BSL employees who lost their lives while working in the plant. BSL chief of communications, Manikant Dhan, said, “We are holding negotiations with the agitators who had planned the protest. However, no protest occurred at the residence of the executive director.” Neeraj Choubey, who is leading the agitation against BSL, said, “We assembled at the Majdoor Ground in Sector-4 to gherao the executive director’s residence. We are demanding jobs to 500 youths whose fathers died during work at the plant. But BSL officials stopped us promising to hold negotiation talk on June 16.” Earlier on Monday, several displaced workers under the banner of Jharkhand Navnirman Sena (JNS) staged a dharna at Gandhi Chowk in Sector-4. JNS chief Gulab Chandra said, “The BSL management has to provide jobs to 20,000 displaced people on whose land the plant is set up. The displaced persons, who used to work in other states, have now returned because of the lockdown. BSL should give employment to them or return their unused land.” Contract workers of ESL, who were allegedly retrenched, have also protested. Recently, JMM leader Vijay Rajwar and former labour minister Umakant Rajak of Ajsu-P met DC Mukesh Kumar, seeking his help to reinstate around 700 ESL workers. ESL had, however, clarified in April that it has not retrenched anyone but asked them to stay home because the plant has stopped production because of the lockdown. Kumar had met with ESL management on June 13 to take stock of the situation. He said, “ESL officials told me that no worker will be removed from their jobs during the lockdown. They said wages for 15 days in April and 12 days in May were paid to the workers who were told to stay at home. No regular worker has been sacked. I have instructed the labour superintendent to keep a constant watch.” A senior ESL officer, S Venkatraman, informed the DC that a total of 5,773 contract workers were employed before the lockdown, out of whom 2,288 were asked to stay at home. “Many workers have rejoined. At present, 5,144 contract workers are back and the remaining 629 will be asked to rejoin by July end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hit-by-lockdown-people-displaced-by-bsl-demand-jobs/articleshow/76420214.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders protest, call for boycott of Chinese goods||NEW DELHI: Condemning the attack on Indian soldiers by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Wednesday called for boycott of Chinese goods. “We have taken a firm pledge to boycott Chinese products and urged the government to take steps, such as cancelling of Chinese contracts and making rules for withdrawing investment by Chinese companies into Indian start-ups and corporations, to give a strong befitting response to China for their unethical and barbaric actions against the Indian soldiers,” said CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal. “We request all to take pledge to reduce Chinese imports. Our members have decided to support the movement,” said BC Bhartia, national president of CAIT. “In the last few months, Chinese companies have been making firm inroads into various government contracts by bidding at very low rates. The government must favour Indian companies even if there is a marginal difference in cost,” added Bhartia. CAIT also made a humble appeal to all Indian celebrities to stop endorsing Chinese brands. On Wednesday, activists from different groups gathered outside the Chinese embassy in Chanakyapuri to protest against the attack. Police said that 20 Youth Congress activists were arrested, while 22 protesting former Armymen were removed from the area. “In the morning, a group of former servicemen under the banner of Swadeshi Jagran Manch reached the embassy and tried to stage a protest, but were removed by a police team that was posted outside. Later, the Youth Congress activists gathered near the embassy despite the prohibitory orders in place. They were arrested for violating government instructions,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-protest-call-for-boycott-of-chinese-goods/articleshow/76434604.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||Army, ITBP deploy more personnel at border along Nelong valley||Uttarkashi: The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and multiple units of the Indian Army on Wednesday increased their presence at the Indo-China Border along the Nelong valley region in Uttarkashi district after recent incidents of face-off with the Chinese army in Ladakh. Defence sources told TOI on Wednesday that India shares nearly a 125-km-long border with China in the Nelong valley region of Uttarakhand. “Apart from the 12th and 35th battalions of ITBP, different units of the Indian Army, including 9th battalion of Bihar Regiment, a battalion of Garhwal Rifles, Kumaon Scouts and Ladakh Scouts have increased patrolling at forward posts in the region,” sources said, adding that though the border is secure due to its geographical location, looking at the tense situation at other border areas, Army and ITBP have increased their numbers and patrolling has been enhanced as a precautionary measure. “There is almost an eight to 10km-long ‘no man’s land’ in between forward posts of both the armies, which is nearly impossible to be infiltrated by any side, due to the tough terrain. Both countries did not face each other in this area even during the 1962 Indo-China war,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. Devendra Singh Negi, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Bhatwari Block, said, “Patrolling has been increased as a precautionary measure. However, we have been told there is nothing to worry about.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-itbp-deploy-more-personnel-at-border-along-nelong-valley/articleshow/76432621.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 18, 2020||India||In lockdown, 40 women plant success, set to reap '30 lakh'||LUCKNOW: For a self-help group of women in Gonda, the lockdown was a period for some constructive thinking and collective effort. Their efforts have now started paying off. The group of 40 women was involved in growing and nurturing saplings and now has more than 5 lakh saplings ready in 10 nurseries raised collectively in villages. The seeds were sown in February. The free time the women had due to lockdown was used in nurturing and guarding saplings against strays. Now, the green wealth created by them will be used by the rural development department for plantation along canals and ponds under MGNREGS. The department may also buy the saplings raised by them. The sale of the saplings might fetch the women aboutRs 30 lakh. The women, from different villages, had formed an SHG about two years back with an intention to become self-dependent. Under the national rural livelihood mission, they were trained to raise a nursery in February. They sowed seeds in fields. They said protecting the saplings from stray animals was a challenge. When the lockdown was enforced, many of the women lost their jobs and they decided to invest their time in the nurseries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-lockdown-40-women-plant-success-set-to-reap-30-lakh/articleshow/76435446.cms||Neha Shukla
June 18, 2020||Meerut||UP: After giving migrant family a lift, truck driver flees with their 3 kids, rapes one of them||BIJNOR: After tricking and deserting a migrant couple on a deserted stretch after offering them a lift in Haridwar, a truck driver allegedly kidnapped their three children and raped one of them, a 15-year-old girl, about 90 kms away in UP’s Bijnor. According to police, the family members of the teenage girl worked in Dehradun and were stranded in the city since lockdown. They were residents of Bareilly. On Monday, they somehow reached Haridwar. The family of five waited several hours to get a lift, till a truck screeched to a halt at 10pm. “The gullible family hopped on without realizing what was going on in the truck driver’s mind,” a police officer said. When the truck reached Bijnor’s Dhampur city, the driver asked the girl’s parents to get down while showing a police check post. “He told them that they may be quarantined. And asked them to walk for a while and meet him a little after the post. They obliged and got down and the driver sped away,” the officer said. Near Bijnor’s Sherkot area, the driver, Umesh Chand, pulled the teenager out of the vehicle and raped her at a deserted spot. After a little while, the parents were able to speak to the girl over the phone, and she told everything. The family then approached policemen in Dhampur, who alerted Jaspur police station about the incident and barricades were put up to nab the driver on the basis of information provided by the parents. Soon, the driver was caught and the children were rescued. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “Police have registered a case against Chand. He was arrested on Monday night and was sent to jail on Wednesday. Medical examination of the girl is being conducted.” Chand is a resident of Almora district in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-giving-migrant-family-a-lift-truck-driver-flees-with-their-3-kids-rapes-one-of-them/articleshow/76430448.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Man coming from Mumbai found Covid +ve during journey||Gorakhpur: A passenger of Kushinagar Express (01015) coming from Mumbai was brought down at Basti railway station after he was confirmed Covid-19 positive. He was admitted to L-1 hospital Rudhouli while his family members were sent to medical college on Wednesday. When Kushinagar Express reached Basti railway station, family members of the passenger informed the officials there that one of the members of the family coming from Mumbai in coach A1 has been tested Covid-19 positive. The passengers had received the report of his sample on phone during the journey. RPF inspector Naredra Yadav said that after the confirmation of corona infection in the passenger, Dr Sudhakar Pandey, Dr Uttam Singh and health worker Rahul Srivastav of health department were called and the infected passenger was sent to hospital while his 6 family members were sent to quarantine centre in Medical College. The patient and his family is from Basti. CPRO, NE Railway, Pankaj Singh said, “A train passenger was confirmed corona positive and was admitted to hospital by the administration while his family members travelling with him were quarantined. We have sent the list of enrouting passengers in the coach to the government and instructed the railway staff who came in his contact to stay in home quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-coming-from-mumbai-found-covid-ve-during-journey/articleshow/76430432.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Allahabad||Addl CMO among 3 new corona cases||Prayagraj: A 57-year-old additional chief medical officer was among the three novel coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases which surfaced in Prayagraj district on Wednesday. The patients did not have any travel history. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said,“An additional chief medical officer-rank health department official, who lives in Shivkuti area of Teliyarganj, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The healthcare professional did not have any travel history.” Sahai said the man’s sample was collected on Tuesday after he complained of fever and cough and he was diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday. The ACMO is admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital for treatment. The new cases included a 26-year-old pregnant woman, who lives in Kohlan Tola. Sahai said the woman’s sample was collected on Monday as part of tests conducted during ante natal care (ANC). The third case reported from the city was a 32-year-old woman from Sultanpur Khas area of Mauaima block, whose sample was collected on Sunday. She was admitted to a hospital due to anaemia and jaundice and tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, five personnel of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were also tested positive for the infection in Kaushambi district. Chief medial officer (Kaushambi) Dr PN Chaturvedi said, “Five personnel of ITBP force, whose samples were collected on Tuesday, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. With these five men, the total of number of ITBP personnel testing positive for novel coronavirus in the district has risen to seven. The patients are being treated at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Manjhanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/addl-cmo-among-3-new-corona-cases/articleshow/76431459.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Announcements to beat of drums to nab absconding crooks in Pratapgarh||PRAYAGRAJ: Pratapgarh police are going back in time to catch absconding criminals in the district. The men-in-khaki are now going from one lane to another while making announcements about criminals who are on the run and requesting local residents to inform the police if they have any information about the crooks. Decades ago, it was a common practice for police to announce the names of criminals and seek the public’s help in catching them. Deputy SP (Raniganj) Atul Anjan Tripathi said, “Pratapgarh police have again launched an exercise, where cops would exhort villagers to inform them in case they know about anything about absconding criminals.” The DSP also said that the police department is trying to win the confidence of the public. “We are assuring them that their names and addresses would be kept confidential,” he added. “We have been looking for a wanted criminal, Ranjeet Singh, who is wanted in connection with cases of cyberfraud and other crimes. We made the announcement in his native village,” Tripathi said. While making such an announcement, a policeman said, “Suno, suno bhaiyo aur Mandhata wasiyon, ek Ranjeet Singh jo gram makoiya thana Mandhata ka rahne wala hai usse Pratrapgarh adaalat se farar ghoshit kiya hai. Jis kiso ko bhi Ranjeet Singh dikhayee diye toh police to turant soochit kare. Sahi soochana dene wale ka naam gopniya rakhya jayega aur usko police ki taraf se inaam bhi diya jayega. (Residents of Makoiya, under Mandhata police station of Pratapgarh district, please listen. Police have been searching for one Ranjeet Singh, who has been declared an absconder by the local court. We appeal to residents to inform the police if anyone of you spot him. Those who will be giving accurate information would be rewarded and their names would also be kept secret.)” A band of musicians would also accompany the police teams to beat drums while the announcement is being made. Pratapgarh police have been making such announcements in Mandhata, Raniganj and Kotwali areas of the district. The exercise was launched two days ago. The police have also been putting up notices at the houses of these absconders apart from conducting a munadi (beating of drums).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/announcements-to-nab-absconding-crooks/articleshow/76431516.cms||Kapil Dixit
June 18, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks status report on domestic violence||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government counsel to obtain status report regarding the steps taken by the state in attending the grievance of all victims of domestic violence during Covid-19 pandemic. Hearing a PIL filed by Ala Hazrat Helping Society, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Yashwant Varma directed to list this case in the last week of July for the next hearing. The petition in public interest had requested the court to direct the state government to appoint a nodal officer for monitoring the grievances of the victims of domestic violence and for taking necessary measures in that regard. After hearing both sides, the court directed additional advocate general (AAG) Manish Goyal, who was representing the state government, to obtain status report to the steps taken by the UP government with regard to attending the grievances of all victims of the domestic violence during Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner in the PIL had annexed all-India figures, which provide that the incidents of domestic violence had been on rise in many parts of the country during the lockdown, which was clamped to check the spread of coronavirus. Hence, in this backdrop of the situation, the petitioner had made a request to the court to appoint a nodal officer for monitoring the grievances of the victims of the domestic violence and for taking necessary measures in that regard. Goyal argued that the grievance redressal cell is already functioning in the state to sort out grievances of the victims of domestic violence, and also to provide them necessary remedies. The AAG said that this fact has even been mentioned by the petitioner in the PIL. The state, through principal secretary, women and child development and another have been arrayed as respondent in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-status-report-on-domestic-violence/articleshow/76431544.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 18, 2020||Kanpur||Two more deaths due to Covid in city||Kanpur: The city witnessed two more deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the death toll to 29. At the same time, 16 new Corona positive cases were reported taking the district’s tally to 779. Meanwhile, 28 corona patients were discharged on Wednesday. So far 479 persons have been discharged from hospitals. Now there are 271 active cases. The new cases were reported from Chowk, Dev Nagar, Gora Kabristan, Kalyanpur, Colonelganj, Generalganj, Juhi Colony, Maharishi Dayanand Vihar, Naubasta, Hemant Vihar, Govind Nagar and Swaroop Nagar. Among the deceased was 55-year-old resident of Anand Vihar in Naubasta and other was a 82-year-old resident of Kalyanpur. Both the deaths took place in LLR hospital. Also 474 samples for Corona tests were collected on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-more-deaths-due-to-covid-in-city/articleshow/76433750.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Protests held; effigies, Chinese goods burnt||VARANASI: To express their anger against the Chinese aggression in Galwan Valley of Ladakh in which several Indian soldiers lost their lives, the local residents associated with several organisations burns Chinese goods and symbolic effigies at different places on Wednesday. The workers of Vishal Bharat Sansthan held a demonstration at Indresh Nagar in Lamhi village and burnt Chinese goods. They also took pledge to boycott the Chinese goods completely. The demonstration was attended by VBS founder Rajiv Srivastava, president of Muslim Mahila Foundation Nazneen Ansari, Archana Bharatvanshi, Najma Parvin and many others. The workers of Samajwadi Party burnt a symbolic effigy of Chinese leadership at Pandeypur crossing to express their anger. They also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take revenge of the loss of Indian soldiers’ lives and Chinese clash. Another group of SP workers led by Ravikant Vishwakarma paid tributes to the martyrs on the bank of Ganga at Rajendra Prasad Ghat. Many SP workers including Sandeep Mishra, Shambhu Sahni and others were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/protests-held-effigies-chinese-goods-burnt/articleshow/76430474.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nashik||Nashik man duped of Rs 5.99 lakh||Nashik: A 44-year-old man from Indira Nagari, Trimurti Chowk was duped of Rs 5.99 lakh by an unidentified fraudster between June 10 and 15. The cybercrime police have registered an offence of cheating and other sections of the Information Technology Act 2000, against the unidentified person. The officials of the cybercrime branch said that the complainant had received a call from an unidentified person where the latter introduced himself as a bank official asking to update the victim’s account. Along with the entire details of his bank account, the complainant gave the one time password (OTP) he had received to the fraudstar Then, the fraudster withdrew Rs 5.99 lakh from the complainant’s bank account. Police said that they were investigating the case. A large number of such cases are registered with them every year, said the police. The police said that despite spreading huge awareness among citizens, people still continue to fall prey to online fraudsters. The police said that the criminals operate from different states of the country following which catching them becomes difficult.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-man-duped-of-rs-5-99-lakh/articleshow/76431542.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Budget hits Upper House roadblock, govt likely to take ordinance route||AMARAVATI: In what could lead to a constitutional deadlock, Andhra Pradesh legislative council on Wednesday adjourned sine die without passing the appropriation (finance) Bill. Although the state assembly passed the appropriation Bill (finance Bill) on Wednesday morning, the government needed the nod of the legislative council to pass the budget. Now, the government has to opt for the ordinance route and spend money from the treasury. This is considered to be the first time in the country when the upper house has stalled the budget. Amid slogan shouting between the ruling YSRC and opposition TDP members, deputy chairman Reddi Subramanyam adjourned the legislative council sine-die and left. Ummareddi Venkateswarlu, chief whip in the council, said it was a black day for democracy. He said no opposition in the country had stalled the passage of the appropriation Bill. Nor could the government introduce the controversial CRDA Repeal Bill and Decentralisation of Development Bill due to the TDP’s opposition. Earlier in the day, the House was repeatedly adjourned following arguments between YSRC and TDP members. The two Bills were cleared by the assembly for the second time on Tuesday. Opposition leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu issued a notice under Rule-90 to council chairman MA Shariff raising objection to YSRC introducing the CRDA and decentralisation Bills soon after the commencement of the session in the morning. The TDP said the Bills were stranded in the legislative process as the council chairman had referred them to the select committee during the last session. They aalso lleged that the legislative secretary had violated the rules by refusing to constitute select committees. By evening, TDP changed its strategy and demanded the government introduce the appropriation Bill before the CRDA and decentralisation Bills. TDP members argued that the House could take up discussion on other Bills after clearing the appropriation Bill. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana and finance minister Buggana Rajendranath said that as per tradition, the appropriation Bill would be the last to be introduced in the House after completing the government business. Ruckus prevailed as TDP members insisted the appropriation Bill be introduced first. Suspecting the TDP would to adjourn the House sine-die soon after clearing the appropriation Bill, the YSRC demanded the government be allowed to introduce the CRDA and decentralisation bills. When the deputy chairman said the chairman had allowed a discussion under Rule-90, ministers Buggana, Botcha and Pilli Subhashchandra Bose said no discussion should be allowed without permission from the leader of the House (minister Bose). Once introduced in the council, the Bills would be deemed to be approved after one month as the council has no right to reject them a second time in a row.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/budget-hits-upper-house-roadblock-govt-likely-to-take-ordinance-route/articleshow/76432685.cms||Samdani MN
June 18, 2020||Nashik||Kin of 2 constables who died due to Covid-19 get Rs 60L each||Nashik: Nashik Rural superintendent of police Arti Singh handed over cheques of Rs 60 lakh each to the family members of the two police constables who died due to Covid-19.Singh and additional SP Sharmishtha Gharge Walavalkar visited the families of the deceased police constable Dileep Bhaskar Ghule and Bhausaheb Mali. Ghule, of the local crime branch, and Mali, who was attached to the headquarters of the Nashik Rural police, had been on Covid-19 bandobast duty in Malegaon. They contracted the infection while performing their duties. Senior police officials said the state government had announced compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the kin of police personnel who passes away after contracting Covid-19. Additionally, the director-general of the Maharashtra police had provided an insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh to the police personnel.The kin of another police constable Sahebrao Zipru Khare, who also died from coronavirus, will be given a similar compensation. Malegaon was a Covid-19 hotspot. Approximately 893 people in Malegaon had tested positive. As many as 188 police personnel who were deployed for Covid-19 bandobast contracted the infection. The police officers said that they have carried out screening of over 2,000 police personnel at the Vasantrao Pawar Medical College at Adgaon and have conducted their throat swab sample tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kin-of-2-constables-who-died-due-to-covid-19-get-rs-60l-each/articleshow/76431557.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 18, 2020||Nashik||Rural Nashik registers 61 cases in a day||Nashik: Nashik Rural, barring Malegaon municipal corporation limit and Nashik city, registered 61 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, marking the highest number of patients to be recorded in a single day. The new cases were reported from Nashik taluka (5), Yeola (16), Igatpuri (1), Niphad (1) and Jaikheda of Baglan taluka (38) which topped the chart of maximum number of coronavirus cases. So far, 58 cases have been reported from Balgan taluka with 17 recoveries. “Rural areas of the district registered 61 positive cases on Wednesday, breaking the record of maximum of 34 cases in a single day so far,” officials of the district administration’s health department said. “The highest number of cases has been reported from Jaikheda. The community spread happened after a driver of a commercial vehicle caught the infection during one of his travels. After he tested positive, the health officials began tracing all his contacts. Eventually, 12 more tested positive,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-nashik-registers-61-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76431562.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist reports 96 cases, 2 deaths||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district registered 96 new Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 3,028 even as two people succumbed to the infection. With this, the fatality count of the district reached 163. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that both the deaths occurred at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH). According to officials, a 60-year-old man from Bhokardan of Jalna district was admitted to the GMCH on June 12. His reports arrived on the following day confirming that he tested positive for the contagion. The man died in the early hours due to “bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome with cytokine storm with severe Coagulopathy due to Covid-19 in known case of hypertension.’’ The other casualty was a 75-year-old man from the Baijipura area of the city. He was admitted to the GMCH on June 9. He tested positive for the virus on the following day. He died at 8 am on Wednesday due to cytokine storm with bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19 in known case of diabetes mellitus and chronic lymphocytic leukemia,” said Dr. Arvind Gaikwad, officer-on duty at the Government Cancer Hospital and media co-ordinator. A total of 1,658 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the district so far. At present, 1,207 are being treated at different hospitals, including 166 being treated in the dedicated wards on the GMCH premises. Rest others are being treated in private hospitals and the government raised facilities across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-96-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76433773.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||We can empathise with what our soldiers in Ladakh are feeling, last war had taught us China not to be trusted: Veterans who fought ‘62 war||Nainital: As tensions on the Sino-India border escalate after 20 Indian Army personnel including a Colonel, were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh, veterans who had participated in the 1962 India-China war, recalled the conflict with Chinese forces 58 years ago. Nayak Jagat Singh Dasila, 82, who lost several of his comrades in the war in the erstwhile North East Frontier Agency (NEFA) known as Arunachal Pradesh today, told TOI that he could “empathise with what the soldiers in Ladakh are feeling.” “I lost many of my friends who fought with me during the 1962 war and therefore, I can relate to what the soldiers in Ladakh must be feeling today. It is imperative that the government understands the sentiments of soldiers and takes considered and decisive action so that we do not lose more men,” Dasila said. Havildar Karan Singh, 82, another veteran of the 1962 war, said that “if that war almost 60 years ago had taught us anything, it was that the Chinese are never to be trusted.” “It has always been in the Chinese nature to act this way. They will extend the hand of friendship and offer talks and then backstab you. This was what had happened earlier as well. India should try to diffuse the tension with talks but if the situation does not change for the better, we should should not flinch from taking strong action,” he said. Echoing similar sentiments, Colonel Prem Andrews (retired), 75, who has researched extensively on the Battle of Walong – considered to be the only counter- attack India could manage in the 1962 war – said that India should take a bold stand and hold its ground. “China has been acting as a bully in the region. It is time that India takes a bold stand and hold its ground. They cannot browbeat us and we need to show them that,” Andrews said. Air Marshal BD Jayal (retired), 84, a former Air Force pilot who was serving in the eastern sector when the ‘62 war broke out, added that the present aggression by China is happening because “it sees itself as a regional superpower and potential global superpower and wants to keep India in check.” “China is facing flak from almost every major country and therefore it is acting in this manner. It is in its interest to keep the border issue alive so that it can continue its expansionist nature,” Jayal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/we-can-empathise-with-what-our-soldiers-in-ladakh-are-feeling-last-war-had-taught-us-china-not-to-be-trusted-veterans-who-fought-62-war/articleshow/76432671.cms||Prashant Jha
June 18, 2020||Allahabad||Automatic signalling installed on crossings of Prayagraj division||PRAYAGRAJ: All the 98 level crossings under the ambit of Prayagraj division of North Central Railways have been interlocked and an automatic signal has been installed to alert the gateman and commuters when a train is around four kilometres away from a partigular gate. All the level crossing gates have been interlocked so that the trains could be stopped in case of an open level crossing. The trains will get a green signal only if the level crossing is closed. Apart from this, an automatic alarm has been set up at all the interlocked level crossing gates of the route. “When a train from either direction is four kilometres from the level crossing gate, the automatic alarm starts ringing and alerts the commnuters on the road,” informed Prayagraj division PRO, S K Gupta. “The wheels of the passing train will affect a circuit installed on the track. If the level crossing gate is open, the alarm in the cabin of the gateman will start beeping,” elaborated Gupta. Signals have also been installed on roads to display the opening and closing of the level crossing gate. The hooter rings continuously to warn the people on the road during the process. Through this system, the gateman gets enough time to close the gate and help avoid any untoward accidents. This facility is available at all gates of Kanpur-Ghaziabad auto-section. “In addition to this, arrangements are being made to continuously monitor the AT (auto transformer) supplies provided for the signalling gear at the station from the division’s Central Data Logger Centre (CDLC). This arrangement is now available at all 49 stations of the division,” added Gupta. An anti-theft alarm has also been installed on signalling devices and connected to the CDLC. With this, the power supply fault can be identified promptly and corrected in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/automatic-signalling-installed-on-crossings-of-prayagraj-division/articleshow/76431570.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Infected woman delivers baby girl at ESI Hospital||Coimbatore: The ESI Hospital, which has been taking care of only Covid-19 patients in the past couple of months, became alive with the cries of a newborn when a 25-year-old woman from Kovaipudur delivered a baby girl on Wednesday. She was the second infected women to deliver in the hospital. The woman was admitted to the hospital after she tested positive for the virus when she went to a private hospital for a routine screening last week. She was put in the delivery ward within the hospital building that was set aside for Covid-19 patients. It was the woman’s second delivery. Since she had already undergone C-section for her first child and completed full-term of her pregnancy, doctors decided to perform C-section on Wednesday after assessing her. Hospital dean Dr Nirmala said the gynecologists and obstetricians, who were initially apprehensive of delivering a Covid-19 patient, had become more confident in the past few weeks. “Once they understood that they had to wear personal protection equipment kits and perform the surgery and that they could not wait until the patient tested negative, they accepted it. Since this was their second time, they were more confident. The surgery was smooth and non-eventful.” The baby weighed 2.8kg at birth. “It is in perfect good health. The baby will undergo Covid-19 test after four days,” she said. The hospital authorities said they could not allow the patient’s family to see the baby. “While we have allowed one attender to handle the baby girl, our nurses will be taking care of her most of the time. We have handled newborns before, including an infected baby earlier,” Dr Nirmala said. The baby’s birth brought cheer to the team of doctors and nurses, and other seven infected pregnant women in the hospital. “It has given them a lot of confidence,” the dean said. Meanwhile, seven people, one of them a transgender, were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday as they have recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infected-woman-delivers-baby-girl-at-esi-hospital/articleshow/76433779.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt mill quarters in RG Pudur sealed, 220 samples collected||Coimbatore: The city corporation sealed the entrance to a private mill quarters at RG Pudur and the neighbouring PLS Nagar on Wednesday, even as 11 other people from the quarters tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The mill quarters now account for 18 cases. Officials have collected samples from 220 mill workers and their family members and asked the mill to down shutters for a few days until their results were out. The mill has also been asked to disinfect the premises. The 28-year-old man, who died of Covid-19 on Sunday, was living in the quarters along with his mother and brother, who were employed with the mill. On Monday, six of his neighbours also tested positive, with some of them, including a child, showing symptoms like sore throat and fever. On Wednesday, 11 others turned positive. A health department official said, “Our initial plan was to test only the man’s family and neighbours. But when six of his neighbours tested positive, we decided to screen all the people in the mill quarters.” The Vilankurichi primary health centre officials, who were on a drive to disinfect the new patients’ houses and collect nasal swabs from 220 inhabitants, have requested the mill canteen to provide only “cooked food” to the infected people’s families for the next two weeks. “We have closed the entry to the quarters and requested them not to step out of their houses. There is another entry from the mill’s side, where the canteen will prepare food and deliver them to the families. So, there won’t be any need for them to step out,” a doctor said. The private mill has, meanwhile, agreed to provide their workers with grocery items for the next few days to facilitate their smooth quarantine. The mill workers, however, didn’t seem to be frightened by the wave of Covid-19 attack in their area. “They are not scared. We are willing to stay indoors till officials tell us it’s safe to come out,” said mill supervisor Natarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-mill-quarters-in-rg-pudur-sealed-220-samples-collected/articleshow/76433786.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nashik||No new lockdown in Nashik: Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of another lockdown in Nashik to curb the spread of Covid-19. Bhujbal, who is also the state minister for food and civic supplies, instead asked the citizens to ensure they put up a serious and disciplined fight against the infection by following the guidelines issued by the government so that there are no further economic losses. There has been a rise in the number of positive cases ever since the decision to lift the lockdown in a phased manner was taken by the state government. “People have to live with Covid-19 by protecting themselves against the infection and getting treated if they are infected. Irrespective of the patients being treated in the hospitals, we cannot go back to lockdown as we have to keep the wheels of economy running,” Bhujbal said while speaking to reporters after a Covid-19 review meeting at the district collectorate. The meeting was attended by district collector Suraj Mandhare, commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil, NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game, superintendent of police (Rural) Arti Singh, civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale, among others. Citing the example of Malegaon that now has very few positive cases, Bhujbal said, “The textile town has taught us how the situation can be controlled with cooperation between people and administration. The administration is doing its job and people should also do their bit.” He added, “The respective administrations also should ensure that people who get infected are being treated in the best possible manner. This has to be done so that the trade and industries keep running to provide the financial help for the individual.” Bhujbal also stressed on starting a government Covid-19 testing laboratory at the civil hospital that will be helpful in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-new-lockdown-in-nashik-bhujbal/articleshow/76431572.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 18, 2020||Kanpur||KMC to pick junk from dry garbage, sell to increase revenue||Kanpur: Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is preparing itself to pick junk from dry garbage and sell it to increase its income. A material recovery facility center will be set up soon for this purpose. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi has recently directed the KMC officials to make preparations for setting up the facility center at Panki Bhau Singh garbage treatment plant. According to KMC sources, around 10 lakh metric tonne of garbage is dumped daily at Panki Bhau Singh garbage treatment plant. At the proposed material recovery facility center, junk like steel, plastic, paper polythene etc would be separated. Polythene to be turned into granules by machines would be used in construction of roads. Moreover, thin and thick plastics will be used in making plastic balls while steel and glass may be sold in junk, the source added. Executive engineer RK Singh said that KMC had already floated tenders for setting up the material recovery facility center. At present, the garbage treatment center of Panki Bhau Singh is converting 500 metric tonnes of wet garbage into manure per day which is being provided free of cost to farmers through the agriculture department, Singh said. Efforts were being made to convert 1000 metric tonne of wet garbage into manure per day, he added. The enhanced capacity besides disposing of the garbage would also increase KMC’s income. After production of manure and plastic granules, around 10 percent garbage would be left for disposal, he added. Singh said that modern garbage dumping houses were being constructed from where garbage would be sent to the treatment plant. Out of around 1100 tonnes of dry and wet garbage generated in the city daily, KMC lifts around 900 tonne. According to the municipal commissioner, efforts were being made to lift the entire 1100 tonne garbage daily and transfer the same to Panki Bhau Singh garbage plant the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kmc-to-pick-junk-from-dry-garbage-sell-to-increase-revenue/articleshow/76433780.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||No books, no internet: Preparing for exams becomes a challenge for college students||Dehradun: College students from remote areas, who study in cities like Dehradun, Haldwani, and others, say that it has become very difficult for them to prepare for exams as they don't have access to either study materials or internet service. “Leaving behind all my books in Dehradun, I rushed to my native village in Chakrata just before the Janta Curfew on March 22. I didn't know things would go so bad due to Covid-19 pandemic. Now, I don't have any study materials here. I have no clue as to how I will prepare for them,” says Sejal Joshi, pursuing BA in a Dehradun college. Several students say that they cannot even take the help of the internet for studies as connectivity is really poor in villages, especially those in the hills. “I am a native of Uttarkashi's Jagta village. Mobile network is so poor here that I have to go at least 15 kilometres from my home to get the signal. Accessing online classes is impossible here. I would have missed out on filling the examination form if the deadline was not extended. My parents don’t want me to go back to Dehradun as Covid-19 outbreak is more severe there," said Chinu Chauhan, a final year BA student. The students suggest that exams should not take place this year as they can't appear for online tests and going to examination centres will not be safe in view of the Covid-19 threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-books-no-internet-preparing-for-exams-becomes-a-challenge-for-college-students/articleshow/76432680.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Uneasy calm in capital area as farmers hold protests||Vijayawada: Even as the legal conundrum continues over the Bills re-introduced in the state assembly for decentralised development through trifurcation of capital and scrapping the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Act, farmers took to the streets opposing the move. The Amaravati farmers, who have been protesting against the proposed three capitals, held protests in all villages of the capital region on Wednesday. Uneasy calm prevailed with heavy deployment of police in view of the ongoing assembly session. Instead of holding dharnas, farmers held protests with limited people at the venues observing social distancing norms. Protest programmes were held at Mandadam, Velagapudi and Thulluru villages where farmers gathered and raised slogans against the state government and demanded withdrawal of both the Bills. Amaravati Parirakhsana Joint Action Committee (JAC) has announced it will intensify protests till the time the state government withdraws the Bills. Sunkara Padmasri, a JAC member, said villages in the capital region will switch off lights for one hour every night from 7 pm to 8 pm as a mark of protest. The fight i will continue till the Bills are withdrawn, she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/uneasy-calm-in-capital-area-as-farmers-hold-protests/articleshow/76432707.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Inquiry against 2 pvt hosps in Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad district administration has initiated an inquiry against two leading private hospitals in the city for allegedly refusing to admit patients as well as for lack of quality service and treatment. Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary told TOI, “Three inquiries are currently underway, two against MGM Hospital and one against Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital. Their responses have been sought by the additional collector, who has been appointed the nodal officer for addressing health services-related grievances.” Additional collector Bhanudas Palve said, “Two complaints pertain to refusal to admit patients, while the third complaint is about the poor quality of service and treatment.” Choudhary, reiterating his order issued on May 23, added that all hospitals should prepare themselves for the intake of Covid-19 patients. Hospitals with over 100 beds should reserve 50% of the beds for Covid-19 and irrespective of a patient showing Covid-19 symptoms or not, no hospital can deny service. He also said that people being denied health services may lodge a complaint at abdcoll.hospitalgrievances@gmail.com. It has been found that most private hospitals and nursing homes are ignoring the orders about displaying details including availability of beds, rooms, rate chart, beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, patients discharged so far etc. Personal visits to several leading hospitals and checking with other private hospitals here have revealed that barely any of them has displayed the details. Surprisingly, some of the hospital staffers claimed of not even being aware of the directives. Revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar is expecting the implementation of the order at the earliest, failing which, the hospitals may attract action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/inquiry-against-2-pvt-hosps-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/76433782.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid among Tamil Nadu women on the rise||Men Covid-19 patients might far outnumber their female counterparts in the state till date. But there is a slow but steady increase in the number of women stung by the novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. According to data from the directorate of public health and preventive medicine, there is an increase of roughly 6% in the number of women Covid patients over the past four weeks. From 31.3 % on April 25, the percentage of women testing positive increased to 32.6 on May 10. There was a gradual rise every day and on Wednesday, share of women Covid patients has touched 37.7%. Former Indian Council of Medical Research scientist T Mariappan noted that scientifically there is no correlation between gender and Covid infection, but there could be other factors which have led to increase in exposure among women of late. One plausible explanation was that women stepped out of houses lesser and hence low infection rate in the beginning, but the virus has now started spreading among them at household level through their family members who ventured out. This was seen in the case of Coimbatore Covid positive patients on Wednesday when the health officials found 11 contacts of the 28-year-old man who died on Sunday to be Covid positive. Out of the 11, nine are women – his own family members as well as neighbours. “This could differ from region to region also. In districts like Kancheepuram and Chengalpet, there are lot of women involved in fish vending. So, they would be exposed directly to virus rather than through family members,’’ Mariappan said. Former director of public health P Kulandaisamy pointed out that when Covid spread started in TN, most of foreign returnees, New Delhi travellers and Koyambedu workers who turned out to be Covid 19 patients were men. But when the largescale infection starts, the character of the infected population will change, he said. “The proportion of women Covid patients could increase further and eventually women will be equally affected unless the trend is arrested,’’ he said. This increase, however, pertains only to females in the age group of 13 to 60 years. Among the other two age wise grouping done by the health department, there is no such increase seen. While in the first category of zero to 12 years, the number of female is more or less equal. In the third category of people aged 60 and above, women are lesser than men, but there is no increase in infection rate among female seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-among-women-rising-slowly-but-steadily/articleshow/76433804.cms||Mayilvaganan
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Surge in demand for tabs, laptops, PCs for online learning, WFH||Nagpur: With work from home (WFH) here to stay and online learning among school, college students and aspirants of competitive exams started, the demand for tablets, computers, laptops, headphone, webcams and mics has gone up substantially in the city. Corporates, educational institutions and professionals are also heavily investing in secure virtual private networks for online conferences and daily meetings. Sonu Kewalramani, a popular dealer, distributor and retailer in Dhantoli, said high-end laptops, good quality webcams are selling fast. “Before the pandemic, people wouldn’t care for webcam quality. Now, they are using the social meeting apps on their TV screens using HDMI cables. Many are also using for socializing on chat apps. Tabs and laptops are being preferred for online learning,” he said. The increasing demand and shortage of information technology products has also led to blackmarketing. Vidarbha Computer Dealers and Welfare Association vice president Dinesh Naidu said besides WFH, the state board schools switching over to online learning has added to the demand and increased prices too. “The association has clarified to all its members to not charge above MRP. But it is a fact that black marketing is going on,” he said. He said more than refurbished or rental, customers are going for good quality computers assuming it as long term investment. Regarding shortage, Naidu said, “Choice of goods is limited because of availability. Not all models are available right now.” Lalit Gandhi, who is one of the leading IT system integrator providers of Central India, explained that the logistics across the country is stressed. “Delivery is taking 7 to 8 days. Earlier, only 3 to 4 days were needed for stocks to reach us,” he said. Gandhi said IT companies and IT-enabled services (ITeS) were already presented with a heavy demand as it was an IT firm to be the first in Nagpur to shut due to corona virus. “Now manufacturing units, schools and colleges are requiring complete IT infrastructure,” he said. Gandhi said products are very much being imported from China. He attributed the price hike to appreciation of the US dollar but didn’t rule out blackmarketing. “4 to 5% was already hiked by stockists but some are taking advantage of the situation,” he said. N Kazi, who runs a school, said educational institutes can’t do without IT products and services now. “Earlier, it was only an add on though schools would charge fees in the name of e-learning. It used to be just a class once a week for computers as a formality. Now, it has become a necessity for all classes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surge-in-demand-for-tabs-laptops-pcs-for-online-learning-wfh/articleshow/76433791.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Seeking change? Take a workation||Bengaluru: Bored of working from home? With tourism having been hit hard, resorts and homestays in the state are offering a unique solution — ‘Workation’ — wherein families can pay to stay, work and relax. While some resorts and homestays are waiting and watching after the government lifted lockdown restrictions from June 8, others have gone proactive to redefine hospitality services. Porcupine Castle Resort, located in a coffee plantation at Pollibetta, Madikeri, is offering a 10-day package — costing Rs 25,000 exclusive of taxes — including meals for a family of four, including two children aged below 10. “Although the government allowed us to resume service from June 8, there were hardly any bookings,” said Anila Paul, director of the resort. “So we decided to change tack and hit on the idea of workation. Given the current situation, we had to keep the cost low. The idea is to reboot, which will ensure we pay our staff on time. We are opening only 15 of the 33 rooms,” added Paul. Bopanna Karumbaiah, who owns GowriNivas, a homestay in Madikeri, said safety of guests and staff is paramount. “We have opened only cottages and not rooms in the main house. We want to keep interactions with guests to a minimum although we are committed to offering a pleasant stay,” added Karumbaiah, who stays on the property. Homestay owners, especially in Madikeri and Chikkamagaluru, say high-speed connectivity is a prerequisite now and they are banking on the feature to attract guests. “Connectivity was never an issue before since people came here to relax,” said a representative of Nenapu Homestay on Muthodi Forest Road. “Now, most enquiries revolve around 4G network and power backup.” Government-run facilities too are offering work-centric packages at discounted rates. Jungle Lodges resorts, including Devbagh Resort and Kali Adventure Camp, have slashed prices by 25%. People too are warming up to the idea, especially after the stifling lockdown. “We live in an apartment and for most part of the lockdown, movement was restricted to 1000sqft,” said Sonali Singh, an IT professional and mother of two. “Our children are bored too. So we decided to head to a resort for a week for a much-needed change. My husband and I both need to continue working, so a workation is the best option.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/seeking-change-take-a-workation/articleshow/76432750.cms||Manuja Veerappa
June 18, 2020||Nashik||NMC to increase testing of swab samples to 250 per day||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), following the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, has decided to increase the throat swab testing of suspected patients from current 175 to 250 per day.Ever since the state government announced lifting of the lockdown in phases, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city has gone up drastically. Between June 1 and 17, the city reported 625 positive cases along with 38 deaths.Though the number of positive cases has gone up, the recovery rate has also increased from around 31% to 40% in the last 17 days. The total number of patients that have been discharged since June 1 stands at 273. The NMC has also sealed 42 containment zones in just last three days. Of the total 229 containment zones across the city, restrictions have been lifted in 90 of them as patients from these areas have recovered and no new cases have been found in the last 14 days. Currently, there are 139 containment zones in the city. “There has been sudden spike in Covid-19 cases since May 20 when there were only 48 cases. Covid-19 positive started cases increasing after relaxation in the lockdown. The movement of people from affected areas like Mumbai and Malegaon also led to rise in the Covid-19 patients in the city. Hence, we have decided to increase the number of swab sample tests being carried out in the city,” a civic official said.“Apart from this, we are also starting mohalla clinics in the city in areas where maximum patients are being found to examine the suspected cases and send their swab samples for testing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-increase-testing-of-swab-samples-to-250-per-day/articleshow/76431639.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 18, 2020||Kolkata||Do not influence parents’ decisions: CISCE to schools||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked all schools to stay away from issuing any advice to guardians and not to put pressure on them to make their children appear in the examinations. The last date for the submission of the choice has been revised from June 22 to June 24 noon. CISCE has also requested all schools to submit the pre-Board examination marks (classes X and XII) of the last academic year by June 19. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the Council has said that the choice “must” be given to candidates to select options. “It has come to the attention of CISCE that candidates of some schools are being coerced into making a choice, much against their wishes. Some complaints have been received in this respect. This conduct by the schools is against the spirit and intention of the CISCE's decision and you are hereby called upon to refrain from indulging in such practices,” said Council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon in the letter. The Council will take action against schools that violate the decision. Earlier, the Council had asked all schools to submit the pre-Board marks of the present students who are taking the examination this year for reference and statistical reasons. The reason for seeking past pre-board marks is a direct outcome of the case in the Bombay High Court. “It is imperative that you urgently provide the information in order to enable us to decide the methodology in consultation with our experts at the earliest,” mentions the notice to the school principal. While making arrangements to hold the examinations, several schools are asking parents to give a declaration form and are also being advised to furnish Rapid Test-PCR report for those from the containment zones. A school in central Kolkata has sought guidelines from hospitals before holding the ICSE and ISC examinations. Among the advices are recording the temperature at the examination hall, filling up a self-declaration form, wearing N95 masks, sanitization of hand, schools bags and desks and maintaining social distance. “The supervisors and invigilators are extremely jittery since many are above 50 years and have co-morbidity issues. Thus, we can’t take any risk,” said the principal of the school. St James’ School principal TH Ireland has decided to ask each candidate to submit a medical certificate on the first day of the examination. “Though we will ensure social distancing norms are maintained, we are not confident how the students will commute to the school or if they have maintained health safety measures earlier. This has made us decide to seek a fitness certificate,” Ireland said. Fr. Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco School Park Circus, is averse to asking parents to submit a self-declaration form or seeking a medical certificate. “There can be asymptomatic carriers. In such a case, the medical certificate or filling up the self-declaration forms are useless. We shall take all precautions,” he said. The parents on the other hand, are in two minds. Saswati Saha, mother of an ISC student said, “In most cases, the pre-Board marks are not an up-to-the expectation. The question pattern is difficult and students secure a lower score. In the board examinations, marks improve,” she pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/somdatta-edu/articleshow/76433800.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 18, 2020||Vadodara||School children give listening ear to the elderly||Vadodara: When many energetic teenagers may have found the lockdown a frustrating affair, a group of young students from the city came together to help the elderly. Despite all the efforts by the administration and police, the children realized that there were some elders staying alone, who were unable to arrange essentials for themselves. The group came together and made a list of volunteers who fanned out in their localities to identify elderly persons who needed help. Coordinating over the phone and online, the children drew a list of 491 elderly persons and ensured that they got required help. The elderly were provided ration kits, medicines and other essentials. Above all, the children spent some time with them and kept in touch with them later too to take care of any needs and inquire about their well being. Vedant Thacker, a Class X student, who came up with the idea of helping the aged said that while seeing the Covid-19 details on television once, he got motivated to do something for the senior citizens. “I made calls to friends and soon we had a team. We named our initiative as Children and Elders are Friends (Chief). We started looking for elderly persons to help them if needed,” he said. After preparing the list, the group approached the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and other persons to arrange for the ration kits and other material. Around 1,000 children were contacted who pledged help. “We began work one month back and are active even now. Whenever we found that someone was emotionally disturbed or in a delicate mental state, we spent time with them. We went to distribute material for the first time recently after the lockdown was relaxed,” said Ganesh Kudva, who cleared his Class XII exams recently. The elderly too gave their blessings to the children. Aruna Desai, a resident of Atladara who stays alone, said that the help was much appreciated. She said that she hoped that the children reached out to more people. “Such initiative by children are really needed and you should continue the good work,” she told the children in a video message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/school-children-give-listening-ear-to-the-elderly/articleshow/76431244.cms||Sachin Sharma
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Craft bazaar to be new draw in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to develop a craft bazaar in an open area near Rednam Gardens junction. The objective of the bazaar is to provide exposure to and encourage artisans and craftsmen in the district, whose wares are otherwise restricted to their own villages/towns. The craft bazaar is expected to weed out middlemen—who pocket a major chunk of the profits—and bring the artisans into direct contact with buyers. Stalls at the bazaar will have infrastructure to showcase the art and handicrafts in a traditional manner. The bazaarwill also be a tourist attraction. GVMC officials said the civic body has issued an expression of interest to select an architectural consultant for construction of the bazaar. Apart from providing the concept, layout and design of various components of a modern craft bazaar, the consultant will be responsible for preparation of hard and soft landscaping of the area, including aesthetics. The consultant can adopt suitable cost-effective green technologies, wherever possible, without compromising on the objective. Officials added that the designs should be elegant and modern with a traditional outlook, along the lines of Dilli Haat and Shilparamam. The consultant will assist the GVMC in quality control and supervision of various components of the project throughout its trajectory. It will also look into architectural, engineering and other technical matters in the project. The time period for submission of documents to the GVMC is 90 days from the date of signing the agreement. The consultant will report on the progress of the project every fortnight or whenever required to the GVMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/craft-bazaar-to-be-new-draw-in-vizag/articleshow/76432717.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘Reconciliation’ takes Vid Covid-19 toll to 132||Nagpur: Twenty-four deaths will be added to the Covid-19 toll in Vidarbha on Tuesday as part of the state’s reconciliation of deaths, in line with WHO, ICMR and NCDC directives known as ICD-10 guidelines. These deaths were earlier notified as ‘non-Covid’ or natural deaths. Highest 14 will added to Akola district, followed by Amravati (6), Buldhana (2), Washim (1) and Yavatmal (1). The toll in Vidarbha is now 132. Three new deaths were also reported from Akola district. One was also reported in Yavatmal, a 60-yr-old man from Darwha, 48km away. The town had registered 12 new cases on June 16, suggesting intense local spread in this rural area. June 16 was unique as 10 of 11 districts in Vidarbha registered positive cases. Only Wardha had no cases, but six patients here recovered and were discharged. Akola reported highest 32 cases, followed by Amravati (20), Nagpur (15), Gondia (15), Yavatmal (12), Washim (6), Chandrapur (4), Buldhana (3), Gadchiroli (3) and Bhandara (2). Total cases in Vidarbha reached 3,192. Total 32 patients recovered from Vidarbha, taking number of recovered patients to 2,008, a 63% recovery rate, which is higher than state and national average. Among the three Akola deaths were a 50-yr-old woman from hotspot Akot File, a 74-yr-old man from Balapur (23km from Akola), and a 62-yr-old man from Barshi-Takli (16km from Akola). Two of the deceased were admitted on June 13 while the person from Barshi-Takli was admitted since May 26. The death in Darwha was of a 60-year-old man, at his house, on Tuesday. His swab samples later tested positive. Twelve more persons, six men and six women, from the town tested positive. Four of them are boys aged 6 to 12, while the girls are aged 12 to 23. With today’s death, the death toll for Akola has gone up to 44. In Washim district, four men and two women from interior areas tested positive. While two of them came from Dombivli, four are close contacts of positive patients. Washim’s total cases reached 60. Gondia became the 6th Vidarbha district to reach a century of cases, with a spike of 15 cases on Tuesday. Thirteen of these are Gulf returnees and natives of Tirora, while two are Delhi returnees and natives of Gondia. All are aged between 20 to 50. Amravati district also recorded its highest spike, with 20 cases, taking its total past the 350-mark to 368. Neighbouring Badnera town, a new hotspot, had 11 of the 20 case, with its count reaching 39, just one short of the highest 40 from Masanganj. The jump from 300 (on June 11) to 368 took just five days. Only 32 are from rural areas while 336 are from Amravati Municipal Corporation limits. Amravati’s previous highest for a single day was 19, on May 20. The day also saw three being discharged, taking the count of recovered patients to 256. The Badnera cases include four members and relatives of a Malipura family, which has had three positive cases earlier. They include males aged 23 and 29, and females aged 17 and 35. Another Malipura male aged 37 tested positive after coming in contact with other positives of the locality. New City, Badnera, also saw three residents of Jaistambh Chowk, including a father (60) and son (30) pharmacist duo, testing positive, along with a grocer, who is in a private Covid hospital. The area reported three more cases, males aged 13 and 45 and a female aged 38, all from one family. The youngest of today’s 20 cases in Amravati is a 5-year-old kid from Raj Hill Colony, a new locality. A 24-year-old niece of a 39-year-old June 14 positive woman from Garba Chowk also tested positive. A 28-year-old youth of Sarafa in Sakkarsath locality, ill for four days, tested positive today, becoming the second case from Sarafa. A 43-year-old man of Pathan Chowk also tested positive, the first case of the locality. Sai Nagar too made its debut when a 56-year-old teacher from PKV Colony behind Gajanan Maharaj temple tested positive, while an 18-year-old girl of Forest Office premises near Government Girls High School tested positive after her father (a forest department staffer), and elder sister. Yashoda Nagar reported its fourth case today, a female aged 27, while village Takarkheda Sambhu reported its first case, a male aged 47, who returned from Mumbai with his family on Sunday and had self-quarantined after giving his swab sample. Chandur Bazaar, which has 13 of the 32 rural cases of the district, saw a 26-year-old youth testing positive. He is the maternal cousin of a 30-year-old positive man from Ghatladki. His father and sister have tested positive earlier. The district’s count of 368 now includes 17 deaths, 256 discharged and 95 active cases, including five in Nagpur. In Chandrapur district, four positive patients took the total to 52, crossing the 50-mark 46 days after the first case on May 2. Also, 25 of these patients have recovered, with no coronavirus deaths so far. The first case on Tuesday was from Maldongri village in Bramhapuri tehsil. He had returned from Mumbai and was in institutional quarantine. As he developed symptoms, he was shifted to Covid Care Center in Brahmapuri. The second case was detected in Rajura, where a 27-year-old youth from Sai Nagar tested positive. He had returned from Ahmedabad and was in institutional quarantine. The other patients are a father and daughter from Tilak Nagar in Ballarpur. They had returned from Surat and were in home quarantine. All four positive patients are stable. There are currently 27 active patients in Chandrapur. Buldhana also reported three new cases from interior villages in Malkapur, Jalgaon Jamod and Mehkar tehsils of the district. Total cases in Buldhana have reached 133, including 81 recoveries and five deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reconciliation-takes-vid-covid-19-toll-to-132/articleshow/76414845.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu gets CoE after 6 years||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has appointed Controller of Examination ( CoE) after six years. Yogesh Patil, who was associated with the examination department of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (Batu) has been named as the new CoE, on Wednesday. With the appointment of CoE, all key posts at Bamu, which were vacant for a long, have full-time heads now. After June 2014, the examination department was handed over as an additional responsibility to senior faculties.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-gets-coe-after-6-years/articleshow/76433788.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Satyendar Jain’s second test positive, Atishi also infected||NEW DELHI: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19, a day after he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital with breathing difficulty and high fever. His first test on Tuesday was negative. On Monday, Jain went to North Block with CM Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia to attend a high-level meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, Delhi LG Anil Baijal and top officials of the central government. Apart from Jain, AAP MLA Atishi and three others in the CM’s core team have also been infected. CM, other contacts of Jain to be screened for Covid symptomsThe four are in home isolation because they have very mild symptoms. RGSSH sources said all health parameters of the minister have improved since he was admitted. “The fever is down and the minister has reported improvement in breathing difficulty as well,” said the source. The CM, deputy CM and several others, who are believed to be high-risk contacts of the Jain, may be screened for symptoms and then tested. “The screening of highrisk contacts is done on the fifth day of the person testing positive,” said a source. Atishi is the third AAP MLA to test positive. Earlier Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi and Patel Nagar MLA Rajkumar Anand had tested positive. AAP media panelist Akshay Marathe and Abhinandita Mathur, an adviser to the government, are also among the CM’s core team who have been infected. “Thanks a lot for all the love and good wishes! Want to reassure everyone that I am doing ok. Am in home isolation since I got my test results. Fully equipped with fruit, vitamin C and an oximeter to monitor oxygen levels,” Atishi tweeted. “Atishi has played a key role in the fight against Covid. I hope she recovers soon,” Kejriwal tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-satyendar-jains-second-test-positive-atishi-also-infected/articleshow/76435423.cms||Alok K N Mishra
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||‘Train picks 2,500 stranded migrants from Maha’||Nainital: A couple of days after an intervention application in Uttarakhand high court (HC) alleged that there still are at least 2,500 migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra, and the court sought response from the state, the government has announced that a train was sent to Maharashtra’s Thane and picked up the stranded migrants. The train will get migrants back from Thane to the Lalkuan station of Nainital district by Thursday morning, sources familiar to the development said. “The train picked the migrants from Thane after midnight and has left for Uttarakhand. The train is expected to reach Lalkuan by Thursday morning. The migrants will then be taken for screening after which they will be sent to their villages across the state,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/train-picks-2500-stranded-migrants-from-maha/articleshow/76432714.cms||Prashant Jha
June 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Contractors liable to repair roads damaged due to rain||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation will make the contractors liable for repairing the roads in the city in case of damages caused due to heavy rain leading to the deterioration of roads’ condition. As it has been raining heavily for the past few days, the condition of the roads is getting worse so the citizens are demanding immediate repair. Of the 430 roads that have been damaged in last year’s flood and rain, few have been restored. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “I have asked all my officers and engineers to ensure that the roads damaged in rains are repaired immediately. The citizens can alert us if they find major damage to the roads in their locality. We will get it repaired immediately. Roads constructed recently, if damaged, we will get it repaired from the contractors. The condition of the roads will be reviewed every day till the end of monsoon.” The roads constructed through contractors have liability period of two to three years. As per the agreement, the contractors have to maintain and repair roads damaged due to any reason within the liability period. According to officials most roads in the internal parts of city and flood-affected areas have been constructed not more than two years ago. KMC has spent over Rs 20 crore for it. The state government had approved Rs 25 crore a few months ago to fix the damaged roads. Netradip Sarnobat, the city’s chief engineer of KMC said, “We have completed tendering. The works are allotted. Some roads from each of the 81 wards in the city will be restored by October.” Meanwhile, most roads in the suburbs have been damaged due to drainage and water supply work. Despite several notices, the contractors of drainage and water supply are reluctant to restore the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/contractors-liable-to-repair-roads-damaged-due-to-rain/articleshow/76433801.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Driving schools to reopen in Osmanabad soon||Aurangabad: Osmanabad district administration has allowed reopening of motor driving schools, except those located in the containment zones, from Wednesday. The authorities have told the driving school operators to ensure that all precautionary measures, including social distancing is followed. “In addition to trainer driver, only two participants are allowed in one vehicle. The authorities concerned must ensure that the participant does not have any possible symptoms of Covid-19,” an official release said. The driving schools have been asked to ensure mandatory wearing of face masks and sanitize all items and articles of the institute on a daily basis. Moreover, driving schools have also been also asked to undertake strict measures for avoiding crowding in their preimses and follow all norms related to social distancing . Mohanish Kulkarni, owner of a driving school, said that the peak business period of summer vacation was lost due to the outbreak of Covid-19. “Osmanabad district has around 21 registered motor driving schools with many of them finding more takers during the vacation period. The current pandemic has hit our business very hard. It is some relief that we are formally allowed to reopen again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/driving-schools-to-reopen-in-osmanabad-soon/articleshow/76433807.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Railways told to pay Rs 1.7 lakh to robbed woman||CHENNAI: The Chennai consumer disputes redressal forum recently penalised Indian Railways of Rs 1.7 lakh for not ensuring safety of a woman passenger on train and negligent attitude towards her chain snatching complaint. G Shakunthala, aged around 65, was travelling from Chennai to Varanasi by Ganga-Kaveri Express three years ago. She was allotted a berth in one of the three-tier A/C coaches. As the train was nearing Goradongri station during the wee hours, Shakunthala woke up to use the restroom and an unknown person snatched away her two gold chains, weighing 60gm totally, near the toilet door. The miscreant jumped out of the slowly-moving train. Though she shouted for help, neither the coach attendant nor the travelling ticket examiner came for her help. The TTE was sleeping in a vacant berth in the adjacent second-tier A/C coach and casually asked her to call 182 for help, said Shakunthala in her complaint with the district consumer disputes redressal forum, Chennai (north). Government Railway Police (GRP), who inquired her at Itrarsi station, asked for the bill of the stolen chains as proof. After Shakunthala explained that the chain was bought five years ago, they filed a FIR hesitantly, she added. Railway replied that FIR was pending at Betul judicial magistrate court and Shakunthala approached the forum without waiting for the outcome. Authorities also cited Section 100 of the Railway Act which didn’t hold them responsible for loss of any luggage unless a railway servant booked it and gave a receipt. Rejecting it, the forum said that safety assurance was broken by authorities and the railway failed to perform the duty. So, railway was directed to pay Rs 1.71 lakh as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-told-to-pay-rs-1-7l-to-robbed-woman/articleshow/76433813.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Mass sample collection drive at Kattakkada from Thursday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A massive sample collection drive will begin at Kattakada panchayat on Thursday where an Asha worker was tested positive. The epidemiological investigation team has prepared an initial list of 430 contacts, which is still being expanded owing to the work profile of the worker.  Two mobile sample collection units will be deployed in Amachal and surrounding areas from Monday onwards and the process is expected to consume more than a week. Owing to the large scope of contacts, the health team will confine sample collection to high-risk primary contacts, symptomatic primary contacts and secondary contacts. She had served at the ticket counter and queue management at hospital resulting in direct contact with many people. Special monitoring will be done for patients with influenza like illness (ILI) who come for treatment in health institutions in containment zones. This will be for the third time that such a massive sample collection exercise is being done. The district administration and health team had collected a cluster of samples of those persons with ILI and that of contacts of two remand prisoners who were tested positive at Pullampara panchayat and Vamanapuram panchayat. Four teams were deployed to collect samples of persons who have come into direct contact with the remand prisoners. The extensive travel history of the person from Kalamachal and spread of contacts across panchayats had forced authorities to declare over 90 wards in various panchayats as containment zones. In three days, over 200 samples had been collected and sample collection could be completed in six days. In Pothencode the health team had collected nearly 220 samples after over 10 wards were brought under containment following the death of Abdul Azeez. Meanwhile, the contact tracing team has learnt that the mobile shop owner, who tested positive for Covid-19, had travelled extensively in the past two weeks even to other districts. The team had to depend on police assistance to get information from his tower location and phone records to find out the travel history. Contacts have been identified at the apartment where he stayed, the shops he frequented and places he visited for business purposes. A retrospective tracking had to be done in the case the of mobile shop owner owing to the extensive travel history using phone records and direct information gathered from him. As regarding the KSRTC driver at Pappanamcode depot who tested positive, the team has categorized passengers in the bus as low-risk contacts. While details of passengers who were transported from railway station to Covid-care homes are being compiled from official data, the information on other passengers who boarded the bus during line service is being expected through voluntary reporting. The officials said that the number of contacts in the case of the mobile shop owner and KSRTC driver has been lesser than they had anticipated and this would help a lot in sample collection and isolation. Three more positive cases were reported in the district on Wednesday; a 37-year-old man from Pothencode, a 25-year-old man from Keezharur and a 26-year-old man from Karette. All of them had arrived from foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mass-sample-collection-drive-at-kattakkada-from-today/articleshow/76432802.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Cong to felicitate Corona heroes||Aurangabad: The regional unit of Congress has announced felicitation of Corona warriors on Friday to mark the birthday of former party president Rahul Gandhi. State Congress delegate Jitendra Dehade on Wednesday said that the party wi felicitate some frontline workers battling Covid-19 crisis in Marathwada region. “Doctors, policemen, government officials, and NGOs are acting as frontline workforce to keep our society safe from the current pandemic. Some of those individuals would be felicitated,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cong-to-felicitate-corona-heroes/articleshow/76433814.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Exotic veggies from Agency a hit in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The horticulture department is chalking out plans to increase the area under cultivation of exotic vegetables in tribal pockets of Vizag Agency following an increase in demand in retail markets in Vizag city. Broccoli, red cabbage, zucchini and Chinese cabbage are among the vegetables grown in some mandals in the Agency. “The cool climatic and soil conditions in Vizag Agency are suitable for cultivation of exotic vegetables. At present some farmers in Araku Valley, Dumbriguda and Hukumpeta mandals in Vizag Agency grow the vegetables in the Rabi season on over 400 acres. We are planning to expand cultivation in the winter,” said K Gopi Kumar, deputy director of horticulture, Visakhapatnam. On the daily requirement of vegetables, Gopi Kumar said on average, Vizag district consumes at least 600 to 700 tonnes of vegetables per day. The area under vegetable cultivation in the district is around 4,600 hectares and farmers in the region produce over 250 tonnes of vegetables per day. Vizag city and other parts of the district also depend on neighbouring Vizianagaram and East Godavari districts for vegetables, which together supply over 400 tonnes of vegetables per day. Though the demand for exotic vegetables grown in the Araku region is high in Vizag city, tribal farmers are struggling to transport vegetables from the hilly areas to the city. “We are appealing to the government to operate some vehicles for transportation of vegetables from hilly areas to urban areas,” said K Surendra of the CPI(M).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/exotic-veggies-from-agency-a-hit-in-vizag/articleshow/76432741.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe seeks govt advice on GB meeting of June 20||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has reportedly sought advice from the state government over mayor Sandip Joshi's decision to convene a meeting of the general body on June 20. Now, the fate of the meeting will be decided by the government. NMC sources told TOI Mundhe forwarded the letter from Joshi, with his note seeking directions from the government, on Tuesday evening. The civic body had not received any reply from the government till Wednesday evening. Two days are remaining for the meeting. On June 13, municipal secretary Ranjana Lade had issued an agenda for the meeting as per Joshi’s directives. On June 15, Mundhe wrote a letter to Joshi suggesting cancelling the meeting. Mundhe said the meeting would be in violation of government lockdown norms, which prohibited use of assembly halls. He also said chances of spread of Covid-19 cannot be ruled out if office bearers and corporators from containment zones attend the meeting. Mundhe also said the mayor should take a decision at his level. Then, Joshi held a meeting of leaders of all parties on Tuesday and wrote to Mundhe informing him the meeting will be held on June 20 as planned. In a press conference on Tuesday, Joshi said the government had empowered municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats to decide about organizing general body on their own. He also said municipal corporations of Pimpri Chinchwad and Nashik held general body meetings recently. He added the meeting has been organized at Suresh Bhat auditorium instead of the usual venue of Town Hall to ensure Covid distancing and comply with all norms. On Wednesday, municipal corporation of Pune also held a meeting of general body. Pune is worst hit by Covid-19 after Mumbai in the state. The state government had postponed the monsoon session of state assembly from June 22 to August 3 citing steep rise in cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-seeks-govt-advice-on-gb-meeting-of-june-20/articleshow/76433817.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Murder accused detained under Goondas Act||COIMBATORE: The city police on Wednesday invoked the Goondas Act against a man, who was arrested in connection with an extortion case. The accused was identified as Senthil, a resident of Anjugam Nagar near Chinnavedampatti. On May 30, Saravanampatti police had arrested him for extorting Rs 1,000 from Dhanasekaran of Maniyakaranpalayam in the city. He was booked under sections 341, 269, 392, 506 (ii) of Indian Penal Code (and was lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. During investigation, it was revealed that four murder cases and two attempt-to-murder cases were registered against Senthil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/murder-accused-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/76433810.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed, as many hurt after vehicle falls into gorge||Two persons were killed and two others got injured after the pickup vehicle they were traveling in fell into a gorge at Nagthali Mani area of Chinyalisaur block in Uttarkashi district on Wednesday. According to the sources, a vehicle fell into a nearly 50 meter deep gorge at Nagthali Mani area on Wednesday afternoon, while it was going to Tehri from Uttarkashi. Soon after the incident, rescue forces reached at the spot and pulled out the bodies of two persons identified as Gabar Singh Chauhan(32 age) resident Tehri and Pramod Nautiyal(35 age) resident Uttarkashi, who died on the spot. They also rescued two critically injured persons, Ayush Rana(22 age) resident Uttarkashi and Suraj Singh(25 age) resident Pauri and sent them to community health center Chinyalisaur for treatment. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, told TOI, “Body of both the deceased have been sent to the district hospital for postmortem examination and the injured are undergoing treatment. Police have launched a probe to ascertain the cause of the accident.” All the victims were employees of Jio telecom company.” Devendra Patwal, District Disaster Management Officer told, “Body of both the deceased persons have been sent to district hospital for postmortem examination, whereas injured persons are getting treatment at local health center. Police has started their investigation to find out the cause of the accident. All the persons were employees of the Jio telecom company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-as-many-hurt-after-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/76432727.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 18, 2020||India||Pioneering scientist Kirk Smith put ‘chulha’ smoke on global health map||Kirk Smith, the eminent University of Berkeley professor who passed away on June 15, began his research career in the 1970s with a PhD thesis on the health impact of nuclear power. By the late-1980s, however, he had switched focus to the effect of a much more humble energy source: the smokeemitting “chulha”, or wood, dung and coal stove, of rural India and other developing countries.  When people asked him why he’d stopped work on nuclear power, he’d reply, “The risks are too small.” Air pollution has been an issue since at least the industrial revolution but it was mostly seen as a problem of smokestacks and later vehicles. It was Smith’s pioneering research and relentless advocacy that helped put household air pollution on the global health map, influenced generations of researchers, and shaped policy in India and globally. “Kirk’s work in household air pollution, its impact on the most disadvantaged of our society, defined the field,” says Ambuj Sagar, a professor at IIT Delhi who worked with him closely. Smith’s work, in collaboration with researchers in 20 countries, demonstrated that some of the highest exposures to air pollutants occur in rural, indoor settings and highlighted the associated risks of pneumonia, heart disease, and TB for poor women and children. Or, as he said, “The worst thing you can do for your health is stick burning stuff in your mouth. The second worst thing you can do is burn stuff in your kitchen.” Smith shaped public policy in India as well, a country he had been visiting frequently since the 1980s. A distinguished visiting scholar at IIT Delhi, he was an adviser on the 2009 National Programme on Improved Cookstove as well as on the Union health ministry’s 2014 report on air pollution. That report corrected a historical focus on urban air pollution and highlighted pollution from village chulhas as “probably the single largest source” of individual exposure and the source of a quarter of ambient PM 2.5 levels in the country. Smith was also a vocal supporter of India’s Ujjwala programme to bring LPG to the rural poor, which launched in 2016. His advocacy for a fossil fuel ran counter to the Western climate agenda on renewable energy that promoted advanced biomass stoves as a solution. After many studies found such stoves did not lower pollution as much as hoped, Smith began to argue that the poor should have the same energy options as urban Indians. “Kirk never lost sight of the fact that this is a problem of poor people, especially women and children, and that the solutions have to work for them,” said Sagar. Indeed, Smith’s involvement in testing out solutions in villages in India, Nepal, Guatemala, and elsewhere was in some ways remarkable for a scientist. “He wasn’t happy just pointing out the problem,” said Sagar, “He wanted to figure out how to solve it.” Smith was professor of global environmental health at Berkeley, director of the Collaborative Clean Air Policy Centre in New Delhi, and a member of numerous international scientific advisory committees including the executive committee of the World Health Organisation’s Air Quality Guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pioneering-scientist-kirk-smith-put-chulha-smoke-on-global-health-map/articleshow/76435483.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
June 18, 2020||Nashik||Close APMC for 4 days: Corporators||Nashik: In wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Nashik, many BJP corporators have sought urgent closure of the APMC for a few days. According to the corporators, the drivers transporting vegetables to Mumbai are now testing positive. It has been found that there has been a sudden spike in cases near the Nashik APMC. “Most of the traders and farmers are transporting their vegetables to Mumbai. Some drivers, who are transporting vegetables to Mumbai have been tested positive,” said BJP corporator Machhindra Sanap. “The cases are increasing in the areas near Peth Road and Phule Nagar areas. We want the closure of Nashik APMC for at least four days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/close-apmc-for-4-days-corporators/articleshow/76431663.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 18, 2020||Kanpur||19 migrants injured as bus overturns on Agra-Lucknow e-way||Kanpur: As many as 19 migrant workers were injured after a bus carrying them turned turtle while climbing up a road divider under Unnao’s Auras police station on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, on Wednesday morning. Circle Officer Bangarmau GK Tripathi said the bus coming from Alwar area of Rajasthan was ferrying nearly 43 migrant workers to West Bengal’s Cooch Behar city. “A police team and UPIEDA personnel reached the spot and sent the injured persons to Auras community health centre,” he added. The passengers who escaped unhurt or had sustained minor wounds were sent to Cooch Behar in another vehicle, informed Tripathi. “The migrants had got the private bus booked from Tijara tehsil of Alwar. The incident took place around 9 am when the driver dozed off and lost control over the vehicle. The bus turned turtle while climbing up the road divider leaving 19 migrants injured,” he added. A senior district health official said swab samples of all passengers were tested for Covid-19 and all of them were found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/19-migrants-injured-as-bus-overturns-on-agra-lucknow-e-way/articleshow/76432754.cms||---
June 18, 2020||Nagpur||Fate of over 70k final year students hangs in balance due to confusion over exams||Nagpur: Over 70,000 final year students of Nagpur University are eagerly hoping for an early end to the stalemate over their examinations. NU had sent faculty wise data of all these students to the State Higher and Technical Education Department on Monday after it was sought by the government. It was compiled by NU’s Exam Section officials after the receiving directives from the government which is seeking information about number of final year students across all traditional universities in state. Statewide, there are approximately eight to nine lakh students in final year, who’re worried over the fate of exams. Though education minister Uday Samant and principal secretary Saurabh Vijay refused to take up the calls from TOI, sources in their ministry informed that the government was collecting data on number of students to explore whether exams could be conducted while maintaining Covid distancing. According to them, the government was well aware that their decision to cancel exams or even conducting it during the pandemic would be challenged in the judiciary. “So the authorities aren’t taking any chances. The government has already sought a legal opinion on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s declaration on cancellation of exams and awarding average marks to all students based on their previous performance,” they said. NU’s Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that out of 70,556 students; about 45,000 were of general courses like BA, BCom and BSc while 18,000 were of professional courses like engineering, pharmacy and law. “This figures could increase as we’ve restarted accepting examination forms from the students. It was stopped due to lockdown. We would be accepting the forms till June 25 and students’ numbers would increase. We expect to add about 5,000 students in these days, which would take their tally to 75,000,” he said. On possibility of conducting exams while maintaining Covid distancing norms in case the government gives green signal, the director said NU planned to conduct it in three phases since the paper timing was reduced to two hours from three. “We would start from morning 9.30am and complete by 5.30pm. There will be one hour gap for sanitization and fumigation of the classrooms, before allowing new batch to appear for the papers. Currently, we’ve 138 centres, which would need to be increased for accommodating all these 75,000 students,” Sable said. The BOEE director admitted that many students and parents were continuously approaching the Exam Section officials over fate of exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fate-of-over-70k-final-year-students-hangs-in-balance-due-to-confusion-over-exams/articleshow/76433866.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
