June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore Times webinar on the impact of the pandemic on education||The road to taking the classroom to a screen at a child’s home, has been far from easy for institutes, but the lack of interpersonal exchange that it brings along, as well as long hours of screen time, are issues that have come up. So, we spoke to stakeholders, Dr Dakshayini Kanna, Senior Principal, Harvest International School, M Srinivasan, Founder and Principal, Gear Innovative International School, psychologist Sulata Shenoy, who specialises in child psychology and Christobelle Joseph, teacher and columnist, to understand the situation and see how best middle ground can be achieved. Dr Dakshayini Kanna ‘Training teachers who were not tech-savvy was quite a task’When the lockdown was announced, the teachers had left all the resources they use in class at school. They came home and there was a complete dearth of resources. But within a day or two, everything fell into place. We have teachers in the age group of 28-65. Training them was a task, because many were not even tech-savvy. What makes a classroom complete is the interaction with teachers and students and we had to make that happen. M Srinivasan ‘Maintaining social distancing among children is a challenge’What happens if schools don’t reopen for the next six months? Do we leave children to do nothing? WHO has said that the biggest challenge of enforcing the new normal of hygiene and social distancing is with children. So, even if we reach a stage of zero Covid-19 cases in the state and schools can reopen, there should not be a rush to function five days in the week. Dr Sulata Shenoy ‘Substituting human interaction with a screen will have an impact’My concern is that children are missing out on the psychological and social aspects of being in school. I have seen children with anxiety, because their social lives have been changed. Human interaction has a tremendous impact on the developing brain and when you substitute that with a screen, we don’t know what the impact of that will be in future. Christobelle Joseph ‘Initially, I was worried about the length of online classes’I am a digital-addiction warrior, so it was difficult for me to accept online classes. Initially, parents were going crazy demanding it and threatening to withhold fees if it didn’t start. Many schools are going the extra length to think about the wellness aspect. That is primary right now. In that respect I was worried about the length of classes. In all, though, they are doing about four hours in a day, which is under the WHO prescribed limit. Watch Bangalore Times webinar on the effect of the pandemic on education and the way forward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bangalore-times-webinar-on-the-impact-of-the-pandemic-on-education/articleshow/76449170.cms||Prathibha Joy
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||For the environment: Chandigarh starts building sewage treatment plant at Kishangarh||CHANDIGARH: For stopping the flow of Punjab's sewage from Kansal and Nayagaon into the Sukhna's catchments, the UT administration is at last building a treatment plant at Kishangarh village. When Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) had failed to do the job, the work had come to the UT engineering department, which has now floated a fresh tender to find a bidder till June 23. This sewage treatent plant (STP) will not only prevent swamping of the forest around the Sukhna but also feed treated water to the parched lake. The UT administration had proposed the Kishangarh STP even to the Punjab and Haryana high court during the 'save Sukhna' case hearing. The project fulfils the latest conditions of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and will have a sewage processing capacity of 2 million litres a day (MLD). The effluent from Kishangarh plant will fill the Sukhna Lake during dry weather. The latest technology of membrane bioreactor (MBR) will keep the water quality very high for supporting aquatic life. The UT administration will also spend Rs 808 crore on upgrading another five STPs in the city. Recently, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the Chandigarh administration to upgrade all its STPs by 2021. A senior UT official said the hired agency will maintain these STPs for 10 years. In August 2018, taking a suo-motu cognizance of media reports on pollution in the Ghaggar, the NGT had directed the chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Chandigarh to make a special task force (STF) to clean the river. Thereafter, the NGT committee in Chandigarh studied the Sukhna choe with pollution control committee (CPCC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/for-the-environment-chandigarh-starts-building-sewage-treatment-plant-at-kishangarh/articleshow/76452483.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 19, 2020||India||Scindia, Digvijaya set to enter Rajya Sabha from MP||BHOPAL: BJP candidates Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki, and senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Thursday looked set to sail through on the eve of Rajya Sabha election to three seats in Madhya Pradesh. The Congresss other nominee Phool Singh Baraiya, a Dalit leader, however, stands a very slim chance of making it to the upper house of Parliament in the election on Friday. The BJP has enough MLAs to get elected its two candidates, whereas the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) has asked 54 of its 92 MLAs to cast their first preference vote for Digvijaya. The former chief minister needs 52 votes to get elected to Rajya Sabha for the second consecutive term. Baraiya, placed after Singh in the pecking order by his party, does not have the numbers on his side to win. The Dalit leader hails from Gwalior-Chambal region where most of the 24 vacant assembly seats in MP are located. Byelection for vacant seats would have to take place by September. A majority of these seats are dominated by scheduled castes. The ruling BJP is in a comfortable position for Fridays election, as it has 107 MLAs of its own and enjoys the support of two MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), one MLA of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and two Independents. The saffron party thus has the support of 112 in the 230-member Assembly whose effective strength is 206. Scindia and Solanki, thus, can get the 52 votes each needed for victory. Legislators of both the parties were busy holding meetings on Thursday to finalise their strategies for the election. The BJP will hold another meeting at night, party sources said. Congress MLAs would gather at state unit chief Kamal Naths residence around 8 AM on Friday and go to the Assembly in buses to vote, said a party legislator. This was decided at a meeting at Naths house on Thursday, the MLA added. The BJP held lunch meetings of groups of legislators. "MLAs from each revenue division held meetings separately," a party leader said. The election is significant as Scindia joined the BJP by parting ways with the Congress in March this year. Twenty- two of his supporters also resigned as MLAs, leading to the fall of the Nath government and return of the BJP to power. A senior BJP leader said if Digvijaya won at the expense of Baraiya, it would benefit the saffron party in Assembly by-elections. "We are going to tell the public about how Digvijaya Singh snatched away the opportunity of a Dalit to reach the Upper House," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scindia-digvijaya-set-to-enter-rajya-sabha-from-mp/articleshow/76452553.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Chitar Oli artisans gear up for Ganeshotsav||For artisan Vijay Khamkar, who has been into the idol making business for the past four decades, this year has been quite disappointing because of no orders during festivals like Ram Navami, Gudi Padwa etc. “The COVID-19 outbreak ensured no business so far. Now, we have pinned our hopes on the Ganeshotsav. Though we have been catering only to sarvajanik Ganesh mandals since the past many years, this year, we are also keeping smaller idols for walk-in purchases,” says Vijay. And he is not alone. The artisans at Chitar Oli, who have resumed work following the easing out of lockdown restrictions, confess that the pandemic has hit them hard, but they are looking forward to come out of the setback. Less artisans, more work One tour of the narrow lanes will be enough to tell you that the number of artisans working here has gone down. Those who are working here are making sure to follow physical distancing and other safety guidelines. “Many workers are yet to return from their hometowns. So right now, it’s only me and my wife managing our business. We sanitise our premises frequently and keep disinfecting our tools as well. We are constantly wearing masks and gloves while making the idols. Once our team members are back, we will brief them on the social distancing rules as well,” shares Santosh Suryavanshi, an artisan. Hike in idol prices Another artisan, Nilesh Ingale, has been strictly making small idols to keep the business afloat. He has even increased the cost of the idols by 20 per cent. “We have incurred heavy losses and, other than hiking prices, we don’t have any option to recover. Thankfully, people are considerate and are fine with the 20 per cent rise. We take orders on call and our customers send us design options on WhatsApp. Plus, most of them are opting for online payment.” No orders from pandals yet Due to the ongoing crisis and lack of clarity over the maximum height of idols, artisans who make Ganesh idols for sarvajanik pandals are in a fix. Deepak Ingale, an artisan, says, “We get orders from around 15-17 sarvajanik pandals every year, but we haven't received a single booking from anyone so far. We hope that the guidelines are issued as soon as possible by the civic body so that we can finish our commitments before the Ganeshotsav starts on August 22.” A meeting is likely to happen on the Ganeshotsav guidelines. As soon as guidelines are issued, we will have a meeting with our mandal members to finalise the size of the Ganesh idol. We will strictly follow all rules. — Pravin Datke, president of the 101-year-old Shri Dakshinamurti Swayamsevak Ganeshotsav Mandal This year, I have booked for a 1.5 feet high Ganesh idol. Last year, murti of the same size cost me around `5000 and this time it is priced at `6500. But I don’t mind shelling out a little more because I know how the current crisis has hit artisans and their business. — Chhagan Sonwane, contractor, Kamptee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chitar-oli-artisans-gear-up-for-ganeshotsav/articleshow/76452595.cms||Preeti Atulkar
June 19, 2020||India||India enters UNSC with overwhelming support, gets to check Chinese moves||India is going back into the UN Security Council for the eighth time during an inflexion point in global politics — that is seeing growing US disinterest in multilateralism, offset by a growing Chinese determination to dominate global multilateral institutions, and when India-China bilateral ties are at a historic low. On Thursday, prime minister Narendra Modi tweeted his gratitude on India’s election, unopposed, by 184 votes. “Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity.” Briefing journalists, Vikas Swaroop, secretary (west), MEA, said: “We will act as a voice of reason and moderation and a firm believer in respect for international law and peaceful settlement of disputes.” He added India would want to “reform” the multilateral system based on the following principles — “Samman, Samvad, Sahyog, Shanti and samriddhi.” The call for “reformed multilateralism” by both Modi and Jaishankar will not involve reforming the UNSC itself which is a larger battle. For the next couple of years though, India will be “in the room” to push back against Chinese mischief targeting India. “China cannot use this forum against India,” said sources. That will be a big gain. In addition, China’s actions in Ladakh have now completely eroded its position as a supposed “impartial” interlocutor on Kashmir. India can use that to neutralise China’s needling, on Pakistan’s behalf. However, it is a difficult ask for India to contemplate any big steps in the UNSC. For one thing, traditionally, India’s positions on peace and security issues hew closely to the Chinese and Russian line rather than the west. Like China, India does not want an “activist” UNSC, and like China and Russia, India stresses the sovereignty principle in international crises. That is unlikely to change. But the position will give India some useful leverage to push some key objectives that India has, namely, that India wants to be a player in global governance. Heading one of the many UN bodies is one of them. China heads three, and only lost the UNESCO and WIPO elections. India can use the next couple of years to pick up deserving candidates (not only politically connected ones) to manoeuvre them to become electable. As a country of over a billion people, India does not head any UN body. For India to play a larger role in the UN, India would have to build greater inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination, say former UN officials. More and more global burning issues cut across different parts of government. For instance the intersection between climate and security, a growing concern, which has implications for India internally and internationally. Here India can play a bigger role. Frank Bainimarama of Fiji reminded India of such a role today. The big global security issues will be beyond India’s reach and ability — the US has kept the UN out of the Afghan game; on Middle East, any position India takes will hurt one or more of its close friends, so that will be out. Sources said the only one India can take definitive positions would be the Mediterranean issues between Turkey, Cyprus and Greece. In addition, India’s famed neutrality will make it impossible for India to play a sharper game in the two years it has — unlike say, Germany or Japan, both of whom leverage their economies and alliances to be part of the big issues like Iran nuclear deal or the North Korea talks. The demand for India to step off the fence will be high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-at-un-security-council-reformed-multilateralism-a-bigger-say-in-global-governance-top-the-agenda/articleshow/76452432.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||SWR's Bengaluru divisional office shut after a staff tests positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: Bengaluru divisional office of South Western Railway has been closed after a staff tested positive for coronavirus infection. "Consequent on an employee of Bengaluru division found Covid-19 positive and the same communicated to divisional administration on Thursday" said an internal communication accessed by TOI. Sources say divisional office near KSR Bengaluru City railway station will be closed Friday for disinfection. The divisional office is expected to reopen on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/swrs-bengaluru-divisional-office-shut-after-a-staff-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76452839.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Pre-flight Covid test: Kerala govt's rule impractical, says nurses' association||KOCHI: Kerala government’s directive making Covid-negative certificate mandatory for returning expatriates is not practical as foreign governments are not allowing such tests for people without symptoms, United Nurses Association (UNA) has contended before the Kerala high court. UNA, which is operating chartered flights for stranded nurses, had flown two flights on June 7th and 18th. It has scheduled two more flights on June 20th and 21st from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, on June 11th, state government has made Covid negative result mandatory to allow boarding flights to Kerala, the petition filed by UNA state president Shoby Joseph through advocate Sriram Parakkat said. Members of UNA approached the governments of the countries where they are presently residing and working and sought assistance to undergo Covid testing. However, the governments informed that only persons with 80 per cent symptoms will be considered for testing, the plea stated. Testing kits are in shortage and all persons who want to undergo the test won’t be permitted due to extreme scarcity. Governments have informed that priority will be given to life-saving needs rather than the needs of those who wish to travel back to their homelands. Also, newborns with no registration of birth with any country won’t be considered for testing except under life-saving circumstances, the court was told. UNA is seeking a court directive to Kerala government to withdraw the mandatory requirement of Covid testing before boarding flights to Kerala. They have also sought a directive to conduct Covid test upon arrival in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pre-flight-covid-test-kerala-govts-rule-impractical-says-nurses-association/articleshow/76452928.cms||Mahir Haneef
June 19, 2020||Goa||GOACAN asks 191 panchayats to prepare websites, deliver online services||PANAJI: The directorate of panchayats must ensure that all village panchayats have their own website with the citizen charter uploaded, said GOACAN. In a letter to the panchayat director Narayan Gad, GOACAN said that the directorate of Panchayats should appoint a nodal officer to ensure that websites are developed for each panchayat while also coordinating with GIPARD and the departments of Information Technology, Public Grievances, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. “Goa has to deal with the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and the government is working on an economic revival plan to help the 191 panchayats make their villages self-reliant, the setting up of a website and the preparation of a citizens charter for each Panchayat would be the appropriate step to be taken,” said convenor of GOACAN Roland Martins. The nodal officer could also provide guidance to the panchayats on financial assistance, design and content for the website and citizen charter. Ironically, the directorate of Panchayats itself has failed to update its own citizens charter and website, which GOACAN has asked it to do by August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goacan-asks-191-panchayats-to-prepare-websites-deliver-online-services/articleshow/76452983.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||Martyred soldier's mortal remains brought to Prayagraj airbase||PRAYAGRAJ: The mortal remains of Deepak Singh, who was killed in the violent face-off between India and China in Ladakh's Galwan, were brought to Indian Air Force's Bamrauli airbase in Prayagraj on Thursday night. The remains would then be taken to Singh's native village near Rewa in Madhya Pradesh. The mortal remains arrived via an AN32 aircraft. "The brave soldier's mortal remains and would be kept at the Military Hospital in New Cantonment overnight. It would then be taken to his native village Faranda, under post office Manikear, about 100km from Rewa on Friday morning, after a formal wreath laying ceremony," said defence public relations officer Wing Commander Shailendra Pandey. Singh, who was married just eight months ago to Minu Kumari, was a nursing assistant in Army Medical Corps (AMC) and was just a month shy of turning 31. He died while fighting Chinese troops on Monday night along with 19 other soldiers. Singh was born on July 15, 1989. Mourning his death, Singh's family members said he had last come home to celebrate Holi in March. His elder brother Prakash Singh is also in the army. The last rights of the martyr would be performed at his native village with state honours on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/martyred-soldiers-mortal-remains-brought-to-prayagraj-airbase/articleshow/76452991.cms||Rajiv Mani
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Liquor mafia use fake biltis to smuggle booze||PRAYAGRAJ: Uttar Pradesh Police’s Special Task Force (STF) recently seized around 531 cartons of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 50 lakh from near Bachhrawan Road on Prayagraj-Rae Bareli highway. The illegal consignment was being transported from Punjab and had to be delivered in Bihar where liquor is banned. STF sleuths had arrested two pepole - Paramjeet Singh and Lakhbir Singh - both residents of Moga, Punjab, and seized two biltis of cement sacks from their possession. Additional SP (STF) Neeraj Kumar Pandey told TOI, “The liquor mafia is now using fake transport biltis to smuggle illegal liquor consignments.” “There were three recent cases in the past one month where STF recovered illegal liquor worth Rs 1.5 crore and found liquor mafia using fake biltis to smuggle consignments of liquor,” he added. In the recent case, the mafia got bilti for transportation of ceiling and table fan parts worth Rs 29 lakh, but the truck was found carrying ceiling fans parts worth Rs 5 lakh only. They had, in fact, kept cartons of illegal liquor in middle and cartons of parts of ceiling and table fans in front and back portions of the truck to dodge officials checking the consignment. The police seized illegal liquor worth Rs 60 lakh from the truck. Most liquor smugglers depend on truck drivers to transport the consignments, especially from Punjab to Bihar. The STF came to know about the modus operandi when it arrested two truck drivers on May 18 along with illegal liquor worth Rs 40 lakh. The accused, Jaswinder Singh and Paramjeet Singh, residents of Ludhiana, Punjab, told police they had been transporting liquor by using biltis of truck waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-liquor-mafia-use-fake-biltis-to-smuggle-booze/articleshow/76453105.cms||Kapil Dixit
June 19, 2020||Gurgaon||As markets reopen in Unlock 1, fake branded masks make a comeback||As markets continue to reopen in Unlock 1, the sale of masks has increased significantly. However, the increased supply and demand has also led to another problem – fake branded masks. These masks, which often have Disney and Marvel characters and even Nike, Adidas and Tommy Hilfiger logos on them, may look fancy, but they hardly give you any protection. '99% of branded masks in the markets are fake'Recently, Tommy Hilfiger filed two cases with the Delhi High Court against two Tamil Nadu manufacturers for printing its name and logos on masks. The brand received an ad-interim injunction from the HC on June 9. Some manufacturers in Haryana and Punjab have now started sourcing masks bearing names of popular sports brands on them. While original branded masks cost anything between Rs 200 - Rs 5000, these fake branded masks are sold for anything between Rs 15 - Rs 50. A staff member at a mask stall at the airport says, "Customers have asked for branded masks and Disney masks, but most of the masks we have are plain masks. However, fake branded masks are being sold everywhere – from stop signals to street markets. And both the seller and the customer know that these are fake. We have even had parents who were hoping to get Disney masks." Jai Dhar Gupta, whose company holds the licence for Vogmasks in India, says, "99% of the branded masks currently available in the market are fake masks." Fake branded masks are poorly stitched and have plastic filters. However, since people are advised to wear anything that covers their face right now, they don't mind buying these. 'NCR markets have been selling cartoon masks for years'While Disney officially launched face masks last month, fake masks with Disney characters have been in Delhi's markets since way before. A seller in Sadar Bazaar in Gurgaon, says, "Masks with cartoon characters used to be in high demand even last year. We used to have a whole set of these masks. We only had a few of those pieces left, and they were sold as soon as the market reopened." Customers are increasingly looking for specific colours and designs in masks"Disney princess masks are preferred by most. We had a few Rs 20 Elsa masks. The demand for specific colours and designs has gone up, but we don't have sufficient supply," says a seller from Sarojini Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-markets-reopen-in-unlock-1-fake-branded-masks-make-a-comeback/articleshow/76445946.cms||Niharika Lal
June 19, 2020||Delhi||As markets reopen in Unlock 1, fake branded masks make a comeback||As markets continue to reopen in Unlock 1, the sale of masks has increased significantly. However, the increased supply and demand has also led to another problem – fake branded masks. These masks, which often have Disney and Marvel characters and even Nike, Adidas and Tommy Hilfiger logos on them, may look fancy, but they hardly give you any protection. '99% of branded masks in the markets are fake'Recently, Tommy Hilfiger filed two cases with the Delhi High Court against two Tamil Nadu manufacturers for printing its name and logos on masks. The brand received an ad-interim injunction from the HC on June 9. Some manufacturers in Haryana and Punjab have now started sourcing masks bearing names of popular sports brands on them. While original branded masks cost anything between Rs 200 - Rs 5000, these fake branded masks are sold for anything between Rs 15 - Rs 50. A staff member at a mask stall at the airport says, "Customers have asked for branded masks and Disney masks, but most of the masks we have are plain masks. However, fake branded masks are being sold everywhere – from stop signals to street markets. And both the seller and the customer know that these are fake. We have even had parents who were hoping to get Disney masks." Jai Dhar Gupta, whose company holds the licence for Vogmasks in India, says, "99% of the branded masks currently available in the market are fake masks." Fake branded masks are poorly stitched and have plastic filters. However, since people are advised to wear anything that covers their face right now, they don't mind buying these. 'NCR markets have been selling cartoon masks for years'While Disney officially launched face masks last month, fake masks with Disney characters have been in Delhi's markets since way before. A seller in Sadar Bazaar in Gurgaon, says, "Masks with cartoon characters used to be in high demand even last year. We used to have a whole set of these masks. We only had a few of those pieces left, and they were sold as soon as the market reopened." Customers are increasingly looking for specific colours and designs in masks"Disney princess masks are preferred by most. We had a few Rs 20 Elsa masks. The demand for specific colours and designs has gone up, but we don't have sufficient supply," says a seller from Sarojini Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-markets-reopen-in-unlock-1-fake-branded-masks-make-a-comeback/articleshow/76445356.cms||Niharika Lal
June 19, 2020||India||Centre revises quarantine period to 1 week for docs, health workers in Covid facilities||NEW DELHI: The Union Health Ministry on Thursday revised to one week, against 14 days earlier, the quarantine period for doctors, nursing officers and other health workers with high-risk exposure to confirmed Covid-19 cases or respiratory specimens. A decision on extending the quarantine period further by one week will be taken by the nodal officer or head of the department after taking into account the profile of such doctors and other health workers, according to an updated advisory issued on the management of healthcare professionals working in Covid and non-Covid areas of hospitals. The earlier May 15 advisory stated that high risk contacts should be quarantined for 14 days, tested as per ICMR testing protocol, actively monitored for development of symptoms and managed as per laid down protocol. "For doctors, nursing officers and other health workers with high risk exposure, the quarantine period shall be initially for one week only," the updated advisory issued on Thursday read. The profile of the healthcare professionals which will be taken into account for extending the quarantine period include the age, health condition, the extent of exposure and presence of any co-morbidities, a health ministry source explained. After a week, such high-risk contacts shall be tested as per ICMR testing protocol, actively monitored for development of symptoms and managed as per laid down protocol. If they test positive but remain asymptomatic they will follow protocol for very mild, mild and presymptomatic cases. If they test negative and remain asymptomatic, they should complete the 14-day quarantine and return to work. Should symptoms develop, mild cases can opt for home isolation while moderate cases that require oxygen therapy should be managed at a Dedicated Covid Health Centre and severe cases should be managed in a Dedicated Covid Hospital. As for low risk contacts, they shall continue to work. They will self-monitor their health for development of symptoms. In case symptoms develop, the guidance based on mild, moderate and severe cases should be followed, the advisory said. "The advisory has been updated based on the evolving scenario and with more information regarding coronavirus infection coming to the fore," a health ministry official said. The document underlines that healthcare personnel working in hospitals are at increased risk of contracting the Covid-19 disease if there is a breach in the personal protection while managing patients. A large number of Covid-19 affected health personnel getting isolated for treatment and their close contacts undergoing quarantine affects the health/ hospital service delivery. According to the standard operating procedures to be followed in case of exposure/breach of PPE, all healthcare workers must report every exposure to Covid-19 to the concerned nodal officer and HoD of the concerned department immediately. The Nodal officer will get the exact details of exposure to ascertain whether the exposure constitutes a high risk or low risk exposure. Besides, as mentioned in the earlier advisory, nodal officer (Infection Control Officer) shall be identified by each hospital to address all matters related to Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs). The nodal officer has to ensure that healthcare workers in different settings of hospitals use PPEs appropriate to their risk profile, as detailed in the guidelines issued by the ministry, and they have undergone training on IPC and are aware of common signs and symptoms, need for self-health monitoring and prompt reporting of such symptoms, the advisory stated. The officer also has to make provisions for regular (thermal) screening of all hospital staff and ensure that all healthcare workers managing Covid-19 cases are provided with chemo-prophylaxis under medical supervision, the ministry said. On actions for healthcare workers, the advisory says it needs to be ensured that all preventive measures like frequent washing of hands/use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and respiratory etiquettes (using tissue/handkerchief while coughing or sneezing) are followed at all times. "He or she shall use appropriate PPE at all times while on duty," it said, stressing on the need to ensure that there is no breach in infection prevention control practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-revises-quarantine-period-to-1-week-for-docs-health-workers-in-covid-facilities/articleshow/76453391.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Some in forces favour ‘limited action’ to send message to China||NEW DELHI: India must explore the option of a ‘limited’ military action in response to China’s continuing belligerence and military build-up along the unresolved border in eastern Ladakh, say some in the defence establishment, but acknowledge that it will have to be a top political call. The military options range from forcibly evicting soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from what India considers to be its territory and securing the heights to even a ‘calibrated conflict’ — like the 1999 Kargil one with Pakistan — in conjunction with political, diplomatic and economic measures, sources said. There is, of course, realisation that China is no Pakistan, with the communist giant having a stark military asymmetry over India. But that did not detract from the fact that Indian armed forces were capable of delivering a “bloody nose” to China, they said. India-China border stand-off: Live updates“Nobody is talking of a full-blown war or conflict but China needs to be unequivocally told that India is not a pushover, militarily or otherwise. It cannot keep on unilaterally changing the status quo in the border areas and nibbling away at our territory,” a source said. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageThe sheer brutality of the PLA attack on Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley on Monday night, which left 20 dead and 18 grievously injured, is being considered a “watershed moment” that will forever change the equation on the ground between the two armies, ranged against each other along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. “The PLA is now flexing its muscles in Sikkim and Arunachal also. The final decision on the limited military action has to be taken by the political leadership, keeping all geopolitical and other factors in mind,” the source said. With Indian armed forces on a war-like alert, with activation of all Army formations and airbases facing the ‘northern borders’ with China, a close watch is being kept on the PLA build-up in areas facing the Galwan Valley, Daulat Beg Oldi, Depsang and Chushul in eastern Ladakh. Read AlsoChina's Galwan claim untenable, will hurt de-escalation efforts: IndiaAfter China claimed sovereignty over the Galwan valley, possibly for the first time in decades, India warned China that making "exaggerated and untenable" claims was contrary to the June 6 understanding between the senior commanders for de-escalation and disengagement along LAC. In the absence ofIndia has been regularly deploying surveillance platforms like satellites, drones and long-range naval aircraft like the P-8I, which are packed with radars and electro-optic sensors, to keep track of PLA deployments along the LAC. Chinese airbases in Tibet like Gargunsa, Hotan, Kashgar, Gongar and Korla are also being regularly monitored, sources said. For credible conventional deterrence against China, India has slowly but steadily built border infrastructure in terms of roads as well as advance landing grounds (ALGs) in forward areas. It has also positioned ‘military assets’ to cater for contingencies along the LAC These range from additional T-72 tank regiments and artillery units in Ladakh to Sukhoi-30MKI fighters, Akash surface-to-air missiles and BrahMos land-attack supersonic cruise missiles in the north-east. “It cannot be a walkover like 1962, which did not see the IAF being used. But any military action will require full political will and backing,” another source said. Watch Some in forces favour ‘limited action’ to send message to China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-in-forces-favour-limited-action-to-send-message-to-china/articleshow/76453968.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi and NCR need to fight Covid as a single unit: Union home minister Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: After working in silos for more than three months since the pandemic broke out, sealing borders and putting various kinds of restrictions on commuting in the process, Delhi and its neighbouring districts were told by the Centre to align strategies and fight Covid-19 as a single entity. The message came from Union home minister Amit Shah at a meeting on Thursday in North Block that was attended by Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and had senior officials of the UP and Haryana governments, including the district magistrates of Gurgaon, Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Meerut in attendance, some of them via video-conference. "There is a need to work in mission mode," a home ministry statement quoted Shah as saying. In a region that is organically connected, the message was an important first step in harmonising major administrative decisions that historically have often been at odds with each other — it’s the pandemic now, but UP and Haryana’s transport and pollution strategies, for instance, have not been in sync with Delhi’s for many years now. At Thursday’s meeting, undertaken "in view of the close-knit structure of the region", Shah asked Haryana and UP to bring down their Covid testing rates to Rs 2,400 from Rs 4,500 as approved by the Delhi government based on the recommendation of an expert committee set up by the Centre. The UP government, later in the evening, capped RT-PCR tests at Rs 2,500. Haryana was yet to do so at the time of writing this report, but a senior official said "cheaper testing rates are likely to be implemented". Shah also said that rates for Covid-19 beds and treatment, which were fixed by the same committee headed by Niti Aayog member V K Paul, could be applied to private hospitals across NCR after consultations. Assuring all possible central government support, Shah noted there was a need to test more and also to identify and treat those diagnosed as positive. The home minister emphasised using rapid antigen tests approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research across the region as it would not only ramp up testing capacity but also help in early diagnosis and treatment of positive cases. Shah also directed officials from UP and Haryana to submit information about Covid-19 beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, ICU beds and ambulances available with them as well as their plan to augment these resources by July 15 to the home ministry. This will help the ministry firm up a unified strategy on the pandemic for Delhi-NCR. Sources in the Haryana government said it was likely that Shah would hold a meeting with the chief ministers of Haryana and UP to further discuss the plan. UP government sources present at the meeting said Shah was emphatic about treating Delhi-NCR as a single unit "as it is inter-connected" and had pointed out that continuing with border movement restrictions was not "practical". An official who was part of the meeting added, "We were reminded that Delhi-NCR would have to come together to fight the epidemic and not work in isolation." A senior Haryana government official said the idea conveyed to them was "to look at NCR as a combined unit and not as different states having different districts under NCR". "All planning for the NCR districts will be done by the three different states, but together as a unit," the official added. Haryana had "sealed" borders of NCR districts, including Gurgaon and Faridabad, with Delhi through May, allowing movement only via passes. But while Haryana has lifted the restrictions now, the border regulations continue in Noida and Ghaziabad. Noida has, in fact, had its borders under stringent curbs since April. Asked about discussions on the border, Gurgaon’s municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, "The flow of traffic and inter networks of businesses are such that you cannot isolate. Anything which will be decided will be decided at the NCR level and not at the state/district level." Also discussed in the meeting with Shah was the issue of institutional isolation of asymptomatic patients, which the Supreme Court too has asked the UP government about. While institutional isolation was encouraged, authorities were left to decide what is best for them, officials said. Health department sources in UP and Haryana said they would start using rapid antigen tests in the NCR districts. The rapid antigen tests cost Rs 450 and give results in 15-30 minutes. A positive result using this rules out the need for the standard RT-PCR test. Police officials were asked to mount a vigil within containment zones. Officials were asked to keep up intensive contact tracing and increase surveillance in high-risk areas as well as containment zones. A Haryana official said the home minister also lauded two models being used in Gurgaon, which he requested the Delhi CM to look at. One is the MCG’s RWA-led model to set up isolation centres within societies for residents and the centralised helpline set up by the Gurgaon administration for all Covid-related enquiries. Asked about Haryana aligning the rates of RT-PCR tests with that of Delhi, a senior official said, "There was a discussion on the rationalisation of rates for Covid testing. ICMR has revised its guidelines and has removed the Rs 4,500 cap for testing. Cheaper rates are likely to be implemented for Covid testing in NCR districts." Watch TOI Daily: Delhi and NCR need to fight Covid as a single unit, says Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-and-ncr-need-to-fight-covid-as-a-single-unit-shah/articleshow/76454154.cms||Bharti Jain
June 19, 2020||India||‘Clashes result of improved patrolling due to better infrastructure’||NEW DELHI: Face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops in sensitive areas of eastern Ladakh have become frequent but these clashes are seen as the outcome of India’s improved patrolling due to better infrastructure, which has been built in the past few years. Government sources said frequent face-offs were not necessarily a sign of weakness or bad relations, but indicated a greater ability on the part of the Indian Army to monitor, detect and respond to PLA patrolling. As infrastructure keeps improving, these possibilities will only increase, sources said. India-China border stand-off: Live updates“To trace the genesis of this infrastructure creation, one has to go back to 2014. One of the first decisions of the Modi government was to issue a general approval in July 2014 for creation of a road network by Border Roads Organisation within 100km of aerial distance from the LAC. This general approval ensured that requirements of prior approval from the Centre and other bureaucratic processes were done away with,” said an official. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageSources said subsequently, this exemption was extended to all border security related infrastructure such as border outposts, floodlights, fencing, etc and all projects executed by paramilitary organisations under the home ministry. Government sources said this was in stark contrast to the approach taken by the UPA government where blocking such important infrastructure under various reasons was the norm. “Often the delays were due to flip-flops on environmental clearances,” the source said. Sources said the Modi government delegated powers to the BRO chief, clearing the way for construction of 66 critical roads. Earlier, every approval came to the defence ministry. These powers were subsequently delegated to officers up to chief engineer-level in BRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clashes-result-of-improved-patrolling-due-to-better-infra/articleshow/76454293.cms||Akhilesh Singh
June 19, 2020||India||Warriors laid to rest amid ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ chants||A mournful — and proud — Suryapet, about 140 km from Hyderabad in Telangana, turned up in large numbers to bid adieu to Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, who was laid to rest with full military honours on Thursday. Amid chants of ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ and ‘Santosh Babu amar rahe,’ the mortal remains of Col Santosh, who was killed by Chinese troops during clashes on June 15, were consigned to flames. The chants reverberated across the country as the Ladakh martyrs were cremated in their home states. There were teary farewells in many states. Santosh Babu’s three-year-old son Anirudh Teja saluting the body of his father at the cremation site brought tears to the eyes of people. The fact that her father has died has not sunk into the mind of Col Babu’s eight-year-old daughter Abhigna. In Bihar, as the procession carrying body of havildar Sunil Kumar winded its way from his village, Tarapur, on the outskirts of Patna, for cremation on Thursday, a sea of mourners gathered on streets and rooftops for a glimpse of the braveheart. Patriotic slogans rent the air. In Chhattisgarh, Ganesh Ram Kunjam was cremated with state honours at his village in Bastar late Thursday night. Hundreds of tribals from surrounding villages trooped to Kunjam’s native Kurrutola Gidhali hamlet in Kanker district to pay tribute. In West Bengal’s Suri and Alipurduar, it was a long wait for the families of Havildar Bipul Roy and Sepoy Rajesh Orang. BJP MP Saumitra Khan, who was at the IAF station to receive Orang’s mortal remains, later said: “There are some procedures that need to be followed. The delay was due to that.” In Tamil Nadu, the mortal remains of Havildar K Palani were laid to rest at his native Kadakalur village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/warriors-laid-to-rest-amid-bharat-mata-ki-jai-chants/articleshow/76454346.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Somebody failed to do his job: Amarinder||Asking why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given in the face of the brutal attack, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said, “Somebody failed to do his job, and we need to find out who he was.” If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to Chinese treachery, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/somebody-failed-to-do-his-job-amarinder/articleshow/76454376.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||'Leverage China’s vulnerabilities in Tibet, Taiwan and Xinjiang'||The death of scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan in eastern Ladakh this week on the disputed border between the two countries, have led many to ask the questions — What is it that China wants? Where does it see itself going? What is this China Dream that they keep talking about? In order to answer these and similar questions, we need to put out of our minds (for the time being) the recent events in Ladakh and focus on the long term, strategic issues which animate China. She looks upon much of the 19th and early 20th centuries as a period of shame when China was relatively weak and was subjugated by the superior weapons and technologies of the Western nations which had already experienced the Industrial Revolution. China was forced to concede trade and other rights to the western powers, which culminated in the Opium Wars and the ceding of Hong Kong to Britain. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageNow, after four decades of economic reform and opening to the outside world which produced fast paced growth, China has pulled herself back to the position of being the second largest economy of the globe. Simultaneously, she is also accumulating military power and especially under the leadership of Xi Jinping, China has started flexing its muscles as an important regional power which aspires for much more. Which brings us to the question of the China Dream. This dream is nothing else than to dominate the world, become the sole superpower in international politics and create a Pax Sinica. To be able to do so, she needs to overtake and replace the United States, a process already underway and described as the hundred-year marathon by one American thinker. So, China is focused laser sharp on her main rival, the US. Where does India fit into this larger strategic narrative of China’s? She realiss that her comprehensive national power exceeds that of India. If GDP is taken as a simple measure of national strength, then China wields four and half times the power of India. However, she is also acutely aware that due to India’s geographical area, population, education levels and acknowledged strengths in science, engineering, IT, innovation, we have the potential to challenge China in future. India’s rise, particularly within a democratic setting and framework, could prove the lie to the China model or the Beijing consensus, that authoritarian rule delivers quicker economic results. Thus, it is important to ensure that India does not live up to its full potential by challenging it in myriad ways. Opposing our entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group, raising tensions on the border as a reminder of the power differential between us and utilising Pakistan to keep us ensnared within the subcontinent are some ways of doing so. So how should India be reacting? Should we simply accept a Pax Sinica or is the current Pax Americana better for us? The answer should be apparent to us. India will be very uncomfortable with Chinese domination of the world because our values are diametrically opposite to those of our northern neighbor. Our open, transparent, democratic economic, political and social systems are closer to those of the United States and the West. Hence, what India needs to do is to put her head down and build up her economic, scientific and military strength and reduce the asymmetry of power with China. We should not be coy in diplomatically leveraging China’s vulnerabilities in Tibet, Taiwan and Xinjiang. Most importantly, we must unambiguously and immeasurably strengthen our partnerships with like-minded nations who share our value systems. The Galwan incident on our border with China, where the PLA has violated every bilateral agreement aimed at maintaining peace and tranquility, should stir us into reading the tea leaves and visualising our strategic future with clarity. (The writer is a former Indian ambassador to Bhutan, Pakistan and China. Currently, he is a trustee of the think-tank Pune International Centre)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/leverage-chinas-vulnerabilities-in-tibet-taiwan-and-xinjiang/articleshow/76454423.cms||Gautam Bambawale
June 19, 2020||India||India-China stand-off: Past pacts prevented pulling the trigger||NEW DELHI: Indian soldiers patrolling in the forward areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China do carry assault rifles and firearms but when a team goes ahead to confront or talk to PLA troops, they are usually unarmed or have their weapons concealed or slung on their backs. This, in short, is the standard operating procedure (SOP) followed by Indian troops, who are also under strict instructions to never open fire in accordance with the flurry of border management agreements inked with China over the years. The 1996 agreement, for instance, lays down that “neither side shall open fire or conduct blast operations within 2 km of the LAC”. India-China border stand-off: Live updatesThe brutal killing of 20 Indian soldiers, including the commanding officer of 16 Bihar Colonel B Santosh Babu, by troops of the People’s Liberation Army armed with nail-studded rods and stones in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday night has already led the Indian defence establishment to rethink existing SOPs and protocols, as was reported by TOI. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageOn Thursday, it triggered a huge controversy, with many questioning why the Indian soldiers did not draw their weapons on being faced with a brutal assault. Foreign minister S Jaishankar said troops carried arms but did not use them because of agreements between the two sides not to open fire. Read also: Some in forces favour ‘limited action’ to send message to ChinaMany military veterans strongly opposed him. Former Northern Army commander Lt General H S Panag (retd) tweeted: “These agreements (with China) apply to border management and not while dealing with a tactical military situation. Lastly, when lives of soldiers or security of post/territory threatened, the commander on the spot can use all weapons at his disposal, including artillery.” Brigadier Sandeep Thapar (retd) said, “If your colonel gets killed in front of you, all rules will be flung out of the window. If the enemy has violated the protocols and carried out offensive action, why should rules of conduct apply? Watch China's Galwan claim untenable, will hurt de-escalation efforts, says India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/past-pacts-prevented-pulling-the-trigger/articleshow/76454472.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||Do not mix geopolitical and corporate issues: COAI||NEW DELHI: As the government mulls action to keep Chinese equipment vendors out of telecom infrastructure, industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said on Thursday that geopolitical issues — under the purview of the government — should be kept separate from corporate decisions. COAI, whose members include operators such as Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio, further said that so far, the government has not mandated exclusion of any vendors’ equipment from private operator networks. However, when government makes laws, companies are “duty-bound” to comply with them, it added. “Geopolitical issues are the provenance of the government and such decisions are distinct; and should ideally be kept separate from commercial decisions which are the provenance of companies,”it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/do-not-mix-geopolitical-and-corporate-issues-coai/articleshow/76454536.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Get facts straight: Jaishankar to Rahul||NEW DELHI: Indian soldiers at the face-off site on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were armed but according to previous agreements between India and China, did not use weapons against the aggressors, foreign minister S Jaishankar said in a comeback to Congress’s Rahul Gandhi questioning why the Indian soldiers were unarmed. “Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving the post. Those at Galwan on June 15 did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 and 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during face-offs,” Jaishankar said. Rahul had earlier tweeted, “How dare China kill our unarmed soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent unarmed to martyrdom?” The 1996 agreement was signed during the H D Deve Gowda government and the 2005 one during UPA-1 led by Manmohan Singh. Posing aggressive questions to the Modi government, Rahul asked who was responsible for sending unarmed soldiers in harm’s way. In a video message in Hindi, he said, “China has committed a ghastly crime by killing unarmed Indian soldiers. I want to ask who sent these brave men into the arms of danger without weapons and why? Who is responsible?” The comment came a day after Rahul accused PM Narendra Modi of “hiding” in the wake of the Chinese assault and urged him to “not be scared” and tell the country what had happened. Congress president Sonia Gandhi too had asked the PM to come forth and tell the truth about the Chinese aggression and encroachment on Indian territory. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accused the BJP government of surrendering before China. “Our 20 soldiers have died. In such a situation, the Centre should give a strong message but by giving the contract for Delhi-Meerut semi high-speed rail corridor to a Chinese company, the Centre has adopted the strategy of surrendering. Many Indian companies are capable of constructing this corridor,” she tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/get-facts-straight-jaishankar-to-rahul/articleshow/76454552.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||No Indian troops missing in action, says Army||NEW DELHI: The Army on Thursday said “no Indian troops are missing in action” after the violent skirmish with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh on Monday night, discounting reports of 10 soldiers being in the captivity of the People’s Liberation Army since that day. “It is clarified no Indian troops are missing in action. All are accounted for,” the Army said in a brief statement, without elaborating further. It came after Leh-based 3 Infantry Division commander Major General Abhijit Bapat and his Chinese counterpart held another round of talks near ‘Patrolling Point-14’ in the Galwan Valley region on Thursday. The prolonged skirmish on Monday had erupted when PLA soldiers, who after initially pulling back a little in consonance with the de-escalation plan finalised by the rival commanders, returned to erect a ‘temporary post’ in the shape of tents near PP-14. Colonel Santosh Babu, the commanding of 16 Bihar regiment, and two soldiers died on the spot after being attacked by PLA soldiers, who were in far greater numbers and armed with nail-studded rods and stones. The other 17 Indian jawans succumbed to their injuries later, while 18 more are currently admitted in the military hospital in Leh. Fifty-eight more soldiers who received minor injuries in the clash will resume duty in a week, the Army said. There were reports after the skirmish that another 10 soldiers, including a major and a captain, were being held captive by the PLA, but the Army rejected them on Thursday. China has remained silent on the number of its casualties in the clash, which began in the high-altitude area on Monday evening and continued till well past midnight. Radio intercepts and other intelligence indicated that there were 43 “casualties” in the PLA ranks, which included the dead and grievously injured. Two PLA officers are said to be among the dead, as reported by TOI earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-indian-troops-missing-in-action-says-army/articleshow/76454566.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||Railways scraps contract with Chinese firm||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday indicated a hardening of resolve to deploy economic measures to retaliate against China for transgressions in Ladakh by scrapping a Rs 471-crore contract given to a Chinese company for a World Bank-funded railway project, without waiting for the multilateral lending agency’s nod. DFCCIL (Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd), an entity under the ministry, on Thursday decided to terminate the contract with Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication for installing signals and communications system in the 417-km Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay Jn section of the eastern freight corridor. The company was chosen in 2016 through the Bank’s bidding process. In April, DFCCIL wrote to the Bank saying it was not interested in continuing with the company due to poor project progress and failures in meeting contractual obligations. Since the Bank has the final say over contracts it funds, several rounds of discussion were held to explain the issues and the Chinese company’s shortcomings. “Since we have not received any response from the Bank till now, today we finally decided to terminate the contract. It is for the Bank to decide whether it wants to continue funding or not. We are capable of going ahead with the project under our own steam should the Bank decide to back out,” a senior ministry official said. According to the April letter, the Chinese company has completed only 20% of the assigned work in four years. This is the latest in a series of economic measures the government is deploying to hit back at China for border transgressions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/railways-scraps-contract-with-chinese-firm/articleshow/76454591.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 19, 2020||India||Govt moves to fast-track domestic API production||NEW DELHI: With tension brewing between India and China, the Centre is readying guidelines to fast-track launch of the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to promote local manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) used in making medicine formulations. India currently sources 70-80% of APIs and key starting material for drug formulation from China because of cost viability. “We are ready with the guidelines for API incentive scheme and plan to kick-start it by July 1,” a senior official in the department of pharmaceuticals said. “The objective is to boost local manufacturing of critical APIs and in the current situation, it assumes prime importance. We are regularly holding meetings to ensure that the process of implementing the scheme is completed as early as possible,” the official added. Pharmaceutical companies say supplies from China are running smooth so far, but with the evolving situation at the border, they are expecting an increase in API cost and even possible disruptions in supply. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation. So far, we have not received any reports about any disruption in supplies and there is always inventory for a few weeks but if the situation worsens then there can be a crisis,” a senior executive with a pharma industry association said. The government had in March approved a Rs 10,000 crore PLI scheme to reduce India’s dependence on China for raw materials to produce crucial antibiotics, anti-HIV drugs, vitamins and cardio medicines. The government will provide Rs 10 crore each to domestic companies for setting up plants to produce 41 products covering 53 crucial APIs. The proposal says incentives will be given on condition that products must be manufactured with complete backward integration and supplied to domestic drug-makers only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-moves-to-fast-track-domestic-api-production/articleshow/76454607.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 19, 2020||Patna||Gaya shoppers worried as 4 in key market test Covid +ve||GAYA: People in Gaya are a worried lot as four shop employees in a hypermarket near Circuit House have tested positive for Covid-19. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said full Covid-19 protocol would be maintained as far as the hypermarket is concerned. The shopping complex did not open at its scheduled time at 9 am on Thursday. Earlier, an autorickshaw driver from Tekari was tested Covid positive. A few days back, the district administration had resorted to random testing of more vulnerable groups like vendors, auto drivers, rickshaw pullers and salesman. As per a press statement issued by the district administration on Wednesday evening, altogether 182 lab confirmed cases have been reported in the district so far. “Of the 182 patients, 123 have been kept at an isolation facility in Bodh Gaya and 59 in isolation at Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH),” the press statement reads. As per the data released by district administration, altogether 5,801 samples have been sent for lab testing and 4,536 reports have been received till June 17. “At least 1,265 reports are still awaited in the district. In percentage terms, about 20% of the test reports are pending,” a statement issued by the district administration said. 4,500 repatriated: A tweet made by the official Twitter handle of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), nearly 4,500 Bihar and Jharkhand natives stranded abroad have been brought back to Gaya so far. These special flights have been operated by Air India, IndiGo, FlyDubai, Qatar Airways, Kuwait Airways and Jazeera Airways. These people were stranded in Saudi Arabia, UK, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, UAE, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Myanmar. Meanwhile, altogether 356 Bihar natives stranded in Bangladesh and Dubai reached Gaya by two special flights operated by Air India and FlyDubai on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-shoppers-worried-as-4-in-key-market-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76450846.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||G B Road widening work begins in Gaya||GAYA: Work on the much-awaited widening of G B Road between head post office and Nai Godam began on Wednesday night. Officials said the work would be done during night hours to minimise inconvenience to the visitors and shopkeepers of the all-important commercial area of the city. Debris will be removed early morning to facilitate normal business activity, they said. Gaya municipal commissioner Sawan Kumar said the work would be completed in the next three months at an estimated expenditure of Rs 6 crore. The stretch being widened is about 2km-long. Officials said apart from widening the road, electrical hazards would be removed by replacing overhead electrical cables and poles with underground power cables. The underground electric cabling, besides increasing the motorable area of the road, is also expected to improve quality of power and reduce power theft and transmission loss. “The raised footpath used to be occupied by vendors forcing the pedestrians to walk on the road, thereby further narrowing down the motorable area and making the pedestrians vulnerable to accidents,” the municipal commissioner said. He added, “In the new arrangement, the footpath width will be reduced from the existing 10-plus feet on either side of the road to less than 5% and still barricading will be done to segregate vehicular traffic and pedestrian movement. The road widening will substantially reduce the chances of traffic jams on the all-important road.” Asked about the earlier proposal to install digital signals at important traffic intersections, the municipal commissioner said the project has been deferred and the money earmarked for the purpose would now be used for the construction of public toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/g-b-road-widening-work-begins-in-gaya/articleshow/76450908.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Ex-servicemen seek ban on Chinese goods||PATNA: The Bihar Ex-servicemen Association (officers) has expressed shock and anguish over the violent face-off between the troops of India and China in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, in which at least 20 Indian Army personnel were killed on Monday night. Of these, five belonged to the 16th battalion of the Bihar Regiment. Association president Colonel (retd) V K Singh pointed out that the best way to pay homage to the martyrs was to ban Chinese goods. “It is high time Indians boycotted Chinese products to deal a crushing blow to China’s economy,” he told this newspaper. The retired colonel further said, “The Indian Army has launched several operations against militants and helped restore normalcy. The officers and jawans, who took part in these operations, tore the enemies’ hopes to shreds and brought laurels to the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-servicemen-seek-ban-on-chinese-goods/articleshow/76451422.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Patna bids farewell to brave son Sunil||PATNA: As the procession carrying the body of havildar Sunil Kumar winded its way from his Tarapur village in Bihta, on the outskirts of Patna, for cremation on Thursday, a sea of mourners gathered on streets and rooftops for a glimpse of the city braveheart who laid down his life at Galwan valley in Ladakh on June 15. Kumar’ body was kept overnight at the mortuary of the military hospital of Bihar Regimental Centre after which it was taken to his residence at Tarapur from where his final journey began on a military truck. Patriotic slogans rent the air as the martyr’s body was taken on his last journey. Kumar was set to retire from the Army next year. Kumar was cremated with full military honours and his eldest son Ayush Raj lit his funeral pyre on the banks of Ganga near Maner in Patna. Kumar, who is survived by a daughter and two sons and his wife, was also given a gun salute by 14 Army jawans at the river bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-bids-farewell-to-brave-son-sunil/articleshow/76451311.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Khagaria village included in central scheme||PATNA: Khagaria is among the 116 districts in six states across the country which has been selected under ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan’ of the central government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the scheme around 11am on June 20 through videoconferencing to help the migrant workers. Sources said Telhara village under Beldaur block in Khagaria district has been selected under the scheme. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Khagaria figured among the most backward districts in the state. Besides, the district, which is surrounded by many rivers, is grappled with the problem of the highest rate of migration in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/khagaria-village-included-in-central-scheme/articleshow/76450946.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ready to boycott Chinese goods, but need help, says traders||NEW DELHI: Traders’ associations in Delhi are ready to boycott products imported from China provided alternative arrangements are made by the Centre. At Sadar Bazar, traders claimed to be importing at least Rs 300 crore worth of products every month from China, including plastic toys, soft toys and electrical items. Though such imports have got reduced due to the lockdown, it won’t be possible to give up these products unless the government relaxes its norms and promotes mass production, said traders. “Compared with 200-250 containers earlier, only 30-40 containers are coming now. But the demand will increase after some time and it is important that the Centre and the state government make some arrangements in advance. In the NCR, we have limited manufacturing units doing mass production, providing products at cheap rates and in huge variety. The government should come forward to support people in India,” said Rajendra Sharma, general secretary of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders Association. He said that traders of Sadar Bazar boycotted 70-80% of holi products, which were made in China, this year. “We didn’t sell plastic water guns, colours and other things and this support will continue in future too,” said another trader from the market. Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders Association, said that even international brands are preferring production in China because of their huge manufacturing set-up and quality control as per requirement. “In India, several licences and permissions are required to run and set up a unit. People are ready to support the initiative provided a positive atmosphere is created,” said Mehra who owns a toy shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ready-to-boycott-chinese-goods-but-need-help-traders/articleshow/76453494.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 19, 2020||Patna||Bodies of 5 Ladakh martyrs reach Patna, CM Nitish Kumar pays tribute||PATNA: Five coffins draped in Tricolour carrying the Ladakh martyrs of Bihar Regiment arrived at Patna airport on Thursday as an Indian Air Force AN-32 plane landed around 4.40pm. The special aircraft brought the bodies of Indian Army sepoys Chandan Kumar from Bhojpur, Kundan Kumar from Saharsa, Aman Kumar from Samastipur, Jai Kishore Singh from Vaishali and Kundan Kumar Ojha from Sahebganj in neighbouring Jharkhand. They were killed in clashes with the People's Liberation Army of China at Galwan valley on June 15. CM Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and several of their cabinet colleagues as well as leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav were present at the airport to pay their homage. The family members of Aman Kumar and Jai Kishore Singh were present and were the first to lay the wreaths. The martyrs were given a guard of honour. Army sources said the bodies of Sahebganj and Saharsa martyrs would be sent to their native places directly from the airport while the rest three would be kept at the BRC military hospital and would be sent early on Friday. “All five martyrs would be cremated with full military honours on Friday at their desired locations as per the wishes of their family members,” a source said. Among the other dignitaries present at the airport were state labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha, agriculture minister Prem Kumar, building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, health minister Mangal Pandey, water resource minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, information-technology minister Jai Kumar Singh and rural development minister Sharwan Kumar. Senior state officials including home secretary Amir Subhani, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, IG (central range) Sanjay Singh, DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma also paid homage to the martyrs. Major General Raj Pal Punia (YSM), GOC of Jharkhand and Bihar subarea of the India Army, Brigadier Jai Singh Bainsla, commandant of Bihar regimental centre (BRC) in Danapur and others paid their respect to the martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bodies-of-5-ladakh-martyrs-reach-patna-nitish-pays-tribute/articleshow/76451215.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||You cannot own ‘magic’, Madras HC tells ITC||Chennai: You cannot own ‘magic’, Madras high court has told ITC, declining to entertain its objection to Nestle India’s use of a word ‘magical masala’ to promote Nestle’s noodles product. Just as ITC’s laudatory expression ‘magic masala’ for its noodles, Nestle too was using an expression ‘magical masala,’ the high court reasoned, adding: Laudatory expressions like ‘Magic Masala’ and ‘Magical Masala’ cannot be monopolised. It was ITC’s case that from the year 2010 onwards it had been using the expression ‘Magic Masala’ for its noodles products and therefore use of similar expression — ‘Magical Masala’ — by Nestle from 2013 would amount to passing off (unregistered trademark right) under the Trademark Act. Opposing the claim, Nestle contended that ITC cannot claim monopoly over laudatory expressions like ‘Magic’. Concurring with the submissions, Justice Saravanan said: “The word ‘Magic’ was commonly used in the food industry and the terms ‘Magic’ and ‘Magical’ were common to the trade. ‘Magic’ was laudatory and a laudatory epithet cannot be given monopoly or protection.” The term ‘Masala’ signified a mixture of ground spices used in Indian cooking and it could not be appropriated. Neither the plaintiff nor the defendant could claim monopoly over the expression ‘Magic’ or ‘Magical’ along with the common word ‘Masala’, Justice Saravanan added. This apart, the judge asserted that a descriptive term which directly and clearly conveys information about ingredients, qualities and characteristics of the product or services are not protectable at the first instance but may qualify for protection if they assumed a secondary meaning and identified as a particular product or as being from a particular source. Further, noting that a suggestive term used as a mark which indirectly suggests the qualities and characteristics of a product may be registerable and protected, the court said. However, words may become distinctive on account of their long and uninterrupted use, as a result of which they may get a secondary meaning and the consumer might begin to associate them with the goods of such proprietors.In the case on hand, ITC has approached the court at the earliest occasion, which cannot be entertained, the judge concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/you-cannot-own-magic-madras-hc-tells-itc/articleshow/76453041.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Covid fear, restrictions, planned purchases driving vehicle sales||Nagpur: Automobile dealerships that reopened after the lockdown have reported an unexpected response from the buyers. Much against what was apprehended, a major increase has been seen in the demand for two-wheelers. A majority of the demand is from the rural markets, say dealers. Even car sales are much more than what was expected. The demand for small cars priced within Rs5 lakh has gone up, said sources. The dealers are attributing it to the post covid-19 scare. Many are buying vehicles to avoid public transport. At the same time it is also not being denied that customers who are now coming forward, may only be those who had planned purchases before the lockdown. In any case, business is pegged to be as much as it was in June last year in the two-wheeler segment. The vehicles in demand are priced in the range of Rs50,000 to 80,000. Nikhil Kusumgar, a dealer of Hero two-wheelers, said the demand was mainly from the rural segment. It appears the purchases which could not take place during the last two months are happening now. Kusumgar said he has witnessed a 10% jump in terms of vehicles sold each day. Sayan Das, an employee in the accountant general’s office, said he needed a vehicle for commuting as the earlier one was not in a usable condition anymore. “I believe even Covid-19 is one of the factors in this decision. It’s better to avoid public transport these days,” he said. A K Gandhi of M/s AK Gandhi Motors said sales this June are somewhat similar to the same period last year. Gandhi said sales are up because a need to have another two-wheeler at home is being realized by buyers. “For example if there are two siblings in a home, the parents want to have a vehicle for each of them. Apart from the need to avoid public transport, even restriction on riding pillion is one of the reasons that has spurred the demand. Financiers, too, are offering loans on relaxed terms. The demand for scooterettes and mopeds has also gone up,” he said. “It’s being said that the demand is driven by the Covid scare as people may stop using public transport. However, it may also be that the customers who had planned to buy a vehicle earlier but could not because of the lockdown are turning up now,” said Umesh Patni, a dealer of Bajaj vehicles. Even Patni said the demand was higher in rural markets. Dev Kanoria of Sudarshan Motors said the odd-even rule has slowed down business. “There is no such increase in the demand for two-wheelers either,” he said. “The economic impact due to Covid-19 has drastically brought down the demand for luxury cars. However, inquiries have increased for small cars. The footfalls are not much but online inquiries are being made,” said Vishal Barbate of Arya Cars. Anuj Pandey of Eros Motors said, “We expected sales to be down to 10%, but its 30%.” Kishore Tiwari, the chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, a state government task force on farm distress, said, “The easy availability of finance has also prompted the rural folk to buy two-wheelers. Even bankers are promoting two-wheeler loans rather than meeting crop loan targets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fear-restrictions-planned-purchases-driving-vehicle-sales/articleshow/76453487.cms||Shishir Arya
June 19, 2020||Business||Tata Motors rating cut by Moody’s||Mumbai: Moody’s Investors Service has downgraded Tata Motors’ corporate family rating (CFR) and the company’s senior unsecured instruments rating to B1 from Ba3. The outlook on all ratings has been revised to negative. The downgrade does not bode well for the company’s borrowing programme, which, according to Moody’s, includes a long-term $400-million-loan that the company is in the process of raising to fund capital expenditure and debt repayments aggregating $2.1 billion over the next 18 months to September 2021. The downgrade would have been steeper but for the “extraordinary support” from the parent group. Tata Sons and other Tata Group companies have invested nearly $1 billion in equity in October 2019, hiking their stake to 46.4%. “The downgrade reflects the sustained deterioration in Tata Motors’ credit profile and our expectation that it will take longer than we had previously expected for the company’s credit metrics to return to levels appropriate for a Ba3 CFR,” said Moody’s VP and senior credit officer Kaustubh Chaubal. Tata Motors’ credit profile was already under pressure due to lower auto sales and falling demand before the Covid-19 crisis which has made things much worse. Although TML commands a 43% market share in India’s CV segment, Moody’s expects around 25% decline in its wholesale unit sales in fiscal 2021 on the back of a 34% decline in fiscal 2020. TML India’s PV business continues to lose market share and reported losses in fiscal 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-motors-rating-cut-by-moodys/articleshow/76453550.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Widespread rainfall in Bihar till June 22: Met||PATNA: Patna and several other parts of the state were lashed by monsoon showers on Thursday as predicted by the weathermen. India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated in its all-India weather bulletin on Thursday that widespread rainfall is expected in Bihar till June 22. Patna Meteorological Centre, on the other hand, said rainfall would continue over the next two days. The daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places in western parts of Bihar and many places in rest parts of the state during the last 24 hours. Besides, heavy rainfall occurred in Aurangabad. Other places which received significant rainfall included Aurangabad (70mm), Hathwa (50mm), Basua and Sripalpur (40mm each) and Thakurganj, Palmerganj, Ramnagar, Deo, Supaul, Bhabhua, Taibpur, Gaunaha, Madhepura (30mm each). With regard to continuation of rainfall, the weather bulletin said rainfall with thunderstorm would occur at many places in Bihar on Friday and Saturday. The Patna Meteorological Centre stated in its bulletin that rainfall with thunderstorm and heavy rain would occur at one or two places in Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar on Friday and Purnia, Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui on Saturday. Meteorologists attributed the prevailing spell of monsoon rainfall to a couple of weather systems prevailing in the region. “A trough line, an elongated low pressure area, was running from south Uttar Pradesh to Assam across Bihar and sub-Himalayan West Bengal. Besides, a cyclonic circulation was situated over Jharkhand and neighbourhood. Accordingly, rainfall is expected to continue in Bihar for next two days owing to moisture incursion from the two weather systems along with other favourable conditions,” an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said. The southwest monsoon made its onset over Bihar on June 13 and covered the entire state on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widespread-rainfall-in-bihar-till-june-22-met/articleshow/76451279.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||RWAs want local centres for non-critical patients in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city have welcomed the lieutenant governor’s decision to re-examine his previous order and make institutional isolation mandatory only in cases where Covid positive patients don’t have adequate facilities for home isolation. On Saturday morning, residents’ bodies from 25 colonies had jointly written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, expressing their concerns over his previous decision to make five days of institutional quarantine mandatory for all Covid-19 positive patients. “It would have increased the load on the overburdened government machinery; deter residents from going for testing; and most importantly, female patients, children and people with disabilities and senior citizens could be subject to exploitative and criminal behaviour at these places. The updated order has come as a big relief for us,” said Devalina Kohli, vice-president of Hill View Apartments. The development has, however, increased demand for formation of novel coronavirus-response teams in neighbourhoods to help asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms. Each team can have a sub-divisional magistrate, a station house officer, IMA-proposed doctors, RWA members and the local volunteers as members, the RWAs have suggested. Explaining an instance from Khanpur where a family was sent for quarantine at a government-run centre, Ruby Makhija, general secretary of Navjivan Vihar RWA, said, “The place was quite far from Khanpur and patients, including grandparents and a 12-year-old girl, could not get proper meal and other facilities there. We appealed to officials and they helped the family immediately. In our letter to the lieutenant governor, we appealed that houses where home isolation was not possible, local community centres could be utilised to make patients feel comfortable.” Several RWAs claim to have already made some arrangements at their level in their neighbourhoods for keeping asymptomatic patients. But it is important that these are supervised and assisted by government officials and doctors, they add. “Depending on the government infrastructure totally is not a good idea,” said Pankaj Agarwal of Safdarjung Enclave RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-want-local-centres-for-non-critical-patients/articleshow/76487380.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rain intensifies, Pernem races past 1,000mm mark||PANAJI: With the southwest monsoon active over Goa, the state experienced very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Thursday. The rain gauge stations recorded over 100mm of rainfall at Pernem, Ela (Old Goa), Mormugao and Dabolim. Of these, Mormugao recorded the highest amount of rainfall with a total of 135.7mm. However, Pernem region is the first to cross the 1000mm mark. Pernem has received a seasonal total of 1031.6 mm since June 1. The station at Ela, Old Goa is only a little behind, having recorded 910.7mm since the beginning of this month. The rainfall activity over Goa had intensified over the past three days owing to a circulation above the North Konkan region. The increased amount of rainfall from June 16 to 18 can be attributed to this phenomenon. The India meteorological department (IMD) has issued a heavy rainfall at a few places warning till this weekend. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55 km/hr is likely to prevail along and off Maharashtra-Goa coast. Fishermen are therefore advised not to venture along and off Maharashtra-Goa coast for a few days. In Panaji and its surrounding areas, intermittent spells of rain/thundershowers are expected till June 20. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 26°C and 25°C respectively. Intermittent spells of thundershowers are also expected in Mormugao and its surrounding areas till June 20. However, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 28°C and 23°C respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-intensifies-pernem-races-past-1000mm-mark/articleshow/76453485.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Traffic, business disrupted for nearly one hour as Panaji inundated yet again||PANAJI: The state capital’s monsoon misery continues. A day after breathing a sigh of relief, streets in Panaji were flooded once again and normal life disrupted as heavy rain lashed the city on Thursday. The roads were flooded for almost an hour, from 9am to 10am, which owners of business establishments in the area attributed to the high tide. “The water receded after a while on its own, but for almost 45 minutes, our business came to a standstill,” Café Central proprietor Ravindra Gaitonde said. Shopkeepers say that on days of heavy rainfall, water from the Altinho hillock cascades down towards the city. This water is supposed to flow directly into the Mandovi through the internal drainage system. But when the tide is high, the water level in the Mandovi rises, thus causing the rainwater to cough its way back onto the streets. Owing to the topography of the road network, the water is often stagnated on Dr Pissurlekar Road and the 18 June Road. “We have been plagued by this problem from the past 40 years. It is high time the civic bodies consult experts to resolve this issue once and for all,” one businessman said. In Mala, rainwater coupled with the high tide in the Rua de Ourem creek left the road opposite Mary Immaculate school inundated. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) attributed the reason for blockage to garbage that had congested the drains there. The issue was resolved after the blockage was cleared. The St Mary’s colony along Stella Maris chapel in Campal was flooded this year too. Last year, CCP had resolved to build a storm water drain and connect it with the inner drains network to enable the water to flow out into the sea. This, however, is yet to materialise. “We had to stall the plan due to the lockdown. However, officials overlooking the Panaji Smart City project have been told to take care of the matter. Now, the works are only pending due to lack of labour force,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. On the issue of flooding due to high tide, Madkaikar said, “This is a real situation which we must accept. No one can do anything at the timing of the high tide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-biz-disrupted-for-nearly-1-hour-as-panaji-inundated-yet-again/articleshow/76453476.cms||Nida Sayed
June 19, 2020||Surat||Daman records highest single day surge with 10 cases||SURAT: The union territory of Daman witnessed the highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 10 people, mostly workers employed in the industrial units, testing positive on Thursday.Official sources said that out of the 10, six patients were already under government quarantine facility and three others were tested positive during community sampling drive. Majority of the patients testing positive for Covid-19 have travel history to Gujarat and are employed in the industrial units in Daman. There were about 22 active coronavirus cases in the UT on Thursday. Sources said that patients are in the age group of 21 to 53 years and are from Nani Daman and Dabhel areas in Daman. Meanwhile, Ummar Noor apartment in Nani Daman, Vijay Bar and Restaurant in Dabhel, Dilip Empire in Nani Daman and Adarshnagar society in Nani Daman have been put under containment zone and that the health teams have started the door-to-door survey of the residents. After Unlock 1, the Daman administration had started issuing e-passes to the persons coming for work in the territory and also to those who were going out of the territory. Recently, the administration announced that the visitors in Daman will have to book a hotel room to enter into the territory. Director of Medical and health services of UT, Dr V K Das said, “The surge in the Covid-19 cases was expected in Daman after the workforce in the industries started coming into the territory from nearby Gujarat. Most of these workers are living in the Chawls in Nani Daman and Dabhel.” Dr Das added, “Our health teams have been doing community sampling among the migrant workers employed in the industry. The workers having suspected symptoms are tested for coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-records-highest-single-day-surge-with-10-cases/articleshow/76452430.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Surat||Buzz of an angadia firm owing Rs 400cr to clients going bust in Surat||SURAT: At a time when the diamond industry is yet to resume full-fledge operations, there is a strong buzz about a leading angadia firm (courier agency) in the walled city area going bust. The speculations began after the owners of the firm went underground shutting their offices in Surat, Mumbai, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Rajkot, and other places on Thursday.Sources said that the firm’s head office is located in the city’s Bhawani Wad area. Also, the firm’s owners owe about Rs 400 crore to more than 100 clients from the diamond industry in Surat and Mumbai. Two days ago, there were rumours in the diamond market about a owner of the angadia firm in question committing suicide in Mehsana. The firm, according to the industry sources, is operating since six decades and were providing cash transfer and the transshipment of the valuable goods including diamonds and jewellery between Surat, Mumbai, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, Mehsana, Amreli and Bhavnagar. An office-bearer of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) seeking anonymity said, “The firm in question is a leading name in the industry with accounts of many big diamantaires. It has come as a shock for the industry during a time when the sector his severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/buzz-of-an-angadia-firm-owing-rs-400cr-to-clients-going-bust-in-surat/articleshow/76452367.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Surat||Surat city limits expanded after 14 years||Surat: After nearly 14 years, limit of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been expanded with merger of two municipalities — Sachin and Kansad — and 27 surrounding villages into limits of Gujarat’s second largest city. Surat city known for its diamond and textile industry, currently has population of over 60 lakh and area of more than 326 sq km. With merger of these villages and towns, over 1.76 lakh population and area of 146 sq km area will be added to the city. SMC officials said that the merger was long overdue. The notification for the merger was issued by the state government on Thursday. “SMC is committed to providing all the civic amenities to these villages which have been merged into the city limits. Good services and better infrastructure will change the face of these areas,” Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, told TOI. Sources said that merging of Sachin municipality and its nearby area into Surat has paved way for the Surat—Navsari twin-city plan. The real estate sector is also seeing a huge opportunity with the inclusion of 27 village panchayats and two municipalities in the city jurisdiction. Ravji Patel, president of CREDAI-Surat told TOI, “There is a huge opportunity for the real estate sector to tap in the new areas.” Another realtor, Sagar Dandvate said, “Though majority of the villages included into the SMC limit were part of SUDA, development of new real estate projects could not take place there due to the lack of basic infrastructure facilities.” Meanwhile, those connected with the textile industry are celebrating with the inclusion of the Saroli and Kumbhariya villages into the SMC jurisdiction. However, most of the villages merged with SMC are not happy with the government decision. Yogesh Patel, sarpanch of Ichhapore village said, “Our village has all the amenities and they are better than what the SMC provides. We are very upset about losing our village to the SMC. Till now, Ichhapore was protected from haphazard real estate development, but now we won’t be able to protect our village.” Sarpanch of Kathor village in Olpad, Irfan Belim said, “We were opposing the inclusion of our village in the SMC limits since the beginning. Still, the government has decided to merge it. The decision is against the wishes of the people of the village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-city-limits-expanded-after-14-years/articleshow/76452319.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||History-sheeter goes on rampage after vain bid to kill two||RAJKOT: Residents of Manharpara locality on Bhavnagar Road woke up to the sound of gunshots as gang of goons led by history-sheeter Imtiyaz Rauma alias Lalo went on a rampage early on Thursday after attempting to shoot dead two persons over personal enmity. After failing in their attempt to kill their targets by firing two rounds, Imtiyaz and his eight accomplices vandalized eight vehicles including two-wheelers and a rickshaw in the locality. However, no injury or casualty was reported and cops have rounded up six accused on Thursday. Imtiyaz is however on the run. Thorala police station officials said that Imtiyaz was out to take revenge on two persons, Mohsin Qureshi and Taufiq Sandhar. Imtiyaz’s cousin Musa Rauma and Qureshi’s friend, Jilani Rauma, had a bitter altercation over some issue on Monday. Though a compromise was later reached, Imtiyaz harboured a grudge against Qureshi. On Wednesday night, Qureshi had lodged a complaint stating that Imtiyaz had called him up and threatened to kill Sandhar when the duo had gone to meet a friend in Morbi. Fearing attack on their houses, the duo did not go back to their residences and stayed put near Bedipara Fire Station in Manharpara. After Imtiyaz learnt about their location, he along with his cronies went there on three two-wheelers, armed with swords and a revolver, at around 3am. “They first hurled soda bottles at Qureshi and Sandhar and Imtiyaz fired two rounds from his revolver at the duo. However, he missed the targets and the revolver malfunctioned in the third attempt,” said an official from Thorala police station. Cops said that thereafter, the irate group on their way out from the area vandalized the vehicles. Other accused were identified as Irfan Rauma, Saddam, Imalo, Shabir, Faruq, Jambu and two unidentified persons. Imtiyaz has several cases of crime including attempt to murder, assault, possessing firearms and bootlegging lodged against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-goes-on-rampage-after-vain-bid-to-kill-two/articleshow/76452713.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Distant relative rapes married woman, booked||RAJKOT: A married woman lodged a rape complaint against her distant relative with Rajkot mahila police station on Thursday. The woman alleged that the accused had raped her twice in the past six months. In the first assault, the accused had allegedly made her unconscious after making her consume soft drink laced with sedatives and had raped her at his home in Labhdeep Society near Mawdi Chowkadi in Rajkot. Three months ago, the accused had taken the survivor to Silvassa and had raped her with threats to kill her husband and children if she did not comply with his wishes. “Our preliminary investigation has found that both the survivor and the accused were engaged to be married. However, their engagement broke off, and they married with different persons. The survivor and the accused both have two children each. We have registered the case and launched a manhunt for the ,” said an official from Rajkot mahila police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/distant-relative-rapes-married-woman-booked/articleshow/76452730.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Surat||Lost in Surat, J&K man walks till he lay dead||SURAT: After he walked out of his brother’s home for a walk, a 42-year-old man from Jammu and Kashmir got lost in the maze of city roads and frustrated at not being able to locate his address in Vesu area, he kept walking — till he finally lay down dead some 20 kms away from home on Simada canal road near Ram Katha Ground. According to the police, Virendra Dhar, a Kashmiri Pandit from Jammu, had accompanied his mother and 74-year-old ailing father Pushkarnath, a retired air force officer, to Surat for the latter’s treatment a few days before lockdown. However, getting stuck in the city after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, Dhar became irritable and had thus gone out for a walk at around 11 am of June 4. But, being new to the city, the man who is also a diabetic and suffered from schizophrenia, got lost and ultimately died of exhaustion three days later after walking incessantly for hours together without taking a break or eating anything, searching for his home. The identification of his body was ascertained only on Thursday. Dhar, who happened to be a chess champion in his school days had good memory powers, said his family, adding that the man, however, never kept a phone with him. He had developed irritable behaviour being stuck in the lockdown. His elder brother Dr Sanjay Dhar, an ENT surgeon in the city, approached the Umra police on June 5 when his brother failed to return home even after 24 hours. Dhar’s body was found on June 7 morning by Sarthana police. “I am shocked that my brother did not get any help when he was searching for home. The city roads were alien to him and being already irritable, he may have got more frustrated,” said Dr Dhar. “Virendra used to go out for a half-an-hour walk after the lockdown relaxations . On the first day after going out for his regular walk on June 4, Virendra walked impatiently for over 17 hours throughout the day and night,” the brother said. Meanwhile, his family started searching when he didn’t return for long but to no avail. After Virendra’s movement was captured on CCTV, the family contacted locals in those areas where he was found inquiring about the apartment. “Police were checking the CCTV footage from June 4. The deceased is seen walking continuously. He fell on the road couple of times but started walking again after a short break,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lost-in-city-jk-man-walks-till-he-lay-dead/articleshow/76452491.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Saikat covid test 18-06-2020||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday arranged for the first random Covid-19 pool test at a high-rise in north Kolkata after a resident of the building tested positive last week. A team from SSKM hospital turned up at Arvind Tower near Khanna at 10am to conduct a random swab test for residents of the tower. The team collected samples from five residents of the complex. While a section of residents welcomed the team and extended their cooperation, some of them refused to be a part of the exercise. “We appreciate such efforts on part of KMC and SSKM hospital. It is unfortunate that some residents refused to get tested even though I had communicated to them about it to all, especially those who could be suspects,” said Dilip Dutta, the secretary of Arvind Tower Residents’ Welfare Association who voluntarily came forward for the test. Ram Avatar Agarwal, another resident of the tower who was initially hesitant to get tested, was later inspired by his daughter Rashmi and agreed to get his sample tested. “I had come in close contact with the Covid-positive patient four days before he tested positive. We had participated in a football match. When the team from SSKM hospital came to our housing complex, I was hesitant initially but after my daughter, who is a doctor, made me understand that I should not miss such an opportunity that was being provided by a credible government healthcare institute, I agreed to get myself tested,” Agarwal said. According to a KMC health department official, the civic body was keeping a special vigil on housing complexes in areas like Ultadanga, Kankurgachhi and Phoolbagan as multiple positive cases were reported from the high-rises in these areas. “We will be conducting random tests in these areas as part of our containment strategy,” a civic health department official said. Similarly, such tests may also be conducted in high-rises in south Kolkata, including in areas like Hastings, Kidderpore, Alipore, New Alipore, Tollygunge, Golf Green, Lake Gardens, Prince Anwar Shah Road and pockets off EM Bypass, a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/saikat-covid-test-18-06-2020/articleshow/76452421.cms||Saikat Ray
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Webinar focus on keeping campuses safe||KOLKATA: The pandemic has pushed schools to change the way they teach, but the stop-gap arrangement must give way to a well thought-out strategy to ensure safety of students when schools reopen. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Thursday organized a webinar on recalibrating framework for a safer campus to deliberate on a way forward for schools, students and their parents in this time of Covid-19 “The pandemic has created an unprecedented situation. Going forward, schools will have to take several steps, like social distancing and reducing the number of school days, to ensure safety of students,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, co-chairperson, education sub-committee, of CII and secretary general of Shikshayatan Foundation. Craig Cook, principal of Woodstock International School, said the pandemic has also thrown up an opportunity to change the traditional ways of teaching, learning and managing education. Biswajit Saha, director, training and skills, CBSE, said, “Till now, we have no data on how many students can easily access the online method of teaching. We must also try to assess how effective online teaching is proving to be.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/webinar-focus-on-keeping-campuses-safe/articleshow/76452479.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||See you in office next year, top SaaS cos tell employees||CHENNAI: With no flattening of the curve in sight, companies that offer software as a service (SaaS) — including Freshworks and Chargebee — are asking employees to work from home (WFH) till December. Zoho has also asked its employees to be in WFH mode till the pandemic subsides, without fixing a date of return to office. Consequently, some of the office leases have been cancelled. Nasscom estimates show that the Indian IT/BPM industry has a total workforce of 4.36 million, and nearly 95% of them moved to WFH mode as soon as the government announced a lockdown during the last week of March. Jack Dorsey’s Twitter and Square have both said employees can work from home forever, Google and Facebook have told employees they can be in WFH mode until the end of 2020. Armed with performance-monitoring tools and having established data security drills, tech companies appear to have hit the WFH ground running, effectively too. While they admit their employees log in more hours, the deliverables have not been impacted, enabling the companies to extend the WFH option. Freshworks CHRO Suman Gopalan said that they have announced the option of working from anywhere until the end of 2020. “Our business continuity planning (BCP) protocols have helped the workforce ‘work from anywhere’ and the effectiveness of the model has led us to believe that we can continue and ride this out. Even the return to normalcy will not be abrupt, but rather in phases,” he said. Chargebee has said that there was no compulsion for employees to come to office till December. CEO and co-founder Krish Subramanian said that the employees are not in any compulsion to come into work until the end of the year. “The productivity is good and there have been no complaints from team leaders. We have also suspended the lease for our office in Chennai and are evaluating options for smaller offices in other locations,” he added. Zoho, whose founder Sridhar Vembu works out of a remote village in Tenkasi, in southern Tamil Nadu, does not have a defined date of resuming working from office. “Even after the pandemic subsides, we will give an option for the employees to continue working from home. For those who have gone back home, we are considering opening small remote offices based on the situation in those areas. This is a long-term plan for setting up remote offices in a hub-and-spoke model. We’ll create opportunities and encourage people to move to rural areas and be able to work from there,” said Zoho VP Praval Singh. Another SaaS company Kissflow has set up Remote plus, a hybrid remote working model where the employees are required to work from an office only for one week a month. While the company is mandating WFH until the lockdown lifts, a hybrid remote working model is a permanent move. “This may become a permanent move depending on a productivity assessment in 6 months. We will make a conscious effort to hire employees who will thrive in a remote work environment,” said CEO Suresh Sambandam. Even as remote working is seamless with no impact on productivity, the companies are having informal virtual meetings, sessions to strike the balance between work and family and make up for the water cooler conversations that happen in the offices. Chargebee has weekly activities to keep the team bonding going, adds Subramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/see-you-in-office-next-year-top-saas-cos-tell-employees/articleshow/76453051.cms||Aparna Desikan
June 19, 2020||Patna||HC panel to decide on mode of hearing||PATNA: Chief justice Sanjay Karol of Patna high court on Thursday formed a three-judge committee to decide on when and in what form — hybrid or physical —the functioning of the courts should be resumed. The committee would look into the steps that can be taken to optimize the working of the high court in virtual mode in order to make it more effective. Currently, the high court is functioning in virtual mode as a precautionary measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic along with e-filing and e-listing for advocates. Periodically, several corrective measures were taken by the HC after problems were raised by advocates as well as officers of the high court administration to make the virtual system more effective. The committee will interact with advocates along with officers in the registry to seek their views and ideas. Incidentally, a group of lawyers submitted a petition to the high court registrar that they would protest outside the Chief Justice’s official residence on June 23 if their demands of manual filing and mentioning are not implemented along with hearing of cases inside the courtrooms. Advocates had earlier submitted a petition before the HC administration in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-panel-to-decide-on-mode-of-hearing/articleshow/76452420.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: For some, safety issues trump a high test score||KOLKATA: Some students in the city have decided to opt out of the pending board examinations to avoid putting their family members, especially their grandparents, at risk. While most parents are relieved that the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) has provided the choice of taking the pending exams if students wished to improve their scores, some have decided to not send their wards out of home. Sanjna De, a doctor at Sri Arabinda Seva Kendra’s critical care unit, has emailed the authorities of South City International School, informing them that her daughter Vedashree won’t be taking the rest of the 2020 examinations. “I can’t jeopardize my family’s safety for the sake of the examinations,” Vedashree told TOI on Thursday. “I live in Jotesibrampur, which is beyond Behala Chowrasta. The risk of commuting all the way to Prince Anwar Shah Road would be too great when the Covid graph is rising every day,” the humanities stream student added. Her grandparents, aged 74 and 72, are her biggest concern, she said. The same rationale works for Dipanwita Chakraborty of St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore. “My grandmother is over 70. The question of taking the exams doesn’t arise. I am okay with being evaluated by the pre-boards’ marks,” she said. Akash Kolea, who is dropping out of his last ISC paper, said, “The biggest risk will be public transport. During the lockdown, I had started e-sports commentary. So I am already looking at the broader perspective of things.” Anne D’Souza, mother of Annika Das, said, “The only significance of the Class X certificate is the date of birth validation. So there’s is no question of sending my child out of the house.” These parents are exceptions, felt an educationist. “Someone asked me what I would have done had I been in his shoes. I said I would never have sent my child to the exam hall. He wasn’t convinced. I am startled at the way the parents are behaving,” he said. South City International School principal John Bagul agreed. “The ICSE examinees are already in Class XI. We have taken students from other schools without the board exams. So why the dilemma?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-some-safety-issues-trump-a-high-test-score/articleshow/76452459.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 19, 2020||Patna||RJD authorises Lalu to select council nominees||PATNA: The RJD, which held its parliamentary board meeting on Thursday, authorised Lalu Prasad to select the candidates to be nominated for state legislative council from the party’s quota. Biennial elections to the legislative council on nine seats from Vidhan Sabha constituency are scheduled to be held on July 6. As per the schedule released by the Election Commission of India, notification process will begin from June 18 and the last date for the same is June 25. Of nine seats on which the biennial elections are to be held, RJD has got three. The hour-long meeting was held at former chief minister Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road residence. The meeting, presided by Awadh Bihar Choudhary, authorised Lalu, the president of the party, to select the candidates. In another meeting of central parliamentary board presided by Rabri, the decision taken by the state parliamentary board was given the nod. After the meeting, party members paid tributes to the jawans martyred in a face-off with the Chinese Army in Galwan Valley by keeping one-minute silence. One of the legislators present in the meeting said one candidate each from upper Rajput caste, minority and an extremely backward caste (EBC) would be sent to legislative council through Vidhan Sabha constituency. While the name of former health minister and Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav is doing rounds, a senior RJD leader close to Lalu said the party would not send any Yadav to the council. He said one Rajput was sure to be sent to and names of party state president Jagdanand Singh and Biscomaun chairman Sunil Singh are also under consideration. Among EBC candidates, three names are being discussed – Shri Narayan Mahto of Madhubani, Ram Dev Sharma of Saharsa and party’s state EBC wing president Rambali Chandravanshi. Sources said Faisal Ali, who had contested on RJD’s ticket from Sheohar, is also in race. Another source said in a bid to woo Kayasthas, the party would give council berth to Vinod Kumar Shrivastva, who had been Lalu’s personal assistant. One of the state parliamentary board members said former lawmaker Anirudh Yadav may also be a candidate. RJD Vidhan Sabha member and Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav said the party president has been authorised to finalise the names. RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari too said the final decision would be taken by the party president. Altogether 17 council members are to be elected through biennial polls. Of them, four will be from graduate’s constituency, four from teacher’s constituency and nine from Vidhan Sabha constituency. Election schedules for graduate and teacher constituencies are yet to be announced by the Election Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-authorises-lalu-to-select-council-nominees/articleshow/76450930.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 19, 2020||Patna||In corona times, youths lend poor a helping hand||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many youngsters and voluntary organizations in the city continue to lend a helping hand to the poor by providing food, water and dry ration to them. Patna University student Mukul Anand and his 12 friends distribute dry rations, food packets and water among the migrant workers returning to Bihar every day for four hours. “When I first saw a huge crowd of migrants walking back home on NH-31 in May, I wondered if I could do something for them. I contacted my friends, who live nearby, and they willingly joined me,” Mukul told this newspaper on Thursday and also thanked the local people for helping him and his friends. Another youngster, Ranjan Kumar, who is a student of St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology, claimed that he and his 50 classmates had distributed potatoes, food grains and edible oil among 3,000 people in the city. “With the help of our college’s organization — ‘Youth for Free India’ — we have covered localities like Rajendra Nagar, Digha, Kurji, Phulwarisharif and Ashiana Nagar so far. We have also fed thousands of migrants coming back home on foot,” Ranjan said. 20-year-old Vaishnavi Kshitij, an alumna of Baldwin Academy, who runs an NGO, has distributed face masks, sanitary napkins, soaps, hand sanitizers and dry ration in slum areas. She said, “I raised funds with the help of friends, neighbours and relatives and gave away essential items to the needy, including rickshaw-pullers and drivers.” Medical aspirant Shahrukh Chaudhary, who lives in Mithapur locality, gives biscuits, puffed rice, jaggery and water bottles to migrants. “Watching the condition of migrants workers was heart wrenching. Many of them had not eaten for days. It was then that I decided to give them food. Although the number of stranded migrants returning to Bihar has reduced, I distribute nearly 50 food packets per day,” Shahrukh claimed. Some NGOs are also helping the district administration by providing food and shelter to the returnees. The officials of the Mahavir Mandir Trust said, “During the lockdown, we handed over 70,357 food packets to the administration so that they could be given to the migrant workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-corona-times-youths-lend-poor-a-helping-hand/articleshow/76450865.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 19, 2020||Patna||Local investment key to growth: Minister||PATNA: State water resources minister Sanjay Jha on Thursday rued lack of investment by local businessmen and traders in Bihar despite favourable conditions for the same created by the government over the last 15 years. Speaking at a webinar to mark the 133rd birth anniversary of ‘Bihar Vibhuti’ Anugrah Narayan Sinha and 63rd foundation day of Patna-based A N College, Jha said, “Some of the basic prerequisites for setting up industries at any place include law and order, roads, power and policy support. Nitish Kumar government has fulfilled all such prerequisites in the last 15 years, but, ironically, even local business community and traders have not shown the expected interest in industrial development in the state.” Citing a case study in support of his claim, Jha said, “There is a huge market for consumption of cycles in Bihar owing to several government welfare schemes, including cycles for schoolchildren. But no local entrepreneur tried to tap the opportunity and the cycles kept coming from places like Haryana.” Addressing students, faculty members and other dignitaries, Jha said the CM assured PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday that Bihar government will provide 1,000 acres of land if Centre initiates steps for promoting industrial development in the state. “Bihar has become the first state to have details of its human resources following skill mapping of migrant workers, who have returned from other states. More than 16 lakh skilled and semi-skilled workers have been identified during skill mapping exercise conducted at the quarantine centres. Such massive manpower can be advantageous for any industry,” Jha said. He added Bihar has huge potential for industrial development in the agriculture and allied activities, textile and healthcare sectors. “CM Nitish talked at length about potential for industrial development in such sectors during the interaction with the PM on Wednesday,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi appealed to the participants to use more local products and shun foreign products. “The Covid-19 crisis and the recent clash with Chinese forces at Galwan Valley in Ladakh have increased the significance of use of local products even more. Like Mahatma Gandhi’s emphasis on manufacturing of khadi led to collapse of economy of British government in the pre- independence era, the ‘vocal for local’ call of PM Narendra Modi will lead to massive blow to economy of our enemy countries and growth of Indian economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/local-investment-key-to-growth-minister/articleshow/76450918.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||OPDs allowed to run in PHCs, CHCs, state Govt tells HC||Revised Prayagraj: The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday submitted before the Allahabad high court that it had permitted opening of out patient departments (OPDs) in the primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) in the entire state after testing the patients for Covid-19. Similarly, OPDs in private clinics throughout the state have also been permitted, subject to certain conditions, added the state government. In addition to it, the state government also submitted before the court that in the third phase, working of the OPDs in the government and private hospitals across the state would further be considered depending upon the situation of the corona pandemic in the state. While taking the submissions made by the state government on record, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Yashwant Varma observed, “In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, since limited services in the OPDs at the primary health centres, community health centres and in the private clinics have been permitted and it is expected that in the third phase OPDs in government hospitals and private hospitals would also be permitted.” While making these observations, the court directed to post this petition in the third week of July 2020 for further hearing and directed that by this time, the state government may place a status report regarding the situation prevailing at that time. In this public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Vishal Talwar and others, the petitioners had raised the grievance that due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has directed for the closure of OPDs in all government and private hospitals as well as PHCs, as a result, the non-corona patients are facing a lot of difficulties throughout the state. Earlier, on June 15, 2020, the court had directed the additional advocate general (AAG), representing the state government to seek instructions (information) if the government is ready to review the situation so as to permit working of the OPDs. On Thursday, in pursuance to the said direction, the additional advocate general (AAG) produced before the court a letter dated June 17, 2020, of the special secretary, Uttar Pradesh government along with a copy of notification dated June 16, 2020, in culmination to the first notification dated May 24, 2020, permitting the opening of OPDs in the PHCs, CHCs and private clinics after testing the patients for Covid-19. Also, counsel for the petitioner Shahid Kazmi and Anand Prakash Paul pleaded before the court that all government hospitals as well as private hospitals should be allowed to operate separate Covid-19 treatment centres having all emergency facilities and such technical equipments, which can detect the corona within one hour. According to them, the present testing facility takes as many as three days time to detect whether a patient is corona positive or not, causing unwanted fear among all those who come into contact with the suspect. They submitted before the court that a kit, which can detect corona within an hour is available in other states, hence we too can have it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/opds-allowed-to-run-in-phcs-chcs-state-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76453859.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Varanasi||One killed, five injured in clash over land dispute||Varanasi: A man was killed and five others including three women were injured in a violent clash between two groups over a land dispute in Gopalpur village under Mehnagar police station of Azamgarh district on Wednesday night. The injured persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment. Heavy police force has been deployed in the tension-gripped village to avert any untoward situation. According to reports, there was a land dispute between one Nakchhed Chauhan and one Mitthu of Gopalpur village. A confrontation had also occurred between them regarding the same about a week ago. The local panchayat tried to resolved the matter, but no consensus was reached in the process. The matter was then reported to the police on Tuesday, and both the parties were called to the police station on Wednesday. They were warned not to indulge in any confrontation, and the matter would be resolved in the presence of police on Thursday. However, after the two groups returned from the police station, they indulged in a verbal spat on Wednesday evening. The police reached the village on being informed, and warned them again to remain calm till the matter was resolved on Thursday morning. After the police left the village, both the groups clashed violently late on Wednesday night with sticks, rods and stones. At least six persons including three women from both sides were injured in the clash. After being alerted, police officials reached with heavy force and camped in the village. The injured persons were rushed to the district hospital where on of them, identified as Ankit (25), succumbed to injuries during treatment on Thursday. In view of the persisting tension, heavy police force has been deployed in the village. Azamgarh SP Triveni Singh said, “A case is being registered in the matter and appropriate action will be taken against those guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-killed-five-injured-in-clash-over-land-dispute/articleshow/76453915.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||City Union Bank reports first ever loss in history||Chennai: For the first time in the bank’s 116 years history, private lender City Union Bank reported a quarterly loss of Rs 95 crore for the March ended quarter, 2020, due to higher provisioning to future delinquencies arising from Covid-19 pandemic and spike in bad loans. Its MD & CEO N Kamakoti said, “For the first time in 18 years, we have seen decline in profit for the year-ended too. The bank’s return on assets (ROA) usually stands at 1.5%-1.6%. For FY21, we have decided to retain ROA at 1% to calculate future provisioning, while the rest will be used to cover future defaults occurring due to Covid-19.”Provisioning for contingencies has shot up over 400% at Rs 450 crore for the March quarter, compared to Rs 81 crore in the December quarter, and Rs 91 crore in the previous year. “We have made provisions of Rs 125 crore in the March quarter to cover an incremental non-performing assets of Rs 250 crore due to the lockdown. This includes an ad hoc Covid-19 provisioning of Rs 105 crore,” he said.Gross non-performing assets (or bad loans) has increased by 43% at Rs 1,413 crore as of March 30, 2020, from Rs 977 crore a year ago. Net NPA also shot up by 31%. For the year-ended March 30, 2020, net profit declined by over Rs 200 crore at Rs 476 crore, as compared to Rs 682 crore in 2019. The bank’s capital adequacy ratio stood comfortably at 16.76%, well above the statutory minimum. Under Basel III, a bank’s tier 1 and tier 2 capital must be at least 8% of its risk-weighted assets. The minimum capital adequacy ratio (including the capital conservation buffer) is 10.5%. Shares of City Union Bank stood at Rs 136.95 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/city-union-bank-reports-first-ever-loss-in-history/articleshow/76453017.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Varanasi||Weavers, traders pledge boycott of Chinese silk||Varanasi: Local weavers and sari traders burnt Chinese silk fabrics on Thursday in protest against the Chinese aggression on the border in which 20 personnel of the Indian armed force lost their lives. The protesters also took pledge of complete boycott of Chinese silk and other goods. Displaying placards against China, several weavers and sari traders assembled at weaver dominated Batri Bazar in Jaitpura locality to express their solidarity with Indian Army. They torched Chinese goods including Banarasi saris made of China silk, poster of the flag and the President of China. The traders said that they would not use the Chinese silk in weaving and are ready to bear the financial burden of the boycott. Earlier on Wednesday evening, people associated with Ganga Seva Nidhi lit 501 earthen lamps at Dashashwamedh ghat to pay tributes to the martyrs for their supreme sacrifice while protecting the motherland. A group of lawyers had also burnt the flag of China and carried out a procession in kutchehry on Wednesday to express their anger against China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/weavers-traders-pledge-boycott-of-chinese-silk/articleshow/76453931.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Five Covid-19 deaths in 24hours, Bihar toll 44||PATNA: State health department on Thursday reported five Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 44. This is the highest number of deaths reported in a single day so far in Bihar. The state also recorded 100 positive cases, which has taken the total number of registered coronavirus patients to 7,040. With 4,961 recoveries, active cases now stand at 2,034. Altogether 14 new cases were registered in Patna, including five from Barh, three from Patna City, one each from Sampatchak and Danapur each. Location of three others were not revealed by the health department. One death each was officially reported from Gaya, West Champaran, Saran, Darbhanga and Nalanda. While Gaya and West Champaran districts recorded their first Covid deaths, Nalanda got its second death and for Saran and Darbhanga this is their third official death. Both Gaya and Nalanda residents, who were found positive for coronavirus, died while undergoing treatment at the NMCH. As per information shared by Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), the deceased from Gaya was 63-years-old and died on Thursday. His report had arrived on Wednesday. “The Nalanda native was 53-years-old and he died on Wednesday while his report came the same day. He was comorbid and died of cardiac arrest,” Dr Mukul said, adding that three Patna natives were discharged on Thursday. Regarding the third death in his district, Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM said she was a native of Laharisarai and died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment in Patna. “She was 51-years-old and had symptoms. Around five days back we referred her to Patna. She was also comorbid and was suffering from severe hypertension,” Thiyagarajan said, adding, her travel history was being ascertained and her contacts were being traced. However, no details were given by the health department on the deceased from West Champaran and Saran. According to the state health department, Thursday’s Covid-19 cases were reported from 12 districts with maximum 17 cases from Rohtas, followed by Darbhanga with 16, Samastipur with six and Siwan with three cases. Two cases each were reported from Araria, Kishanganj and Madhubani and one case each from Patna, Arwal, Bhagalpur, Gaya and Kaimur. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh stated that 185 people recovered from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours and a total of 4,961 people have recovered, which is around 71% of the registered cases. The department had tested 1,39,584 people for Covid-19, including 5,182 tests done in a day on Wednesday. He further said that of the total positive cases, 4,687 are migrants who returned to the state after May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-covid-19-deaths-in-24hrs-bihar-toll-44/articleshow/76450890.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 19, 2020||Patna||Corona scare: Many avoid visiting Patna hospitals||PATNA: As the volume of coronavirus cases continues to increase, many patients, who do not need immediate medical attention, are avoiding regular visits to city hospitals and clinics. According to a senior nephrologist at a government hospital, it is good for people with comorbidity to stay indoors at a time when coronavirus has spread its tentacles everywhere. “For instance, many people are now getting their blood pressure and sugar checked at home. Even those, who used to come here from other places, are visiting district hospitals or primary health centres for basic treatment,” he claimed. Private Doctors and Hospital Association president Dr Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI on Thursday, “All private hospitals have reopened and are functioning smoothly, but only the patients with serious conditions are stepping out to consult doctors. Others are visiting neighbourhood clinics because they want to avoid crowded places.” Indrapuri resident Nimmi, who had to get her tooth replaced with an artificial one in the last week of March, said, “I am afraid of visiting a doctor. Getting my tooth replaced is, anyway, not urgent. This can wait.” Meanwhile, patients, who used to go to metros like Delhi and Mumbai for routine check-ups, are also consulting local doctors amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Phulwarisharif resident Asghar Imam said, “My father, who has cancer, had been undergoing treatment at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. However, he did not meet his doctor during the last three months due to the lockdown. Even now, I will not take him to Delhi because the situation there is bad and the risk high.” City-based Mahavir Cancer Sansthan has witnessed a rise in footfall over the last few months. Hospital superintendent Dr L B Singh claimed, “Those, who used to go to other states for treatment, are coming to us. While 784 patients visited our outpatient department on Wednesday, 70 were admitted to the emergency ward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-scare-many-avoid-visiting-hospitals/articleshow/76450827.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: Sushant Singh Rajput’s ashes immersed in Ganga||PATNA: Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s ashes were immersed in the Ganga at Gandhi Ghat here on Thursday by his father K K Singh. Sushant’s sisters Shweta Singh Kirti, Neetu Singh and brother-in-law Om Prakash Singh were also present. Sushant’s family members reached Patna from Mumbai on Wednesday for ‘asthi visarjan’ in his hometown. The late actor’s funeral was performed at Pawan Hans crematorium in Mumbai on Monday in the presence his close relatives, friends, fans and some Bollywood colleagues. Sushant’s father, sisters and brother-in-law were on Thursday seen sitting in a boat accompanied by a priest. Sushant’s father was inconsolable throughout the rituals. Earlier, a prayer service, ‘shanti path’, was held at Sushant’s Rajiv Nagar (road number 6) house here. BJP MLA from Chhatapur Niraj Kumar Singh Babloo and the actor’s cousin said two of Sushant’s sisters, including Meetu, have stayed back in Mumbai to complete paperwork and other formalities related to police investigation. Sushant’s sister Shweta, who lives in US, urged the actor’s fans to pray for him and send him off with all the fond memories and unconditional love in their hearts. Earlier on Thursday, she wrote on Facebook: “Reached my Patna’s home safely yesterday. Thanks to everyone who was praying and who helped in the process. It was hassle-free. Today we will be doing Asthi Visarjan (ashes immersion) for Bhai. Let’s celebrate his life and give him a very loving and happy farewell (sic).” Sushant was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. Police said it was a case of death by suicide. However, no suicide note was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-ashes-immersed-in-ganga/articleshow/76451446.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||China supplies over 80% of pharma raw materials||MUMBAI: The India-China border standoff has put the spotlight back on our near-total dependence on the dragon for crucial raw materials used in medicines, posing a potential ‘national risk’ for millions across the country. Even as the nation clamoured for banning products and cancelling contracts emanating from China, it’s apparent that, at least in pharma, it may not quite work out as imports from China account for 80% of total raw materials for making medicines, also called APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients). For certain life-saving antibiotics like cephalosporins, azithromycin and penicillin, the dependence is as high as 90%. Though a new bulk drugs’ scheme had been announced recently when Covid-19 hit API imports from Wuhan in China, experts say the industry needs a sort of ‘single-window clearance’ to expedite its implementation. India imported Rs 17,400 crore worth of APIs from China in FY19. Dependence on China for key APIs has been an ongoing concern for the industry, with crucial raw materials used for manufacturing cardio-vascular, diabetes, antibiotics, anti-infectives and vitamins imported from there. The Covid-19 crisis led to a huge jump in certain API prices imported from China, leading to price volatility, and highlighting again the risk of a single source for supplies, which can potentially disrupt procurement of essential medicines in emergency-like situations, experts say. In March, left with depleting stocks of APIs in the country, the government decided to de-risk the supply chain, and announced a Rs 9,940-crore package for bulk drugs involving a production-linked incentive scheme of Rs 6,940 crore, and setting up of three bulk drug parks of Rs 3,000 crore. PwC India partner Sujay Shetty said, “Self reliance of APIs cannot be emphasised more at this stage. India needs to step up in terms of API manufacturing for its own captive use. Being the pharmacy of the world, that is the only piece missing (for India). The government should provide subsidies for greenfield investment. The proposed scheme is good in parts, but would help if the operational details are clearly laid down.” India’s focus has to be on manufacturing life-saving penicillin G and antibiotics. For instance, China being the sole manufacturer of penicillin, has also started manufacturing intermediates from penicillin G, which makes even the production of intermediates uneconomical in India, an industry expert said. Industry body IDMA’s executive director Ashok Madan said, “As an immediate step, 27 priority molecules can be produced by the synthetic process, for which idle capacity lying with MSMEs can be utilised. Government can help by extending incentives to these units, without insisting on minimum investment.” Other APIs which require capital-intensive outlays are 26 fermentation-based bulk drugs, which are included in the government scheme. Nearly two decades ago, India was self-dependent on key ingredients used in antibiotics and fermentation products. But over the years, API imports spiked from around 1% in 1991 to about 70% in 2019. China’s advent at the API stage globally goes back as far as the late ’90s, driven by competitive pricing the clusters could offer, based on large-scale manufacturing and state-driven subsidies. As against this, domestic bulk drug units started languishing here, faced with a lopsided duty structure that favoured (Chinese) imports. Further, drug formulation companies also started sourcing APIs from China as they had a definite cost advantage of 15-20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-supplies-over-80-of-pharma-raw-materials/articleshow/76453541.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 19, 2020||Patna||Intervene for justice to Sushant Singh Rajput: Chirag Paswan to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: The demand for a probe into the recent death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai is gaining momentum with Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president and MP Chirag Paswan on Thursday seeking the CM Nitish Kumar’s intervention to deliver justice to the family. Chirag shot off a letter to the CM, requesting him to intervene in the matter as it involved a young and promising actor from the state. Chirag had also tried his luck in the film industry before he stepped into politics and got elected as MP from Jamui Lok Sabha seat for the first time in 2014. The Jamui MP said, “Nitishji should talk to his counterpart in Maharashtra and ensure proper investigation into the entire episode. The demand of fair investigation has also been made by some close relatives and family members of Sushant, who was doing well in Hindi movies.” Quoting media reports, Chirag said Sushant’s suicide was a fallout of “groupism” in the Hindi film industry, which prevented young and budding artists from outside to prove themselves. “The growing groupism in Bollywood should be stopped so that no other meritorious and talented artist from small cities and towns fall victim in future,” he said. The LJP leader said he was in constant touch with the relatives of the departed actor. He further said those responsible for the actor’s suicide be brought to book. “It’s responsibility of the state government that no resident from the state is harassed at his or her workplace in the country and abroad,” he said. Chirag also turned to twitter to raise his demand for fair inquiry into the suicide case. Earlier, former MP from Madhepura Pappu Yadav had demanded a CBI probe into the actor’s suicide. Yadav had also visited Sushant’s Rajeev Nagar residence in Patna and met his father K K Singh. Pappu had said, “The country has lost its promising son. If Sushant doesn’t get justice, we will move to the Supreme Court.” In addition, Sushant’s cousin and MLA from Chhatapur Niraj Kumar Singh Babloo had said Sushant was not a man who could end his life in such a manner. His brother-in-law and ADGP in Haryana Om Prakash Singh had echoed similar views and stressed the need of an in-depth investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-to-nitish-intervene-for-justice-to-actor-sushant/articleshow/76451467.cms||Ramashankar
June 19, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Seven held for rape of minor in Vyara||SURAT: Police detained seven men, all in their 20s, for alleged rape and sexual assault of a 17-year-old girl in Vyara, headquarters of Tapi district, 65 km from here.The minor daughter of a shop owner was sexually assaulted in February by her friend who took her intimate video and shared it with his friends. Using the video the other accused started blackmailing the minor and forced her to meet them. The accused also threatened to leak the video on social media. Police detained Yash Dhimmar, Nabil Pathan, Kartik Patel, Akshay Patel, Kevin Rana, Utsav Shah and Vijay alias Vijendra Solanki, for alleged rape and sexual assault of the minor. The accused are booked under sections of Indian Penal Code, Protection of Children from Sexual Assault (POCSO) Act and Information Technology Act for sharing the girl’s video. “The girl had become friends with one of the men who first sexually assaulted her and recorded video of the act,” said official of Vyara police. Police investigation revealed, that the man then shared the video with his friends and they then started intimidating the girl to meet them privately. “Meanwhile, the girl’s mother was informed by some known person that some men in the town had her daughter’s video. The mother then checked with her daughter and approached the police,” said police. The accused will be arrested after their Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-held-for-rape-of-minor-in-vyara/articleshow/76452509.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Ghanteshwar, Madhapar included in RMC limit||RAJKOT: The state government on Thursday issued a notification to merge four villages in the outskirts of the city within Rajkot Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) limits. This follows the civic body’s standing committee proposal sent in December last year to the state government seeking merger. According to the RMC, the process of delimitation will begin now in these areas that had been newly developed in the past five years. According to BJP sources, the party wants to merge these villages before the impending civic body election scheduled for end of this year. According to the new notification, Mota Mava, Munjka, Ghanteshwar and Madhapar villages will be merged with the city. With this RMC’s current area of 129.21 sq km will increase to 163.32 sq km. According to a rough estimate, a combined population of 50,000 from these four villages will now be part of Rajkot city. RMC is waiting for the guidelines of urban development department to start the process of merger. Municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal told TOI, “RMC’s first priority will be to provide gutter lines, drinking water, street lights and develop roads in these new areas. We will soon declare town planning schemes after these newly merged areas come into our hand for its planned development.” Meanwhile, builders in the city are demanding execution of the merger as soon as possible to expedite development activities. The state government has developed Atal Sarovar Lake in the revenue area of Ghanteshwar village and also plans to develop a new racecourse near the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ghanteshwar-madhapar-included-in-rmc-limit/articleshow/76452343.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man survives second lion attack in 3 years||RAJKOT: A lioness attacked a maldhari (a member from the pastoral community), mauling him in his chest and feet in Mitiyala wildlife sanctuary near Ambaradi village of Savarkundala taluka in Amreli district on Thursday. Forest officials said the victim, identified as Bhavesh Bharwad (33) was attacked while he was grazing cattle. “Bharwad has been admitted to Savarkundala Civil Hospital where his condition is said to be out of danger. Incidentally in 2017, Bharwad was attacked by a lioness while grazing cattle near Mitiyala wildlife sanctuary. That time, his sheep dogs had rushed to his rescue and had driven the big cat away,” said an official from Mitiyala forest range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-survives-second-lion-attack-in-3-years/articleshow/76452661.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Lady doctor threatened by village sarpanch||RAJKOT: A lady doctor with Kanesara primary health centre on Thursday lodged a complaint against Kanesara village sarpanch, accusing him of threatening her. Kanesara is a village under Jasdan taluka in Rajkot district. Police said Dr Priyanka Vora alleged that Kanesara village sarpanch Hasmukh Handa allegedly intimidated her with the threat to attack her on Wednesday. “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that Handa used to operate his car on a contractual basis for the Kanesara primary health centre against the wishes of Dr Vora. He objected to Dr Vora when she refused to sign the register which maintains the record of the kilometres Handa’s car has driven in a month,” said an official from Bhadala police station. In her complaint Dr Vora has alleged that Handa used to browbeat her, telling her that if she wanted to work in his village, she would have to obey him. Dr Vora also claimed before the police that she had the recording of Handa in which he is heard issuing her threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lady-doctor-threatened-by-village-sarpanch/articleshow/76452750.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: Business yet to pick up pace in shopping complexes||PATNA: Shopping complexes in the city are finding it difficult to earn revenue despite relaxations given for economic activities under Unlock 1.0. Shopping malls are, however, witnessing an increase in footfall of visitors with each passing day. Maurya Lok, which used to be a hotspot prior to the lockdown, is witnessing 20%-25% less footfall. Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo said traders are passing through a very bad phase. “At this point of time, we have lost all hopes to attract customers. Coming to the shop has become a formality for at least 90% of the shopkeepers. They just wait for the evening to shut the shop and return home,” he said, adding only big outlets are receiving customers. Similar situation is being witnessed at big showrooms in the city. “While reopening my showroom, I had this feeling that I won’t be receiving many customers, but never in my dreams did I expect to get such few numbers of buyers,” said Sanjay Jha, owner of a garment shop on Boring Road. Shopping mall owners are, however, doing brisk business. Ankur Chopra, marketing head of a mall on Fraser Road, said customers’ response is increasing with every passing day. “Only serious buyers visit the mall. The footfall of children, elderly and women, has drastically decreased,” he said. Asharam Singh, chief security officer of a shopping mall on Pataliputra-Kurji Road, said people are visiting the mall because they feel safe and secure there. “Our priority at this point of time is not to get a higher footfall, but to earn the trust of customers. Thankfully, we are able to gain trust. Besides, shopkeepers are aware that customer response won’t be as it used to be prior to the lockdown because of which they are mentally prepared,” he said. Singh added around 6,000-8,000 people visit the mall per day. “We are hopeful of receiving more customers once the cinema hall and game zone reopen,” Singh said. Customers say they are only visiting marketplaces where they feel 100% safe. “The pandemic has turned everything upside down. There’s too much rush at local markets, where people hardly care to wear masks or maintain physical distancing,” said Manisha Kumari, a resident of Kadamkuan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/business-yet-to-pick-up-pace-in-shopping-complexes/articleshow/76450801.cms||Archi Rani
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||CISCE schools sanitize premises as students gear up for board exams||KOLKATA: Schools affiliated to Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) are hiring agencies to sanitize the premises and classrooms before board examinations resume from July 1. Some schools have also sought a larger number of invigilators to monitor students who will be seated in multiple examination halls to maintain social-distancing norms. “We have been sanitizing the premises every fortnight. Five days before the exams start, we will conduct another round of sanitization,” said Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas. Several other schools are procuring infrared thermometers, masks and face covers. Central Modern School in Baranagar wants more invigilators for the 136 candidates who will appear in ICSE and ISC exams from the school. “Earlier, we had to maintain a 30:1 examinee-invigilator ratio. But now, each hall will seat only 40 students. So we need more staffers,” said principal Nabarun De, who is also joint secretary of the Association of Heads of the ICSE Schools in Bengal. St James School principal T H Ireland is requesting additional invigilators. “To maintain social distancing, we will have to spread students out,” he explained. There are 135 ICSE and 70 ISC examinees from the school. Several other schools, however, have been unable to plan with many parents deciding to wait till June 24, the last date to submit the choice of appearing in examinations, before they convey their decisions to the school. CISCE had decided that ICSE and ISC candidates can either sit for the remaining tests in July or can request the council to evaluate them on internal assessment or pre-board exam scores, or on the results of the exams that have already been held. Sasha Agarwal, who has gotten into Harvard, Stanford, Johns Hopkins and several other institutions after securing 1,600 in SAT last year, will nevertheless sit for the ISC exam. “I want my scores to reflect the best of my abilities. Even though I have gotten into the colleges of my choice, my academic scores are important to me,” she said. Aayan Ahmed, an ISC student from Garia, said he has only the biology exam left. “I am interested in taking the exam. I have time to revise, which will improve my score,” he said. Another student, Subhayan Ghosh, an ISC candidate from St Joseph and Mary’s School in New Alipore, said he will take the geography exam. “My pre-board marks are not up to my expectations. Hence, I am keen to take the exam. Also, I plan to study honours in geography. I might lose confidence if I do not take the test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-schools-sanitize-premises-as-students-gear-up-for-board-exams/articleshow/76452451.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||In lockdown season, a silver lining as hilsa catch hits Kolkata market||KOLKATA: The first catch of hilsa is set to hit city markets on Friday morning, a sliver of silver amid the Covid gloom. The first catch of 40 tonne of hilsa arrived at the Nagendra Bazar wholesale fish market at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas on Thursday. Last year, the total hilsa supply to Kolkata was far from being adequate. Moreover, hilsa lovers did not get the right taste of their favourite fish. After a long wait, Kolkatans now look forward to tasty hilsa in adequate supply. Lake Market fish trader Amal Das said, “The fish market has seen very poor business since the lockdown. There was little or no supply of sea fish. We heard that the first catch of hilsa has arrived in Diamond Harbour. Some of our regular customers had come to know about it even before. They have been calling us with requests to keep hilsa aside for them when it reaches the market. It is evident that the demand for hilsa will be high if the supply reaches our market on Friday.” Wholesale fish trader in Diamond Harbour, Partha Kuti, said, “This catch marks the start of the hilsa season this year. There is tremendous demand for hilsa. But the size of the fish in the first catch is not too big with the weight ranging from 600g to 1kg. The wholesale price of hilsa weighing 600-700 grams is Rs 750 per kilogram while the price of the fish weighing 800g-900g is about Rs 950 per kilogram. Fishermen’s Association secretary Bijon Maity said, “Some 3,000 fishing trawlers had gone out to sea after the ban on fishing was lifted on June 15. After a day out in the sea, they had encountered bad weather that forced a few trawlers to return. However, the sea is less polluted due to the lockdown. The catch should be significantly higher this year.” SDO Diamond Harbour Sukanta Saha visited the wholesale market on Thursday and asked everyone to maintain hygiene standards and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-lockdown-season-a-silver-lining-as-hilsa-catch-hits-city-market/articleshow/76452488.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold sales fail to glitter, force jewellers to shut shop early||SECUNDERABAD: Poor response from customers due to the panic created by the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases has forced jewellery merchants in Secunderabad to close their shops by 5 pm. Though the state government has permitted shops to be open till 9 pm, jewellers are opening their showrooms at 10 am and closing by 5pm. Apart from General Bazar, more than a dozen jewellery shops are located on R P Road. In General Bazar, the lanes are too narrow but there is a heavy volume of traffic and, therefore, maintaining physical distancing norms is difficult in the area. Siddiamber Bazar Road, Pot Market, Kalasiguda, M G Road, Patny Centre, Mahakali Temple, Karkhana, Lalbazar, Monda Market, Market Street in Secunderabad, Punjagutta, Ameerpet, Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Basheerbagh, Madhapur and Dilsukhnagar are other prime areas where hundreds of jewellery shops run their business. “Except Sunday, shops and showrooms are open through the week. Managements are taking all Covid-19 preventive measures like sanitization and wearing masks but sales are not up to expectations because of the poor turnout of customers,” Boorugu Surya Prakash Rao, president of Secunderabad Gold, Silver Jewellery and Diamond Merchants Association, told TOI. Merchants saw poor business during the recent Akshya Tritiya, which is an auspicious day to buy jewellery. “After consulting several merchants, we have decided to close the shops by 5 pm,” said Rao. “The association also advised merchants, in other parts of the city, to take a decision on business hours by keeping in mind the increasing number of Covid-19 cases,” said Rao. “After a few weeks, the situation will be reviewed and the timings could be revised,” he added. “Closing shops by 5 pm means there will be a huge loss but we have no other option,” said a gold merchant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-sales-fail-to-glitter-force-jewellers-to-shut-shop-early/articleshow/76452487.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: BJP ex-MLA tries to assault Ram Katha preacher Morari Bapu||RAJKOT: Ram Katha preacher Morari Bapu had a close shave after former BJP MLA of Dwarka, Pabubha Manek, tried to assault him in the temple town on Thursday. Morari Bapu had come to pay obeisance at Dwarkadhish temple and put a lid on a controversy that was triggered by his alleged remarks about Lord Krishna and his brother Balram some days ago. Manek, who had unsuccessfully challenged his disqualification as an MLA in Supreme Court recently, reached the VIP guest house of temple where Morari Bapu was addressing media persons along with Jamanagar BJP MP Poonam Maadam. After Morari Bapu, Maadam was about to interact with reporters when Manek rushed in and reached menacingly close to the preacher. However, a person intervened in the nick of time and took away the MLA. Videos of the incident showed Maadam desperately pleading with Manek to control himself. Manek relented but is seen addressing Morari Bapu curtly and asking him to leave immediately. Talking to reporters, Maadam said, “Devotees were hurt by Morari Bapu’s comments regarding Lord Krishna, Balram and about Dwarka and Yadavs. The community had demanded that he come to the temple and apologize before Lord Krishna.” Morari Bapu said, “I have publicly apologized to all those who were hurt by my words. I sincerely wish to maintain the unity and integrity of the society.” Manek was not available despite several attempts. According to sources, Morari Bapu reached Dwarka at around 6pm and performed puja in the temple. He had planned to stay overnight in the guest house, but left for Porbandar after the ruckus. Rohan Anand, superintendent of police, Devbhumi Dwarka district, told TOI: “After some altercation, there was an attempt to assault Morari Bapu. Once Bapu settled in the room in the presence of the MP, police were standing guard outside to see that no unknown person enters.” No formal complaint has been lodged, said Anand. Morari Bapu had allegedly riled Lord Krishna followers, particularly those from the local Aahir community, with the comments made nearly a decade ago. Followers of Lord Krishna had even submitted memorandums to the government authorities in several districts demanding that the preacher come in person and offer his apology in Dwarkadhish temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bjp-ex-mla-tries-to-assault-morari-bapu/articleshow/76452884.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||RIL sells 2.3% in Jio to Saudi’s PIF for Rs 11,367cr||MUMBAI: Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) will put Rs 11,367 crore in Jio Platforms, marking its largest investment in India. The infusion will give the Kingdom-owned authority a 2.32% stake in Jio, the telecom-cum-digital services arm of Reliance Industries (RIL). PIF will be the 10th foreign backer of Jio, which has mobilised Rs 1.16 lakh crore since April. About 25% of Jio will be in the hands of external investors once all the deals are concluded. The outside money will be utilised by RIL to meet its pledge to cut down net debt, which had reached Rs 1.61 lakh crore, to zero before March 2021. The share-sale in Jio reflects RIL’s bet on the digital business as it reduces its dependence on industrial segments. PIF’s investment has assigned Jio a valuation of Rs 5.16 lakh crore, which is similar to the valuation given by the other financial investors of the company, such as General Atlantic, Mubadala and L Catterton. The Rs 5.16-lakh-crore enterprise value sets a benchmark for Jio and will help RIL as it plans to take the unit public in the future. The Jio transaction follows PIF’s stake-sale in petrochemicals company SABIC to Saudi Aramco. Founded in 1971, PIF — among the top 10 sovereign wealth funds in the world — has assets worth $400 billion. “Reliance has enjoyed a long and fruitful relationship with Saudi Arabia for many decades. From oil economy, this relationship is now moving to strengthen India’s new oil (data-driven) economy, as is evident from PIF’s investment into Jio,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. RIL has been sourcing crude oil from the Kingdom for many years and recently has been looking to bring in Saudi Aramco as an investor in its oil-to-chemical business. “We believe that the potential of the Indian digital economy is very exciting and that Jio provides us with an excellent opportunity to gain access to that growth. This investment will also enable us to generate significant long-term commercial returns for the benefit of Saudi Arabia’s economy,” said PIF governor Yasir Al-Rumayyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-sells-2-3-in-jio-to-saudis-pif-for-rs-11367cr/articleshow/76453593.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 19, 2020||Patna||Dug-up roads scare commuters in Patna||PATNA: Broken and dug-up roads as a result of work on infrastructure projects in the city have turned out to be commuters’ nightmare amid onset of monsoon. Even though upcoming projects like R-Block flyover, Lohia Path Chakra and Mithapur-Karbigahiya overbridge are set to change the urban landscape of the city, residents and commuters say they have been facing hassles in passing through the construction site for years, especially during the monsoon. Several roads have also been dug up for laying gas pipelines, adding to the woes of commuters. The construction site at the 1.27km-long R-Block-Bhikhari Thakur flyover remains chock-a-block throughout the day, especially near the R-Block roundabout. Surendra Yadav, managing director of Bihar Pul Nirman Nigam, said steps were being taken to reduce the hassles being faced by commuters during monsoon. “One flank of the flyover will be opened for vehicular movement in a month. The project got delayed due to the lockdown,” he added. Commuters said construction of the R-Block flyover has resulted in slow vehicular movement in the area. “The R-Block stretch is in a very bad condition. I get stuck in traffic at several points almost every day. The situation has worsened with the onset of monsoon,” said Amit Sinha, a resident of Saguna Mor. Similarly, ongoing construction work on Lohia Path Chakra project also leads to traffic snarls on Bailey Road between Lalit Bhavan and Hartali Mor. Uma Shankar, a resident of Kadamkuan, said, “The project has been delayed from last many years. We are forced to face similar situation every year.” Heavy traffic snarls are also witnessed on the Karbigahiya side of the Mithapur-Karbigahiya flyover, which is under construction. Commuters and pedestrians rued long snarls owing to dug-up roads. “Roads at many places are damaged and have potholes and ditches. The authorities are hardly concerned,” said Anand Singh, a resident of Boring Road. A senior BRPNNL official, however, said construction work is going on in full swing. “The engineers are trying their best to complete the construction work. We will definitely witness a change in way people commute by the end of this year,” he said. Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Nahar Khagaul Road, said Ashiana-Digha Road and Bailey Road become troublesome for commuters during monsoon. Rajnish Kumar, deputy general manager (DGM) of Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) at Patna, however, said pipelines are being laid with proper protection and barricading. “We are aware that digging up of roads can lead to road accidents as well as problems in commuting. Hence, we are doing work at a slow pace. However, at few locations, including Ashiana-Digha Road, several other departments have dug-up the roads. From our end, we are ensuring safety,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dug-up-roads-scare-commuters/articleshow/76451245.cms||Archi Rani
June 19, 2020||Patna||Call to boycott Chinese goods gets louder in Bihar||PATNA: Common people as well as political leaders cutting across party lines are venting ire on China over the attack on Indian soldiers at Galwan Valley of Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 unarmed soldiers, including several from Bihar Regimental Centre, were martyred. State BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal on Thursday appealed to the state’s shopkeepers and people to refrain from selling or buying Chinese goods and products, as Chinese soldiers made cowardly attack on Indian soldiers in which 20 unarmed soldiers were martyred in Galwan Valley of Ladakh on June 15. “I appeal to the shopkeepers and people of the state to become vocal for the local and give priority to selling or buying local goods and products over the Chinese and other foreign country items,” Dr Jaiswal said, adding it would help destroy the economy of the “enemy country” that had made cowardly attack on the Indian soldiers. JAP chief and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav and his supporters took out a candle march from Bhattacharya Road up to Combined Defence Accounts (CDA) Building in the Kadamkuan locality in support of martyred Indian soldiers and also to protest. “Indian government should snap all is ties and relationship with China,” Pappu said. State BJP chief Dr Jaiswal pointed out that China resorted to cowardly and barbaric act of attacking the unarmed Indian soldiers to divert attention from its falling stock and international reputation on account of its bid to hide facts and figures regarding coronavirus pandemic. Netizens took to the social networking sites to slam Chinese products. Several netizens also said tpeople should promote and encourage local products. Akash Vats Jha swrote, “#BoycottChineseProducts and if you want to boycott Chinese products and create employment then there is only one option that is investment in different sectors of country as Bihar and so on #InvestInMithila” (sic).” Shalu Sharma tweeted, “It’s time Indians boycott Chinese products.” Muzaffarpur native Rakesh Kumar wrote, “I am Rakesh Kumar from Muzaffarpur. Please boycott Chinese products (sic).” “It’s high time we should boycott Chinese products and encourage the sale of locally manufactured products. Let’s create awareness among people to stop using Chinese products,” Kinshuk Singh wrote. (With inputs from Archi Rani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/call-to-boycott-chinese-goods-gets-louder/articleshow/76451354.cms||Abhay Singh
June 19, 2020||Patna||Patna airport ropes in one more private taxi company||PATNA: With large number of flyers landing at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has roped in one more private taxi company to provide hassle-free transportation services to the passengers. AAI-authorised taxi counter has been set up inside the terminal building near the arrival hall. The number of passengers reaching Patna was 30% more than the flyers leaving the city. According to airport director Bhupesh CH Negi, one private and the state tourism department taxi services were made operational at city airport. “One more private taxi operator has been roped in, in view of growing footfall at the airport. Few counters have been set up by the aggregators near the arriving hall, so that people can book the taxi without hassle and also to save them from touts who charged more money,” he said. “AAI-authorised taxi services are available for arriving guests for safe travel. Approach the booking counters inside arrival hall to avail the services to avoid cheating by fraudulent service providers outside the terminal building (sic),” the Patna airport tweeted on Wednesday. Earlier, several flyers complained about the private taxis charging more money. Many passengers also complained about the long waiting hours due to low movement of private cabs. Archana Singh, a medical student who reached Patna on Thursday said she got the cab within five minutes after making the booking at one of the counter at the arriving hall at terminal building. “My friend Ruchi, who earlier reached Patna from Delhi, complained that she faced difficulties in finding a cab. Later she has to pay double money to reach her home in Naubatpur,” she said. Sridhar, who reached to Patna from Mumbai, also appreciated that one more counter has been added to book private taxis. “Charges of the AAI-authorised taxis are fixed. However, the other private taxis charge more money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-ropes-in-one-more-private-taxi-company/articleshow/76452444.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||Compliant with RBI’s data norms: WhatsApp||BENGALURU: Facebook-owned WhatsApp has told the Supreme Court that it is now in full compliance with data localisation norms of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) after the messaging applications’ payment business has been stuck in trial stage for over two years. WhatsApp, which has over 400 million monthly active users in India, told the apex court in its response that it has now “localised five data elements” that were identified by the banking regulator and mandated them to store in India only. WhatsApp’s response noted it spent “significant engineering time and effort” over the last seven months to comply with RBI guidelines, according to documents reviewed by TOI. “An independent third-party auditor, certified by CERT-in (the government agency under the IT ministry), has confirmed that WhatsApp’s payments feature satisfies the data localisation requirements under the RBI circular and frequently asked questions (FAQs),” the Menlo Park-based company said. This is the first time WhatsApp has submitted it is fully compliant with RBI laws officially at the apex court, days after it launched the payments service in Brazil. In India, its payments services have been in beta stage, or testing stage, for over two years now, owing to multiple factors, but data localisation remains the largest hurdle. WhatsApp’s response comes when its parent firm Facebook, in April, invested $5.7 billion in Jio Platforms, where the messaging platform is a core part of a commerce initiative — JioMart. TOI previously reported how WhatsApp submitted a revised proposal to the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) in January. Among the issues on storage of data elements previously flagged, the RBI had said when a customer raises a dispute, WhatsApp application (client) logs, query screenshots uploaded by a customer and consumer email messages are shared with the support team located in Hyderabad and the US, and are stored for a period of 90 days. “Although the logs do not contain payment data as contented by the auditor, screenshots uploaded by customers and customer email messages may contain payment data,” the RBI had said. WhatsApp’s latest submission, responding to a Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC) petition, means it has made relevant changes required by the RBI. Both the RBI and NPCI — which manages Unified Payments Interface (UPI) — have been a party in the ongoing matter. While WhatsApp has claimed 100% compliance in the court, it is now waiting for a green signal from NPCI to launch payments at full scale. Sources have said WhatsApp’s launch, beyond the beta stage, would be gradual since its large user base getting access to UPI in one go may affect the network infrastructure of the payments network. An email sent to a WhatsApp India spokesperson did not elicit any response on the matter. UPI recorded 1.23 billion transactions in May, where 85% of the volumes were cornered by US-based firms like Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe and Amazon Pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/compliant-with-rbis-data-norms-whatsapp/articleshow/76453655.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 19, 2020||Patna||Patna cops lodge FIR after video of youth slapping girl goes viral||PATNA: The Chowk police station in Patna City registered an FIR after taking cognisance of a viral video showing a youth slapping a girl. The incident reportedly took place at Chowk Shikarpur on Wednesday when a girl coming out of a coaching centre with two of her friends was slapped by a boy in full public view. The girl and her friends also hit back and soon a crowd gathered which thrashed the boy. Patna City SDPO Manish Kumar said an FIR was lodged on basis of a complaint of a police officer of Chowk police station after the video came to light. “In the video a boy is seen slapping a girl with two female friends. Afterwards, the girl also slaps her and the boy is thrashed by people,” he added. As no one has come forward to lodge a complaint, police decided to lodge an FIR on Thursday on its own. “Investigations were on to ascertain the identity of the boy who had slapped the girl,” he said. SHO TN Tiwari said a police team went to the spot at Chowk Shikarpur where the video was shot and found the incident to be true. “The incident took place at 9am on Wednesday. It seems the boy and the girl knew each other due to which he came near her to talk and suddenly slapped her,” he said, adding, “From the video it seems the girls were minor.” Watch Patna: Cops lodge FIR after video of youth slapping girl goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-lodge-fir-after-video-of-youth-slapping-girl-goes-viral/articleshow/76452385.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid test is a right, but govt can restrict it: Gujarat high court told||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Thursday told the Gujarat high court that getting tested for Covid-19 is a fundamental right of a citizen, but the government can put restrictions on it in the public interest during this pandemic. The government said so in response to the Gujarat high court’s specific question on whether a pathological test/diagnosis is a fundamental right of the citizens of this country. The HC asked so while hearing complaints about the government’s restrictive testing policy during the hearing of a suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown on May 29. The HC is to take up a further hearing on the issue on Friday. Following the HC’s questions, the government relaxed its testing policy to a great extent, but defended its restrictions. It replied to the court’s query, “The right to health, medical care/aid to protect the health is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India…However, just like the fundamental rights conferred under Article 19, this fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution is also not an absolute right and is subject to reasonable restrictions.” The government earlier justified its restrictions on testing by citing the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. To another question from the HC on whether the government is bound to obey ICMR guidelines even if they are against fundamental rights, the government clarified that it cannot form a policy which is against the fundamental rights of citizens. But it said, “The state government is duly empowered to impose reasonable restrictions, as it deems fit, in the larger public interest. Further, it is always desirable to have an uniform central policy like the ICMR policy, specially during a pandemic situation like the present one, to be followed consistently by all the states in the country.” The testing policy was last challenged by the Indian Medical Association, which demanded that the mandatory government approval should be removed for repeated testing for doctors and health workers who are asymptomatic. The government, citing ICMR guidelines, permitted testing on asymptomatic persons only upon prior approval by the government authority. It said that its circulars on June 2 and June 11 permitting testing on all symptomatic health workers put an end to the controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-test-is-a-right-but-govt-can-restrict-it-hc-told/articleshow/76452497.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Surat||Cost accountant institute to offer scholarship to HSC toppers||SURAT: The Institute of Cost Accountants of India, South Gujarat, Surat chapter, is going offer scholarship to top three students of Class XII from each school of South Gujarat districts — Surat, Navsari, Dang, Valsad and Tapi.The scholarship will be offered for foundation course of Cost and Management Accountant fees, according to a statement issued by the the institute. The offer is open for students of commerce, science and arts stream who wish to pursue CMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cost-accountant-institute-to-offer-scholarship-to-hsc-toppers/articleshow/76452637.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Surat||63 more test positive in Surat; two succumb||SURAT: At least 63 more people tested positive for Covid-19 virus on Thursday taking the case tally to 2,904 in Surat city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), two people succumbed to the deadly virus taking the death toll to 117. The deceased include a 58-year-old man from Ved Road in Katargam zone, who died at New Civil Hospital (NCH) and a 62-year-old woman resident of Pandera in Udhna zone. SMC officials said that Katargam zone continued to report the highest number of new cases with 16 on Thursday. Total 655 cases have been reported from Katargam so far. Surat rural areas also recorded 14 new cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, 41 Covid-19 patients who recovered from the infection were discharged on Thursday. Till now, a total of 1,975 patients have been discharged in the city. In Bharuch district, the case tally touched 120 with 15 more testing positive for Covid-19. Health officials said that a doctor from Rajpardi village in Bharuch also had tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said that out of the 15 new cases, seven were reported from Jambusar taluka, while five were registered in Bharuch town and two in Ankleshwar town. Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic medical officer (EMO) said, “Jambusar taluka in Bharuch is fast turning into the hotspot for Covid-19 cases. Majority of the cases registered in the last couple of days have come from Jambusar. Almost in all cases, the patients either have a travel history to other cities and states or they have come in contact with a positive patients in their family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/63-more-test-positive-in-surat-two-succumb/articleshow/76452467.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara gets bigger with addition of seven villages||VADODARA: The city is set to get bigger with the inclusion of seven villages to the limits of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The villages had seen extensive real estate development over the years. The state government on Thursday brought out a notification adding Bhayli, Sevasi, Vemali, Bil, Karodiya, Undera and Vadadla to VMC limits. With this a population of around two lakh and land area of around 40 square kilometres will be added to VMC. Even before the state government sought resolutions late last year from municipal corporations regarding addition of new villages in their areas, VMC had cleared such a resolution and sent it to the state government. The resolution was passed by the general board in September 2019 even as the VMC opposition and some villages opposed the move. In some areas like Bhayli and Sevasi, residents of newly developed schemes were desperately seeking inclusion in VMC limits. While the areas had posh residential and commercial schemes, there was lack of infrastructure. After several representations and rows, work began on providing basic amenities like water and drainage. The Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) and VMC have decided to develop the infrastructure as a joint effort. The villages are located on the border of the city in different directions. Sources in the VMC said that they were picked up to ensure balanced development. They added that the areas will be included in the new election wards to be formed before the next civic polls scheduled at the end of this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-gets-bigger-with-addition-of-seven-villages/articleshow/76451959.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Rajkot||Corona cloud over lok melas in Saurashtra||RAJKOT: With the pandemic limiting every social festival, there is every possibility that even the traditional Lok Melas in Saurashtra will not be organized this year. Looking at the popularity of the Janmashtami Lok Mela of Saurashtra, the administration fears that social distancing will not be possible at all and so, it may not be allowed to be held. These Melas are organized for five days during Jamnasthami every year. The biggest of such melas take place in Rajkot followed by Jamnagar and Porbandar. People from all over Saurahstra take part in the Rajkot mela. According to a rough estimate nearly 10 lakh people visit the mela during the five days. Melas in each city are organized by district collector and its preparation starts two months in advance. However, this year no preparation to allocate stalls and issue license to ride owners are being done. In Rajkot, the mela is organized at the racecourse ground every year. Discussion had also started last year to shift the mela to the outskirts of the city on a bigger space, but Covid outbreak put a full stop to all the plans. The second biggest five-day mela in Jamnagar takes place on the banks of the Rangmati and Nagmati rivers where nearly five lakh people visit. Rajkot district collector Remya Mohan said, “There is no update about the melas from the government.”  While Jamnagar district collector Ravi Shankar said “Looking to the situation it’s not possible to organize mela this year but the state government will take a final decision on it.” According to sources, Muharram too falls in August and if the melas are allowed then the demand to allow Tajia procession would also emerge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/corona-cloud-over-lok-melas-in-saurashtra/articleshow/76452402.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Slapping ‘no mask’ fines tough: Officials||Hyderabad: Cops and civic body officials say that collecting fines has become difficult with many people unable to pay the mandatory Rs 1,000 for not wearing a mask. “Many a times we find family members or friends hanging out in large groups. They say they should not be fined because they are always together. We also find people who just put their handkerchiefs on their faces when they see officials,” said Dr Ranajit, assistant medical officer of health (AMOH), Serlingampally. “Even when fines are levied, people ask to be excused because their business or work has been hit during the lockdown,” he said. Another officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, expressed his frustration. “Even if we generate a challan, we will have to end up paying it. Rs 1,000 is beyond the means of many. If the government had said we could fine ‘up to Rs 1000’, we could have used our discretion and imposed a lesser penalty. At present, we are using fines as the last option.” Even when fines are levied, people ask to be excused because their business or work has been hit during the lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slapping-no-mask-fines-tough-officials/articleshow/76453496.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Patients from outside district cause tally errors||AHMEDABAD: On June 17, the Botad collector took to Twitter to clarify that one Covid-19 positive patient mentioned in the daily bulletin by the department of health and family welfare of the state government had been detected in Ahmedabad and not in Botad. Botad, as on Thursday evening, only had 13 active patients. It has, however, not remained the issue of a single district. The movement of patients and their domicile often prompts the departments and district administrations to clear the true picture of the epidemic. “The maximum issues are related to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits, Ahmedabad district limits and Gandhinagar. As the lines get blurred near administrative boundaries, it has become the norm that the patient will be included in the tally of the patient’s domicile,” said a senior health official. “Earlier, there used to be a lot of confusion, if a patient from an Ahmedabad area got admitted to a hospital in Gandhinagar limits, whether he/she was supposed to be included in the Ahmedabad tally,” the official explained. The issue of domicile had prompted the state health department to create a category of ‘other states’ for the patients from outside Gujarat. The number of such patients was 15 on May 31. On June 18, the number was 57. One such patient also succumbed to the infection. The issue of Covid-19 patient’s jurisdiction had earlier cropped up when a man was shown as an Ahmedabad resident and his wife a Gandhinagar resident despite both of them living in the same area. “But such issues are only for the administrative purposes and they don’t have any bearing on the treatment of the patient,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patients-from-outside-district-cause-tally-errors/articleshow/76452518.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Can’t convert VS into Covid facility: Gujarat govt||AHMEDABAD: Opposing the suggestion to convert the old V S Hospital into a Covid-19 facility, the state government has said that it is not possible in absence of professional staff, who have been shifted to the new SVP Hospital. In a report presented to the HC on Thursday for proceedings of a suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the government gave six reasons for not converting the old hospital into a Covid facility. It said that the teaching hospital and all professional staff and resident doctors have been now shifted to the new SVP Hospital. In absence of medical staff, it is not advisable to start Covid care at VS Hospital. At present, Sheth V S General Hospital & Sheth Chinai Prasuti Gruh is functional with a 500-bed capacity and departments of general medicine, general surgery, orthopaedics and gynaecology for non-Covid patients. Due to the old pattern of hospital structure and unplanned expansion of the hospital, it is very difficult to control cross infection of Covid-19 and other diseases there the government stated. If Covid-19 treatment is started there, other patients from the poor strata of the society will suffer, the government said. It also said that the medical and paramedical staff of VS Hospital have been deputed to other Covid care centres, hotels and field duty. Hence, there is no sufficient staff available to start Covid-19 treatment in this hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cant-convert-vs-into-covid-facility-govt/articleshow/76452517.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A blind youth’s lucky escape from Covid-19, TB||NEW DELHI: Twenty-three-year-old Shivam Soni had lost his vision very early in his life and was struggling with intermittent fever and cough for the last few years. Recently, on June 2, he was admitted to Indraprastha Apollo hospital with heavy palpitation and breathing difficulty. Tests confirmed Soni had Covid-19. But, in a chance finding, tests also confirmed that the 23-year-old suffered from tuberculosis (TB) which was in an advanced stage. Timely medical intervention, however, helped him survive both Covid-19 and TB. Soni, who works as an assistant manager at a public sector bank in north Delhi, was discharged from the hospital recently. Dr Ajay Sinha, senior consultant, internal medicine at Apollo hospital said, the patient was critically ill on admission with prolonged high grade fever and presence of fluids over his left lung, that was restricting his breathing process. “He was admitted to the hospital for Covid-19. But tests revealed he also had TB which was the real reason behind fluid accumulation over his lungs and prolonged fever. If he hadn’t reached hospital in time, the disease could have led to serious complications and even death,” Dr Sinha said. Pulmonary TB and Covid-19 have similar symptoms and have adverse effects on the lungs. Both the conditions are highly infectious and communicable, hence the treatment procedure needed to be intricate and well planned, the doctor said. The patient was co-prescribed with pulmonary TB treatment along with supportive care for Covid-19. Multiple processes were taken up to the drain fluid with a chest tube over a period of 10 days, Dr Sinha added. “Now, he is doing fine and recuperating at home. Soni has tested negative for Covid-19 and while his TB has been controlled, he has been put on supportive medicines and has been recommended for regular examinations for a few months,” the Apollo doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-blind-youths-lucky-escape-from-covid-tb/articleshow/76454182.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||Mass testing could start from Prayagraj: Court||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday suggested the Uttar Pradesh government to do mass testing of Covid-19 in the state. “To begin with, forming a procedure for the city of Prayagraj to undergo mass systematic testing, and if we are able to succeed in the experiment, then the rest of the district of Prayagraj and thereafter all the districts of the state can emulate the process,” suggested the court. Hearing a PIL registered as ‘In-Re inhuman condition at quarantine centres and for providing better treatment to corona positive’, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar directed the registrar general of this court that a copy of this order be made available to the additional chief secretary (home), UP, health secretary and also to the commissioner, DM, SSP Prayagraj within 24 hours. The court also asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to apprise it on the issue of installation of testing machines on a large scale for testing of Covid-19 in the state, and fixed June 25 as next date of hearing in the case. The court, while suggesting mass testing, said, “When Prime Minister talked to chief ministers of various states, he stressed on the importance of widespread testing. If widespread testing is done then people who are not infected can go out to work fearlessly and help the country to change the sprouting economy into a lush green one. If systematic tests are done then people who are infected would not go out and would surely quarantine themselves in their homes or in the accommodations provided by the government.” During the course of hearing, additional advocate general, Manish Goyal, who was representing the state government, informed the court that so far 1,865 hotspots have been identified and declared in state. Besides, 17.06 lakh migrant labourers have been tested so far and out of them, as many as 3,950 had been found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mass-testing-could-start-from-prayagraj-court/articleshow/76453876.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP: RJB Trust puts off temple construction||AYODHYA : Amid the heightened Indo-China border conflict, the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has deferred the start of construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The construction was likely to be started after ‘bhoomi pujan’ slated for July 2. In a statement to the press, The Mandir Trust expressed concern over the killing of Indian soldiers on China border and said that the situation was critical and the defence of the country was most important. “So, the date to start the construction of Ram Mandir will be decided according to the situation of the country,” the statement says. The Ram Mandir Trust paid tributes to martyrs who were killed during the conflict with Chinese troops. Dr Anil Mishra, a member of Ram Mandir Trust, told TOI: “The decision to start the construction work will be taken according to the situation in the country and announced officially.” Meanwhile, different Hindu organisations staged protests against China in the temple town. While Hindu Mahasabha activists burned China’s flag, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) members burned the effigies of President Xi Jinping and different Chinese items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rjb-trust-puts-off-temple-construction/articleshow/76454186.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||‘Naga seers ready to fight China’||Seers have joined the countrymen in condemning the Chinese action in the Galvan valley of Ladakh, in which 20 Indian armymen were killed on Tuesday. In a statement released in Prayagraj on Thursday, president of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), Mahant Narendra Giri said slakhs of Naga sanyasi would not hesitate in joining the Indian armed forces to give a befitting reply to the Chinese aggression on the borders. Condemning the attack, Giri said the Indian forces are capable enough to give a befitting reply to the enemy, but if the need arises, lakhs of Naga sadhus can also join their forces to protect our motherland. “Naga sadhus are equally trained in shashtra (religious texts) and shashtre (arms),” he added. Naga sadhus are trained in martial arts and also carry tridents, swords, canes and spears. Said to have once functioned as an armed order to protect Hindus from the Mughal rulers, they were involved in a number of military defence campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/naga-seers-ready-to-fight-china/articleshow/76453887.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases rise, but containment zones shrink across Telangana||HYDERABAD: Delinking the chain is the most important task to check the spread of the coronavirus and containment zones play a pivotal role in achieving this objective. Surprisingly, these clusters are not being maintained properly across the state. While the government is tight-lipped about the monitoring of these zones, TOI has learnt that there is shift in the policy and no new containment zones are being created despite a huge spike in the cases. Officials said that the government has tweaked its policy and only the affected Covid-19 patient’s house is being earmarked as a containment house. Many state governments are adopting a two-pronged approach regarding containment zones. Category-1 clusters comprise those areas which have only one corona positive case and a radius of 250 metres will be marked as containment. The areas more than one case are designated as Category-2, covering a radius of 500 metres and an additional 250 metres is treated as a buffer. Sources said that the extent of containment zones has been gradually brought down restricting it only to five or six houses around the residence of a Covid-19 patient. The authorities have even stopped the practice of putting the home quarantine stamp on the residences of patients who are under isolation or discharged from hospitals. Earlier, the neighbourhood areas were alerted about the situation but no there is no such provision now. Efforts to contact the officials regarding the containment policy proved futile. Sources said that the authorities are not focusing much on contact tracing. Once there is a new positive case, the officials are making calls to the patient to enquire about the contacts. Earlier, there was a large scale effort to trace the contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-rise-but-containment-zones-shrink-across-telangana/articleshow/76452523.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civil hospital: Lab technicians complain of unfulfilled job promises||AHMEDABAD: A group of lab technicians held a demonstration on the Civil Hospital campus on Thursday morning, demanding permanent jobs. They alleged that the promise of jobs after five years of service had not been kept by the government. The technicians demonstrated with banners reading ‘Ojas recruitment 2012-13,’ ‘It will be done. But when?’, and ‘Corona warriors awaiting completion of five years for the past seven years’. The technicians, who are responsible for carrying out Covid-19 tests, say they have made representations at all levels but to no avail. “We understand that it’s Covid-19 time and thus it’s not a protest or movement – we simply demand what has been promised to us,” said a participant who did not wish to be named. “At the time of recruitment, the advertisement clearly said that we would be on five-year probation after which we would get regular employment. It got over in 2018, but still we have ad-hoc jobs after seven years,” he added. Another participant said that it was not just about pay — they are getting Rs 31,000 per month which is fixed and will get reviewed only after regular employment — but also about other benefits such as leaves. “We are 400-odd technicians who form the backbone of Covid-19 testing in Gujarat. We are constantly exposed to the virus and are doing our best. Any positive action will boost our morale,” she said. It was the second protest in two days at the Civil Hospital, the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility of Gujarat. On Wednesday, 100-odd contractual workers held a demonstration on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lab-technicians-complain-of-unfulfilled-job-promises/articleshow/76452519.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Varanasi||Dalits attacked in Ghazipurvillage; 15 injured, 2 held||Times News Network Varanasi: Several Dalits were injured as people of a community attacked a youth, who objected to a driver playing obscene songs loudly while driving a tractor through a locality having homes of scheduled castes in Godsara village under Gahmar police station on Wednesday. “A named FIR has been lodged against 21 assailants under section 452, 308 of IPC and sections of SC/ST Act, and arrested two accused. Heavy police force and PAC was deployed in view of tension gripping the village,” said Gahmar SO Vimal Kumar Mishra. SP Ghazipur OP Singh said, “A tractor driver Sonu was playing loud music while passing through a locality of Dalit homes in Godsara village on Wednesday. When a youth Rahul stopped Sonu and asked him not to play obscene songs loudly, a heated argument ensued between them.” “Sonu called the tractor owner Mohammad Ali, who reached the spot with his supporters and attacked Rahul and residents of the locality with sticks and bricks and ransacked many houses. The assailants fled before police could reach,” the SP added. As many as 15 Dalits, Jalim Ram (53), Ramji Ram (40), Awadhesh Ram (26), Sudhir Kumar (18), Rinki Kumari (9), Balistar Ram (35), Basanti (10), Rajkumar (15), Deepu (15), Deepak (15), Ritesh (15), Rahul Ram (15) Ramashish Ram (60), Sanatia Devi (50) and Vimlesh Kumar (16) suffered injuries. They were rushed to hospital from where doctors referred Jalim Ram, Awadhesh and Sudhir Kumar to district hospital as their condition deteriorated. DM Ghazipur Om Prakash Arya and SP reached the village while heavy police force was deployed due to prevailing tension. SO Gahmar said, “Taking action on the complaint of Rahul’s family, a named FIR was lodged against Mohd Ali and his accomplices. Two accused were arrested by Thursday afternoon while raids are on to nab others. The situation has normalised but police force will remain deployed in the village as a precautionary measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dalits-attacked-in-ghazipurvillage-15-injured-2-held/articleshow/76453943.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||37 Pilibhit foresters attend WII’s webinar on monitoring of aquatic species in Ganga basin||Pilibhit: The three-day online training workshop on biodiversity conservation and monitoring of aquatic species of Ganga basin conducted by experts of Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) concluded on Thursday. As many as 37 officials of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve and forest division attended the webinar.The training of forest personnel was primarily aimed at making a baseline survey of the birds found in the Ganga basin. -- crocodiles, otters, Gangetic dolphins, turtles and the tortoise -- for formulation of government policy.According to a WII scientist Sangeeta Angom, coordinator of this project, the workshop was a part of Namami Gange project, which has now been expanded to the tributaries of the Ganga.Pilibhit was made a part of this project as three tributaries of the Ganga -- Gomati, Sharda and Devha -- flow through this district and are rich in biodiversity, she said.“The WII in first phase had conducted a survey on the aquatic species in the Ganga from Gomukh in Uttarakhand to Gangasagar in West Bengal between 2017 and 2019. Now, in second phase, we are including those tributaries of Ganga which are home to these species," said Angom. Deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said, “The trained forest officials will begin study on the aquatic species in this region, the status of their habitats and will launch a campaign to transform the local communities into the conservationists on the lines of 'Ganga Prahari'."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/37-pilibhit-foresters-attend-wiis-webinar-on-monitoring-of-aquatic-species-in-ganga-basin/articleshow/76451540.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kanpur||33 women, girl inmates of protection home infected||Kanpur: As many as 33 women and girls living in the protection homes at Swarupnagar tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection leaving district administration officials jittery. Among the infected, 18 inmates belong to women protection home and 15 to girls protection home. The inmates were found infected when GSVM medical college released the reports of tests on Wednesday. A woman was found infected in random testing and it is being presumed that she was the source of infection for others. The police barricaded the protection home and stopped entry and exit of people. Uttar Pradesh State Women Commission took note of the development, expressed grave concern on Thursday and directed district officials to sanitize the protection home and protect other girls from infection. UP State Women Commission member Poonam Kapoor sought a report from the district probation officer and directed him to protect the remaining inmates. At present, the girls’ protection home has more inmates than its capacity. She asked the probation officer to direct the subordinate staff to maintain sanitation and change bedsheets daily. Special attention should be paid since the number of girls exceeds the protection home’s capacity, said Kapoor. She directed protection home superintendent Mithlesh Pal to provide sanitizer, masks and proper cleanliness besides getting all staff members examined and tested. The women and girls were among the 58 persons, including two employees of Kanpur Municipal Corporation, found infected. KMC chief Akshay Tripathi ordered sealing and sanitization of the building. Earlier, three KMC employees had tested positive. With two new cases, the number rose to five. The municipal commissioner had called a health team a couple of days ago and as many as 50 random samples of employees had been collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/33-women-girl-inmates-of-protection-home-infected/articleshow/76454002.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Varanasi||FIR against news portal’s woman reporter for misquoting woman||Times News Network Varanasi: A woman from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s adopted Domari village, Mala Devi, has lodged an FIR against the chief editor and a woman reporter of a news portal for mentioning her false quotes in a news story mocking her caste and poor financial condition. Circle officer Kotwali Pradeep Singh Chandel said that Mala Devi of Domari village had filed a complaint to Ramnagar police on which an FIR against chief editor and reporter of a new portal was lodged under section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of IPC and sections of SC/ST Act on June 13. In her complaint Mala said that she works as outsourced sanitary staff with Varanasi Municipal Corporation and dwells in Domari village. During lockdown a woman reached her village as a journalist and started talking about lockdown with her. She alleged, “I told her that I was not facing any problem in feeding my family. But, later I came to know that she mentioned in her news story that I work as domestic help and wash utensils at the places of others. She also mentioned in her story that I sleep consuming tea and roti only and my children were starving during lockdown.” “By misquoting that I and my children sleep empty stomach this reporter had mocked my poverty and caste due to which I am mentally shocked while my image in society has also been tarnished,” she said and requested to take action against the reporter and her chief editor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fir-against-news-portals-woman-reporter-for-misquoting-woman/articleshow/76453963.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Residents volunteer as govt ramps up coronavirus testing||HYDERABAD: While the authorities began the exercise of conducting 50,000 Covid-19 tests in Hyderabad and surrounding districts, many residents are volunteering to get themselves tested. As part of the massive testing strategy, officials are now conducting Covid-19 tests on asymptomatic people, unlike earlier. Testing is also being done on asymptomatic first contacts of positive Covid- 19 cases, apart from symptomatic people. In the last two days, 1,500 tests were done in Hyderabad and 600 tests were done in Rangareddy district. “Earlier, there was a lot of apprehension among people to get tested, but now people are more aware of the virus and are asking us to get themselves tested,” an official told TOI. Residents are voluntarily coming forward to inform the officials with doubts they might have come in touch with people having Covid-19 symptoms. “Many people tell that they have visited places with many coronavirus cases. We are doing the tests depending on their symptoms and contact level,” an official said. However, officials worry that people with common cold symptoms are panicking and insisting on getting tested. “It is difficult to distinguish why cold and cough occurs, so we are doing tests on such people if they have other comorbidities,” said sources from health department. Officials are taking care that results are given within 24 hours of testing, despite having many samples to be tested. On the other hand, officials said that many people are approaching private labs and hospitals for testing. Meanwhile, the door-to-door survey of families on their health conditions has begun in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-volunteer-as-govt-ramps-up-coronavirus-testing/articleshow/76452533.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 19, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur starts production of N95 and N99 Masks to fight Covid||Kanpur: IIT Kanpur started the production of N95 and N99 masks on its campus from Thursday. This is a joint initiative of IIT-Kanpur and its Startup Innovation and Incubation Centre (SIIC) in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The institute has set a manufacturing target of 25,000 masks per day. The masks are being manufactured in the premises of IIT Kanpur’s business incubator by a graduated company of the incubator E-Spin Nanotech in collaboration with one of the incubator’s current company Indeema Fibres as well as IIT-K faculty members which include Prof Sri Sivakumar, Prof Ramkumar, Prof Raja Angamuthu, Prof Gopakumar and senior scientific officers Dr Manish Kulkarni and Dr. Prabhat Dwivedi. “This is a first-of-its-kind initiative by an IIT or a Technology Business Incubator of an academic institution of India,” said Prof Abhay Karandikar, director of IIT Kanpur. “Face masks have become a necessity in the current times, and no one should have to compromise on this due to issues of availability or affordability. I am thankful to E-Spin Nanotech, Indeema Fibres and our faculty for taking up the task of making masks widely available to the public,” he added. “The production line is completely automated to prevent contamination during the manufacturing process. The masks will be available at very affordable prices on the company’s website as well as other prominent e-commerce platforms,” said Dr Sandip Patil, director of E-Spin Nanotech Pvt Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-kanpur-starts-production-of-n95-and-n99-masks-to-fight-covid/articleshow/76453991.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Court awards 10-year jail term for murder attempt||PONDA: The additional district and sessions court, Ponda on Wednesday sentenced Akhilendra Kumar Singh, alias Anis, a native of Uttar Pradesh, to rigorous imprisonment for ten years in an attempt to murder case. Bela N Naik, the district judge-2 and additional sessions judge, Panaji sitting at Ponda, also directed the accused to pay Rs 20,000 and undergo an additional rigorous imprisonment for two years. If the accused pays the fine, it will be given to the victim, the court has ordered, public prosecutor Satyawan Raut Dessai said. The prosecution examined 12 witnesses during the course of trial, Dessai said. Singh, a native of Basuchak village of Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh, was accused of attempting to kill his roommate on the intervening night of November 17 and 18, 2017. Police records state that Lalbahadur Singh, then 35 years old, the accused who was 28 years old then and Chhoturam worked as casual labourers at construction sites and were staying in a rented room at Koparwada, Curti together. The incident came to light when Chhoturam returned to his room at night and found Lalbahadur lying unconscious while Anis was missing. He rushed him to Ponda sub-district hospital and also informed his brother Monturam. Following a complaint from Monturam, presently staying at Deepnagar-Curti, police apprehended the accused from Kenjar, a village on the Mangaluru airport road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-awards-10-yr-jail-term-for-murder-attempt/articleshow/76434128.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to set up PV Narasimha Rao Memorial||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has decided to set up a PV Narasimha Rao Memorial in the state on the lines of the former president’s Abdul Kalam Memorial in Rameshwaram. It was also decided to conduct a national seminar and organise 10 to 12 major programmes in connection with the birth centenary celebrations of the former prime minister. The celebrations committee appointed by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is headed by TRS MP K Keshava Rao and its members are ministers KT Rama Rao, Eatala Rajender and V Srinivas Goud. The committee met on Thursday to finalise the programmes which would kick off on June 28. The CM asked the committee to involve those who had interacted with Narasimha Rao, his family, well-wishers and others before finalising plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-set-up-pv-narasimha-rao-memorial/articleshow/76452564.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Petty fight leads to stabbing in Subhanpura||VADODARA: An event manager, while trying to intervene in a petty fight outside a paan shop in Subhanpura was stabbed thrice on Wednesday night. Nishil Patel has lodged a complaint of attempt to murder against accused Abhijit Jha and three of his accomplices, while Jha has lodged a counter complaint that Patel and his brother Dixit assaulted and provoked him and his friends. In his complaint Patel said that he rushed to the paan shop after he got a call from his brother, Dixit, that Jha and three of his friends were attacking him. Dixit also said that Jha was brandishing a knife. Patel said that a fight had already ensued between Dixit the four men when he reached the spot along with a friend, Rahul Padhiyar. When Patel rushed in to stop the fight and allegedly called the police control room, Jha’s friends identified as Rahul Rao and Sujit alias Denny, held him and Jha stabbed him thrice. In the melee, Dixit and Padhiyar too suffered injuries. Patel was taken to SSG Hospital where his condition is believed to be stable. Around midnight, police registered an offence against Jha, Rao, Denny and Sunil Nair based on Patel’s statement. Later, Jha also approached police with a complaint alleging that Dixit made fun of Rao when the latter fell off his bike. This triggered a scuffle between Rao and Dixit in which Jha had to intervene. Dixit then called Patel who reached there with a knife and threatened them. Jha said that while they tried to leave the spot, Patel assaulted them with the knife injuring him and Rao. “We have detained Jha and his three friends and have sent them to SSG Hospital for submitting their swab samples for coronavirus test. As of now we suspect that Jha had brought the knife and he stabbed Patel and his friend,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petty-fight-leads-to-stabbing-in-subhanpura/articleshow/76451971.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Girl ends life after alleged gang rape in Ghazipur||VARANASI: A 16-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped by two men, committed suicide by hanging herself with the ceiling of her hut in a village under Kasimabad police station area in Ghazipur on Thursday morning. The incident led to tension in the village and as scores of locals gathered at the spot demanding immediate arrest of the accused. Taking note of the incident, SP Ghazipur Om Prakash Singh reached there and assured the villagers of strict action in the case. He said that CO Kasimabad has been asked to probe the matter. Police said the girl had gone to collect water from a handpump near her house on the night of June 15, when her neighbour Munish Chauhan allegedly kidnapped her. In his police complaint, the girl’s father alleged that after taking the girl on a truck of Ghanshyam Yadav, both had raped her. The girl reported the matter to her family after returning home. The girl’s father reached the house of Munish next morning to take up the matter, but was threatened by his family members. Later, he reported the matter to the Kasimabad police. Singh said that on getting the complaint of the girl’s father, Kasimabad police lodged an FIR under section 376 of IPC and Pocso Act against the accused. “One of the accused, Yadav, has been arrested while Chauhan is absconding,” he added. SP Ghazipur said that on Thursday morning, Kasimabad cops had gone to the girl’s house to take her to the government hospital for medical examination. After a few minutes, the girl’s family alerted the police that she had ended her life by hanging herself with the ceiling. As the news spread, scores of villagers gathered at her house and started demonstrating. They were pacified by the police on assurance of prompt action after which they ended the demonstration. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/girl-ends-life-after-alleged-gang-rape-in-ghazipur/articleshow/76453974.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Private hospital nurses not getting PPE, says PIL in Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday sought responses of the Centre, Aam Aadmi Party government and the Indian Nursing Council on a PIL alleging that nurses in private hospitals were not being provided proper protection equipment to guard against the novel coronavirus. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan was hearing a plea that also alleged that nurses in private hospitals and clinics were being given used PPE kits. Filed by an organisation called Distress Management Collective, the petition alleged that the Centre and Delhi government had a “discriminatory approach” towards nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes, as compared to those working in state-run healthcare facilities. The plea further alleged that there was “blatant violation” of the human rights of nurses and other health workers in private nursing homes/hospitals registered under the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1953, and Rules of 2011. "The worst hit are nurses who are giving care to the patients at bedside without PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves, etc, especially in private nursing home in the capital and other parts of the country, especially when there is spike in asymptomatic Covid cases,” the collective stated through advocate Manoj V George. The petition further claimed that the Centre and Delhi government “are not taking any action despite many representations by the nurses individually and collectively” and have left the health and life of nurses “to the whims and fancies of private management of the nursing homes.” It sought directions extending the benefit of Delhi government’s medical safety and safeguard guidelines, issued on April 20, to nurses in all private hospitals and nursing homes “in letter and spirit.” The plea also sought a direction to INC to form a committee to audit/inspect available stock of medical safety equipment, including PPE kits, in private hospitals and nursing homes in NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-hospital-nurses-not-getting-ppe-says-pil-in-hc/articleshow/76454189.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Allahabad||Now, airport-like counters for boarding passes at NCR stations||Prayagraj: Moving a step further to introduce airport-like boarding experience at railway stations, the authorities of the North Central Railways (NCR) have introduced a unique boarding pass system which would authorise the passengers to avail all the facilities at Prayagraj Junction. Passengers can get their boarding pass from newly introduced state-of-the-art check-in counters. “Four of such check-in counters have been made operational at the entrance area of platform number one and these are fully contactless keeping in view the safety of passengers due to the ongoing pandemic. The facility is identical to the one we find at at the airports because we want our passengers and staff to be 100% safe in these testing times,” said GM, NCR and NR, Rajiv Chaudhry. He said two-way display TFT monitors have been installed in each glass separated counter. “For scanning the ticket and passenger’s identity, a webcam has been installed, which is connected to the system of the ticket checking staff. The PNR of the passenger is checked either by capturing particulars through webcam or through already introduced QR code scanning system,” shared Ajit Kumar Singh, Chief Public Relations Officer, NCR. Introduced on the behest of NCR GM Rajiv Chaudhry, the system works in such a way that for communication between passenger and ticket checking staff, microphone and speakers are provided on both sides which are physically separated through a glass partition wall of the counter. After confirming the passenger’s identity and checking his ticket, a boarding pass containing requisite details like name, PNR number, coach and berth number is printed through a printer installed on the passenger side. This boarding pass, which has to be collected by the passenger, authorises him to enter the station premises and board the train, added the CPRO. “However, the passenger needs to carry the ticket and identity card. The on-board ticket checking staff will also be aware of the status of passengers who have checked-in before through an auto-updating software installed in a tablet,” he said. “This technology not only ensures contactless ticket checking to safeguard passengers and railway staff but also helps in identifying vacant berths in a train which are then relayed to next station for better availability of berth to passengers. Thermal scanning process is also being integrated to this system to make it more safe,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/now-airport-like-counters-for-boarding-passes-at-ncr-stations/articleshow/76453907.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NRKs ineligible for protection given to guest workers: Kerala government||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even when the controversy over Covid-19 test for expats returning to Kerala is brewing, the government made it clear that expats will not be eligible for protection the state had extended to migrant workers. In an order issued by the government on Wednesday, Norka department has clarified that overseas returnees are different from migrant workers from other states. "Hence no protection can be given to overseas returnees as those given to migrant workers as specified in the apex court’s order," the order said. The state made the clarification in the wake of the high court asking it to consider terming the persons coming from foreign countries as migrant workers for the sake of extending certain benefits. The court had made the suggestion while considering a PIL against the government decision to withdraw free institutional quarantine to persons returning from abroad. The petitioners had approached the court citing the order of the apex court on May 28, with regards to the return of migrant workers to their native states. "We direct the government to consider the issue, bearing in mind the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the suo motu writ petition no. 6 of 2020 dated 28 May 2020 with regard to food and shelter to the migrants," the judgement by a division bench of the high court consisting of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly had said. The Supreme Court, in its interim order on May 28, had directed states that no fare should be charged from migrant worker for their travel by train or bus, they should be provided health screening and other facilities free of cost and workers, who are stranded at different places in the country, should be provided free food by states concerned. State government had stated in court that it has identified 1.165 lakh rooms for quarantining NRK-returnees, and of this lot, 1.35 lakh rooms with attached toilets are readily available for quarantine purpose. The government further stated that another 9,000 rooms in hotels and resorts have been identified for the purpose of housing NRKs who wish to stay at their own cost. However, the state government is maintaining a position that the expats need not go on IQ and can go on home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nrks-ineligible-for-protection-given-to-guest-workers-govt/articleshow/76451619.cms||KP Saikiran
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Govt signs MoU to set up smart classrooms||A memorandum of understanding has been signed between Rajasthan government, Power Grid Corporation of India and Educational Consultant India Limited to set up smart classrooms in 100 government schools and to make available e-content of syllabus from classes I to XII. The project will cost around Rs 1.85 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-signs-mou-to-set-up-smart-classrooms/articleshow/76453544.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||BJP cadres pledge against buying Chinese products||TRICHY: The BJP and a few other outfits called for boycott of Chinese products by taking an oath and took out demonstrations in Trichy and a few other places in the region on Thursday in the wake of the martyrdom of 20 jawans across the line of actual control (LAC). They even broke some mobile phones made in China as part of the protest. On Thursday morning, a group of BJP and VHP cadres joined a few ex-servicemen to pay floral tributes to the martyrs in front of the Rajagopuram of Srirangam temple. They carried a banner mentioning that they were placing their salute to the soldiers who laid down their lives fighting for the nation. They took an oath not to buy products made in China. Later, BJP and VHP cadres broke a few mobile phones made in China. They also tried to burn a Chinese flag and a picture of Chinese president Xi Jinping, but police foiled the move. Srirangam police arrested 35 people including two women in this connection. All-India Hindu Maha Sabha members led Trichy district secretary Manikandan also paid floral tributes to Havildar K Palani at an event in TVS Toll Gate in Trichy city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-cadres-pledge-against-buying-chinese-products/articleshow/76454191.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 hits sale of Chinese flags for stir||With tension between India and China rising, people have started purchasing Chinese flags to be burnt during protests in the city. Lokesh Aggarwal, a wholesale flag seller at Tripolia Bazaar said 60 flags were sold on Wednesday. “Under normal circumstances, 2,000 Chinese flags would have been burnt in Rajasthan, but due to pandemic the sale was low. We have just been able to sell a few pieces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-hits-sale-of-chinese-flags-for-stir/articleshow/76453531.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: MNIT students asked to vacate hostel by July 1||JAIPUR: Final year students of Malviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT), Jaipur, whose results were just declared, have been ordered by the administration to vacate the hostel by July 1. This order is now being criticized by the students most of whom are out of Rajasthan and are unable to travel back during pandemic on such short notice. The institute was closed after the outbreak of coronavirus and students were not able to take their luggage back. Now, when their result is announced the administration wants them to vacate the hostels, although new admissions have not begun. One student on condition of anonymity said, “Around 50% of the students reside outside Rajasthan. It is difficult to reach Jaipur as no direct train is available even from major cities, leave apart the situation of remote areas. Travelling by flight is risky as well due to the limit in carrying luggage weighing not more than 7kg, so it is not possible to take back all our belongings in a single trip and more trips are not economically feasible for most of students.” When TOI contacted MNIT authorities, they said that they can extend the dates according to the students’ wish. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mnit-students-asked-to-vacate-hostel-by-july-1/articleshow/76453548.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Family events breed Covid-19 in Trichy||TRICHY: Family functions have added at least seven Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy city in the past two weeks. Though it is mandatory for locals conducting functions to intimate the civic body and ensure that there are not more than 50 people, the restrictions are seldom followed. Two such incidents have resulted in the seven people testing positive and officials are still tracking the attendees. In the first case, a child’s birthday party in Thiruvanaikoil falling under ward number 4 in Srirangam zone two weeks back resulted in a pregnant woman and a toddler contracting the infection. Similarly, a man hailing from RS Puram in ward number 35 of Ponmalai zone who attended the party also contracted Covid-19. In another case, a family in While Betal street in ward number 16 hosted an engagement event on June 7. While it is unclear whether permission was obtained, neighbours said that several people took part in the event. After the hosts, four members of the same family tested positive recently. Panic has struck residents in Big Bazaar streets who attended the engagement. Corporation has collected samples from more than 20 contacts. “Families from at least seven closely packed streets attended the engagement,” a resident of Big Bazaar street said. “Asymptomatic people attending the events spread the infection. Six people who either hosted or attended the gatherings have tested positive in Srirangam zone alone,” a corporation official said. Officials said that residents fail to comprehend the seriousness while attending events, thus putting themselves vulnerable to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/family-events-breed-covid-in-trichy/articleshow/76454198.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 19, 2020||Thane||Mumbai gets first spell of heavy rain since monsoon’s onset||MUMBAI/THANE/NAVI MUMBAI: Rain lashed parts of Mumbai city, eastern and western suburbs from noon till evening on Thursday, in the first spell of intense showers since the onset of southwest monsoon on June 15. Deonar recorded 78mm of rain. Three persons, including a senior citizen, sustained minor injuries after a one-storey chawl collapsed in Jogeshwari (E). There was a significant downpour in Thane and Navi Mumbai too. Weathermen said continuous rain can be expected overnight, with intermittent heavy spells. “With a cloud patch near Mumbai over Arabian Sea, coupled with lower level westerly winds, continuous rainfall overnight with intermittent heavy spells is likely,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, adding that extended forecast as of June 18 for four weeks for rainfall anomaly, indicated positive departures over Maharashtra, from next week. Average rain from 8.30am-8.30pm by IMD Colaba was a moderate 39.2mm and Santacruz 38.6mm. IMD had last week issued an orange alert for Mumbai, indicating heavy to very heavy rain at few places at the start of the week, it was downgraded on Wednesday. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet, said the heavy rain expected from the start of the week itself was due to a trough from northeast Arabian Sea to eastern parts of the country. “The trough was expected to move northwards and bring in intense rain for parts of Mumbai and adjoining areas. But the trough remained stagnant to south of Mumbai. Therefore, parts Harnai, Ratnagiri, witnessed more rain. On Thursday, with the system moving, showers were reported across Mumbai,” he said. Over the weekend, on-and-off moderate showers can be expected. Palawat said the next intense spell for Mumbai can be expected around June 22, with the monsoon surge still being active over the west coast. Rain at the seven lakes which supply drinking water to the city, needs to pick momentum. The lakes supplying water to Mumbai had 1.67 lakh million litres (11.57% of required stock). This is slightly higher compared to 88,000 million litres (6.13%) at this time last year. A portion of a dilapidated building also crashed in Kurla (W), while 18 trees fell, and five short-circuit incidents were reported. No one was seriously hurt in these incidents. Officials said Sakira Shaikh (22), Tauseef Shaikh (28) and Fatima Qureshi (60) from Meghwadi chawl were treated at Cooper hospital and discharged. In Kurla, officials said the empty portion of Mehtab building collapsed in the morning. BMC had declared the building dilapidated in June 2019 and told its residents to vacate it. In January, a fire forced many to vacate it. Assistant municipal commissioner (L ward) Manish Walunj said no one was staying in the collapsed portion. Civic officials said no water-logging was reported and traffic was not diverted. Water in low-lying areas receded, they said. In Thane, a wall collapsed, part of a house was damaged, a tree crashed and two areas were water-logged following 70.35mm rainfall since Thursday morning. A cantilevered gallery of a one-storey house at Indira Nagar, Wagle Estate, was damaged. “Part of the gallery wall developed cracks and a small portion of plaster came off. The remaining structure, in dangerous condition, was attended to by civic officials. No casualty or injury was reported,” regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. A 10-ft long port of the compound wall of a company skirting Chirag Nagar collapsed, while the rest was in a dangerous condition. The stretch of highway near Korum Mall along Eastern Express Highway and a stretch near Thane jail were flooded but there was no traffic disruption, the authorities said. “We have cleared most drains and several under-construction civic projects were in a safe condition before the rain,” a civic official said. A tree fell at Lokmanya Nagar, while four complaints of branches falling were received till evening. Kopar Khairane node received most rain (80mm) under NMMC, while the average of the satellite city was 54.8mm till 9pm. PCMC area witnessed 40mm rain with gusty wind briefly. Traffic was not affected. Vashi received 65mm, followed by Airoli (50mm), Nerul (42mm) and Belapur (37mm). Five trees fell and there were brief power disruptions in the city. Low-lying area near Mafco market at Turbhe had ankle-deep water in the morning. (With inputs from Vijay V Singh, Manoj Badgeri & B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-gets-first-spell-of-heavy-rain-since-monsoons-onset/articleshow/76455478.cms||Richa Pinto
June 19, 2020||Madurai||Illegal liquor sale: Duo told to pay Rs 50,000 to MCH||MADURAI: Granting bail to a Tasmac shop salesman who was involved in theft and illegal sale of liquor during Covid-19 lockdown period, the Madras high court has directed him and the co-accused in the case to pay Rs 50,000 each to the Ramanathapuram medical college hospital to provide facilities for health workers involved in Covid-19 prevention works. The petitioner, Kottaisamy who was arrested by the Devipattinam police in Ramanathapuram district moved the high court Madurai bench seeking bail. According to the prosecution, the petitioner and the co-accused Poosaidurai were working as salesmen at a Tasmac shop in the district. Though all Tasmac shops in the state were closed, Kottaisamy and Poosaidurai stole liquor bottles worth Rs 7.72 lakh from the shop and sold them illegally, causing loss to the government. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Kottaisamy is ready to pay Rs 50,000 as non-refundable compensation to the hospital. The government advocate submitted that during the search, police recovered Rs 6.55 lakh cash and the remaining Rs 1.17lakh is yet to be deposited by both before the Tasmac authorities.  The judge further directed the petitioner to remit the balance amount of Rs 1.17 lakh to the authorities within a period of two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/illegal-liquor-sale-duo-told-to-pay-rs-50k-to-mch/articleshow/76454199.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets first spell of heavy rain since monsoon’s onset||MUMBAI/THANE/NAVI MUMBAI: Rain lashed parts of Mumbai city, eastern and western suburbs from noon till evening on Thursday, in the first spell of intense showers since the onset of southwest monsoon on June 15. Deonar recorded 78mm of rain. Three persons, including a senior citizen, sustained minor injuries after a one-storey chawl collapsed in Jogeshwari (E). There was a significant downpour in Thane and Navi Mumbai too. Weathermen said continuous rain can be expected overnight, with intermittent heavy spells. “With a cloud patch near Mumbai over Arabian Sea, coupled with lower level westerly winds, continuous rainfall overnight with intermittent heavy spells is likely,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, adding that extended forecast as of June 18 for four weeks for rainfall anomaly, indicated positive departures over Maharashtra, from next week. Average rain from 8.30am-8.30pm by IMD Colaba was a moderate 39.2mm and Santacruz 38.6mm. IMD had last week issued an orange alert for Mumbai, indicating heavy to very heavy rain at few places at the start of the week, it was downgraded on Wednesday. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet, said the heavy rain expected from the start of the week itself was due to a trough from northeast Arabian Sea to eastern parts of the country. “The trough was expected to move northwards and bring in intense rain for parts of Mumbai and adjoining areas. But the trough remained stagnant to south of Mumbai. Therefore, parts Harnai, Ratnagiri, witnessed more rain. On Thursday, with the system moving, showers were reported across Mumbai,” he said. Over the weekend, on-and-off moderate showers can be expected. Palawat said the next intense spell for Mumbai can be expected around June 22, with the monsoon surge still being active over the west coast. Rain at the seven lakes which supply drinking water to the city, needs to pick momentum. The lakes supplying water to Mumbai had 1.67 lakh million litres (11.57% of required stock). This is slightly higher compared to 88,000 million litres (6.13%) at this time last year. A portion of a dilapidated building also crashed in Kurla (W), while 18 trees fell, and five short-circuit incidents were reported. No one was seriously hurt in these incidents. Officials said Sakira Shaikh (22), Tauseef Shaikh (28) and Fatima Qureshi (60) from Meghwadi chawl were treated at Cooper hospital and discharged. In Kurla, officials said the empty portion of Mehtab building collapsed in the morning. BMC had declared the building dilapidated in June 2019 and told its residents to vacate it. In January, a fire forced many to vacate it. Assistant municipal commissioner (L ward) Manish Walunj said no one was staying in the collapsed portion. Civic officials said no water-logging was reported and traffic was not diverted. Water in low-lying areas receded, they said. In Thane, a wall collapsed, part of a house was damaged, a tree crashed and two areas were water-logged following 70.35mm rainfall since Thursday morning. A cantilevered gallery of a one-storey house at Indira Nagar, Wagle Estate, was damaged. “Part of the gallery wall developed cracks and a small portion of plaster came off. The remaining structure, in dangerous condition, was attended to by civic officials. No casualty or injury was reported,” regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. A 10-ft long port of the compound wall of a company skirting Chirag Nagar collapsed, while the rest was in a dangerous condition. The stretch of highway near Korum Mall along Eastern Express Highway and a stretch near Thane jail were flooded but there was no traffic disruption, the authorities said. “We have cleared most drains and several under-construction civic projects were in a safe condition before the rain,” a civic official said. A tree fell at Lokmanya Nagar, while four complaints of branches falling were received till evening. Kopar Khairane node received most rain (80mm) under NMMC, while the average of the satellite city was 54.8mm till 9pm. PCMC area witnessed 40mm rain with gusty wind briefly. Traffic was not affected. Vashi received 65mm, followed by Airoli (50mm), Nerul (42mm) and Belapur (37mm). Five trees fell and there were brief power disruptions in the city. Low-lying area near Mafco market at Turbhe had ankle-deep water in the morning. (With inputs from Vijay V Singh, Manoj Badgeri & B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-first-spell-of-heavy-rain-since-monsoons-onset/articleshow/76452639.cms||Richa Pinto
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Infection high among UAE, Kuwait returnees||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As debate rages over the state government’s insistence on pre-flight testing of passengers from foreign countries, data between May 7 and June 18 shows that the infection rate of the coronavirus disease among international passengers from seven countries stands at 2.5%. In fact, it is the high infection rates among passengers from these countries, especially Kuwait and UAE, that has forced the decisions to mandate pre-flight testing for all passengers. As many as 34,327 passengers had arrived from the seven countries mentioned above since May 7 of which 868 persons tested positive for the virus. Kuwait and UAE together accounted for 685 of them. As many as 259 persons out of 6,316 returnees from Kuwait tested positive in the state till June 18. The figures from other six countries are as follows: UAE (426 positives out of 1,8721) Tajikistan (25 out of 143), Nigeria (24 out of 295), Russia (19 out of 247), Saudi Arabia (80 out of 4,917) and Oman (35 out of 3,688). At the chief minister’s review meetings, it was cited that even if one or two passengers travel with infection in a flight, it poses risks to other passengers as well. On June 5, the officials reviewed that 407 chartered flights had submitted applications to carry passengers numbering 1-1.25 lakh to Kerala. The state government had then considered intensifying screening at the airport and even pitched testing at airports. It was also considered whether conditions for testing should be put forward for travel agencies arranging chartered flights since a major percentage of incoming passengers comprised vulnerable groups like women, children and aged persons. Testing for those coming in chartered flights was earlier decided to be done at private level. The officials said that going by the nature of cases so far, many of the passengers who tested positive here already had high viral load and had to be treated as diseased persons. In Thiruvananthapuram, around 14 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district from May 18-June 1 were confirmed with infection within 48 hours of their arrival from foreign countries. Among them, around eight patients tested positive for Covid-19 in less than 24 hours. Foreign returnees from Kuwait, Abu Dhabi and Oman had tested positive for Covid 19 in the district in less than three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/infection-high-among-uae-kuwait-returnees/articleshow/76451650.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How a DIY medical device saved this newborn a stint in hospital||NEW DELHI: It was on June 9 that Sumit and Kashvi Saxena became parents. The family had taken care to take the Covid-19 test, but hadn’t anticipated other health problems for the baby. But as things would have it, the boy contracted ‘newborn jaundice’, the common disease marked by the yellowing of skin and eyes. The Saxenas were distraught because hospital care seemed troublesome given the corona overload. The infant’s uncle, Kanav Kahol, a computer scientist, decided then to innovate a phototherapy chamber using aquarium lights to treat the ailment. “At the hospital, tests showed the bilirubin levels on the higher side, but the doctor wasn’t very keen on admitting the baby due to the risks related to the Covid pandemic,” said Kahol, a former professor at the Arizona State University, USA. In normal situations, the hospital would have suggested two days of phototherapy: a well- established treatment using lights. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+How a 'cardboard cave' saved the newborn from a hospital stint||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-a-diy-medical-device-saved-this-newborn-a-stint-in-hospital/articleshow/76454209.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 19, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai gets first spell of heavy rain since monsoon’s onset||MUMBAI/THANE/NAVI MUMBAI: Rain lashed parts of Mumbai city, eastern and western suburbs from noon till evening on Thursday, in the first spell of intense showers since the onset of southwest monsoon on June 15. Deonar recorded 78mm of rain. Three persons, including a senior citizen, sustained minor injuries after a one-storey chawl collapsed in Jogeshwari (E). There was a significant downpour in Thane and Navi Mumbai too. Weathermen said continuous rain can be expected overnight, with intermittent heavy spells. “With a cloud patch near Mumbai over Arabian Sea, coupled with lower level westerly winds, continuous rainfall overnight with intermittent heavy spells is likely,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, adding that extended forecast as of June 18 for four weeks for rainfall anomaly, indicated positive departures over Maharashtra, from next week. Average rain from 8.30am-8.30pm by IMD Colaba was a moderate 39.2mm and Santacruz 38.6mm. IMD had last week issued an orange alert for Mumbai, indicating heavy to very heavy rain at few places at the start of the week, it was downgraded on Wednesday. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet, said the heavy rain expected from the start of the week itself was due to a trough from northeast Arabian Sea to eastern parts of the country. “The trough was expected to move northwards and bring in intense rain for parts of Mumbai and adjoining areas. But the trough remained stagnant to south of Mumbai. Therefore, parts Harnai, Ratnagiri, witnessed more rain. On Thursday, with the system moving, showers were reported across Mumbai,” he said. Over the weekend, on-and-off moderate showers can be expected. Palawat said the next intense spell for Mumbai can be expected around June 22, with the monsoon surge still being active over the west coast. Rain at the seven lakes which supply drinking water to the city, needs to pick momentum. The lakes supplying water to Mumbai had 1.67 lakh million litres (11.57% of required stock). This is slightly higher compared to 88,000 million litres (6.13%) at this time last year. A portion of a dilapidated building also crashed in Kurla (W), while 18 trees fell, and five short-circuit incidents were reported. No one was seriously hurt in these incidents. Officials said Sakira Shaikh (22), Tauseef Shaikh (28) and Fatima Qureshi (60) from Meghwadi chawl were treated at Cooper hospital and discharged. In Kurla, officials said the empty portion of Mehtab building collapsed in the morning. BMC had declared the building dilapidated in June 2019 and told its residents to vacate it. In January, a fire forced many to vacate it. Assistant municipal commissioner (L ward) Manish Walunj said no one was staying in the collapsed portion. Civic officials said no water-logging was reported and traffic was not diverted. Water in low-lying areas receded, they said. In Thane, a wall collapsed, part of a house was damaged, a tree crashed and two areas were water-logged following 70.35mm rainfall since Thursday morning. A cantilevered gallery of a one-storey house at Indira Nagar, Wagle Estate, was damaged. “Part of the gallery wall developed cracks and a small portion of plaster came off. The remaining structure, in dangerous condition, was attended to by civic officials. No casualty or injury was reported,” regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. A 10-ft long port of the compound wall of a company skirting Chirag Nagar collapsed, while the rest was in a dangerous condition. The stretch of highway near Korum Mall along Eastern Express Highway and a stretch near Thane jail were flooded but there was no traffic disruption, the authorities said. “We have cleared most drains and several under-construction civic projects were in a safe condition before the rain,” a civic official said. A tree fell at Lokmanya Nagar, while four complaints of branches falling were received till evening. Kopar Khairane node received most rain (80mm) under NMMC, while the average of the satellite city was 54.8mm till 9pm. PCMC area witnessed 40mm rain with gusty wind briefly. Traffic was not affected. Vashi received 65mm, followed by Airoli (50mm), Nerul (42mm) and Belapur (37mm). Five trees fell and there were brief power disruptions in the city. Low-lying area near Mafco market at Turbhe had ankle-deep water in the morning. (With inputs from Vijay V Singh, Manoj Badgeri & B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-gets-first-spell-of-heavy-rain-since-monsoons-onset/articleshow/76455479.cms||Richa Pinto
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Bander coal block, 7-9 kms from Tadoba, set for auction||Nagpur: The Bander coal block, which is 7-9 kms from Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur district, is among the 41 blocks released by the Centre for auction. Over 1,200 hectare of rich forest land will have to be diverted if mining is allowed in the area. According to wildlife experts, Bandar falls in the route used by tigers to disperse from Tadoba to Bor Tiger Reserve in Wardha district and Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati district. Man-animal conflict is raging in Chandrapur district as the Tadoba landscape is teeming with tigers and other wildlife and clearing the area for mining will only increase the problem. On Thursday, 41 coal blocks — 4 in Chandrapur and Yavatmal districts in Maharashtra, 9 in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha, and 11 in Madhya Pradesh were notified for auction as part of the government’s commitment for ‘ease of doing business’. Most of these blocks fall in tiger and elephant corridors. The coal blocks in Chandrapur include Bander & Takli-Jena-Bellora (North & South) and Marki-Mangli-II in Yavatmal district in Wardha valley. Due to shrinking habitat, big cats have killed at least 17 people in Chandrapur and its landscape in the last 5 months. The Centre’s decision has come in for sharp criticism from wildlife conservationists and greens. Bander coal blocks fall in Chimur tehsil under Brahmapuri forest division. On May 29, 2009, these blocks were allotted to Bander Coal Company Private Limited (BCCPL), Mumbai, a joint venture of Amar Iron & Steel, Yavatmal; Century Textiles Industries, Mumbai; and JK Cements Limited, Kanpur. The BCCPL was to extract 175.110 million tonnes of coal through open cast and underground mining. However, permission for mining was rejected as Brahmapuri and TATR officials did not give a favourable report. It clearly said that coal mining should not be allowed in Bander, be it underground or open cast. In 1999, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) rejected the proposal for the same blocks citing its adverse impact on wildlife around Tadoba. “It is the only corridor left on the northern side connecting Tadoba to Melghat. The existing coal mines in Murpaar have already damaged this critical link. Bander has resident tigers too,” said wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi. Wildlife expert Kishor Rithe, who had inspected the Bander site as a NTCA committee member in October 2010, and had opposed the mining, said, “It is foolish to allow coal mining. When countries are doing away with coal-based power plants due to climate change and going for green energy, why is India still promoting coal energy.” Bandu Dhotre, president of Chandrapur NGO Eco-Pro, had raised the issue with Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh on July 19, 2010 asking him to ‘save’ the only functional corridor connecting Tadoba and Melghat. “Khadsangi reserve forest and adjoining forest area, located towards the northern side is the narrowest bottleneck among all. Already degraded due to human habitation and agricultural activity, it will be disastrous to allow mining in Bander,” said Dhotre. WHY BANDER IS CRUCIAL * Rampant coal mining in Padmapur near Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station has already destroyed tiger corridor towards south * There are plans to grant clearance to WCL’s Durgapur extension deep mining, which is 12.5km from Tadoba boundary * Mining in Bander will destroy corridor towards Umred-Karhandla, Bor and Melghat tiger reserves * Mining proposal was first rejected by MoEF in 1999. It was again rejected in 2010. Now the blocks have been again released for auction on Thursday * Bander has resident tigers, many breeding ones * Area between 7-9.5 kms from Tadoba||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bander-coal-block-7-9-kms-from-tadoba-set-for-auction/articleshow/76453652.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 19, 2020||Meerut||Man hacks to death brother over latter’s customers visiting house||Meerut: A man allegedly hacked to death his younger brother as he was annoyed that too many visitors frequented their house.According to police, a day before the murder, accused Warisuddin had threatened to kill his younger brother, Alimmuddin, a blacksmith, if the number of the latter's customers visiting the house did not stop.After allegedly killing him with an axe, Warisuddin escaped. The murder took place in Meerapur region of Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday morning. Babuddin, a relative, said both brothers were embroiled in a dispute over the house they were living in and often quarrelled over it. On Tuesday, they had fought again, he added.Shakeel Ahmed, deputy superintendent of police, said, "A murder case was registered and raids are on to arrest the accused."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-hacks-to-death-brother-over-latters-customers-visiting-house/articleshow/76452601.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 to fuel demand for co-working space in Trichy||TRICHY: The Covid-19 pandemic has made a significant impact on the office space requirements and management as companies who plan to cut down their operational cost prefer smaller office space. As the outbreak has made radical changes in the work space environment with employers temporarily shifting to work from home, stakeholders see an escalating demand for co-working space and shared office space for multiple organisations under a single roof. Co-working space is a furnished office space with internet facility and basic furniture for multiple employers to focus only on productivity rather than spending time and money on office infrastructure. Unlike sending hefty sum as advance and rent in occupying office space in posh localities, co-working space function on the seater-basis, in which the firms charge around Rs 5,000 per seater. As electricity and internet charges are covered, startups prefer co-working space because it also helps them manage office space without risks. The lockdown has made even the established players to opt for co-working space. “During the lockdown, large offices are finding it difficult to operate, but if they had distributed offices, employees in green zones can work. This may cause a slowdown in the requirement for large office spaces whereas there will be an uptick in the requirement for smaller office spaces,” Prative Chend B, CEO, Seed Spaces, a co-working space in Trichy, said. Though the companies adopted work from home model now, entrepreneurs said that after the lockdown, the demand for small decentralised office space will increase in tier-II cities. Also, with lapses persist in work from home model such as distractions and lack of proper furniture, entrepreneurs said that the co-working space may help the employees to work in a better atmosphere and hold virtual meetings with team members. “We have accommodated three new clients even during the lockdown and enquiries are still abuzz. For companies that seek privacy, we provide a small cabin space with multiple seaters to host meetings,” A Manoj Prabahar, CEO, Trichy Cowork, said. After the lockdown, even the companies moving or expanding from tier-I to tier-II cities will consider the shared office space to minimise their investment, entrepreneurs said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-to-fuel-demand-for-co-working-space-in-trichy/articleshow/76454224.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 19, 2020||Madurai||Retirement age: Plea by retired government employee dismissed||MADURAI: Observing that an earlier order of the Madras high court dismissing a batch of petitions filed by government teachers seeking extension of retirement age, applies to all government servants, who retired prior to the date of notification, the court on dismissed a plea moved by a retired government employee seeking extension. Justice V Bhavani Subbaroyan passed the order while hearing the petition filed by S Rajendran who sought to extend him the benefit of state government’s GO which had extended the retirement age of employees from 58 to 59 years. The petitioner, who was working as a junior training officer at the government industrial training institute at Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, retired from service upon attaining the age of superannuation on April 30. The judge said the government in an order dated May 7 had increased the age of retirement of government servants from 58 to 59 years. It was stated that this was applicable to employees who are in regular service as on May 7 and due to retire on superannuation from May 31. The judge observed that the petitioner had retired from service on April 30 and ceased to be a regular employee. The judge said the GO will not be applicable to those who had retired earlier to the date from which the order comes into effect, citing that the GO can come into effect only prospectively and not retrospectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/retirement-age-plea-by-retired-govt-employee-dismissed/articleshow/76454220.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Meerut||As hotels & eateries open up, FSDA conducts inspections to check compliance with rules||Meerut: With hotels and eateries opening up post-lockdown, Food Safety and Drugs Authority (FSDA) officials conducted inspections to check compliance with various safety norms by them and warned of action if social distancing norms were found to be flouted on their premises.“As some hotels and eateries have started opening, inspections are being conducted by FSDA teams to ensure that all norms are being followed strictly. It is important to follow social distancing and clean habits while cooking and serving foods to the customers to prevent the spread of infections,” said Archana Dheeran, designated officer, FSDA, Meerut.A set of food hygiene and safety guidelines issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) is also being handed over to the hoteliers for strict compliance. “It is mandatory for all hotels and eateries to follow general hygiene practices. Any employee with cold, cough or flu-like symptoms should not be allowed to enter the establishment. The hotels should follow all the rules strictly,” said Dheeran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-hotels-eateries-open-up-fsda-conducts-inspections-to-check-compliance-with-rules/articleshow/76452593.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Work begins on Puthur commercial complex||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation, on Wednesday, launched preliminary work for the construction of a three-floor air-conditioned commercial complex project, in place of the vegetable market in Puthur, under the smart cities mission. The existing vegetable market is being razed down first. Though the tender was floated in August last year, the civil work started only recently. The complex will have three major gateways via Thennur high road and Officers colony on EVR road near MGMGH. “Demolition work has commenced in the vegetable market portion. Soon, the fish market adjacent to the site would be demolished. It will be moved to Kasivilangi on Kuzhumani Road,” a senior corporation official said. Officials added the Kasivilangi fish market has a legal hurdle in allotment of shops, which is likely to be sorted out in a few weeks to facilitate the relocation. The civic body aims to complete the relocation bid in a month. As per the proposal, the civic body has planned to establish multi-purpose halls on the third floor, however, city enthusiasts have sought the corporation to convert the multipurpose halls into movie halls for better patronage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-begins-on-puthur-commercial-complex/articleshow/76454244.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala ready to give TrueNat test kits at embassies: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has decided to provide TrueNat testing kits to embassies of those countries from which non-resident Keralites (NRKs) are returning home. The state expressed its willingness to provide testing before the Centre, airline companies and embassies, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He said testing kits are abundantly available and hence state will provide these to countries where testing facility is unavailable. “It is learnt that the UAE and Qatar have facilities. However countries like Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Oman lack this facility,” he said.  “We can do this only with the support of the Centre. Already discussions have been initiated with airline companies and embassies,” said the chief minister. Vijayan reiterated that there will be no practical difficulties for embassies to set up testing facilities in these countries. He also made it clear that those who are testing positive should be airlifted in separate flights. It is evident that state government is firm on the decision that expatriates coming from abroad, on Vande Bharat mission or chartered flights, should furnish Covid-negative certificates to reach Kerala. The decision taken by the cabinet on Wednesday was communicated to PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Top level sources said ‘state will not be going back from its demand’. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that 277 Keralites died in different countries due to Covid-19. There is a fear among expatriates and they badly want to return home and save their lives. The government has taken an inhuman decision putting their lives in danger, he claimed. At present, Kerala is receiving domestic flight passengers from high-risk zones such as Maharashtra, New Delhi and Chennai. “The government is not worried about disease carriers flying with other passengers in these flights. CM came out with a strange observation for the people coming from abroad, which is not justifiable,” said Chennithala. He asked why the government is observing a different approach for persons coming from abroad when those coming from red zones to the state are received without Covid-negative certificate.Already many Gulf countries have said that they do not have adequate testing facilities, he added. When all other states are ready to receive people from abroad, Kerala alone will be staying away. The end result will be that the Centre will be forced to cancel all flights to Kerala. If such a situation arises, then CM alone will be responsible for the same, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-state-ready-to-give-truenat-test-kits-at-embassies/articleshow/76451677.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||How you can assist in govt’s Covid fight||New Delhi: With the number of the novel coronavirus infections soaring, Delhi government has decided to engage volunteers from NGOs, NCC, NSS, Scouts and civil society to strengthen the fight against Covid-19. The idea is to make the fight a mass movement. Volunteers would be roped in to survey suspected cases, for surveillance and management of isolation cases, helpline assistance, aid to senior citizens, provide support to government and temporary hospitals, besides any other services that would be required in mitigation of the disease. People who have recovered from Covid-19 and are willing to share their experience and help the infected would also be roped in. With the number of cases crossing 50,000, the government is facing an acute shortage of manpower. Making an appeal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Delhi will fight coronavirus together. I appeal to all NGOs and individuals to join in this effort on a large scale.” Even lieutenant governor Anil Baijal tweeted: “Volunteers and NGOs are invited to join Delhi’s fight against Covid-19. Join hands, Together we can! They can register on “Serve as volunteer in the fight against Covid-19” on delhi.gov.in.” Delhi government chief secretary Vijay Dev had directed the IT department to develop a portal to enable willing volunteers to register online. Only those aged between 18 and 55 may volunteer, provided they are healthy and asymptomatic. Recovered patients would also be allowed to register. “The district administration may utilise the service of these people in confidence building measures, besides other activities,” a government order stated. All 11 district magistrates would be writing to the organisations concerned to obtain names and details of cadets of NCC, NSS and Scouts residing in their district. Volunteers of NGOs and civil service organisations would be allowed to select the district in which they want to work and be allocated work in areas where they reside. The volunteers would be working under the district surveillance officer and given orientation to enable them to effectively carry out the tasks assigned to them. As a token of motivation, the volunteers would be given a certificate in recognition of their services in the fight against Covid-19. Two days after TOI had reported about the shortage of manpower in Delhi government hospitals, the issue was discussed in the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attended by Baijal, Kejriwal and other senior officials to review the Covid-19 situation in the city. Shah directed the officials to develop a scheme to enroll volunteers in the fight against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-you-can-assist-in-govts-covid-fight/articleshow/76473448.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||RHB’s e-auction of properties fetches over Rs 100 crore||Jaipur: Defying the trend, Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) earned over Rs 100 crore through auctioning of its flats across the state during the lockdown. At a time when most businesses were badly affected due to the corona pandemic, buyers showed interest in RHB properties, which were ignored for long because of their ‘substandard’ quality. Officials believe the discounted rates, house on instalments and location of the flats attracted buyers to participate in the auctions. Commissioner of Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) Pawan Arora said, “In the past two auctions organised every Wednesday, the RHB fetched Rs 103 crore after selling its 701 housing units. Last Wednesday, the board sold 320 flats and houses and this time we received increased number of buyers, 381.” So far, the RHB scheme to provide discounted houses on instalments has attracted buyers across the state. An official said, “The board is selling houses on discounted rates in 45 schemes situated in 39 cities. The buyer can pay the amount in 156 installments within the time frame of 13 years.” The maximum number 56 houses were sold in Alwar division. These RHB properties had failed to attract buyers in the past several years. The department is receiving success after organizing e-auction for the first time in the state. The board has planned to sell off its flats on discounted rates in e-auction, which is organised every Wednesday. Bidders willing to participate in online auction can register at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhbs-e-auction-of-properties-fetches-over-rs-100-crore/articleshow/76453606.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Talks on to convert IGI Stadium into a Covid- 19 care facility||NEW DELHI: The Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium may soon be turned into the capital’s second biggest Covid-19 makeshift hospital with 7,000 beds by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). According to a source, senior officials of the health department visited the stadium four days ago and inspected the indoor halls for gymnastics and wrestling. The Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) stadia division has already been approached by Delhi government officials, and SAI is waiting for a formal proposal from DDMA. While the gymnastics hall has a 30,000 seating capacity, the wrestling arena can accommodate 10,000 spectators. Around 5,000 beds can be put up in the gymnastics hall and another 2,000 in the KD Jadhav arena, said the source. A private agency has already been contracted by Delhi government to put in place arrangements for a makeshift facility, he added. The centralised airconditioning facility will remain suspended and coolers will be installed in each hall. There will be separate accommodation for the healthcare staff attending to the patients at the other side of the complex, the source said. On the number of washrooms available at the facility, an official said, “As per the stadium rule, for every 30,000 seating-capacity arena, there’s a provision to have washrooms for a minimum 1,000 spectators at a single given time. The IGI facility can accommodate 30,000 spectators during an event. So, sufficient washrooms are available and makeshift toilets can also be erected.” If the complex, spread across 102 acres near ITO, becomes a makeshift hospital, it will be the second largest Covid facility in the city after the Radha Soami Satsang centre in Chhatarpur. A Delhi government panel, headed by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar, recently suggested that apart from IGI stadium and Pragati Maidan, other stadia like Talkatora, Thyagaraj, Jawaharlal Nehru (JLN) and Dhyanchand could be used as makeshift hospitals. Thyagaraj comes under the jurisdiction of Delhi government and the rest under SAI. While the Talkatora stadium is under renovation, JLN and Major Dhyanchand stadiums have several government offices on their premises and sporting activities have resumed at both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/talks-on-to-convert-igi-stadium-into-a-covid-care-facility/articleshow/76473465.cms||Sabi Hussain
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt to rope in doctors from private hospitals||KOCHI: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in the state, dearth of doctors and other healthcare staff is becoming a problem. For addressing the issue, authorities have started measures to recruit doctors working in private hospitals to government service on a temporary basis. District medical officer, Kannur, on Tuesday wrote a letter (accessed by TOI) to the district collector there seeking appointment of 14 doctors now working with various private hospitals and cooperative hospitals in Kannur to the district Covid treatment centre at Anjarakandy medical college. The government had taken over Anjarakandy medical college, a private medical college, and converted it into district Covid treatment centre. The health department in Kannur is running the hospital. Meanwhile, the government has already taken over various private hospitals, mostly non-operational ones, across the state for providing Covid treatment. As the cases continue to surge, more first-line Covid treatment centres (FLCTCs) will have to be rolled out in the state. The government plans to start FLCTCs at block or taluk level when Covid-19 cases increases. It also plans to start FCLTCs at panchayat level if the situation further worsens. “When we held talks with the state health minister regarding the issues in the health sector, we had suggested recruitment of more healthcare staff. For filling the gap, doctors from private hospitals should also be recruited on a temporary basis,” said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala government medical officers’ association (KGMOA). Meanwhile, the demand for doctors from Kerala to places like Mumbai is increasing. A batch of 45 doctors and 15 other staff had gone to Mumbai last month. All of them except a few had been working in private hospitals in Kerala. “The demand for doctors and other healthcare staff is on the rise in Maharashtra. Number of cases still shows an upward trend. It is learnt that the Maharashtra government is planning to write to the Kerala government requesting to send another batch of healthcare staff to that state,” said Dr Santhosh Kumar S S of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. He was in the first team of the healthcare staff which went to Mumbai in May. Meanwhile, the state government’s efforts to recruit doctors and other healthcare staff on a temporary basis didn’t yield much result. Though there was a plan to recruit around 5,000 healthcare staff, including doctors, using National Health Mission (NHM) funds, it got only a lukewarm response from the medical fraternity. “The salary offered by the state government for doctors recruited on a temporary basis is Rs 41,000 a month, while the Tamil Nadu government gives around Rs 50,000 a month for a cleaning staff recruited on a temporary basis for fighting the Covid-19,” said a doctor who chose anonymity. “An MBBS doctor who has been hired by Maharashtra government from Kerala gets Rs 80,000 a month, while the monthly pay provided to a specialist doctor recruited from the state for fighting Covid-19 is Rs 2 lakh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-rope-in-docs-from-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76451689.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Co-morbidities caused more deaths at Civil, not laxity: Gujarat govt||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Thursday told the Gujarat high court that the main reasons for the deaths of Covid-19 patients at Civil Hospital are co-morbidities and old age, and not because it is negligent in treatment. Under fire for its alleged mismanagement and negligence in providing treatment to patients at its Covid facility on the Civil Hospital campus, the state government stated before the high court, “It is not because of any negligence or lack of attention or proper care and treatment that any of the Covid patients in Civil Hospital have lost their lives. The main reasons for the deaths of Covid patients are co-morbid conditions and old age, and such patients succumb to death despite having received sufficient care and treatment.” The government requested the HC not to pay heed to media reports on negligence witnessed in the Civil Hospital and believe them as the “gospel truth” and termed them “unconfirmed reports”. Following a rebuke by the HC for negligence, the state government in its report said that chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also the health minister, have been regularly watching live feed of all activities at the Covid facility from CCTV cameras at various locations and are in complete grip of the functioning of the hospital. The government also mentioned the names of all bureaucrats assigned the task of Covid service and asserted that they are maintaining “close vigil” on affairs at Civil Hospital. The government reiterated that there is no shortage of health workers of all categories at Civil Hospital, they have been well trained and that they are working tirelessly since March 20. The HC had dubbed the hospital conditions as “worse than a dungeon” after going through an anonymous complaint by a resident doctor. The government also rejected media reports that health workers were at any time short of protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/co-morbidities-caused-more-deaths-at-civil-not-laxity-govt/articleshow/76452667.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Min asks Cong workers to shun goods of ‘neighbour’||Jaipur: State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas asked the Congress party workers to boycott goods made in China, in a bid to give a befitting reply to the neighbouring country, on Thursday. In a statement, the minister said that the way China has killed our brave soldiers, has left no scope for any mediation. “I ask every Congressman and Indian to join and support us in boycotting Chinese goods, to teach that country a message which should be remembered for years,” said the minister. He also urged PM Narendra Modi to stop all imports from the country, which is betraying the trust of India again and again, and challenging the sovereignty of our nation. Similarly, BJP’s student wing ABVP has started a statewide campaign to boycott Chinese goods. Hoosier Meena, an ABVP leader on Thursday said that they will take the matter to the students and will take a pledge that Chinese goods should be boycotted forever. “We should follow PM Narendra Modi’s mantra of ‘vocal for local’ to support our indigenous industries and to boost the local economy,” said Meena, who burnt the Chinese flag outside Rajasthan University later in the day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/min-asks-cong-workers-to-shun-goods-of-neighbour/articleshow/76453630.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Another feather in the cap for BDU||TRICHY: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has stood fourth among state universities in the category of research publications and citations, according to the Web of Science Database, an online subscription-based scientific citation indexing service. The university has an h-index of 95 in web of science core collections and 98 in web of science all-database collections. Head of library and information science department of BDU, S Srinivasaragavan, said that in the core collection category, with 4752 publications and h-index of 95, BDU is ahead of Madurai Kamaraj University, Alagappa University and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University. Madras University is in the first place based on more number citations for its research publications followed by Annamalai university and Bharathiar university. The h-index is calculated based on the number of publications for which an author has been cited. The h-index of universities is considered by funding agencies to assess the quality of research activities in an institution. Further h-index of individual researchers are taken into consideration for appointment as faculty members in many institutions, said Srinivasaragavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/another-feather-in-the-cap-for-bdu/articleshow/76454248.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Inquiry ordered into suspected Covid-19 patient’s death||VADODARA: An inquiry has been ordered into the death of a man who was allegedly denied treatment at the SSG Hospital (SSGH) and the GMERS Hospital (GMERSH) at Gotri. The death sparked a row at the SSGH on Wednesday when the man died. Family members and relatives of Mukesh Rana, a Fatehpura resident, alleged negligence by medical staff of both the hospitals. According to the family, Fatehpura resident Mukesh Rana, who had been suffering from breathing problems for the past couple of days, was brought to the SSGH on Tuesday evening. Rana’s family claimed that after some primary treatment, the staff at the SSGH told them that he was Covid-19 positive and that he should be taken to the GMERSH. It was also alleged that he was declared positive without any tests. At the GMERSH, the patient was not even allowed to be brought out of the ambulance and was allegedly sent back to the SSGH along with another patient from Anand. Both the patients died on their way to the hospital. Rana was also suffering jaundice, according to his family members. Vadodara Municipal Corporation deputy commissioner S K Patel has been asked by the officer of special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao to conduct an inquiry and submit a report within two days. Rao said that there were standing orders to the SSGH superintendent that nobody with typical Covid symptoms should be unnecessarily shifted to the hospital at Gotri or other hospitals. He added that if any negligence comes to light strict action would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/inquiry-ordered-into-suspected-covid-19-patients-death/articleshow/76451985.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur Chola-era tank to get fresh lease of life||THANJAVUR: Restoration of Sengazhuneer tank at Kallaperambur in Thanjavur, which was constructed during the Chola era, has been taken up under the Kudimaramathu project at a cost f Rs 92 lakh. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu and Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam inaugurated the work on Wednesday. The 640-acre tank had been irrigating 2,662 acres of agriculture land. The waterbody, having a length of 3,218 metre and 8 sluices, can store 41.82 million cusecs of water. Thousands of ayakattars (farmers) from Kallaperambur, Thennankudi, Pillaiyarnatham, Seeralur, Sakkarasamantham, Vadakal, Rayanthur, Gunamangalam, Sithayal and Chithirakudi are benefitted from the tank. The Anandha Cauvery, a tributary of the Vennar River, which is taking a course from the upper stream of Kachamangalam barrage is main source for the tank. However, over a period of time, silt deposit has affected its storage capacity. For a decade, farmers were not getting required water from the tank and were unable to take up the two-season crop, said G Rajamohan, president of Sengazhuneer tank Ayakattar Association. “The 1000-year-old tank was constructed during the Chola period. For the last 10 years, we could not store water to its full capacity,” he said. The ayakattars formed an association headed by Rajmohan. They began desilting the tank three years ago. However, because of some local issues, they could not execute the work, he added. “The district collector took efforts to desilt the tank with the Rs 83-lakh government fund and the farmers’ share of Rs 9 lakh. Now the work is going on. We have decided to complete the work as much as we can before water reaches the tank. The remaining work will start by February next year,” he said. “The government had sanctioned fund to desilt the tank two years ago. However, due to some issues, it was stopped. Now we got permission and the required fund from the government,” district collector M Govinda Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-chola-era-tank-to-get-fresh-lease-of-life/articleshow/76454250.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 19, 2020||Gurgaon||19-year-old girl, husband stabbed to death in Haryana's Bhiwani||ROHTAK: A 19-year-old girl and a 21-year-old man, who married against their parents’ wishes a year ago, were stabbed to death at an isolated place in Bhiwani district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Police said honour killing is suspected to be the reason behind the deaths. The deceased girl is identified as Pooja Rani and her husband was Surender Kumar, both residents of Farmana village near Meham of the district. According to the police, they got information that a seriously injured girl has been admitted at Meham government hospital from where she was rushed to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak. She died during treatment at Rohtak, investigation officer (IO) Kuldeep Singh said. The victim had injuries of knife stabs on her neck and other body parts, IO Singh added., Meanwhile, Surender Kumar’s body was recovered from Badesra village in Bhiwani district. Police said Surender and Pooja were neighbours and married six months ago. They had sought police protection and stayed at a safe house after their marriage citing threat from the girl’s parents. Police said Ajit Kumar, elder brother of Pooja, got in touch with her three months ago and on Wednesday night took both of them on his bike to Bhiwani. According to police, who had arrested Ajit, he took them to a secluded place in Badesra village and, with the help of his cousins, Sahil and Bablu, attacked the husband and wife with knives. Pooja allegedly escaped and with the help of a villager reached Meham government hospital for treatment. Police have rounded up Bablu and Sahil as well and cases under Section 302 and other IPC sections are being registered against them. A probe under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police is being conducted, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/19-year-old-girl-husband-stabbed-to-death-in-bhiwani/articleshow/76453662.cms||Sat Singh
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Parambur gets award for communal harmony||TRICHY: Parambur village in Pudukottai district has been recognised for maintaining communal harmony without discriminating among people on the basis of caste. The village was rewarded by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department with Rs 10 lakh handed over by district collector P Uma Maheswari on Thursday. Parambur village panchayat president Indira received the cheque on behalf of the village. A five-member committee headed by collector with revenue officials, district Adi Dravidar and Tribal welfare officer as its members select a village every year to recognise them for maintaining communal harmony. Among other criteria, there should not have been any case booked under SC/ST Act over the last one decade in the village. Further, the villagers must have people from various religion and caste groups live in harmony. Receiving the award, Indira, the panchayat president said that she took the reward as a responsibility to maintain harmony among people of different faith apart from various caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parambur-gets-award-for-communal-harmony/articleshow/76454249.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||352 religious sites in critical tiger habitat of Ranthambhore: Study||JAIPUR: A recent study by a group experts, ‘Challenges Presented by Pilgrimage Sites and their Impact on Ecology of Protected Areas’ has revealed that there are 352 religious sites in RTR, which host a total of 2.2 million pilgrims inside the CTH Ranthambhore division every year. With this influx of pilgrims, the tiger reserve is burdened with estimated 1,75,854 vehicles including motorbikes (1,18,860), light motor vehicles (54,031) and tractors (2,963) which are taken to inside the Ranthambhore division. The study found that 18 sites have electricity connections, 83 uses loudspeakers on festival days and pilgrims cook food for ritualistic offerings at 186 sites. RTR consists of three protected areas — Ranthambhore National Park, Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary in the north and Sawai Mansingh Wildlife Sanctuary in the south — and buffer zone which includes the forests of Bundi district. The total area of RTR is 1,700 sqkm out of which 1,113.364 sqkm is declared Critical Tiger Habitat (CTH), 360.19 sqkm is a buffer area while the status of remaining 226.446 sqkm is undecided in the Ranthambhore Tiger Conservation Plan. The study was conducted in five ranges in the CTH including Range of Project Tiger (ROPT), Kundera, Talda, Khandar and Phalodi comprising 615.49 sqkm. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist and one of the authors of the case study said, “The disturbance created by tourism at CTH is negligible as compared to pilgrims. Majority of times our focus remain on Ganesh temple as pilgrims movement can be witnessed prominently. The study has been comprehensively carried out and highlights distress caused by many other religious places inside the RTR. The study was confined to 615.49 sqkm. In the entire reserve the number could be high.” The other religious places witnessing footfall includes Kailadevi Mata temple, Soleshwar Mahadev, Amareshwer Mahadev temple, Khatola Mahadev temple and Kamaldhar Mahadev temple. It was revealed that there are many relatively inaccessible sites where pilgrims can go only on foot. Such situations can lead to carnivore attacks and increase the chances of human-animal conflict. It suggested religious tourism inside protected areas cannot be stopped as religion is a sensitive issue not only in India but all over the world. But efforts to reduce the pressure can be made by raising awareness about conservation amongst pilgrims. “Mass awareness programmes for pilgrims, training for temple management personnel, forest officials and local community would be useful in reducing the disturbance in protected area,” reads the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/352-religious-sites-in-critical-tiger-habitat-of-rtr-study/articleshow/76453644.cms||Ajay Singh
June 19, 2020||Business||Tata Education Trust will have to deposit Rs 100 crore in tax demand||Tata Education and Development Trust will have to set aside about Rs 100 crore for a “disputed income tax demand”. The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), while granting a stay to Tata Education, said Thursday that it will have to file “an undertaking setting out investments of not less than Rs 99.75 crore which it will not encash till the application is disposed of”. The matter has been tentatively listed for July 6. The June 17 order comes after a new rule requiring a taxpayer, in appeal proceedings, to deposit 20% of the tax demand or furnish security equal to the tax demand before a stay is granted by the ITAT, became effective on April 1. Arguing for the stay application, Tata Education said the new rule (that puts a deposit condition before a stay is granted by the ITAT) is directory, not mandatory, and does not curtail the powers of the Tribunal. The foundation contended that holding the provision as mandatory would result in patently “incongruous legal position... a situation which is completely arbitrary, unconstitutional and contrary to the well settled scheme of law”. Thursday’s ITAT order refrained from making any observations on the legal impact of the new rule on the powers of the Tribunal to grant stay. Instead, it referred the issue to a larger bench. There are two significant aspects of the controversy, read the order. One, the legal impact of the amended rule on the powers of the Tribunal to grant stay. Second, whether the amendment is directory in nature or mandatory and whether the changed rule affects cases in which appeals were filed before April 1, 2020. “On such important pan-India issues of far-reaching consequence, it is desirable to have the benefit of arguments from stakeholders in different parts of the country...we deem it fit to refer the matter to the ITAT president for consideration of a larger bench,” wrote Justice PP Bhatt and vice-president Pramod Kumar in their eight-page order. Till the matter is decided, ITAT has asked the I-T department to maintain status quo in the case and gave an interim stay in favour of Tata Education. It also directed Tata Education to maintain sufficient liquidity so that in future once the matter is decided and appeal goes against it, it can then pay the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-education-trust-will-have-to-deposit-rs-100-crore-in-tax-demand/articleshow/76454729.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets a grip on commute, thanks to cycles, more buses||KOLKATA: For the first time, since offices resumed just around a fortnight ago, the commute scene in Kolkata was nearly normal on Thursday with much shorter queues and wait time for buses. Multiple factors — such as improved efficiency in fleet management by STUs, more private buses on the road and shift to bicycles by a sizeable number of citizens — contributed to it. “WBTC ran 1,094 buses on 177 routes on Thursday, serving the most crowded routes with greater frequency. This led to significant reduction in waiting time for passengers. Moreover, 3,000 private buses complemented the service. Thanks to real-time data, we could avoid competing with private buses,” said an official of the transport corporation. A large number of passengers, according to the transport department, shifted to bike taxis and bicycles. “For the first time since lockdown restrictions were eased, I did not have to wait more than 15 minutes to board a bus. Things have been improving over the last few days. So, it was not completely unexpected. But I am really happy not to jostle for a foothold,” said Sarmistha Saha, an investment counsellor with a share trading agency. She used to travel by app cabs in the initial days of Unlock 1.0 and had burned a big hole in her pocket. Real-time data driven service resolved the mobility crisis of the city to a great extent. The transport department on Tuesday deployed buses on the basis of such data. It deployed more buses where demand surged, fewer buses where demand was low. This helped STUs tide over the problem with limited resources, said a senior transport department officer. Thanks to the smart transport system, the department has a wealth of information on the demand and supply. “In the initial days of Unlock 1.0, we were taken aback by the sudden jump in demand. Now, we are better equipped to handle the pressure,” he said. With Bengal slowly easing back to normalcy, 10,431 buses plied on Thursday in the rest of Bengal. Interestingly, private high-end buses started plying along with government buses. As many as 200 private AC buses efficiently served 24 routes. Autos also plied across the city. Nearly 40,000 autos plied on 400+ routes on Thursday. On some routes, auto drivers demanded double the normal fare by reducing one passenger while others carried four passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gets-a-grip-on-commute-thanks-to-cycles-more-buses/articleshow/76452699.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||206kg poppy husk seized in Chittor||Udaipur: A container carrying a large drug consignment was seized by the Central Bureau of Narcotics (CBN) officials on Udaipur-Bhilwara road near Medikheda Fatak under Gangrar police station limits in Chittorgarh on Tuesday night. The seizure comprised 206 kilogram of doda chura (poppy husk). Two persons, including the driver and his aide have been arrested, while a team of officials have been sent to Madhya Pradesh for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/206kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-chittor/articleshow/76453663.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: ED yet to get records of illicit liquor making unit||PATIALA: Even though the enforcement directorate has started probing the illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted at Gandian village on May 13, investigators are yet to get case records. On June 11, the ED’s regional office in Jalandhar wrote to the district police seeking record of the case registered at Shambu police station with regard to the illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted in Gandian village. Deputy director of the enforcement directorate, Naranjan Singh also visited the office of SSP Patiala Mandeep Singh Sidhu on Tuesday to seek the records. However, since two of the persons accused in the illicit liquor manufacturing case are still in police remand, records have not been handed over. Incidentally, Naranajan Singh had also led investigations into the multi-crore synthetic drug racket busted in Punjab, which was masterminded by wrestler-turned-cop-turned-drug lord Jagdish Bhola. On Thursday, enforcement officer Sanjeev Kumar came to Patiala and met senior police officials for the records but to no avail. Sources in the police said senior officials of the department had gone to attend the funeral of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, who was martyred at Gulwan Valley during the India-China faceoff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-yet-to-get-records-of-illicit-liquor-making-unit/articleshow/76453668.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh govt ‘going soft’ on sanitiser scam accused||SHIMLA: Amid the Himachal Pradesh government’s claims of zero tolerance against corruption, questions are being raised for allegedly shielding an officer, who was mainly responsible for the purchase of hand sanitisers, which is now being investigated by the State Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (SV-ACB). The officer continues to work in the same department and the matter has been closed without any inquiry. Sources said in the secretariat administration department, all purchases are made through a purchase committee headed by a deputy secretary-level officer. Hand sanitisers were also purchased through this very committee, for which contract was given to a contractor, who did not even have the licence issued under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. They said the contract was awarded on March 18 at the rate of Rs 130 per 100ml vial of sanitiser, while the government of India has fixed Rs 50 for the same. It has been alleged that without revising the price, the purchase committee placed the order for supply. After the irregularities came to light and the opposition started attacking the government, the matter was handed over to the SV-ACB and the state drug controller also held a preliminary investigation into the matter. It has also come to light that a pharmaceutical company from Baddi had provided 2,700 vials of sanitisers on May 20 and another from Barotiwala 3,000 vials on March 31, but the contractor raised bills for the same, too, in connivance with officials. Director, health safety and regulation, Dr Naresh Kumar, in his report for initial investigation on behalf of the drug controller stated that both manufacturers of hand sanitisers from Baddi and Barotiwala in Solan district had donated their products and never sold the same. The report recommended constituting a team of officials comprising the drug control administration, department of food, civil supply and consumer affairs, and the police department to investigate the matter. However, according to the sources, no effective action has been initiated against those responsible for the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-govt-going-soft-on-sanitiser-scam-accused/articleshow/76453674.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||1 dead as air compressor tank bursts||Kota: A 25-year-old youth was killed on the spot, with one of his arms hurled up around 40 metre away after the air compressor tank, from which he was filling air in a tyre tube of his tractor-trolley at a cycle mechanic shop, exploded at Mathaniya Circle in Baran city on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Prem alias Pawan Saini, a resident of Vijaynagar in Baran. The mishap occurred around 9pm on Wednesday when the youth was filling air into his tractor–trolley’s tyre from an air compressor tank at Mathaniya Circle in the city, said circle in-charge, Baran city police station Mangilal Yadav. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-dead-as-air-compressor-tank-bursts/articleshow/76453659.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||With no festivals, sound-light organizers, staff left penniless||TRICHY: With no functions or festivals in temples, sound and light organizers have been left in the lurch due to the lockdown and crowding restrictions thereafter to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Their entire business has come to a standstill for the last three months due to the lockdown. Several people running audio systems and decoration business in Trichy and hundreds of their workers have been left penniless R Thirumoorthy, 55, who runs a sound and light business for the last 35 years from Woraiyur said he had never encountered such a deadlock in his business experience. “I employed around 10 workers, but nobody is with me now. All have left me because I could not pay salary to them as there has not been even a single order since the lockdown. If it would be a normal day, I could have got 30 to 40 bookings during wedding season. The order could have fetched Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh as revenue with a profit of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 a month,” Thirumoorthy lamented. Around 25 to 30 such sound and light organizers are there in the city. Except for few big businesses, the condition of others is not good, said B Vajravelu, owner of Kavithalaya Audios in Puthur. “Poochorithal (flower shower) festivals in Vekkaliamman temple in Woraiyur, Mariamman temple in Samayapuram, Anbil village in Lalgudi and Narthamalai are the big events where we get big orders for light settings. However, everything got cancelled. During the Tamil month of Aadi, there would be an auspicious event at every nook and corner and we get orders without fail. However, this year we got nothing,” he added. Hundreds of electricians, who would be hired by these organizers, also lost their jobs due to the lockdown, K Rajalingam, an organizer from Thiruvanaikoil, said. “Government has lifted the lockdown either partially or fully for many sectors except for functions. We appeal to the government to announce financial help to the people like us and our workers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/with-no-festivals-sound-light-organizers-staff-left-penniless/articleshow/76454257.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Yes to politics, no to distancing?||Jalandhar: Social distancing norms were completely ignored by Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who submitted a memorandum addressed to the Punjab governor to Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori. The memorandum was on the issue of revision in blue card lists. They sat close to each other during a dharna held outside the District Administration Complex. Some of them were not even wearing masks. Afterwards, they crowded the office of the deputy commissioner. MLAs Gurpartap Singh Wadala, Baldev Singh Khaira, Pawan Teenu, BJP former minister Manoranjan Kalia and former chief parliamentary secretary K D Bhandari were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yes-to-politics-no-to-distancing/articleshow/76453678.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||‘Cheaper imports from China have turned manufacturers into traders’||Jaipur: Seething anger over the killing of Indian soldiers has triggered calls for boycotting Chinese products in Rajasthan like in other parts of the country. But businessmen in the state said it is hard to escape the Chinese stranglehold over Indian market unless the government overhauls the complete industrial architecture and brings in path-breaking long-term reforms to encourage domestic manufacturing. They said many manufacturing units in the state have shut shop and become traders as they could not compete Chinese goods which are cheaper by 15-20%. “I had to shut my false ceiling product manufacturing unit as it became uncompetitive against the cheaper Chinese imports. People will go to them who offer cheaper rates. After initial outrage, it will be business as usual. But it’s an opportunity that should not be missed and India should relook at resurrecting the manufacturing industry by removing hurdles that chokes its growth,” said Digvijay Dhabriya, a manufacturer of PVC and UPVC products in the state. From needles, buttons, Ganesh idols, decorative lights, furniture, appliances, gym equipment and electronic devices to high efficiency industrial machinery, the cheap Chinese products have pushed the domestic manufacturing to a corner. Dhabriya said the government should allow import of raw materials and curb finished products flooding the domestic market. “If the production cost of a product is Rs 100 in India, the Chinese can manufacture that at Rs 60. After adding the shipping and logistics cost of Rs 20, the product is still cheaper by Rs 20 in India. This has encouraged people to stop manufacturing and start trading,” added Dhabriya. Over the past few years, Rajasthan has built a strong base for wooden furniture, but the demand for Chinese products is huge, not only because they are cheaper, but good in design. “Economy of scale, machine-driven production having the merits of far less wastage and precision, lower cost of capital, seamless ease of doing business environment and subsidies for exports make their manufacturing so efficient, it is difficult for us to compete with them. We need to bring in drastic changes to our policies,” said Dileep Baid, another leading manufacturer of handicrafts in the state. Baid said to boycott Chinese products, India has to vastly improve its industrial policy in a comprehensive manner. “These barriers to industrialization have to be dismantled if India wants to compete with China,” Baid added. Similar is the case with many sectors. Entrepreneurs said China has already conquered most sectors of our industry and it is not easy to regain the lost territory. Sunil Baweja, who runs a gym equipment business in Jaipur, said that there are not many they can count on for sourcing fitness machinery. “Most of the gym equipment are imported from China because we don’t have businessmen who can manufacture them at the same cost which China does,” Baweja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cheaper-imports-from-china-have-turned-manufacturers-into-traders/articleshow/76453681.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Akali, BJP leaders ask govt to restore blue cards to poor||Chandigarh: Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held protests outside offices of all the deputy commissioners in Punjab on Thursday, and submitted memorandums to them demanding restoration of blue cards to the underprivileged and independent probe into alleged misappropriation of central government ration. SAD and BJP leaders, led by district presidents as well as MPs, submitted memorandums to the deputy commissioners for forwarding to the governor V P Singh Badnore. The protesting leaders said though the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab Congress government not to discriminate against anyone, but SAD-BJP leaders would not relent till all blue cards that were deleted allegedly at the instance of Congress leaders were restored. SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema also demanded an independent probe by the CBI or the high court into the alleged ration scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-bjp-leaders-ask-govt-to-restore-blue-cards-to-poor/articleshow/76453684.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Pvt chopper to be used to control locusts in Rajasthan: Union minister Kailash Choudhary||JAISALMER: Considering the continuous attacks by locusts from across the international border in Jaisalmer and Barmer, it has been planned to counter the flying pests by spraying pesticides using a private helicopter. The chopper is expected to reach Uttarlai Air Force Station in Barmer next week. There was extensive attack of locusts in many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer on Thursday. One hundred seventy five people have been given temporary recruitment in Jaisalmer in locust control department offices in Rajasthan. This was informed by Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary. Choudhary said that private helicopter has been arranged to curb the growing menace in Jaisalmer. The chopper will come next week and at present sprayer and other equipment are being assembled. Helicopter fitted with sprayer was to receive from London but it is getting delayed and is expected to come after one-and-a-half months. Besides, 60 sprayers are in transit from London of which 15 have been received and are being sent to different districts in Rajasthan, he said. He said that Iran had asked for pesticides and India had sent 20,000 litre 10 days ago. Pakistan was also offered help but there was no response. Pakistan had totally failed in controlling locusts and these locusts through Barmer, Jaisalmer are reaching other parts of the country. Choudhary said that Rajasthan government was sent money for around 250 tractors but the state government has not put 25 sprayer-mounted tractors which is very sad. As far as filling vacant posts was concerned, recruitment has been done and deployment has been started. Locust control department and agriculture department together are controlling locusts in Barmer and Jaisalmer. Locust control department officer in Jaisalmer Rajesh Kumar said in the recruitment process held in Jaisalmer 175 have been selected on temporary basis. Interview was held on June 22 and 55 have been deployed in Barmer and Jaisalmer and remaining have been sent to Jodhpur, Bikaner, Nagaur etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-chopper-to-be-used-to-control-locusts-min/articleshow/76453670.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Over 92k appear for class XII board maths exam in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Around 92,000 students of class 12 appeared for mathematics exam conducted by RBSE on Thursday. Due to coronavirus outbreak, exams were abruptly stopped in March. Special orders were issued by the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan and Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner, to sanitise the board centres, provide sanitisers and thermal screening for safety of students. A senior RBSE official said, “The strength of students is not much in class 12 as it is divided into three streams. We didn’t have any problem in that, but the real challenge will be to conduct exam for class 10 as over 8 lakh students will appear for the exam on the same day. We have asked teachers to provide all facilities to students and if anyone found unwell should be made to sit separately.” According to the directions issued by the authorities, they have to maintain a two-metre distance between students as part of social distancing. Over 6,000 exam centres were prepared to accommodate students. Class 10 board exam will begin from June 27 to 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/92k-students-appear-for-class-12-exam/articleshow/76453700.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Madurai||Action sought against cops who harassed protesting SHGs||MADURAI: Human rights organisations and social activists have demanded the suspension of police personnel who harassed members of women’s self help groups (SHG) when they protested against the harassment by micro-finance institutions on June 11. They demanded that Madurai superintendent of police, N Manivannan take action against the personnel who harassed the SHG members and others that day. The cases against the protesters must also be withdrawn, and the micro-finance institutions should be asked to give them time up to December to repay the loans. There are about 35 SHGs in Othakadai in Madurai and many micro-finance institutions fund them regularly. The members were prompt in repaying the dues till March this year, but as their livelihood was affected, they were not able to make the payments for the last two months. This resulted in the employees of the micro-finance firms knocking at their doorsteps and demanding the money. On June 11, about 150 women gathered on the Madurai - Melur Road near Othakadai with help of some autorickshaw associations, advocates and protested against the harassment. But, the police allegedly manhandled some of the leaders and people. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/action-sought-against-cops-who-harassed-protesting-shgs/articleshow/76454263.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s heart shows Covid-19 spread pattern||KOLKATA: There are now 15 micro containment units under Park Street-Shakespeare Sarani police stations that form the heart of south central Kolkata. But for both Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police, this area is serving as an example of how Covid can spread from the slums to standalone apartments and vice versa as people move along in search of livelihood where maintaining social-distancing norms is not always possible. On Thursday, though, there was some good news for Kolkatans. While the overall number of containment units rose by 54 to 1457, in reality, Kolkata added 153 containment zones and as many as 99 units became Covid-free. “The number of Covid-free units is huge, even more than the 82 we achieved barely two days ago,” observed a KMC official. For now, though, the civic body wants to concentrate on central Kolkata. “What was initially witnessed in Alipore or Gariahat, is now finally true for this belt too. Covid had essentially been detected in areas like Collin Lane and Royd Street with the sole exception of Short Street. At present, though, it has now spread to Camac Street, Wood Street, Middleton Street and Park Lane besides affecting a flat in a high-rise located on JL Nehru Road. The numbers, though, are limited and not comparable to some other areas in central and south Kolkata,” said a senior police officer. According to a KMC health department official, the latest spread of the deadly virus in the neighbourhoods of JL Nehru Road, Park Lane, Wood Street, Mirza Ghalib Street and parts of Park Street has had its genesis barely eight days ago after a lull of a few days post Amphan. As part of a containment policy, the KMC has formed a special Covid response team for these areas. “Apart from conducting a comprehensive disinfection drive our team of doctors are visiting the immediate neighbourhoods of the recently found containment areas to find the suspects. We have decided to conduct special swab tests at the high-rises of these central Kolkata prime localities,” said a KMC health department official. The official maintained that they would also conduct random tests at multiple slums located near these high-rises. “The Park Street-JL Nehru-Wood Street cases were detected gradually after some positive cases were detected from a slum on Collin Lane. This has alerted us. We are now paying attention to both slums and high-rises and devising our plan of actions accordingly,” said a senior official of the KMC health department. New areas that came under containments units elsewhere include Adarshanagar and Karunamoyee Ghat Road in Behala division, Arya Vidyamandir Road in Haltu, Green Park in Gangulybagan, Niva Park in Bansdroni, Golf Tower in Golf Green-Jadavpur, Ramgarh, Alipore Park Road, Dhirendranath Ghosh Road in Kalighat, Kakulia Road, Chakraberia and Sankharitola Lane in Sealdah,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-heart-shows-corona-spread-pattern/articleshow/76452706.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Gang of vehicle thieves busted in Barmer, 3 held||JAISALMER: Barmer police have busted a gang of vehicle thieves. Barmer Kotwali and Siwana police have arrested three persons and recovered a car and 15 bikes. One of the thieves had opened a showroom of stolen vehicles at Mehlu village. Police got clues about the crime from CCTV footage and further details were revealed during inquiry. Siwana police arrested two culprits Madan Singh and Bharat Kumar Prajapat and recovered a car and a bike. The accused have confessed many thefts done in Barmer and Jalore. They stole a car on March 5 and a bike on March 22. Apart from this, they have confessed to stealing a bolero from Kishangarh, a bolero camper from Sanchore and three bikes from Jalore. Madan Singh, the main culprit ran the gang with a few unemployed youths. Prior to this, Sadar police on June 5 had also arrested two culprits and recovered 20 bikes from them. Another vehicle lifter was arrested from Barmer. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that the arrested thieves were very active in the district. One of the thieves, Dharmaram, a resident of Mehlu, had stolen a motorbike of one Rahul Jain and when he was refuelling at a petrol pump on the way to Mehlu, Jain's friend identified the bike and informed him. The thief was caught with the help of Kotwali police after checking the CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-barmer-3-held/articleshow/76453677.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Trichy||TNOU gets ASI nod to carry out survey in Pudukottai||TRICHY: A faculty of Tamil Nadu Open University (TNOU) has received the approval from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to carry out field exploration for archaeological artefacts in Pudukottai. The approval was given based on a proposal by TNOU’s department of history and tourism studies to conduct a detailed study in Pudukottai district to help unearth archaeological remains dating back to the megalithic period. E Iniyan, assistant professor in archaeology department of TNOU, said that he has been given the permission to explore archaeological sites across the district. He said that his idea is to identify a few potential sites in the district for excavation. Iniyan said that Pudukottai was chosen as a lot of archaeological remains, which are more than 3000 years old, have been unearthed from the district and more such artefacts could be recovered from parts of Pudukottai district. Besides, the district has the second biggest museum in the state and is home to many rock cut cave temples. “We are planning to use drones and other equipment to conduct a survey and identify a few places where excavation can be done,” he said. Iniyan said that TNOU is the first open university in the country to offer diploma courses in archaeology. He claimed that if ASI gives the nod to carry out excavation, TNOU will also become the first university to get permission for excavation from ASI. Speaking to TOI, K Parthasarathy vice-chancellor of TNOU, said that though the approval has been given by ASI it will not be allotting any funds for exploration. He added that said ASI rarely gives the permission to universities for such exploration and that it was an achievement for the university’s faculty member to have obtained it. “We expect that the exploration will yield desired results and that the university will play a role in bringing to light the glorious history of the region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tnou-gets-asi-nod-to-carry-out-survey-in-pudukottai/articleshow/76454260.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC notice to education department over abolition of 435 posts due to financial trouble||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court, on Thursday, issued notice to the education department and school education board, Mohali on a plea filed by the employees association against abolition of 435 posts and stoppage of special allowance. Justice Arun Monga of the HC issued the notices on a petition filed by the PSEB employees association and 28 employees of various cadres against abolition of 435 posts and stoppage of special allowance in terms of a resolution dated May 15 passed by the board of directors. The petitioners alleged that the agenda for restructuring of the board was suddenly brought about as “table agenda” in the board meeting held on May 15. They said it was not circulated to any of the members who participated in the said meeting through video conferencing. Therefore, members did not get an opportunity to go through the agenda before passing it. Petitioners alleged that 435 posts, including a large number of promotional posts, were abolished by the board citing financial problems. However, in the same resolution dated May 15, it has been noticed that the government owes Rs 334 crore to the board. “Had the government repaid that amount to the board, it would have been in huge profit. Thus, the very ground for abolishing posts is false. They have also pleaded that promotional posts cannot be abolished even if lying vacant, in view of policy instructions dated June 6, 2019 issued by the government to all departments. The promotional avenues have thus been taken away from a large number of employees,” the petitioners have submitted. They also stated that the Board has also illegally withdrawn special allowance of a substantial number of employees through impugned resolution and the said allowance has been deducted from salaries of employees during the first week of June 2020, without issuing any show cause notice. The petitioners alleged that the education secretary rushed with the agenda as he only has additional charge of post of board chairman, which would have been withdrawn from him very soon, as applications have already been invited by the government for appointment of a new chairman of the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-edu-dept-over-abolition-of-435-posts-due-to-financial-trouble/articleshow/76453691.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tiretta Bazar shut after three traders test Covid-19 positive||KOLKATA: The closure of yet another market in central Kolkata after three traders tested positive for Covid-19 and few others showed symptoms, has raised safety concerns among the members of the business community who feel safety measures are not being implemented properly. Tiretta Bazar opposite Poddar Court on CIT Road was sealed on Thursday for sanitisation after three traders dealing in electrical goods tested positive and few others showed symptoms of Covid-19. Their medical reports are awaited. The entire market has been shut for the rest of this week for sanitisation and disinfection. Members in the business community feel the incident highlights the lackadaisical attitude of certain traders towards safety guidelines the government and market associations have been persuading them to follow. This is the fourth incident of portions of markets being sealed after traders tested positive. Last week portions of New Market, College Street and Nandaram Market had to be shut for sanitisation resulting in revenue losses for traders. “We are trying our best to explain to our members how important it is to be safe and keep others safe when we do our business. Besides hampering the business, these incidents are sending a wrong signal among the customers that we do not care about safety measures and these markets are unsafe,” said Tarak Nath Trivedi, general secretary, Federation of Traders’ Organisation, West Bengal. Tiretta Bazar which is more than 220 years old has more than 1,000 shops. The market was designed and built by Eduardo Tiretta. Though earlier it was a community market with separate aisles for vegetables, fish, eggs and fruits, in the past few decades it has emerged as one of the biggest markets for electrical goods, wires and light fittings. “More than 25,000 people visit this market, but the maintenance is absolutely nil. The rest of the market reopened two weeks ago and since then there has been a surge of customers. But there was no social distancing or vigilance to check if anybody is wearing the mask or not,” said a shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tiretta-bazar-shut-after-three-traders-test-positive/articleshow/76452719.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Covid-19 positive man found hanging in hospital toilet||TRICHY: A 54-year-old Covid-19 positive patient who was undergoing treatment at Ranees Government hospital in Pudukottai was found hanging from the ceiling of the toilet on Thursday. The deceased was identified as K Rajasekar, 54, who was working in Chennai in a hotel as a cook. He tested positive for Covid-19 upon arrival on Wednesday and shifted to hospital for treatment. On Thursday evening, he was found hanging from the ceiling of the toilet with his dhoti. Pudukottai town police sent the body for post mortem. According to the police, the deceased appears to have hanged himself. The doctors say that the he was depressed right from the day he arrived at the hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19. Further investigation is on. A total 58 persons have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Pudukottai district so far out of which 26 persons are undergoing treatment and 31 were discharged after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-ve-man-found-hanging-in-hosp-toilet/articleshow/76454264.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||House fire: Kin suspect murder||Manali: A day after a woman and her two children were burnt alive in the fire at a house at Chhota Samahal village of Sarkaghat in Himachal, the woman’s parents have complained the police that they suspect it to be a planned murder. Victim Kavita’s father Mohan Lal said the circumstances under which his daughter and grandchildren died pointed towards the possibility of murder. Sources said the woman called her husband and told him about fire in the room. There were rumours that the door was locked from outside but police said it was locked from inside . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/house-fire-kin-suspect-murder/articleshow/76453703.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Sand price doubles after short supply during lockdown||BHOPAL: The price of sand has doubled after the lockdown, thus increasing the cost of construction almost by 25%. Though banned completely, illegal sand mining has also gone up in the past few months and the sand suppliers are busy dumping the mineral near the rivers. The short supply has led to increase in its cost, mining department sources said. The cost of sand has gone up from Rs 30,000 a truck before the lockdown to Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 a truck after the lockdown. Even at this price, sand is hardly available. Building material suppliers said the government had allowed sand mining only for construction related to government works. After June 15, sand mining is officially banned for the monsoon. “But the fact remains that all across the state, illegal sand mining is taking place. Large dumps of sand can be seen along the villages close to Narmada, Chambal, Betwa and Ken rivers,” sources pointed out. Sand suppliers are busy dumping it and not supplying so that it is available in black market and making it costlier, sources said. Already under stress for the past four years, especially after the demonetization, the real estate business received another blow when the lockdown was announced in March this year. All construction activities came to a grinding halt. Once they resumed, construction cost increased. Spokesman of CREDAI Madhya Pradesh said, “The cost of construction has gone up by 20% to 25% because of increase in the cost of the inputs.” Not only sand, the cement prices also went up by Rs 10 to Rs 15 on every bag. Besides, other inputs like macadam or the black gitti and others have also become costlier. Many construction inputs which belong to unorganized sectors like gitti are also in short supply because of the absence of labourers or the lack of numbers required to mine and process the material, sources said. This is the reason why the construction work has not resumed at many big construction sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sand-price-doubles-after-short-supply-during-lockdown/articleshow/76451775.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown isolation, actor death behind copycat suicides: Experts||KOLKATA: A spate of seven suicides on Wednesday pointed to the fact that ‘copycat suicides’ may have started occurring in Kolkata, emulating the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, psychiatrists said on Thursday. The lockdown restrictions have accentuated the feeling of isolation and turned youngsters with depressive tendencies more vulnerable, they pointed out. Those on the edge might have been provoked by the celebrity’s death, they felt. Psychiatrist J Ram said actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was bound to affect those with psychiatric issues. “But it seems that it has had a considerable impact. He was a young actor and a familiar face who played Dhoni in the latter’s biopic. Rajput’s success was inspirational since he came from a humble background and made it big. Someone like him taking the extreme step was bound to be disheartening for the mentally vulnerable. They are likely to be scared that if someone as successful as Rajput can fall into depression, what could happen to them,” said Ram. He, however, added that there’s never a single reason behind a suicide. “It’s always the result of a complex interplay of psychological, social and personal factors. I am sure each of these suicides had their share of triggers but it seems Rajput’s death was an important one,” added Ram. Copycat suicides are more common among youngsters with depressive tendencies, psychologist Soumya Mukherjee said. “They tend to idolize celebrities and don’t just look up to them. They are deeply influenced by their success and lifestyle and start identifying themselves with the celebrity. So, when something like this happens, their depression intensifies and they can’t get out of it. It seems to them that all is lost,” said Mukherjee. The lockdown and the economic downturn that followed has added to the insecurity and feeling of isolation, she added. “It is frustrating for any individual to stay confined at home for months. For people with depressive tendencies, if and when they are restricted within their houses (like in this lockdown), depression tends to peak, which, otherwise is well-managed when they have the option of going out and leading an active social life,” said Mukherjee. Another psychiatrist agreed and claimed that the number of copycat suicides after Rajput’s death would have been fewer had the lockdown not been in place. “The entire home environment has now changed due to multiple factors. There is a financial strain on every family, study patterns have changed, jobs are on the line and there’s hardly any social interaction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-isolation-actor-death-behind-copycat-suicides-experts/articleshow/76452729.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Court extends anticipatory bail of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini||MOHALI: Special public persecutor, advocate Sartej Singh Narula, who has been appointed by Punjab to counsel the state on the case of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s involvement in the alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, pleaded before the court that the case should not be heard as the application of its transfer is pending before the court of district and session judge. Narula argued that the anticipatory bail granted to DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on murder charges without imposition of Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR is not maintainable. When the court asked the prosecution to produce records if stay had been granted on extension of anticipatory bail period by any of the higher courts, the prosecution said no such stay had been granted till date. At this, the court of additional district and session judge Monika Goyal extended the anticipatory bail period to June 25. District and sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai had deferred hearing on an application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani seeking transfer of the case from the court of additional district and session judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal till June 23. Till then, the latter’s court had restricted ADJ’s court from pronouncing final orders on the case till the session judge decided on case transfer. Special public prosecutor advocate Sartej Singh Narula, who has been recently appointed, appeared before the court with district attorney Sanjiv Batra, SIT head and SP Harmandeep Singh Hans and advocate H S Dhanoa on behalf of DGP Saini. The application for transfer of case was filed after ADJ Monika Goyal’s court allowed interim bail to former DGP in anticipation of SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR. In the previous hearing, former Punjab police officer Gurmeet Singh Pinki, whistleblower in the case of alleged involvement of former DGP Saini in the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, recorded his statement in court under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Earlier, Pinky appeared before the SIT and recorded his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-extends-anticipatory-bail-of-ex-dgp-saini/articleshow/76453696.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: BJP to expand its footprint virtually||JALANDHAR: As activities of other political parties at ground level are bare minimum amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab BJP seems to be taking the situation in its stride, as it is working at micro level to increase its footprint across all 117 assembly constituencies in the state by taking the virtual route. It has already asked its district units to ensure that each booth, including in rural areas, should have a local resident running a WhatsApp group of residents of that particular booth. The person may not necessarily be a BJP member and preferably should be quite young. “The latest direction from the state leadership is to provide names of young men or women well versed with use of social media from every booth in all the constituencies. They may not be members of the BJP, but should be supporters of or sympathetic towards BJP or policies of Prime Minister Narendera Modi. They would be asked to run the WhatsApp groups in their own booths only,” revealed a BJP leader involved in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-to-expand-its-footprint-virtually/articleshow/76453699.cms||IP Singh
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Disease fight: Top cop to visit each division in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Police commissioner Anuj Sharma will personally visit each of the nine police divisions from next week as the force prepares to fight crime and Covid-19 both within the organization and the city as a whole. The decision on Thursday was conveyed by Sharma himself in the crime conference that took place at Lalbazar after three months and was attended by IPS officers. The top cop said he would take stock of the ground situation by meeting ACPs and OCs and interacting with junior officers. A welfare officer, who has been appointed for each unit, will be responsible in ensuring quick treatment for family members of cops. Sharma went to the Sealdah traffic guard on Thursday to attend the condolence meet of the constable who died of Covid last week. Even before the meeting where ACPs and OCs were asked not to join given the prevailing situation, Sharma sent a text message to all senior officers reminding them to take care of police personnel and their families and asking them to file periodic reports on the same. Terming the kin of cops as one “big family”, he asked all senior cops to monitor measures being adopted at police stations and police complexes. “It has come to my notice that family members of some personnel are also being affected by Covid-19. It is reiterated that all the family members are in fact the extended members of the Kolkata Police force and it is our duty and responsibility to look after their welfare. All DCPs and supervisory officers (ACPs, OCs) should also personally monitor. A fortnightly report in this regard is to be sent to special CP (Jawed Shamim) by the DCPs through the concerned joint CP and additional CPs,” the order stated. Among other decisions, Sharma has asked all divisions to take action against illegal Chinese manja. He also expressed concerns about some recent thefts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dwaipayan-cp-orders-on-tackling-covid-18-06-2020/articleshow/76452726.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SC puts safety first, slams brakes on Puri Rath Yatra||Bhubaneswar: The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the cancellation of the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri. The order ended weeks of speculation on the fate of the annual festival, which was scheduled to be held on Tuesday. Hearing the petition of NGO Odisha Vikash Parishad, which had sought the deferment of the Puri Rath Yatra, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna ruled that the festival could not be allowed in the interests of public health and citizen’s safety. “Lord Jagannath won’t forgive us if the Rath Yatra is allowed this time,” CJI Bobde is said to have remarked. “It is not disputed that the number of people that are likely to gather for the annual Rath Yatra, scheduled to be held from June 23, 2020, is going to be about 10 to 12 lakh. Having regard to the danger presented by such a large gathering, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and the safety of citizens to restrain the respondents from holding the Rath Yatra this year,” the Supreme Court’s order said. The order is applicable to all Rath Yatras across Odisha, not just the one in Puri. “We accordingly direct that there shall be no Rath Yatra anywhere in the temple town (Puri) or in any other part of the state this year. We further direct that there shall be no activities, secular or religious, associated with the Rath Yatra during this period,” the apex court said. Puri’s titular king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb said the apex court’s order should be obeyed. “I can understand that people are hurt and pained but it is the responsibility of all to go by the Supreme Court’s order. We will consult Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati ji to determine if the rituals can be performed inside the temple,” Deb said. The order, while not entirely unexpected, led to disappointment among residents of Puri and servitors of the Jagannath Temple, who had hoped that a scaled-down version of the festival would be allowed. They had reason to hope, as the Naveen Patnaik government had allowed the construction of the chariots after the Centre had left it to the state to take a decision on the Rath Yatra. The Orissa high court, too, had disposed of two separate petitions against the conduct of the festival and had left the matter to the wisdom of the state government. The high court had even proposed to the government to consider the deployment of heavy machinery or elephants to pull the chariots. Around 100 carpenters had undergone Covid-19 test before being engaged in chariot-making. “We cannot bear to see the Raths being broken or auctioned before use. We are hurt,” Rabi Bhoi, a carpenter, said. The world-famous festival — in which sibling deities Jagannath, Subhadra and Balabhadra travel for 3km along Puri’s Grand Road in towering, specially designed chariots from the Jagannath Temple to their ‘aunt’s house’ in the Gundicha Temple — is an integral part of the social and cultural life of Puri. The spectacular nature of the Yatra is believed to have lent heft to the word ‘juggernaut’. Researchers on Jagannath Culture said the Rath Yatra was not held several times between 1570 and 1735 because of attacks by Muslim rulers. “We do not know with exactitude the last time the Rath Yatra was cancelled, but there are precedents,” Manoj Rath, a researcher, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sc-puts-safety-first-slams-brakes-on-puri-rath-yatra/articleshow/76451769.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 19, 2020||Madurai||New science group sans chemistry in Class XI||Chennai: The state government has introduced a new science group with chemistry in Class XI, but this will affect students as they cannot join engineering or basic science courses at undergraduate level, say experts. While schools are unclear about the purpose of this group, career consultants have cautioned engineering aspirants saying Anna University admits students based on marks in physics, chemistry and maths. Students can opt for either three or four core subject groups in Class XI. But those who opt for a group with computer science, a popular subject, will not be able to join engineering courses. And those who opt for a group without chemistry will suffer at engineering class. The state government reduced the number of subjects to five including three core subjects to reduce stress, but a biology group without maths, commerce group without economics/business maths may limit students’ career choices and affect their performance in competitive exams, schools say. K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar, said there would be little scope for those joining maths, physics and computer science groups. “As of now, they cannot join engineering or BSc physics or maths since chemistry is an ancillary subject in these courses. Students aspiring to join engineering colleges and polytechnics need to study chemistry,” he said, urging the government to continue with the existing four core subjects. “If biology students do not study maths, they cannot clear exams like Neet as it involves solving many problems. If students pick these new groupings performance in Neet will again dip,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. Commerce groups leave out either business maths or economics. “Economics and commerce cannot be separated as economics is the base for commerce groups. Business maths is a must for higher studies including CA and CWA. Without business maths they cannot cope. It is not making any sense removing one of these subjects. In my opinion, it is better to retain all four core subjects,” said Franklin P J, headmaster, St Joseph’s Anglo Indian Boys’ Higher Secondary School in Vepery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-science-group-sans-chemistry-in-class-xi/articleshow/76454266.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Four from West Bengal held with 172kg marijuana in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: In a major crackdown against illegal smuggling of narcotics, Rajasthan police crime branch on Thursday arrested four smugglers with 172kg ganja (marijuana) from Bharatpur along Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border. Sleuths said the haul of narcotics was brought from West Bengal and this was probably for the first time when smugglers from the eastern state were seen penetrating into Rajasthan. The narcotics were concealed in a special box in an SUV. “Our men stopped an SUV coming from Uttar Pradesh. Initially it appeared to be a normal vehicle. But the smugglers had modified the rear seats in a manner that they got some good space to conceal the narcotics. Our team managed to seize 172 kg of ganja,” B L Soni, additional director general (ADG), crime, told TOI. Jitendra Gangwani, the inspector who led the operation said, “This vehicle first broke the barricading and after facing some resistance it stopped. One person came out of the vehicle and started running. But we managed to arrest four people and seized the narcotics.” The smugglers covered 1,421km from West Bengal in merely 24 hours. They covered much of their journey during night with an impression that they will find less patrolling. Preliminary investigation suggested that the narcotics was to be sent to Dausa, Bikaner and Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-from-west-bengal-held-with-172kg-marijuana/articleshow/76453687.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Congress poses five questions to Centre on Ladakh standoff||Jaipur: The Congress on Thursday raised a number of questions to the central government on the killing of 20 soldiers in Galwan Valley by the Chinese Army. Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal and media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence minister Rajnath Singh asking them why Indian soldiers were allegedly sent unequipped to the borders where the enemy was camping. They were addressing a press conference in Jaipur. The leaders alleged that ‘our soldiers have paid a heavy price for the PM’s blind faith in China’." "India's 130 crore people have one question disturbing them: Why were the soldiers sent unequipped to the border and who was the person who forced them to go unequipped?" they said. They asked why were the brave soldiers and officers sent unarmed? Who gave this order to the soldiers? Whenever army officers and soldiers sent unarmed, why was armed backup force was not available as per existing Army protocol? If backup force was available, why it was not sent? Why did not the government have intelligence and advance knowledge of enemy’s designs? Whether it is a clear failure of the central government or its leadership? They alleged that the nation had to pay a heavy price due to failure of so called ‘strong’ leadership of the present government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-poses-five-questions-to-centre-on-ladakh-standoff/articleshow/76453708.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer, Jaisalmer residents want ban on Made-in-China products||Jaisalmer: Amid the tension between India and China, people in Barmer and Jaisalmer have begun a protest against Chinese products. Various outfits, including the Bajrang Dal and the VHP, burnt Chinese items and paid tribute to martyrs by observing two-minute silence in Jaisalmer and Barmer on Thursday. Jaisalmer VHP and Bajrang Dal demonstrated against China by burning the Chinese flag at Hanuman Chowraha. Pawan Vaishnav of VHP said that the people of Jaisalmer are demanding that the Centre immediately stops importing Chinese items. If the government fails to do so, then the people shall continue the stir against Chinese items, he added. The general public and businessmen in Jaisalmer burnt the Chinese flag at different places and decided to boycott selling Chinese products. In Barmer too, there was resentment among the youth and they decided to boycott Chinese products and instead go for Indian products. Maru Goonj Sansthan organised a programme to pay tribute to the martyrs. Convener Raghuveer Singh Talmore said that India is a big market for Chinese products. Boycotting Chinese products will weaken the Chinese economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-jaisalmer-residents-want-ban-on-made-in-china-products/articleshow/76453695.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Rajya Sabha election for 3 seats today, EC conducts mock poll||BHOPAL: Polling for three seats of Rajya Sabha in Madhya Pradesh will be held on June 19. The polling will be held at the Central Hall of the assembly in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The BJP and Congress have fielded two candidates each for the Upper House where the saffron party being in majority, is sure to retain two seats in the state. Congress is likely to get one seat, said sources. The Election Commission on Thursday finalised the preparations and conducted mock polling in the Vidhan Sabha and reviewed the security and safety of the legislators and polling staff. "The EC has made special arrangements during polling in view of the Covid-19 crisis in the state. All possible measures to maintain social distancing during the voting and preventive gadgets have been provided to the polling staff and the members," said returning officer and principal secretary of assembly, AP Singh. Special observer and additional chief secretary of Kerala, TR Mina, who had arrived here on Tuesday also reviewed the preparations. As per the official instructions, polling will be conducted between 9 am and 4 pm. The counting of votes will be held after 5 pm. The BJP has fielded former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and professor from Khargone, Sumer Singh Solanki while the Congress has fielded former chief minister Digvijaya Singh and SC leader Phool Singh Baraiya as official candidates. Sources said that Congress MLA from Kalapipal, Kunal Chaudhary, who was tested positive will be the last to vote. The EC has also provided postal ballot facilities to the members and voters who are infected by Coronavirus or unable to reach the polling centre. The facility could be availed only on doctor's advice through an application to be submitted to the returning officer, said an official communique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajya-sabha-election-for-3-seats-today-ec-conducts-mock-poll/articleshow/76454822.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 19, 2020||Madurai||Mortal remains of braveheart laid to rest||RAMANATHAPURAM: The mortal remains of Havildar K Palani were laid to rest with full state honours in his native Kadakalur village in Ramanathapuram district on Thursday morning. Palani was among 20 Indian Army personnel who died in a bloody faceoff with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China at Galwan in Ladakh on Monday night. Palani’s mortal reached Madurai airport around 11pm on Wednesday. The body was received by Madurai collector T G Vinay, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, defence officers, inspector general of police for south zone K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran and Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham. After they paid homage to the martyr, the body was handed over to his family and was taken to Kadakalur by road. Hundreds of people were waiting to receive the hero’s body in his village at night. On Thursday morning, BJP state president L Murugan was among those who paid homage to the martyr. The mortal remains were carried by Army personnel for burial around 7am. The body was laid to rest with 21 rounds of firing and full state honours. Hundreds of people participated in the funeral procession despite the norm that not more than 20 people should participate in final rites due to the restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Meanwhile, Ramanathapuram district collector M Veera Raghava Rao handed over a cheque for Rs 20 lakh to martyr’s widow, Vanathidevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mortal-remains-of-braveheart-laid-to-rest/articleshow/76454269.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan man offers wife to friend, both arrested for rape||ALWAR: A 35-year-old woman has accused her husband of allegedly kidnapping her and offering her to his friend who raped her. Police arrested the woman’s husband and his friend on Wednesday. According to police, the rape survivor approached Shahjahanpur police on June 4 and stated that her husband took her an isolated place on a bike along with his friend. “After reaching the isolated place, the man took his wife to a corner and asked his friend Balwan to rape her. The woman initially kept mum but break the silence and lodged an FIR of rape on June, 4,” said a senior police officer. Police said soon after the incident, the accused husband was on the run. “Finally, we managed to arrest him for criminal conspiracy and also his friend Balwan for raping the woman. The most disturbing part is that while the woman was raped, the accused husband was sitting outside the room where she was being tormented,” said Shahjahanpur SHO Surendra Singh Rawat. The woman was in shock as her husband had threatened her to keep mum. “The woman initially approached her parents and later decided to lodge an FIR against her husband. Both the accused were arrested on Wednesday and were produced before the court on Thursday,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-offers-wife-to-friend-both-arrested-for-rape/articleshow/76453697.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 121 fly back home on second Vande Bharat flight from UK||KOLKATA: The second flight from the UK, under Centre’s Vande Bharat mission, landed at the city airport on Thursday afternoon with 121 passengers — a week after the “luckier” first batch of Indians had arrived from there. TOI was there at the airport capturing emotions of the returnees, mostly students, and their anxious parents, some of them met their children almost after a year. As 23-year-old Navya Singhania came out of the airport’s gate number 5A and moved to the enclosed space separating the returnees from their relatives, her mother was visibly anxious to reach out to her. She was making gestures at her mother, asking her not to come near her for obvious safety reasons, but her mother jumped the barricade and rushed to her. Though the girl tried to step back, her mother hugged her and started crying. “I saw her after almost a year. How could I stay back and wait for another 14 days till her quarantine period is over? For me, Diwali has come early and this day is the best day of the entire year for me and my family,” said Sujata Singhania, who had come to the airport with her husband and son to receive Navya, a student of Masters in economics at a London university. Navya, like 120 other returnees, was sent to a city hospital on a seven-day quarantine, following which she would need to stay in home isolation for another seven days before getting the clearance to return to normal social life. Srinjoy Chatterjee, a Class-XII student of a Leeds school, said he had spent the last three months cursing his luck as he remembered how he was standing in a queue with other passengers who were about to board an Emirates flight to return home on March 21 when it was announced that the flight had been cancelled owing to suspension of international services to Kolkata from March 22. “Had I booked the ticket a day before, I could have reached home around 90 days ago,” said Chatterjee, a Parnasree resident. Rohit Jha, a final year BBA student at a Lancaster university, said he was relieved to be back home after spending three months in isolation at hostel apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/121-fly-back-home-on-second-vande-bharat-flight-from-uk/articleshow/76452740.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||In emergency meeting, cabinet decides not to challenge SC ban||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Thursday decided not to challenge the Supreme Court ban on holding this year’s Rath Yatra owing to the raging Covid-19 pandemic despite demands from certain sections. The decision was taken in an emergency cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik in which the fallout of the SC direction was discussed. Government sources said law minister Pratap Jena moved a resolution to obey the SC order after advocate general Ashok Parija apprised the cabinet about it. Law secretary Sashikanta Mishra and senior officials of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration also attended the meeting. The temple administration will separately decide the rituals it would perform inside the temple in the absence of Rath Yatra. “The sense of the cabinet was that since SC has given primacy to life and health and the prevailing pandemic situation where social distancing is important, the Rath Yatra should be avoided. It was unanimously decided to obey the direction instead of challenging the order,” a government official said. “Though the decision not to hold Rath Yatra will be painful to all Odias and Jagannath devotees, one has to accept that it’s the Lord Himself who does everything,” the government stated. The statement further said the district administrations have been directed to strictly implement the SC order. The SC in its direction has said that Article 25 of the Constitution confers the right to freely profess and propagate religion subject to health.  Day before the Supreme Court hearing, several temple committees across the state had already announced not to hold Rath Yatra this time in view of the pandemic. A government source said from the time the government decided to extend the ban on entry of devotees into religious places till June 30, unlike the Centre’s guidelines allowing the same from June 8, the fate of the Rath Yatra had become uncertain. The government had never said it would conduct the festival though it had started preparations hoping the Covid situation may improve. Also, June is being considered an important month in Odisha’s fight against Covid-19, when any lapse would cost the state dear, the source added. Meanwhile, BJP’s Puri MLA Jayanta Kumar Sarangi sought a review petition against the Supreme Court order.  “@narendramodi @Naveen_Odisha @dpradhanbjp @pcsarangi plz take necessary action for filling review petition in SC against rathayatra judgement. Rathayatra with restrictions is possible. Else we can't excuse ourself for damaging our tradition. devotee across the world r unhappy,” the MLA tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/in-emergency-meeting-cabinet-decides-not-to-challenge-sc-ban/articleshow/76451788.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kanpur||Shopkeepers flout admin’s guidelines of roster system||Kanpur: Despite knowing about the risks of Covid-19 infection, people are found ignoring its gravity which is the main cause of spike in coronavirus patients in the city. The district administration after issuing some guidelines had repeatedly asked the residents to maintain social distancing but many people are neglecting the norms. The shopkeepers in some markets too are ignoring the roster guidelines. The district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwarihad directed to open the market in odd and even numbers and said that one shop would be closed between two shops but shopkeepers are opening their shops without following the norms. Some vyapar mandals and traders’ associations have accepted that the roster system was being overlooked but they failed to force the shopkeepers to follow it. The district administration, after receiving complaints, activated its teams and has so far prosecuted as many as 131 shops and realized fines to the tune of Rs 12800 from them. The teams besides imposing penalties on them also warned them of legal action if they violated the roster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/shopkeepers-flout-admins-guidelines-of-roster-system/articleshow/76454028.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Unguarded ATM burgled, Rs 7.64 lakh stolen||CHANDIGARH: A miscreant stole Rs 7.64 lakh in cash from the ATM of the Union Bank of India in Kishangarh on Wednesday. The CCTV footage shows a masked man entering the ATM kiosk and switching off lights. He then stole away the cash in two minutes without breaking the ATM or damaging it. Tikka Singh, additional SHO, IT Park police station, said they received a complaint of theft from an ATM around 11. 30 am on Thursday, following which the police reached on the spot. The bank officials told them that Rs 7.64 lakh cash was stolen from the ATM. However, the police found that the ATM machine was intact. While scrutinising the CCTV footage, the police found that one masked person entered the ATM kiosk at 8.20 pm and switched off the lights of the kiosk. After spending 3 minutes in the kiosk, he walked out. The bank was closed at 5 pm and no security guard was deployed at the time of the theft. The incident came into notice on Thursday, when a bank official opened the bank and found that the ATM was without cash. When the bank officials checked the CCTV, they found that a total of Rs 7.64 lakh was stolen from the ATM without breaking it. The forensic team and a dog squad were also called on the spot. The team took fingerprints of the suspect from the crime scene for examination. The police said it is strange that the miscreant stole the cash without damaging the ATM. The police are suspecting the role of some bank employee in the theft. The police said it is not possible for an outsider to open the cash locker of an ATM machine without knowing the password or having the keys. On the complaint of Parveen Agarwal, bank manager, Union Bank of India, Sarangpur, the IT police have registered a case of theft against unknown persons and started a probe. No arrest has been made in the case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unguarded-atm-burgled-rs-7-64l-stolen/articleshow/76453715.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||SSG declares SRP jawan postive, hours after he ‘recovered’||VADODARA: Being tested negative for Covid-19 is a major relief for anyone who has to undergo the test. But what if one was given a certificate declaring him negative and within hours told that he was positive. This is exactly what happened with a 57-year-old armed policeman of the State Reserve Police (SRP), staying at the armed police unit’s headquarter in Makarpura. The man had performed duties in Ahmedabad and on his return to the city, he had to undergo a Covid-19 test. The man was admitted at the SSG Hospital (SSGH) on Monday and his samples were collected for the test. “On Tuesday, the man was told that he was negative and discharged from the hospital. He went home to stay with his family,” said a Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) official. On Wednesday, however, a health official from the VMC called up the SRP jawan’s residence to inform them about the precautionary measures and quarantine for the remaining family. “It was at this time that the official came to know that the man was at home and had been discharged. The official immediately called others to get clarity and it came to light that the man’s name figured in the list of positive patients,” said the official. The cop was sent back to the hospital. Sources said that there were little chances of a goof up at the VMC’s end as it was acting on a list sent by SSGH itself. Also, this is not for the first time that such a goof up has taken place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-declares-srp-jawan-postive-hours-after-he-recovered/articleshow/76451993.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||With gyms still closed, aerobics, yoga & pilates help citizens stay fit||Simran Chopra, a teacher at La Martiniere for Girls, has been doing yoga every evening followed by a session of brisk walking on her terrace since the lockdown began in March. n Homemaker Aditi Ghosh enrolled for an online Pilates session after her society shut down the swimming pool, tennis court and the gymnasium to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. n Divyansh Wadhwani (8) and his parents have been doing aerobics every evening after he started missing his cricket coaching. Kolkatans are not only working from home but also working out from home to beat lockdown blues and address issues stemming from a sedentary lifestyle. With swimming pools, parks and sporting facilities shut due to the lockdown, people who had a fitness regimen of either running or swimming or working out, were left confined to their homes. “Yoga and walking has not only helped me stay fit but also kept me mentally calm,” said Chopra, a resident of Camac Street. Almost all housing complexes shut down their gyms, swimming pools and tennis courts at the start of the lockdown, pushing residents into ennui and despair. Aditi Ghosh, a resident of DLF Heights in New Town enrolled herself in an online Pilates class to stay fit. “I would swim everyday and run in the complex. But all that has stopped now. So I took up pilates. After every session, I feel refreshed and energetic.” According to health experts, lack of physical activity also takes a toll on the mental health of people of all ages. Divyansh’s father, Jai and mother Saloni, switch on the music every evening and do aerobics and other freehand exercises with their son. “The idea is to make him beat the lockdown blues. He is missing cricket at his school, where they would practise every day. But the lockdown has made him irritable. So, we also decided to workout with him to keep him active,” Saloni said. Mumbai-based yoga instructor Prathamesh Bandekar said yoga has a calming affect on both the body and the mind. “Some of the asanas help strengthen the respiratory system,” Bandekar said. Health experts say a balanced diet, comprising fruits, vegetables and nuts, is important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-gyms-still-closed-aerobics-yoga-pilates-help-citizens-stay-fit/articleshow/76452735.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||India-China face-off: Injured Alwar jawan recovering, family heaves sigh of relief||ALWAR: The family of 40-year-old Surendra Singh of Naugawa town in Alwar district was relieved on Thursday after learning that he was recovering at a hospital in Ladakh after being injured in an attack by Chinese troops at Gulwan Valley on Monday night. Singh had sustained severe injuries on his hands and head and had to be given 12 stitches. On Thursday, Singh spoke to his family members and assured them he was out of danger and there was nothing to worry about him. His father Balwant Singh said, “He was injured in a cowardly act by Chinese soldiers two days ago. The soldiers attacked my son’s and needed 12 stitches. He has been with the army for 19 years and was posted in Ladakh for 2 years. I was told that he was attacked by the Chinese army with sticks fitted with nails. However, Indian army took him to the hospital on time.” “We were told about it on Wednesday when army officers informed. But we are relieved now as he told us that he is completely fine and there is nothing to be worried about,” he said. His father said, “Due to the glacier in Ladakh, weapons are not used there and patrols are carried out with sticks. When the attack was carried out, our soldiers were few.” Singh’s wife Gurpreet Kaur said her husband’s not only fought well, but also saved the lives of his companions. “I am thankful to god for saving his life. I will pray for his fast recovery,” he added. “He told me that he had no weapons except Guru Sahib’s kirpan (dagger) which helped him,” she added. Singh had came to his village on a holiday in January and joined duty on January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/injured-alwar-jawan-recovering-family-heaves-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/76453709.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 19, 2020||Madurai||As cop tests Covid-19 positive, Madurai SP’s office disinfected||MADURAI: The Madurai district superintendent of police (SP) office at Surveyor Colony was disinfected thoroughly after a police constable attached to the special branch tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The constable, who had symptoms of fever, volunteered for Covid-19 testing and the results revealed that he was positive. Following this, the entire office was disinfected and police personnel in close circles were asked to self-isolate. Extensive disinfection activities were carried out throughout the rural police office consisting the ground floor and two floors. Disinfection was also carried out in the SP’s chamber. A police officer said that police personnel and ministerial staff from the rural office are being tested in batches. Around 25 police personnel underwent the test on Wednesday and none of them tested positive. Twenty-five ministerial staff underwent the test on Thursday. However, the office was not closed and functioning with minimal staff. “Ministerial staff from the ground floor have been asked to isolate themselves till the test results come out. Offices in the first and second floors functioned with around 30% staff. We continue to collect petition from the public at the entrance,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-cop-tests-ve-madurai-sps-office-disinfected/articleshow/76454278.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||EC dismisses the petition of BSP challenging its MLAs part of Cong||Jaipur: The  Commission on Thursday dismissed the petition of BSP challenging its former MLAs voting with the Congress claiming that the party had not merged with the ruling Congress. Commission sources told TOI that the matter is beyond the purview of the Election Commission and refused to review the decision of the speaker giving much needed relief to the Congress. BSP had petitioned the returning officer and the Election Commission against clubbing of its six MLAs with the Congress legislature party on the other day, again asked the returning officer on Thursday to allow its representative as observer during the Rajya Sabha polls on Friday. The returning officer had forwarded the letter to the Election Commission. The commission on Thursday dismissed their claim. The six BSP MLAs had crossed over to Congress long back but the BSP said there was no merger as was claimed by the Congress as party’s state president and secretary did not join the Congress. BSP state president Bhagwan Singh Baba on Thursday met the returning officer and handed over a letter asking him permission to nominate an observer as each party had an observer appointed by the party for the poll. Baba said, “We have given a letter to the returning officer seeking to appoint party observers during the election. We are awaiting the decision of the returning officer.” BSP leader Satish Mishra had also approached Election Commission in Delhi objecting the ‘merger’ said, “Six MLAs were elected on party symbols given by the BSP and after their victory, their names were duly notified in Election Commission's gazette notification, which is in force till date without any change. Even in Rajasthan assembly gazette notification, they are notified as BSP MLAs. However, Rajasthan Speaker changed their nomenclature in his records without bringing it to anyone’s notice.” There has been neither a merger of the BSP with the Congress at the national level nor at the state level which is a mandatory condition under 10th schedule of Constitution of India, Mishra said further. “In view of the above circumstances, the six elected MLAs of BSP from Rajasthan cannot be and should not be permitted to participate in the voting as members of Congress party and they are bound to follow the whip of the BSP,” Mishra said in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ec-dismisses-the-petition-of-bsp-challenging-its-mlas-part-of-cong/articleshow/76453740.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC grants bail to assistant of Panchkula doctor||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted anticipatory bail to Baljinder Kaur, assistant of a Panchkula-based doctor Poonam Bhargava and accused in illegal abortion racket. Baljinder was booked in the case in February along with Dr Bhargava in February this year. She was on the run since then. “Having heard learned counsel for the parties at length, it is evident that the name of the petitioner has been involved in the disclosure statement of Dr Poonam Bhargava. The other evidence against the accused is also available with the investigating agency and no recovery is to be effected from the petitioner. Thus, her custodial interrogation is prima facie and not necessary,” observed Justice Sudhir Mittal of the HC, while granting bail to Baljinder. The HC, however, has directed her to join investigation on June 29 at 10 am. “In the event of her arrest, she shall be released on interim bail to the satisfaction of the IO/SHO concerned subject to her compliance of the conditions enshrined under Section 438(2) of criminal procedure code. It is made clear that in case the petitioner does not cooperate with the investigation, the interim relief granted to her would be liable to be withdrawn,” observed the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-grants-bail-to-assistant-of-pkl-doc/articleshow/76453730.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Couple’s suicide bid foiled; 2 kill selves||KOLKATA/UTTARPARA/BURDWAN: While residents of Patuli in south Kolkata saved a middle-aged couple, who had consumed poison, on Sunday, there was no such luck for the family of a 28-year-old Uttarpara woman. A divorcee, Arundhoti Das in Uttarpara, reportedly hanged herself in her bathroom on Thursday. No suicide note was found. Relatives said Das had been suffering from depression. An alumna of RBU, after she lost her job before the lockdown, she started tuition. She had recently posted about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. But the exact cause of her death was yet to be ascertained. At Patuli, the couple—a 48-year-old woman and her 53-year-old husband—had been facing financial constraints that apparently drove them to try to end their lives. The man had lost money after investing in tourism and infrastructure projects. The lockdown added to their woes and they sold their properties in Naktala and moved to a rented place in Patuli. Though they locked the door, their help arrived in time and alerted locals, who called cops. The woman is now out of danger but the man is on ventilation. At Pandabeshwar, Burdwan, a 14-year-old girl also seemed to have entered into a suicide pact with her twin sister and hanged herself. Locals, however, saved the sister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/couples-suicide-bid-foiled-2-kill-selves/articleshow/76452762.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Congress leader’s son shoots at friend, booked||MOHALI: The Mohali police have booked the 22-year-old son of Congress leader Gurdeep Singh. The police have registered attempt to murder charges against him after he shot at his friend twice under the influence of alcohol. The accused has been identified as Davinder, a resident of Manauli village. According to the cops, the incident took place on Tuesday night when Davinder visited his friend Jagdeep’s place under the influence of liquor. “He came around 10 pm and told Jagdeep that he would shoot him. He then took him in his vehicle and stopped near a petrol pump where both had a tussle. The miscreant then took out his father’s licensed pistol and shot at him twice, one pierced through his back and one from his chest,” said a cop. A case has been registered Jagdeep is currently undergoing treatment at GMCH-32 and is out of danger, said the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-leaders-son-shoots-at-friend-booked/articleshow/76453738.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three more held with pistols, cartridges||CHANDIGARH: The UT police have arrested three more accused in Sector 33 firing case and recovered 56 live cartridges from their possession. Nilabari Jagadale, SSP UT , said the accused have been identified as Sahab Singh alias Shabha, a resident of Banur, Patiala; Shiva Veeran alias Shiva, a resident of Mauli Jagran; and Param Dutt alias Lucky. The police said Shiva worked as a peon on contract basis at the MC office in Sector 17. The SSP said the accused gangster Deepak alias Deepu, had disclosed that he told Gurpreet alias Goldy and Sunny Ghumana to take weapons from Sahab Singh and give the same to the shooters. The police raided at Banur village and nabbed Sahab Singh, who revealed that he had hidden one pistol and cartridges in the forest area of Sector 50 and two pistols and some cartridges were given to Gurpreet and Sunny Ghumana. The police recovered one pistol, two magazines and 14 live cartridges of .9 MM from the forest area of Sector 50. In the meantime, Sector 34 police received information that Shiva and Lucky were coming to meet Rajinder Singh, MC employee. The cops laid a check post near the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan in Maloya. Both the accused reached there on a motorcycle. On seeing the cops, they challenged them with their weapons, but surrendered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-more-held-with-pistols-cartridges/articleshow/76453721.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Govt taking steps to improve rankings of state varsities’||Higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo tells Hemanta Pradhan about state government’s effort to improve rankings of state universities following a disappointing show in NIRF. State universities did not do well in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)… Utkal University was in the rank band of 101-150 last year, but this year it has secured a place among the top 100 universities in the country. Though 96 is not a great rank, it is definitely an improvement from 146th. Even Sambalpur University found a place in the rank band of 101-150, while Berhampur University, secured a place in the 151-200 band. I hope these universities, and others in the state, will get good rank from next year onwards. We are taking all measures to help the universities improve research work and other parameters. Teacher shortage and poor research output seem to be the reasons afflicting state universities. How do you propose to address them? The higher education department had already issued notification for recruitment of faculty members in different universities. The process was started before Covid-19 hit the state. Two universities had completed the recruitment process but others could not do it because of the pandemic. We are ready to appoint teachers as soon as the situation gets better. After recruitment of teachers, we will have full strength in the universities. It will help us garner points in the rankings. Another major thing is research work. We have issued notification for PhD scholars. Good scholars and teachers will soon join the universities to continue research work. How do you intend to strengthen research work in universities? Since last year, the state government has been providing incentive for research work in higher education institutes. Scholars and young faculty members are getting fellowships to carry out research work through this initiative. Our initiative ‘Odisha University Research and Innovation Incentivisation Plan’ (OURIIP) will provide seed capital to some selected scholars for research. We are also providing research fellowship to NET qualifiers who have not made it to junior research fellowship but have done well. One of the major components for research work is a guide. After completion of our teacher recruitment process, all universities will get teachers according to vacancies. It will help scholars to get guides and go ahead with their research work. Students are worried to appear in exams owing to Covid-19 fear. Your take on this… We have promoted second and fourth semester UG students and second semester PG students. We have also used alternative methods of evaluation for end semesters/final year exams of UG and PG students instead of holding offline exams. If any student wants to appear in exams, he/she can appeal before the university or college and do so. Notification regarding this has been issued to universities and colleges on Thursday. Students, teachers and experts welcomed this decision. We heard students’ concern while taking this decision. We are taking other steps to tackle the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-taking-steps-to-improve-rankings-of-state-varsities/articleshow/76451802.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Shramik Special train for UP and Bihar to leave Chandigarh today||CHANDIGARH: Shramik Special train to UP and Bihar has been scheduled for Friday from Chandigarh to Patna (Bihar) with stoppages different stations of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The train will depart from Chandigarh station at 1 pm on Friday. The screening process of the migrants will begin at 8 am at the Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET), Sector 26, Chandigarh. “The train will have stoppages at Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow, Raebareli, Amethi, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Junction (Mughalsarai), Buxar and Ara stations,” said nodal officer Yashpal Garg. He said till date, a total of 43,382 stranded migrants have been sent from Chandigarh via Shramik trains and buses. Out of these, 38,749 have been transported via Shramik Trains and 4,633 via buses. He said, “Due to the lockdown, some of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded in Chandigarh. For smooth movement of these persons, the Chandigarh administration has made elaborate arrangements to ensure comfortable and safe journey through Shramik Special Trains. Two holding centres have been set up at the Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET), Sector 26, where they will be medically examined and provided packed lunch and will be sent to railway station through buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shramik-special-train-for-up-and-bihar-to-leave-city-today/articleshow/76453757.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC orders govt to release seized cotton seeds||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has ordered the agriculture department to release a consignment of cotton seeds confiscated a month ago as they are perishable and will be of no use if not released as the agriculture season will be over by the time the petition challenging the seizure is disposed of. Agriculture department officials had cited the Centre’s Covid-19 guidelines and seized a consignment of 5,000 packets of cotton seeds weighing around 22.5 quintals that had reached the Titlagarh railway station from Ahmedabad on May 17. Sukun Seeds Pvt Ltd (SSPL),which had sent the consignment worth Rs 36.5 lakh in response to order placed by a Patnagarh-based trader had since filed a petition challenging the seizure. Acting on it, the court issued notices returnable within three weeks to the state government and central government while posting the matter for hearing along with responses after four weeks. In the interim order, Justice K R Mohapatra directed for the release of the seized cotton seeds to SSPL on the condition that the seeds will only be used for farming. “The petitioner (SSPL) shall adequately compensate the price of the articles seized as well as pay fine and penalty, if imposed on it in accordance with the law; and shall cooperate with the authorities for the proceedings, if initiated, for transportation of the cotton seeds seized”, Justice Mohapatra said in his June 12 order, a copy of which was available on Thursday. The company argued in court that the cotton seeds were being transported from Ahmedabad to Titlagarh under valid permission for farming and agriculture. Besides, movement of articles for the purpose of farming and agriculture was not restricted by Covid-19 guidelines issued both by the Centre and state government when the cotton seeds were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-orders-govt-to-release-seized-cotton-seeds/articleshow/76451825.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
June 19, 2020||Trichy||South TN records 183 Covid-19 cases; one death reported in Trichy||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 183 Covid-19 cases, including 22 imported cases, were reported in the ten southern districts of the state on Thursday taking the regional tally past 2,800. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old man from Dindigul died of Covid-19 related illness in Trichy, while 66 people tested positive for the disease on Thursday. The central region tally touched 1,458. He was down with cough and fever and was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on June 15. Hospital sources said that he was a tuberculosis patient. The body was laid to rest at a burial ground in Trichy by sanitary workers. Trichy district also reported 14 more new positive cases on Thursday, pushing the total count to 189. All the patients were admitted to MGMGH. A majority of the cases in the south have been those returning from Chennai. Tenkasi district, which has been seeing a gradual rise of Covid-19 cases, saw the most number of cases on Thursday with 34. With 27 more Covid-19 cases on Thursday, Tuticorin took the total tally to 514. Tirunelveli reported 30 new cases taking the tally to 552 and remains the district with the most number of cases in the region. Ramanathapuram reported 28 more cases, which took the district tally beyond 200. It became the fourth district in the region to cross 200 cases, following Madurai, Dindigul, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli. Kanyakumari reported 19 cases on Thursday, including nine imported cases, which took the district total to 149. Madurai district reported nine cases on Thursday. Since May 9, it is for the first time that the number of cases in the district is going below 10. The nine cases included a frontline worker. In Thanjavur, 21 people tested positive, taking the district tally to 204. Among them, 14 have returned from Chennai and one case from Puducherry. A total of 10 more new positive cases were added to the count in Nagapattinam on Thursday. Among them, nine cases were Chennai-returnees. One patient was from Singapore, who has been kept at airport quarantine. The district recorded 181 cases so far. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Sivagangai (15), Virudhunagar (13), Dindigul (2), and Theni (6), Tiruvarur (8), Pudukottai (7), Ariyalur (3), and Karur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-records-183-cases-one-death-reported-in-trichy/articleshow/76458900.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Madurai||South TN records 183 Covid-19 cases; one death reported in Trichy||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 183 Covid-19 cases, including 22 imported cases, were reported in the ten southern districts of the state on Thursday taking the regional tally past 2,800. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old man from Dindigul died of Covid-19 related illness in Trichy, while 66 people tested positive for the disease on Thursday. The central region tally touched 1,458. He was down with cough and fever and was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on June 15. Hospital sources said that he was a tuberculosis patient. The body was laid to rest at a burial ground in Trichy by sanitary workers. Trichy district also reported 14 more new positive cases on Thursday, pushing the total count to 189. All the patients were admitted to MGMGH. A majority of the cases in the south have been those returning from Chennai. Tenkasi district, which has been seeing a gradual rise of Covid-19 cases, saw the most number of cases on Thursday with 34. With 27 more Covid-19 cases on Thursday, Tuticorin took the total tally to 514. Tirunelveli reported 30 new cases taking the tally to 552 and remains the district with the most number of cases in the region. Ramanathapuram reported 28 more cases, which took the district tally beyond 200. It became the fourth district in the region to cross 200 cases, following Madurai, Dindigul, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli. Kanyakumari reported 19 cases on Thursday, including nine imported cases, which took the district total to 149. Madurai district reported nine cases on Thursday. Since May 9, it is for the first time that the number of cases in the district is going below 10. The nine cases included a frontline worker. In Thanjavur, 21 people tested positive, taking the district tally to 204. Among them, 14 have returned from Chennai and one case from Puducherry. A total of 10 more new positive cases were added to the count in Nagapattinam on Thursday. Among them, nine cases were Chennai-returnees. One patient was from Singapore, who has been kept at airport quarantine. The district recorded 181 cases so far. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Sivagangai (15), Virudhunagar (13), Dindigul (2), and Theni (6), Tiruvarur (8), Pudukottai (7), Ariyalur (3), and Karur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-records-183-cases-one-death-reported-in-trichy/articleshow/76454298.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Business||Blueconch Tech plans to hire 1k in next 2 yrs||Pune: City-based Blueconch Technologies plans to hire nearly 1,000 people within the next two years over the expected “exponential growth” in business.  Ramprasad, president, Blueconch Technologies, told TOI that the company had dealt with the impact of Covid-19 very well and was nearly back to 100% of its pre-Covid productivity levels. This has happened even as nearly all its staffers have been working from home since March-end and might continue to do so till September.  Since March this year, when the country went into a total lockdown, the company has also hired over 100 employees, which Ramprasad said was “significant” in the context of the company’s total strength of nearly 1,000 employees.  The product and platform engineering company was recently rechristened as Blueconch Technologies. Previously, it was known as Xpanxion International. “The new brand reflects the company’s wider commitment and its expertise in driving innovations needed to shape the future of customers through digital technology solutions,” the firm, which was acquired by UST Global in 2014, said.  Blueconch with its current revenue of nearly $100 million hopes to grow in size to over $250 million in three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/blueconch-tech-plans-to-hire-1k-in-next-2-yrs/articleshow/76446191.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||Six MP districts are now corona free, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday that the coronavirus situation in MP has been improving constantly.  He said that due to rigorous monitoring the number of active Covid cases never crossed the 3000 mark. As on Thursday, the number of active Coronavirus cases stood at 2308, he added. Chouhan said that six districts of the state are now coronavirus-free and in 24 districts, the number of active coronavirus patients is less than 10. Addressing a review meeting on coronavirus in the state through video conferencing, Chouhan said the recovery rate in MP has improved to 75.5 %, as compared to 53% at the national level. So far, 8632 coronavirus patients have returned home after recovery, he said. On Thursday, a total of 182 new coronavirus cases were found, while 244 patients undergoing treatment at covid hospitals were discharged. The doubling rate in MP is 43.2 days as against the national average of 19.6 days, he said. Similarly, the growth rate of coronavirus in MP is 1.62% as against national average of 3.54%. He said that early identification of infected persons and their proper treatment is key to contain the coronavirus pandemic.  He said that on Thursday 7103 persons were tested for coronavirus in the state, including 6116 in MP and 987 outside. The testing capacity in MP has now touched 6240, he added. The chief minister also took feedback from senior officials, who have been made in-charge of different districts to monitor the coronavirus situation. Total number of Covid-19 positive cases, since the pandemic began in Madhya Pradesh reached, 11,426 Meanwhile, 1091 localities across the 51 districts from where positive cases have been reported as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones has been strictly prohibited. 1197 fever clinics have been set up across the state, where primary treatment is being provided. Samples are being taken on the basis of the symptoms, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-mp-districts-are-now-corona-free-says-shivraj/articleshow/76451813.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Madurai||Not testing all expectant moms a challenge for hospitals, doctors||MADURAI: Changes in the ICMR’s Covid-19 testing protocol have made it challenging for hospitals and gynaecologists to ensure safe delivery of babies while preventing the spread of the pandemic. According to the new norm, not all expectant mothers need to be tested before delivery. Early last month, all pregnant women were tested for Covid-19 at least a week before the due date.“Now, be it rural or urban, we are taking samples at least five days before the due date for all pregnant women who are showing mild symptoms, have travel or contact history or suspected of having Covid-19 in any manner. They are then accordingly referred,” said a senior district health official. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), 1,413 deliveries were carried out during May, of which 903 were natural births while 510 were C-section deliveries. “It is a tough time for us as almost all high-risk mothers and Covid-19 positive pregnant women from Madurai and surrounding districts come here for delivery. Apart from a separate labour theatre for Covid-19 pregnant women, we also have a separate labour ward for suspected patients where we take their swab samples,” said Dr N Sumathi, HOD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, GRH. The doctor said that since the status of the patients is unknown now and also unlike other treatments, patients can’t wait for their test results, all pregnant mothers are attended to by GRH staff fully dressed in PPEs. Another challenge for the doctors is the long hours spent in PPEs in labour wards. “Especially for natural births, it takes a much longer time in labour theatres which means heightened exposure. The doctors may be facing a higher viral load as well in labour theatres if they stay on duty for longer hours,” said Dr Sumathi. Meanwhile, private hospitals are hoping for relaxation in the testing protocols so that all pregnant women are allowed to be tested as many Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic. “The current restrictions pose a risk for doctors and patients in private hospitals, where PPE kits are only available in limited numbers and are expensive. If it is not a suspected Covid-19 patient, we try to carry out the delivery with minimal protection instead of full PPE despite the risk,” said a gynaecologist at a private hospital. Due to these risks, GRH doctors said that many private hospitals are often referring high risk cases and Covid-19 positive pregnant women to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-testing-all-expectant-moms-a-challenge-for-hosps-doctors/articleshow/76454291.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Petition against board exams dismissed||Jaipur: The high court dismissed a petition seeking to cancel the remaining RBSE and CBSE exams for classes 10 and 12 on the ground that the authorities were not following the court directions on precaution against Covid-19. The division bench of Justice Pankaj Bhandari and Justice N S Dhadda, while dismissing the petition, asked the two boards to complete the exam process by taking proper precautions as per the protocol issued by the Union home ministry. The Rajasthan Private School and Welfare Society had field a PIL seeking to stay the exams considering the spike in corona cases. The petition pointed out that the children were under mental stress and were not able to give the exams. The petition further pointed out that in the scorching heat it would be difficult for the children to wear mask continuously for four hours. Advocate general M S Singhvi said the state government had provided the best possible arrangement for the exams and the staying of exams would be more traumatic for the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petition-against-board-exams-dismissed/articleshow/76453782.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Many ration seekers return empty handed despite registering through e-mitra||Jaipur: Free ration was distributed to migrants and other non-NFSA beneficiaries (37 special categories) at 208 of the 572 public distribution system (PDS) centres in Jaipur. However, many complained of not receiving ration even after visiting the shops daily for the past two to three days, while a few others said they did not get ration though they had registered themselves through e-mitra, received an SMS from the government and possessed Aadhaar or Jan Aadhaar cards. “I didn’t get ration even today, Sir. They are saying, I am getting benefits under Jan Dhan Yojana, so I am not entitled for free ration. I have registered through e-mitra and also have received an SMS. But, still haven’t received ration. They didn’t even speak to me properly or explain the reason for not getting ration,” said Raj Kumar, who is a daily wage earner. He went to a fair price shop in Mahesh Nagar, where 3,738 kg wheat was distributed to over 180 people on Thursday. Another non-NFSA beneficiary Geeta, who stays in Brij Vihar Colony, said, “I have been going to the ration shop daily since the past 2-3 days. Even today, I didn’t get ration. I have registered myself through e-mitra and received the SMS. I also have my Jan Aadhar card. The BLO sitting at the fair price shop doesn’t talk to us properly.” Bishadu Roy, who works as a carpenter in Jaipur, said, “We have got 40 kg wheat and 2 kg chana. I earn around Rs 400-500 per day. I received an SMS on June 12. Since then, I came to the shop twice. I received it today. But, I feel, this not enough. They (government) should have provided rice, oil and salt. I got an electricity bill of Rs 6,000 for 3 months and the room rent is Rs 1,700.” He collected ration from a fair price shop on at Van Vihar Colony on Tonk road, where distribution of 4,790 kg wheat and 246 kg chana was done to over 123 people. Each family would be given 2 kg chana and each family member will be provided 10 kg wheat. District Supplies Officer-I (DSO-I) Kanishk Saini, “We are expecting tomorrow (Friday) distribution will be done in 260-270 shops. In Jaipur, 47,724 quintal wheat and 2,473 quintal chana are required for all the non-NFSA beneficiaries. Total non-NFSA beneficiaries in Jaipur are 4.77 lakh (1.23 lakh families). We will try to complete distribution by June 21. In some cases, there could be some technical issues with regard to distribution.” Food department issued an order to also register those non-NFSA beneficiaries, both migrants and those belonging to special categories, on-the-spot (at the shop) through Aadhar or Jan Aadhar cards for distribution of ration who have not been registered during the survey by the government. Watch Jaipur: Many ration seekers return empty handed despite registering through e-mitra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-ration-seekers-return-empty-handed-despite-registering-through-e-mitra/articleshow/76453806.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Migrant on way to Mandla dies on train||BHOPAL: Yet another migrant labourer lost his life while travelling home. A resident of Mandla district, Akhilesh was on way home from Kerala, when he started vomiting onboard the Mangaldeep Express.  An FIR was lodged by the GRP in Itarsi and a post-mortem was also performed. Still in his teens, the deceased, Akhilesh, had boarded the train from Ernakulam along with six other migrants. One of the many tribal migrants from Mandla and Dindori districts, who were stuck in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Akhilesh worked as a labourer, plucking cloves and cardamoms, said Natayan Singh Patta, an MLA from Bichia. Akhilesh was a resident of a village of his constituency. On learning about Akhilesh’s death, Patta arranged for a vehicle that carried his body from Itarsi to Mandla on Thursday. Despite efforts, no Shramik express could start from Kerala to bring the labourers stuck in the south Indian state, said Vivek Pawar of Jan Sangharsh Morcha, an organisation working among the weaker sections in Mandla. Over 500 labourers returned home when the trains started operating after the lockdown, he said. They arranged for their own tickets, he said. They returned home in batches as and when they got reservations and as they waited for a mode of travel, the money they had earned started getting over As the reservation was obtained with great difficulty, Akhilesh decided to travel despite his ill health. Vivek said that some tribal women are still stuck in Andhra Pradesh where they work at a poultry farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/migrant-on-way-to-mandla-dies-on-train/articleshow/76451826.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Sarpanches travel the extra mile to keep Covid-19 under check||BERHAMPUR: Sarpanches, who were given magisterial powers to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, have gone a step further to prove their commitment to the cause. Sarpanch of Khirida in Sheragada block Ajit Kumar Jena cleans the quarantine centre every morning risking a chance of infection. “The government has given us the responsibility to look after the migrant workers, who returned to the state. We should look after them,” said Jena, 38. He said when no one was coming forward to clean the TMC premises, I started cleaning it. “I also personally verify the food served to the inmates in different TMCs,” he added. There are seven TMCs in his panchayat that comes under chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s assembly constituency. Similarly, Siba Nahak, the sarpanch of Baragaon in Aska block, and 40 of his volunteers have not gone home since the last two months to look after those lodged in the TMC as well as prevent their families from getting infected. Also, they do not get enough time to look after their families while managing the quarantine centres. “We are with the inmates every day. Of them, seven are the female volunteers, all members of women self-help groups (WSHG). Before managing the TMCs in his panchayat, he had also sanitised 62 panchayats in different blocks. “In the initial stage, I personally visited the different panchayats during the sanitisation drive,” he added. Lauding their work, collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange said the dedication of the sarpanches has energised the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Ganjam district is worst-affected with 755 positive cases and six deaths till Thursday. Currently, there are 113 active cases after 16 people were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sarpanches-travel-the-extra-mile-to-keep-covid-19-under-check/articleshow/76451838.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: BJP, Congress slug it out for 4 Rajya Sabha seats||GANDHINAGAR: The BJP and the Congress are set for another political showdown in Gujarat on Friday. The battle for the four Rajya Sabha seats in the state is likely to be a close and bitter one, just like the 2017 RS polls. With the two parties not budging an inch in their bid to ensure victories of their candidates, the contest is going to be interesting one for the fourth RS seat. The BJP has fielded candidates on three seats, while, like in 2017, the Congress has suffered desertions before the election. Going by the strength of both the parties in the House, two of the three BJP nominees and one of the two Congress nominees are expected to sail through comfortably. Assuming that there are no invalid votes polled and that cross-voting does not take place by MLAs of either side, the BJP — owing to its larger number of MLAs — is better placed to win three of the four seats for which elections are being held. The Congress – which saw eight of its MLAs deserting the ship before the election – faces an uphill task in getting both its candidates elected. With the strength of the Gujarat assembly having been reduced to 172 because of resignations by the Congress MLAs and court rulings, a candidate will require 35 first preference votes to sail through and win an RS seat. The BJP, with a strength of 103, is two votes short of getting all its three candidates elected outright through first preference votes. The Congress strength is 65 and requires five additional first preference votes to get both of its candidates elected outright. Both the BJP and the Congress claimed to have the support of two BTP and one NCP MLAs, while the lone Independent, Jignesh Mevani, is expected to support the Congress candidates. The prospect of MLAs cross-voting for rival party candidates and casting invalid votes still looms large and such an occurrence could change equations significantly. The 2017 RS election, in which Congress leader Ahmed Patel won by a whisker, witnessed both cross-voting and casting of invalid votes by MLAs of both sides. Both the BJP and the Congress put their MLAs through rigorous training sessions, with each MLA being instructed on how votes are polled and whom they should cast their vote as first and second preference candidates. Parties have even held repeated mock polls for their MLAs to acquaint them with the nitty-gritty of a Rajya Sabha election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-cong-slug-it-out-for-4-rs-seats/articleshow/76452958.cms||Kapil Dave
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Disbelief, shock stun pilgrim town as SC order dashes Rath Yatra hopes||Bhubaneswar: It was around 1 pm on Thursday when residents of Puri and the servitors of the Jagannath Temple started walking silently towards the Grand Road or Bada Danda that runs in front of the 12th century shrine. The men and the women were mostly silent; many of them were teary-eyed. A sense of disbelief seemed to have stunned them into silence. After all, the Rath Yatra of the sibling deities of Jagannath, Subhadra and Balabhadra had never been cancelled in recent living memory. “Today is a black day in the history of Odisha. We cannot believe that the annual Rath Yatra of the temple will not be held this time. Stoppage of the Rath Yatra might turn out to be a bad omen for the state,” said senior servitor Binayak Dasmohapatra. The world-famous festival — in which the deities travel for three kilometre in towering, specially designed chariots from their abode Jagannath Temple to their ‘aunt’s house’ in Gundicha Temple on the Grand Road — is an integral part of the social and cultural life of Puri. A touch of the ropes affixed to the chariots is believed to a blessing, and the actual pulling of the chariots is preceded by dance performances, devotional music and other kinds of performances. Besides, the spectacular nature of the Yatra is believed to have lent heft to the word ‘juggernaut’. Such is the importance of the festival to Puri that the town, which was battered by Cyclone Fani in May 2019, ensured that it recovered sufficiently to be able to host the festival with its usual pomp a couple of months later. “Although the Rath Yatra is celebrated in different places, the festival in Puri is undoubtedly the show-stealer. The nine-day festival means a lot to the servitors and the locals. Every house around the temple, and the entire Grand Road, wears a bridal look during the Rath Yatra. Guests would have started arriving in the town by this time. Catching a glimpse of the hustle bustle around the temple, the spontaneous chants of ‘Jai Jagannath’ and the teeming crowds would fill us with ecstasy,” explained Jajati Mohanty, a retired teacher. The Supreme Court’s order on Thursday to cancel this year’s Rath Yatra, scheduled to be held next Tuesday, has gutted the coastal town. It seems an even crueller blow as the state government, based on the Centre’s go-ahead, had given the temple permission to start work on the chariots. “As recently as Tuesday, the temple administration had asked the shrine purohits (priests) to remain in readiness to consecrate the chariots on the morning of Rath Yatra. Why did the government raise our hopes, only to dash them like this?” wondered Debasis Das, lawyer and convener of Srikhetra Swabhiman Mancha. For many, keeping their emotions in check proved to be a difficult task on Thursday. Take for instance Bhagi Pujapanda, a servitor, who was inconsolable after hearing the Supreme Court order. “I am shattered. The Rath Yatra had not been stopped even during the outbreak of the Spanish flu in 1918. The festival was last cancelled around 285 years ago because of attacks on the temple by Muslim rulers. This year, we could have observed the festival with restrictions,” Pujapanda said. Sandhyarani Mishra (65), a local resident, too, broke down after the Supreme Court order. “We would have happily accepted if the Supreme Court had banned the congregation of devotees during the festival. Debasnan Purnima festival was observed without participation of devotees in Puri on June 5. Chariots could have been pulled by limited number of servitors and police. The government could have examined the Orissa high court’s proposal to use heavy machines or elephants to pull the chariots,” Mishra said. “We have high regards for the Supreme Court. But if public transport, flights, trains, shops, hotels and malls are resuming services, even Rath Yatra should have been allowed with restrictions,” said S K Das, a Puri-based hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/disbelief-shock-stun-pilgrim-town-as-sc-order-dashes-rath-yatra-hopes/articleshow/76451864.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||In a first, indoor celebrations to mark Yoga Day on June 21||Lucknow: For the first time in the six years since it started, International Yoga Day will be celebrated as ‘yoga at home’ with proper social distancing on June 21 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Promoting the concept of yoga with family, this year’s yoga day will see the telecast of live yoga sessions, lecture series, immunity and yoga webinars on the Ayush Kavachapp and website. A programme by the Central government will be telecast on Doordarshan which will be interspersed by messages from PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. The programme will also consist a yoga session which people can follow from their homes. A yoga diwas challenge will also be organised in which a video blogging competition ‘Mera Jeevan Mera Yog’ (My Life My Yoga) is being organised. UP will organise its own Yoga Day challenge on similar lines. To participate in the event, a person will have to upload a three to five-minute video of themselves following the yoga mudras that are telecast on television and upload it on social media platforms. Participants will have to tag Ayush Society’s media page and handles after which they will have to register either on the Ayush Kavach app or on the state Ayush Society website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-first-indoor-celebrations-to-mark-yoga-day-on-june-21/articleshow/76453825.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Martyrs laid to rest amid tears, tributes||BHOJRAJ (GURDASPUR)/PATIALA: Mortal remains of Army personnel martyred during the Chinese aggression in Galwan were cremated at Gurdaspur and Patiala. Slogans rent the air as people joined grieving families to salute the soldiers. At Birewala Dogra village in Mansa, Hamirpur and Sangrur, last rites of the martyrs will be held on Friday. In Gurdaspur, mortal remains of late Naib Subedar Satnam Singh were consigned to flames with full military honours on Thursday. Emotions ran high in the small village of Bhojraj as the Tricolour-wrapped coffin carrying the martyr’s body arrived. Expressing pride in the supreme sacrifice made by one of their own, village residents raised slogans in praise of the Indian Army and martyr Satnam Singh. They also denounced the Chinese aggression. The martyr’s body was flown to Tibri cantonment from Chandigarh where officials of Gurdaspur administration, including deputy commissioner Muhammad Ishfaq went to receive it. Born on January 17, 1979, martyr Satnam Singh of 3 Medium Regiment was deployed in Ladkah. He achieved martyrdom in a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. Satnam Singh joined the Army on August 23, 1995. He is survived by wife Jaswinder Kaur, son Prabhjot Singh,16 and daughter Sandeep Kaur, 17, father Jagir Singh and mother Jasbir Kaur. When his mortal remains arrived, his inconsolable wife and daughter passed out. His younger brother Sukhchain Singh, Subedar in the Army posted in Hyderabad, said late Satnam Singh was on leave. He had gone to join duty on March 16 and had flown to Leh from Delhi on March 22. “I will avenge my brother’s death if sent to fight against China,” a grief-stricken Sukhchain Singh said. Earlier in the day, deputy commissioner Muhammad Ishfaq visited the house of the martyr to express his condolences. He said the administration would erect a gate in the village in memory of the martyr and would extend all possible help to his family members. “The martyr’s family sought to have the school where he studied in his name, a stadium dedicated to him, a gate and repair of the road leading to their house,” he said. 11-year-old son lights martyr’s pyre At Sheel village in Patiala, heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed as the 11-year-old son of martyr Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh consigned his father’s mortal remains to flames. Slogans rang out as the martyr’s body was brought by the Army. Mandeep’s 11-year-old son Jobanpreet Singh lit his pyre while his mother Shakuntala Kaur, wife Gurdeep Kaur, daughter Mahekpreet Kaur, three sisters and other family members saluted his supreme sacrifice. Earlier, the body was taken to his ancestral home in Dharamshala village, where his turban was tied. A number of village residents came to pay their last respects. At the funeral, the Army bugler played a poignant tune. Jawans turned their weapons over and saluted the martyr after firing the guard of honour. Subedar Lakhwinder Singh and other Army officers handed over the Tricolor wrapped around the coffin to his children and saluted them. Earlier, Brigadier Atul Bhatt of Patiala Brigade paid homage to the martyr on behalf of Chief of Army Staff. Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot laid a wreath on the body and offered flowers on behalf of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Chief minister’s OSD Raj Kumar and Balwinder Singh laid the wreaths on behalf of Lok Sabha member, Patiala Preneet Kaur. Colonel Mohit Chopra laid the wreath on behalf of Two Corps Commander Ambala. Subedar Manpal Singh laid the wreath on the body on behalf of GOC of One Armed Division Patiala. MLAa Madan Lal Jalalpur, Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra and Arun Narang, Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma, zila parishad member Gagandeep Singh Jalalpur, deputy commissioner Kumar Amit and SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu also paid tributes to the martyr. Kin wait to bid final goodbye In Mansa, the family of Birewala Dogra village martyr Sepoy Gurtej Singh were told the body would reach only by Friday. However, bodies of two out of four Punjab soldiers, who laid down their lives for the sovereignty of the nation, reached on Thursday. “We want the mortal remains to reach at the earliest so that we could see how badly the enemy harmed him,” the inconsolable mother Parkash Kaur said when administrative officials visited the house. Father Virsa Singh said the family is proud of the supreme sacrifice made by him and now want to see him for one last time. Gurtej, 22, was among the 20 soldiers killed in skirmishes with Chinese Army personnel in Galwan Valley on India-China border on Monday night. He joined the Indian Army in 2018. He was youngest of the three siblings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/galwan-martyrs-laid-to-rest-amid-tears-tributes/articleshow/76453819.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mangaluru||23 test +ve in DK dist, most are returnees from Saudi||Mangaluru/Udupi: On a day that Udupi ceded the pole position in total Covid-19 positive cases in Karnataka to Kalaburagi while registering zero fresh cases, neighbouring Dakshina Kannada inched forward, recording 23 positive cases. Kalaburagi now accounts for 1,074 out of 7,944 positive cases recorded in the state, while Udupi has 1,039 cases. Udupi’s active cases have dipped below 100, and stands at 92 as against 457 in Kalaburagi. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that as on date, 946 people have been discharged in the district after being treated, leaving 92 active cases in the district. A total 198 swab sample reports are awaited, the DC said, adding the district has recorded 1 death due to the disease. Jagadeesha said that the remaining patients are undergoing treatment at the designated Covid care centres, amd are expected to be discharged in the next four to five days. Earlier, at the Mask Day event organised on the Udupi City Municipal Council premises, the DC said 50% of the transmission of the novel coronavirus can be prevented by simply wearing masks. “It has come to the notice of the district administration that many venture out without wearing masks, and Rs 27,000 has been collected in fines from them. In the coming days, health and civic authorities will start imposing fines on those who do not wear masks properly,” he warned. Out of the 23 cases that Dakshina Kannada reported, 21 were those who returned from Saudi Arabia on June 8 and June 11, said Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh. The patients designated P-7752 and P-7753 are primary contacts of P-6618, the DC said, adding 236 out of 259 test reports received during the day were negative. Six people were discharged during the day, leaving Dakshina Kannada with 225 active cases and overall positive cases at 399, with eight deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/23-test-ve-in-dk-dist-most-are-returnees-from-saudi/articleshow/76451859.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||HCQ beneficial as preventive drug: SMS doctors told ICMR||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Hospital was the first to use hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and anti-HIV drugs — Lopinavir and Ritonavir — to treat the first few Covid-19 patients besides using the combination as a preventive drug on others. More than 4,300 healthcare workers including doctors and nurses have been given HCQ to help them prevent the infection as there are high chances of them getting infected while treating Covid patients. “As far as prophylaxis is concerned, more than 4,300 doctors and health works were given HCQ as approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) out of which around 45 health persons tested positive and recovered later,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The hospital claimed that preventive treatment approach at SMS Hospital has been very rewarding and results of these have been shared with ICMR. “We have used these drugs with perfect scientific background and proven efficacy in SARS Cov-2 Infection and SMS Medical College created a bridge between point of no specific treatment till the specific drug treatment is established. All these drugs were part of solidarity trial by WHO of which SMS Hospital is a centre,” said Bhandari. SMS Hospital was declared as non-Covid hospital on June 1. But before that, it emerged as a role model of management of Covid patients. From the very beginning, 300 ICU beds and more than thousand IPD beds were dedicated for Covid patients. A separate Covid OPD and observation wards for suspects was created at Charak Bhawan. Also, 28 wards were created for Covid patients of different categories. For critically ill patients, Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) was fully equipped with ICU facilities. During the peak of the pandemic, average 500 plus patients were admitted to SMS from asymptomatic category to severe category. Number of faculty was put on floor duty, which included consultants from the department of medicine and anaesthesia. Resident doctors were doing duty in each shift and hundreds of nursing, paramedics and technicians were on round-the-clock duty. Dr Bhandari, who headed the Covid-19 management programme, said like any best centre in the world, the investigations of patients included HRCT Chest, CT pulmonary angiography, ultrasonography of lungs and echo with dopler state was made available at SMS Hospital. “The CT Pulmonary Angiography of Covid-19 patients gave us new insight of pulmonary thrombus being also a cause of critical complications in patients. SMS is geared up with most advanced investigative facilities like assessment of cytokine storm,” he said. All critical patients were also assessed for clotting disorder by D-dimer and many other tests. How SMS Hospital became learning ground Covid Plasma Therapy and Monoclonal Antibodies to critical ill patients with very good results Participation of each and every faculty member, resident doctors, nursing and paramedics who wholeheartedly were committed for best of care Each and every patient with or without co-morbid conditions was discussed, their management was planned and close monitoring done At investigation front, in March first week initial samples of Covid-19 were send to Pune and today SMS has acquired capacity of doing 3,500 tests per day SMS Medical College has done over 1,35,000 RT-PCR tests and the capacity per day will be 7,000 in the next two days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hcq-beneficial-as-preventive-drug-sms-docs-told-icmr/articleshow/76453826.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation failed in waste management test, say experts||KOCHI: The city has wasted nearly five years pursuing an economically unviable and environmentally disastrous technology despite the wide adoption of several time-tested solid waste management alternatives, experts critical of the proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) project said. “Had the Kochi corporation taken steps to adapt decentralized waste management practices they could have turned it into a green city,” said a consultant with Haritha Kerala Mission, who did not wish to be identified. According to experts, Kochi needs to learn from success stories of urban local bodies like Thiruvananthapuram corporation, which is bigger in terms of population but is effectively managing waste with hundreds of Thumboormuzhy bins, material recovery centres and a mobile application. North Paravur municipality too have been treating waste effectively with an array of in situ composting in households and segregation on non-biodegradable waste. “There is no room for confusion here. Kochi is not a large city and is more like a large municipality. It’s first mistake was dragging in neighbouring local bodies to Brahmapuram. We created a problem that did not exist,” says Shibu K Nair, India co-ordinator for GAIA Asia Pacific, a leading campaigner for incinerator alternatives. Thiruvananthapuram with a population of more than one million produces more than 200MT waste daily but in Kochi it is only 150MT. “What Kochi needs is a consumer sector-wise management of waste that engages the circular economy. Kochi should have different approaches for household waste, slaughter waste and market waste, like Thiruvananthapuram,” said Shibu attributing the success of Thiruvananthapuram to sector-specific approach. For treating waste from slaughterhouses rendering units that convert them to fish feed after high-pressure cooking using steam is a viable option. “Unlike Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi is an industrial hub and they can easily do it. You only need to facilitate it,” he said. Haritha Keralam officials said there are now such units in Kozhikode and Kannur which treat slaughter waste using the process. Many are at a loss to understand why the state is pushing for waste-to-energy plants when it is clear that burning organic waste is against the municipal solid waste rules. The high moisture content of the biodegradable waste - 70% to 80% - makes it highly unsuitable for WTE plants. “We have cancelled the agreement and are floating another RFP when you know the reason why the concessionaire could not raise funds. Their process was not viable and they were reliant on a viability gap fund (VGF),” said C N Manoj of Pelican Foundation. Then there is also the issue of extremely high cost of power - Rs 15 per unit out of which KSEB would be paying only Rs 6. “Many get irritated when you utter the word decentralised. Call it an overflow waste management system. I believe at least 50% of houses in Kochi can manage biodegradable waste. For those who cannot, you can have community-level units,” suggests Shibu, adding that apartments can well do it if there is space to park two cars. Food waste collected from commercial establishments can be managed by moving them to pig farms. “One large farm can handle five tonnes per day, that is the equivalent of waste collected in Thrikkakkara municipality,” says Manoj. Municipalities like Thrikkakkara and Kalamassery have started source-level segregation in a limited way with the help of Haritha Karma Sena. Pelican Foundation is now managing garden waste by treating them under space beneath the Metro pillars. "I am sure a lot of micro initiatives are emerging and they hold the future," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-failed-in-waste-mgmt-test-experts/articleshow/76451873.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Shetti’s MLC bid upsets his close confidantes||Kolhapur: Cracks within the ranks of Swabhimani Paksha, the farmers’ outfit led by Raju Shetti, are becoming visible following Shetti’s MLC nomination. Shetti has been offered the MLC seat under Governor’s quota by the Congress and NCP alliance, of which, he became a part in the 2019 elections. The two-time MP from Kolhapur was earlier part of the BJP-led alliance. Few days ago, he met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and announced that he will accept the nomination. His announcement upset his close confidantes, who said they were hopeful of being nominated for the MLC post, but are now being denied the same as Shetti is himself taking the post. Under the Governor’s quota, some seats are reserved for the parties to nominate persons from varied backgrounds. Shetti claims that Pawar insisted on his nomination because of his work in the agriculture and co-operative sectors as well as his contribution as the editor of a magazine focussed on farmers’ cause. Savkar Madnaik and Jalindar Patil, the two of Shetti’s close confidants, are unhappy. Madnaik said, “We spent our life in the outfit. Shetti did not take us into confidence before finalising his own name for MLC. However, we will continue our work without expecting anything hereafter. Right now, we have not taken any political decision.” Shetti took to social media and wrote an emotional post stating the opposition by his close confidante's has caused him immense hurt. “The outfit is a family . If one MLC nomination can drift my close relatives away, then why should I take it?” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shettis-mlc-bid-upsets-his-close-confidantes/articleshow/76451881.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hubballi||Recovery rate a good sign: DC||Kalaburagi : The first Covid-19 death in India catapulted Kalaburagi to national headlines so did the subsequent spike with returnees from Maharashtra. But now the recovery rate is higher than the positive cases bringing some much-needed relief. Till now 574 people of the 1.026 who tested positive have recovered and been discharged from the designated Covid ward of GIMS in Kalaburagi; there are 442 active cases as of Wednesday. On Wednesday, 100 patients who recovered were discharged from the hospital. . Speaking to TOI, Kalaburagi DC B Sharath said that the situation is under control and the positive cases are all returnees from Maharashtra, and not locals. However, he urged the locals to be alert and follow the protocols of wearing masks, maintain social distancing and use sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/recovery-rate-a-good-sign-dc/articleshow/76451876.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||State reports highest single day spike in Covid-19 deaths||JAIPUR: The state on Thursday witnessed the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 deaths with 17 persons succumbing to the virus. The previous one-day highest toll was on June 6 when 13 people lost their lives. So far, the virus has claimed 330 lives in the state. The number of people who tested positive on Thursday stood at 315, taking the total count to 13,857. Bharatpur reported six deaths taking its toll to 26, while two deaths each was reported from Barmer, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur and one death each was reported from Chittorgarh, Churu and Kota. So far, 136 persons have died of the virus in this month. With two more Covid-19 deaths, Jaipur’s toll rose to 143, the highest in a district. Jodhpur’s toll stands at 30, while Barmer reported its first two deaths. In Bikaner, seven Covid-19 fatalities have taken place so far. Kota is at the fourth place in number of deaths reporting 19 fatalities till date. In Chittorgarh, toll has increased to 6 while in Churu, two persons have died, one death was reported earlier. Districts which reported new cases are Bharatpur (92), Jaipur (46), Pali (33), Jodhpur (29), Sikar (14), Sirohi (11), Jhunjhunu 10, (Alwar (10), Barmer (7), Dausa (7), Bikaner (6), Jalore (6), Jhalawar (5), Ajmer (5), Udaipur (4), Churu (4), Dungarpur (4), Nagaur (4), Bhilwara (3), Kota (3), Banswara (2), Rajsamand (2), Tonk (2), Sawai Madhopur (2), Sriganganagar (1),Dholpur (1) and two from other state. In Jaipur, 42 different places reported new cases. The areas which reported new cases are Hathroi Fort (7), Mansarovar (4), Shastri Nagar (3), Chandpole (3), Chaksu (2) while one case each was reported from Tata Nagar, Sanjay Nagar Bhatta Basti, Sanjay Colony, RPA Road, Dadi Ka Fatak, Benad Road, Ramganj, Barkat Nagar, Mahesh Nagar, VKI, Bajaj Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Kana Vihar, Sanganer, Delhi Road, Patel Nagar, Raja Park, Dantali, Nirman Nagar, Balapura in Phagi, Bani Park, Kisan Marg, Chaura Rasta, Bapu Nagar, one from a private hospital, while address of one person is not clear. Watch Covid-19: Rajasthan reports highest single day spike in deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/76453842.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Send RSS cadres to LAC if you want lathi fight with Chinese: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to Centre||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday took strong exception to reports of riot gear being sent out to the soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Stressing that the Indian Army is trained to handle arms, he asserted that “if the Centre wants a fist or lathi fights with the Chinese, then it should send RSS cadres to the battle ground. “What our men out there need is weapons and clear orders that they should be ready to use these weapons to save themselves and defend the country at any cost,” he said in a statement, terming as “horrendous and barbaric” the brutality with which 20 Indian soldiers were killed by Chinese army men in the Galwan Valley. Demanding accountability for the loss of precious lives in the violent clash, he asked why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given in the face of the brutal attack on the Indian soldiers. “Somebody failed to do his job out there, and we need to find out who he was,” he said. If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to the Chinese treachery, he said, adding, “The nation wants to know why our men did not retaliate the way they are trained to do, and why they did not open fire if they were carrying arms. What were they doing sitting out there while their colleagues were getting killed?” He said the whole nation is expecting a befitting response from the government to this horrific attack on its men. “Our soldiers at the front should be clearly told that if they kill 1 of ours, you kill 3 of theirs,” he added. He said he is not speaking as a politician but as a man who has been part of the Army and still loves the institution. Calling for an end to the “Hindi-Cheeni bhai bhai” charade, he said India should not chicken out on this issue. “If China is a world power, then so are we,” he declared, adding that “60 years of diplomacy has not worked and it is time to tell them that enough is enough”. The Chinese just cannot be trusted, he remarked, pointing out that several Indian territories are in their occupation since 1962 and they are clearly now trying to take more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/send-rss-cadres-to-lac-if-you-want-lathi-fight-with-chinese-amarinder-to-centre/articleshow/76453841.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||Rajya Sabha polls today, 206 MLAs to cast their votes||BHOPAL: With 24 assembly seats lying vacant in the assembly, 206 legislators will cast their votes to elect three MPs to the Rajya Sabha on Friday. The biennial elections were initially scheduled on March 26 but had to be deferred because of the Covid-19 induced national lockdown. Presently, the ruling BJP has 107 MLAs, while Congress has 92 after exit of 22 legislators in March. There are also two BSP, one SP and four Independents MLAs. The seats fell vacant in April after the completion of terms by Satyanarayan Jatiya and Prabhat Jha of BJP and Digvijaya Singh of Congress. BJP has fielded Jyotiraditya Scindia who switched loyalties from Congress in March and Sumer Singh Solanki, who is known to be close to the RSS and is a history professor. Congress’ candidates are former chief minister Digvijaya Singh, who is all set to get a second term in the Upper House and Phool Singh Baraiya, a Scheduled Caste former BSP leader. He joined Congress during the Lok Sabha elections last year. The four Independents, two BSP and one SP MLAs — who were allies in the 15-month Kamal Nath government have kept away from the Congress party’s Rajya Sabha election meetings held on Wednesday and Thursday. BSP MLAs Rambai and Sanjeev Kushwaha, SP MLA Rajesh Shukla and two Independent MLAs Surendra Singh Shera and Vikram Rane — were spotted in the BJP headquarters on Wednesday. They were seen in the company of home minister Narottam Mishra. Congress knows that the present arithmetic of legislators in the party can only send Digvijaya to the Rajya Sabha. It will require 52 votes to send one candidate to the Upper House of Parliament. For two days, former chief minister Kamal Nath, AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik and the entire Congress state top brass were busy training first-time legislators on how to vote in the biennial elections. Sources in the party said that on Wednesday, five MLAs got their votes wrong as votes need to be cast through a preferential system. Though the party did not reveal the names of these MLAs, a second training session for the Congress legislative party (CLP) members was called on Thursday morning. Addressing party MLAs, state Congress chief Nath said, “We have gathered here for the second day for the Rajya Sabha elections. We will impart training again today so there is no mistake when you cast your votes. After the biennial elections, there will be assembly bypolls in 24 seats. The Rajya Sabha polls will send a message to those who toppled a democratically elected government in the state.” Digvijaya, who was also present said, “Next year, I will complete 50 years in politics and 40 years of friendship with Nath.” BJP called its Rajya Sabha election meeting on Thursday evening where leaders claimed that the 22 former Congress MLAs who quit and joined BJP are ‘jansevaks’ (public servants). Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar reviewed the Rajya Sabha polling details. Speaking at the legislative party meeting, home minister Mishra said, “The lotus (BJP election symbol) will bloom in the Rajya Sabha elections. BJP’s victory is assured.” Polling starts at 9am and ends at 4pm. Counting of votes will begin from 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rajya-sabha-polls-today-206-mlas-to-cast-their-votes/articleshow/76451878.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak court fails to record Nankana Sahib woman’s statement again||Amritsar: Jagjit Kaur turned Ayesha Bibi from Nankana Sahib will have to stay in Dar-ul-Aman longer as her statement could not be recorded in court on Thursday. Kaur’s counsel Muhammad Sultan Sheikh told TOI over phone from Lahore that Kaur appeared in court to record her statement before the judge clarifying whether she wanted to go with her Muslim husband or her Sikh parents. However, she could not record her statement as the counsel of her parents did not turn up due to Covid-19 crisis. Despite her being produced in court four times in nearly 10 months and making her statement, the court has not officially recorded her statement, thereby delaying the case. Sources in the intelligence are of the view that Pakistan’s political leadership and ISI has pressurised the judiciary to go ‘soft’ in the case of Kaur under pressure from Khalistani Sikhs. “The girl has been living in Lahore Dar ul Aman since August 2019 and till date, the court has not even recorded her statement, which is surprising and indicates the pressure on Pakistan judiciary,” said sources. “We have information that Kaur had earlier given her statement saying that she wanted to go to the house of her husband and not to her parents’ house but the court didn’t recorded the statement,” said sources. They added that Pakistan government and ISI is favouring the Sikh community, especially a group of Khalistani Sikhs closely associated with ISI. Kaur converted to Islam on August 28 , 2019 and took on the new name of Ayesha Bibi. On August 29, she married her boyfriend, Mohammad Hassan, evoking sharp reactions from the Sikh community of Nankana Sahib. This forced the court to direct that she be sent to Dar-ul-Aman, Lahore. Sultan Sheikh informed that the judge had now fixed June 28 for recording Kaur’s statement. “In my view, Kaur will go to her husband’s house,” he said. TOI also talked to Kaur alias Ayesha’s husband, Hassan, who expressed confidence that his wife Ayesha alias Jagjit is willing to be with him. He expressed dismay over the slow pace of the case. “She is my wife and wants to go with me, I wonder why her statement is not being recorded all this time,” he said. Governor of Pakistan Punjab Mohammad Sarwar tried to intercede between the two families but to no avail. The marriage of Kaur and Hassan brought the two communities of Nankana Sahib on the brink of a clash. Unsavoury scene were witnessed after a group of Muslims in Nankana Sahib led by Hassan’s brother stormed Gurdwara Nankana Sahib. He threatened to “wipe out Sikhs from Nankana Sahib” and change the name of the historical town to Ghulam-e-Mustafa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-court-fails-to-record-nankana-sahib-womans-statement-again/articleshow/76453834.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Water discharge from Almatti, Koyna dams initiated||Kolhapur: A report released by the Kolhapur water resources department stated that the discharge from Almatti and Koyna dams on Thursday resulted in the water level of Panchaganga river remaining steady. For the first time this year, the discharge from Almatti dam located near the downstream of Krishna river was being carried out. Panchganga and Krishna rivers meet at Narsobachi Wadi. The backwater pressure effect of Almatti dam causes swelling of upstream rivers, resulting in the water level going up. In addition, water discharge from the Radhanagari dam located near the upstream of Panchaganga river had begun from Wednesday. The discharge from Almatti dam was around 15,391 cusec and that of Koyna dam located in Satara district was 2,111 cusec. The heavy rainfall that the district has been witnessing over the last few days continued to lash Kolhapur and Satara districts on Thursday as well. The water level of Panchaganga on Thursday was between 24 to 25 feet. The discharge from Radhanagri dam was around 1,908 cusec which ensured that the water level remained constant despite heavy discharge from Almatti dam. By Thursday evening, 27 barrages along different rivers had gone under water. Also, two internal roads were reported inundated, leading to diversion of traffic. The road connecting Ujlaiwadi village to Kolhapur Airport was closed for vehicular traffic. Officials said that congestion may be observed between national highway and airport road due to diversion of traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-discharge-from-almatti-koyna-dams-initiated/articleshow/76451870.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||More Covid Care coaches from rlys soon||Lucknow: Considering the demand for Covid Care coaches, zonal railways have been asked to modify more coaches to accommodate more Covid-19 patients. Sources said separate targets have been set for each of the zones. Like, North Central Railway (NCR), which had modified about 130 coaches in the first phase, will now make ready another 150 Covid Care coaches. In March, the Railway Board had set a target of rolling out 20,000 Covid Care coaches. In the first phase, railways had converted 5,000 coaches into Covid centres. The rest , would be rolled out as and when the demand comes. Now, the demand for the coaches has started coming from various states. Delhi, Telangana and UP have already asked for isolation rakes.. (One isolation rake has 10 CovidCare Coaches, one AC coach and one SLR van). More than 15-year-old general class coaches will be converted into isolation coaches,” said sources. Zones have been asked to start conversion immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/more-covid-care-coaches-from-rlys-soon/articleshow/76453854.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University defers college exams, to announce new dates||AHMEDABAD: Taking into account the continuation of the Covid-19 pandemic and protests against its decision to hold examinations in July, the Gujarat University examination committee decided on Thursday to defer the exams and said new dates will be announced soon. The decision is likely to affect approximately 1 lakh students of the GU affiliated colleges in arts, commerce, science, and education. The deferment will be effective for all courses except medical and paramedical exams, which will be held according to the schedule announced earlier. GU vice-chancellor Jagdish Bhavsar said the exams have been postponed and not cancelled. They will be conducted when the situation improves, he added. The GU had announced earlier this month that it will be holding annual examinations for final year undergraduate students, and second and fourth year postgraduate students in two phases from July 2 and July 13. Political organizations of students had immediately reacted and started protests. Members of National Students Union of India (NSUI) have been protesting against GU’s decision and demanding the exams be cancelled. Recently, the Saurashtra University, M S University and Veer Narmad South Gujarat University have seen protests from students demanding postponement of annual exams. The Gujarat University has decided to hold exams for only 50 marks instead of 100 marks for final semester undergraduate students and second and fourth year postgraduate students this year. According to the directive of the state government issued in May, undergraduate students, other than final semester candidates, will be graded based on performance in previous semester and internal exam marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-defers-college-exams-to-announce-new-dates/articleshow/76460747.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to Customs: Release formula feed to cancer survivor in 24 hours||MUMBAI: In a relief for a cancer survivor, the Bombay HC on Thursday directed the Customs to hand over four boxes of formula feed imported from the US within 24 hours. The direction by a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Nitin Borkar, via videoconference, came on a petition by Vadodara-based Samir Patel, who was diagnosed with oral cancer in 2016 and due to remedial surgeries, can eat only through feeding tubes. He imports the formula feed from the US as it is not available in India. Patel’s petition said he had imported four boxes of ‘Osmolite Nutrio N-Food for Tube Feeding Patient’ through DHL Express India, but the assistant commissioner of customs at Sahar airport’s air cargo complex refused to provide inward clearance to the courier agency and withheld the boxes on grounds unclear to him. The judges summoned additional solicitor general Anil Singh who assured to look into the matter. At 3 pm, Singh informed the court that the commissioner, air cargo commissionerate, will process the requisite documents subject to the courier agency filing a bill of entry and Patel filing Form 7—an undertaking that the consignment will be used only for personal consumption. On his assurance, the judges directed DHL to file the bill of entry and Patel’s lawyers—senior advocate Venkatesh Dhond and advocate Bulbul Singh Rajpurohit—to submit form 7 and added that the commissioner, after processing the documents, will ensure that the parcel is handed over to the petitioner within 24 hours. The matter is posted on June 22 for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-customs-release-formula-feed-to-cancer-survivor-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76448641.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Pvt money lender’s house raided||Kolhapur: The co-operative department on Thursday morning raided a private money lender’s house located in the Juna Budhwar Peth area of the city and seized various documents related to transactions, names of borrowers, etc. The raid was conducted following several anonymous complaints, said officials. Deputy district registrar Amar Shinde said, “We have received some complaints from those who were charged exorbitantly. Subsequently, we sent a team of officials to raid the property. Documents have been seized from the suspect’s custody. We appeal to people being harassed by private money lenders to come forward and register complaints with us.” The team comprising eight staffers of the co-operative department along with seven policemen led by assistant registrar Pradip Malgave carried out the raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-money-lenders-house-raided/articleshow/76451887.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab raises ex-gratia for soldiers killed in action to Rs 50L||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Thursday decided to increase the ex-gratia amount for the soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, along with a job to the next of kin. In a tweet, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said, “This is the least we can do for our brave servicemen who make the supreme sacrifice for our motherland.” In another tweet, he said, “I pay my respects and bid adieu to Punjab's gallant sons, Nb Sub Mandip Singh & Nb Sub Satnam Singh whose last rites have been organised today. It's a terrible loss and we will forever remember your supreme sacrifice. Jai Hind!” On Wednesday, while extending condolences to the families of four Punjab martyrs of the Galwan Valley clash, Amarinder Singh had announced ex-gratia compensation, along with a government job to a next of kin of the deceased. “Whenever a soldier from Punjab is martyred, we try to help the family financially. The amount of Rs 10-12 lakh was filed in 1999. We have now decided to increase it to Rs 50 lakh. Apart from this, the other schemes like giving job to the next of kin will continue,” said Amarinder in a video message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-raises-ex-gratia-for-soldiers-killed-in-action-to-rs-50l/articleshow/76453857.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||59 personnel go into quarantine as Kerala cop tests +ve||KOCHI: Kalamassery police station was briefly shut on Thursday and 59 personnel were sent on quarantine after a civil police officer was tested positive for Covid-19. The entire strength of the station, except for one personnel who had gone on leave, has been sent on quarantine. The station was reopened after disinfecting procedures. Metro inspector A Ananthalal has been given station charge and more than 50 personnel were roped in from Thrikkakara and Ernakulam sub divisions stations. Addressing the issue at a press meet, minister V S Sunilkumar said the station has been disinfected and new officers have taken charge. “Instructions have been given to find the contacts of the officer,” he said. He added that safety shields would be provided to policemen who have duty at Covid care centres and FLTCs. “Policemen who have even mild symptoms should get medical assistance through telemedicine,” he said. Sources said the CPO was shifted to the Kalamassery government medical college around 1am. He was deployed for monitoring quarantined people to ensure that they complied with quarantine protocol. Meanwhile, officers at the Kalamassery station were either sent into home quarantine or paid institutional quarantine facility at Edakochi. Police cooperative credit society and police associations have volunteered to bear all expenses. Sources said a driver with the Thrissur police academy also was asked to go on quarantine as his wife worked at Kalamassery station. Station in-charge Ananthalal said the station would work as usual. “Our men are in the process of studying the locations where people are in quarantine to continue the surveillance,” he said, adding that people should visit the station only under unavoidable circumstances. The official who was tested positive, sources said, used to have lunch at the armed reserve camp mess at Kalamassery. He also used to frequent a neighbouring tea stall. So, it is likely that others who frequented these places would be monitored in the coming days, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/59-personnel-go-into-quarantine-as-cop-tests-ve/articleshow/76451898.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Rani Jhansi is symbol of courage & valour, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday paid homage to the legendary Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi who took part in India’s First War of Independence and fought against the British in1857. Nath took to Twitter on ‘Balidaan Diwas’, observed on June 18 every year in memory of Laxmibai, who died in battlefield on this day at Gwalior in 1858. “Humble tribute on the sacrificial day of Rani Laxmibaiji, a symbol of indomitable courage and valour, who sacrificed everything to protect the motherland,” Nath tweeted. “We get to learn from the stories of heroes that no temptation could dissuade them from performing their duties,” the former chief minister said. “They were always confident, dutiful, self-respecting and devout to achieve their sacred purpose. Rani Laxmibai’s sacrifice, dedication, struggle and patriotic spirit will always inspire us to protect our motherland,” Nath added. At the Congress legislative party meeting held at Nath’s residence on Thursday, party MLAs and leaders also paid homage to the Queen of Jhansi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rani-jhansi-is-symbol-of-courage-valour-nath/articleshow/76451894.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Demand for airstrip in Spiti grows amid increasing India-China tension||MANALI: Amid growing tension between India and China, demand to build an airstrip at Rangrik in Spiti valley of Himachal is also growing as Himachal and China shares over 250km border, but has no airstrip in the region. After many surveys in last two decades, state government’s minister said the matter of the airstrip will be taken up afresh. Spiti and Kinnaur districts of Himachal, which are on high alert these days, share border with China. The position of Indian Army in this area is better than China due to better road connectivity. However, the region has no airport. The nearest airports are Shimla, Kullu and Chandigarh. Many efforts were made and surveys were carried out in the past many years, even Indian Army recommended the airstrip, but the project could not become a reality. Now, after the fresh clashes between armies of both the countries, local leaders and residents think the airstrip is not just need of Spiti but has become a national need. Tanpa Lote, a resident of Kee village of Spiti said, “There was proposal to build military-cum-civil airstrip either at Rangrik or near Kibber. Our politicians also promised to fulfil our dreams. Chinese helicopters often enter our territory in Spiti. The airport will strengthen our military and local infrastructure. The location is strategically very close to China border but undisputed and under complete jurisdiction of Himachal government. We want to see planes landing here before we die.” Two-time MP Ram Swaroop Sharma had also assured residents of airstrip in Spiti. Sharma raised the issue in Lok Sabha as well but no concrete step has been taken so far. Now tribal development and agriculture minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda said the proposal will be taken up with the Centre afresh. “Given the growing tension between two nations, the airstrip at Spiti is the need of the hour. Himachal government will ensure that the matter is taken up with higher authorities. A former chief minister had laid foundation stone of this airport without provision of funds and without permission from the centre. We shall follow the proper channel,” Markanda said. The first survey to check feasibility of the airstrip in Spiti was carried out two decades ago. In al the surveys, the high altitude and some other technical issues are being blamed as a roadblock in the project. Altitude of Rangrik is about 12,000ft but China has built many airports, including Daocheng Yading, Qamdo Bamda, Kangding and Ngari Gunsa, at even higher elevation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/demand-for-airstrip-in-spiti-grows-amid-increasing-india-china-tension/articleshow/76453863.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: More self-financed schools announce fee cuts||AHMEDABAD: After a school in the Walled City area announced exemption in tuition fees, managements of more such self-financed schools seem to be joining the bandwagon. The decision comes on the heels of school management associations in Ahmedabad promising a respite in school fees to the parents of students who have been financially hit in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. Saraswati Vidya Mandal (SVM), a 75-year-old organization, which runs seven schools across three campuses in Asarwa and Saraspur, has also announced a relief for the parents of students earlier this month. “The SVM has decided to waive a month’s fees for the students enrolled at Saraswati Kumarshala -1, Saraswati Kumarshala-2 and Shantikumar Kothari Vidyalay Asarawa (Balbharti),” said Jyotindra Dave, secretary, SVM. “This waiver is expected to benefit the parents of 2,350 students and will cost more than Rs 13 lakh to the trust,” Dave added. The SVM has also decided to postpone the proposed increase in the fees for the current year for the students studying at these three schools. The schools have paid full salary to its 125 teachers and other employees and have also granted them 10% additional dearness relief. J P High School, located in Dariapur in the Walled City, was among the first to announce a fee cut earlier this month. The school, established in 1973, had announced the fee relief for the students of class I to class VIII for a seven-month period from April 20 to October 20. The latest to join this list is Smt K N Patel International School (KNPIS), located in Gota area. Bipin Patel, a trustee of the school, said the school had decided to waive 25% fees for all CBSE and GSEB students. “Also, the students will not be charged transportation fees till the school functioning is regularized,” he said. Patel, who has distributed food packets during the Covid-19 crisis and has also decided to support 100 families, said that students would be taught online till the schools re-opened. “The students will also be offered online extra-curricular activities like yoga, karate and dancing without any extra cost,” he said. The Gujarat Self-Finance School Management Association, which has representatives from 5,500 schools, recently wrote to all its members to gather details from parents seeking relief. These schools are to take written applications from the parents who have been financially hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. The parents will have to provide financial details that support their claim for relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-self-financed-schools-announce-fee-cuts/articleshow/76452952.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Air India to relaunch Coimbatore-Delhi flight||COIMBATORE: Air India will relaunch its Coimbatore-New Delhi service from June 22. Flight number 547/548 will be operated four days a week. The Airbus flight, which can accommodate 162 passengers, will leave New Delhi at 7.40am and land in the city at 11am. It will take off from Coimbatore at 12pm and land in New Delhi at 3pm. It will have a business class section. The flight will give Coimbatorians another option to fly to and from New Delhi, with only IndiGo operating a daily flight on the route. It is expected to bring down ticket prices and make it easier for people looking for a seat on repatriation flights abroad. Currently to and fro tickets on the route cost Rs 17,000, with one way going up to Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/air-india-to-relaunch-delhi-flight/articleshow/76453870.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Hindu Munnani cadres burn Chinese flags||Coimbatore: Hindu Munnani cadres on Thursday burnt Chinese flags and destroyed Chinese smart phones during protests held in Tirupur and Coimbatore to condemn the neighbouring country for killing 20 Indian soldiers during the recent face-off in Ladakh. Hundreds of protesters who gathered near the Tirupur city municipal corporation office paid homage to fallen soldier K Palani. While some of them raised slogans against China and burnt Chinese flags, others used sandals to beat photos of Chinese President Xi Jinping. Some protesters smashed Chinese-made phones on the road. Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam, who led the protest, blamed DMK and Congress for not condemning China. “Those who are patriotic should condemn China. The Union government should impose a ban on Chinese goods and public should boycott them,” he told reporters. As many as 250 Hindu Munnani cadres gathered at Sivananda Colony in Coimbatore city to condemn China. They burned Chinese flags, destroyed Chinese phones and raised slogans against China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-munnani-cadres-burn-chinese-flags/articleshow/76453865.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hubballi||2 Covid warriors cured, discharged||Davanagere: Gangadhar, a health assistant and Durugesh, a group D employee of the Chitradurga district health department, who were working in the Covid-19 special ward at Challakere town got infected by the novel coronavirus a week ago, and were admitted to the Covid-19 hospital in Chitradurga town. The two were cured and discharged from the Chitradurga hospital on Thursday with a warm send off. DHO Palaksha lauded the selfless work rendered by the two officials. Thus, all the 43 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Chitradurga Covid hospital after being cured, the DHO added. Thus, Chitradurga has become a Covid-19-free district, the DHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-covid-warriors-cured-discharged/articleshow/76451908.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Torn T-shirts received in place of masks||AHMEDABAD: A factory owner in Naroda GIDC, David Panchal, lodged an FIR with Naroda police on Wednesday alleging that in a deal for face masks, a supplier from Maharashtra had sent a consignment to Panchal’s contact in Chandigarh, but the bags had been filled with pieces of torn T-shirts. Panchal said he had deposited Rs 3,00,000 to the bank account of the supplier, Amit Madhakar, and since the time the consignment had been received by his friend Navdeep Singh in Chandigarh, Madhakar has not been responding to Panchal’s phone calls. Police said Navdeep Singh deals in face masks and had asked Panchal to help him find a supplier. “Panchal found on the internet the phone number of one Amit Fashion Works, Maharashtra, which manufactured face masks and contacted the owner Amit Madhakar. He made a deal for 5,000 masks at Rs 60 each,” said a police official. Panchal had made full payment in advance. “The consignment reached Chandigarh on May 12,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/torn-t-shirts-received-in-place-of-masks/articleshow/76452966.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Discounts for power bills generated in lockdown||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Bowing down to the protests by public and political parties, KSEB on Thursday rolled out deep discounts in bills to domestic power consumers who had complained of receiving exorbitantly high bills during lockdown period. Announcing the decision, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that consumers eligible for free electricity up to 40 units a month would not be charged for the power they have used over and above the ceiling. Consumers with less than 500W of connected load are eligible for the free power. Likewise, the bills of consumers eligible for power at a highly-subsidized rate of Rs 1.5/unit for up to 40 units/month would be revised in such a way that cost for the entire power they consumed during the lockdown would be calculated at Rs 1.5 per unit. Vijayan said a subsidy of 50% of the additional spike in bill amounts would be given to those who had been using an average 50 units of power per month. Subsidy to those who consume up to 100 units on an average would be 30%. Waiver for consumers who had been using up to 150 units of power/month in the pre-lockdown period would be 25%. All other consumers whose monthly average power consumption had been above 150 units would be eligible for 20% on their bills. KSEB sources said all the subsidies would be on the additional spike reflected in the bills during the lockdown period. As per the Electricity Act, state government is supposed to bear the subsidy expenses. Normally, the board deducts this amount from the electricity duty to be paid to the government. “The board had earlier announced that consumers may pay the bills in three instalments. Now, following the instructions of the government, it has decided to give consumers options to clear power bills in up to five instalments,” the chief minister said. According to him, the additional measures taken by the board to offset the burden of consumers would cost the board Rs 200 crore. Welcoming the decision, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the government was forced to take such a decision following the mass ‘lights off protest’ organized on Wednesday. “This is a victory of the people. We will fight against such anti-people initiatives in future too”, Chennithala tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kseb-rolls-out-discounts-for-bills-generated-during-lockdown/articleshow/76451933.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur’s Covid-19 rate steady at 52||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district did not register even a single Covid-19 case on Thursday. So far, 668 people have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery while just 52 people are undergoing treatment. The district has reported 728 coronavirus cases so far. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that ever since the influx of travelers from the red zone areas has reduced, the number of tests carried out daily has gone down and so has the number of positive cases. So far 30,000 people had entered Kolhapur district from foreign countries and red zone areas in the country. They were placed in quarantine centres and were later discharged. Sangli registers two fresh Covid-19 cases Sangli district on Thursday registered two Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 272. Of these confirmed cases, 90 are from Shirala tehsil and 12 from Sangli municipal corporation limits. At present, Sangli has 110 active patients. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that one of the two recent patients is critical and has been admitted to the ICU. Meanwhile, Satara district reported one coronavirus case of Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed patients to 774. So far, 593 people have been discharged from various hospitals. The district has also witnessed 38 casualties so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapurs-covid-rate-steady-at-52/articleshow/76451907.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Major landslip at Gap Road in Idukki||By: Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: A major landslide occurred at Gap Road on the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway near Kallan Guha at Munnar around 7.30pm on Wednesday. Nearly 200 meters of road was swept away, besides damaging over 13 acres of cardamom plantation. Two buildings on the slope were totally destroyed and another building partially. Large rocks fell down the hill, said officials. Residents of Komalikkudy, Societykada, Kakkakada and Changanacherrykada areas informed of a loud sound just ten minutes before the landslide. On hearing the sound they ran away from their houses. Similar sounds were heard earlier due to which the district administration had suspended traffic on the Gap Road from June 5. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran, tahsildar Niju Kurian inspected the area. The district administration will submit a report to the government about the landslide. Three families that lived in the area where the landslide occurred will be rehabilitated, said officials. “An expert team from National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kozhikode, will inspect the landslip area on Gap Road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway on June 30. Traffic is already suspended in the stretch. Road widening works will resume only after the study report,” said Devikulam sub-collector. “Earlier a report by former Devikulam sub-collector Renu Raj submitted to revenue principal secretary pointed out that unscientific road widening had caused serial landslides. Based on the report, NIT team conducted a study and later on resumed road widening works,” said Premkrishnan. University of Kerala’s department of geology assistant professor Dr Sajin Kumar K S said, “Prima facie, this landslide looks like having been influenced by the unscientific method of road widening, without considering the local geological survey. I am sure the rock on this side is tipping towards the road which gives an indication that proper support system should be provided before widening the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/major-landslip-at-gap-road-in-idukki/articleshow/76451940.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials, industries asked to step up safety measures||COIMBATORE: With the district witnessing a new wave of Covid-19 positive cases, collector K Rajamani on Thursday met officials of various departments to discuss scrutiny measures, and representatives of industrial associations, hoteliers’ association and bakery associations, to reiterate the safety measures to be followed by them. In the meeting with officials of all departments, he asked them to carry out Covid-19 precautionary measures as the primary work. A communication from the district collectorate quoted him as saying, “In the district, there were no Covid-19 cases till May-end. From June first week, as people have been entering the district from other districts by road, rail and air, infections are coming in.” Flyers would be tested for the virus in the airport, and they would be isolated for 14 days. Similarly, those who are coming by road would be tested at check posts. If people, who are in quarantine, come out, a criminal litigation would be filed against them, he said. “Residents should alert the toll-free number 1077 about people who come in from other districts or states without proper permission. Scrutiny in the district would be made stricter,” Rajamani said. He said people must wear masks when they come out. So far, Rs 9.55 lakh has been collected as fine from people who were seen without masks. The collector also asked the representatives of industry and hoteliers’ associations to thermal scan workers when they report to work. “If any worker is found to have fever or cold, they have to be isolated, and tested after alerting the health department.” They were also asked to provide the workers with hand wash and sanitisers. “In hotels, there should be separate entry and exit points.” Industry and hotel association representatives said the collector had asked them to take all safety precautions. “We were asked to test workers with symptoms at the government hospital or at any authorized private testing centres, the cost of which would be covered under insurance,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-industries-asked-to-step-up-safety-measures/articleshow/76453878.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to defer import duty on raw material||LUCKNOW: In what the state government is touting as a ‘game-changer’ for UP's industrial development, it is considering adopting a new policy under which the duty on import of raw material will be deferred. It will either be waived if the finished good is exported or paid when the product is sold within India. The move will allow industrialists to work with additional working capital during the manufacturing stage. The policy has been cleared by the Central Bureau of Indirect Taxes and if UP were to adopt it any time soon, it could become the first state in the country to do so. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said that the policy would be extremely useful in the current scenario to invite investments in the state. “By allowing companies to have additional working capital during the production stage, this policy will be extremely attractive for anyone who wishes to invest in UP, especially now when due to the Covid-19 lockdown, companies are facing a huge financial crunch. No other state in the country has adopted this policy so far. We will be making a presentation on this before the chief minister shortly,” Singh said. The CBIC policy, introduced this year, says that raw material and capital goods could be imported without the payment of duties for manufacturing and other operations in a bonded manufacturing facility. “If the imported items are used for export subsequently, the duty is waived off entirely. However, if the finished product is sold in India, then the duty will have to be paid. What this does even if the sales are domestic, is that it allows the manufacturer to hold on to the duty that would have had to be paid initially. It can now be recovered at the time of sale and paid to the government immediately,” said an industry expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-defer-import-duty-on-raw-material/articleshow/76453879.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Pregnant girl ‘sold’ for Rs 50,000 by parents||VADODARA: A 17-year-old girl in Shinor taluka of Vadodara has made allegations of child trafficking against her parents and paramour. Police have detained the girl’s parents and the paramour Vikas Vasava and have kept them in a quarantine facility. The girl, who is currently pregnant, lodged an offence after Vasava asked her to leave the house on June 1. The duo was in living-in relation after the parents gave her custody to him for Rs 50,000 when they learnt that she was pregnant. Police said that the girl’s parents had refused to accept her so that they signed a agreement with Vasava. The girl too was aware about it, but as they were living happily together, she did not have any complaint against it. However, a few months back, one of the girl’s relatives started instigating her father to take more money from Vasava. “The relative told her father that Rs 50,000 is very less and he should have taken Rs 5 lakh as the girl is still a minor. So the father started asking for more money,” said a police official. As Vasava was working as a casual labourer he refused to pay more money. But when the girl’s father kept pressurizing him, he asked the girl to go back to her parents’ home. Watch Shocking! Pregnant girl ‘sold’ for Rs 50,000 by parents in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pregnant-girl-sold-for-rs-50k-by-parents/articleshow/76452053.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Insure crops, farmers told||COIMBATORE: The agriculture department and the district administration have called upon farmers, who are busy with kharif cultivation, to insure their crops. Both agricultural and horticultural crops can be insured under the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme, said a communication from office of the joint director of agriculture. Crops such as paddy, sorghum, maize, cotton, pigeon pea, urad dal, green gram, horse gram, ground nut, seasame and horticulture crops such as banana, turmeric, tapioca, brinjal, tomato and onion can be insured. For an acre, farmers can insure paddy at Rs 621, sorghum at Rs 209, maize at Rs 588, cotton at Rs 459, groundnut at Rs 578, sesame at Rs 262, all pulse varieties at Rs 331, banana at Rs 4,418, turmeric at Rs 3,973, tapioca at Rs 583, brinjal at Rs 1,905, tomato at Rs 1,417 and onion at Rs 2,112. Farmers can get insured at e-seva centres, primary agricultural credit societies or nationalised banks by paying the premium and by showing the relevant documents. They can approach agricultural extension centres for guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/insure-crops-farmers-told/articleshow/76453875.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Businesswoman held with 4kg ganja, fake government IDs||COIMBATORE: A 39-year-old businesswoman was arrested after the Vadavalli police found in her car 4kg ganja and fake government identity cards during a vehicle check on Thondamuthur-Vadavalli Road on Wednesday evening. The woman, identified as Jayamani, of Nambiyampalayam near Avinashi in Tirupur district, said she was framed by some influential people, who wanted to take revenge on her. A former AIADMK member, Jayamani had in 2014 caused forest minister M S M Anandan to step down from his post after she petitioned then chief minister J Jayalalithaa that he had cheated her of Rs 1 crore by promising her a higher position in the party. She was subsequently removed from the party membership. In 2018, she had lodged a police compliant against Salem-based businessman Selvakumar for duping her of Rs 60 lakh. According to a police source, Jayamani was caught by Vadavalli police sub-inspector Ramachandran and team at Gurusamy Nagar when they found in her car 4kg ganja, three knives, 10 syringes and three fake government identity cards (IDs) during the vehicle check. The IDs showed she was working with the criminal investigation department, income tax department and as a crime investigation detective at Raipur. During inquiry, Jayamani told police that she was planning to buy land in Coimbatore and that realtor Prasanth from Kotagiri had made arrangements to see a property on Wednesday. “The woman and her driver N Manoj, of Avinashi, picked up Prasanth at Nava India. He got down at Vadavalli, where a person was waiting for him on a motorcycle, and asked her to follow them. He, however, left his bag in the car,” the source said based on Jayamani’s testimony. The contraband and other items were found in the bag. Police, however, booked her under sections 8 (c) read with 20 (b) (ii) (B) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and produced before a judicial magistrate court, which remanded her in judicial custody on Thursday. Jayamani was later lodged in the special prison for women which is located inside the Coimbatore Central Prison. Jayamani said she was framed by police as political leaders, who sent Prasanth to keep ganja and fake government identity cards in her car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bizwoman-held-with-4kg-ganja-fake-govt-ids/articleshow/76453873.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon likely to enter Rajasthan by June 25||JAIPUR: The conditions are favorable for the onset of southwest monsoon in the state within a week. According to Jaipur Met office, some parts in the southern Rajasthan close to Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are likely to get monsoon showers by June 25. If monsoon progresses well further, it is likely to cover entire Rajasthan by July 2. According to Jaipur Met office, monsoon would have arrived before June 25 but anti-upper air cyclonic circulation has delayed a bit. “Conditions are favorable for the progress of monsoon to some other parts. It is likely to enter the state especially through districts like Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and Dungarpur by June 25. Its further progress is also dependent on visible factors like humidity levels,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. However, weathermen said there could be minor changes in monsoon dates, but all depends on factors like overall humidity and cyclonic circulation. “Presently, the monsoon is stuck in Madhya Pradesh and is not progressing,” said an officer. According to aipur Met office, an average rainfall of 760 mm was received in Rajasthan in 2019. “Except for the districts including Sriganganagar, Sikar and Nagaur, the rest of the state had received normal to abnormal rainfall last year. Rainfall in Tonk, Ajmer, Jaipur and Rajsamand was adequate enough to elevate the water level of Bisalpur dam,” said an officer. The Met office further stated that this year, rainfall would be more than what it was received in 2019. “The ongoing system has suggested that many places in the state would get abnormal rainfall. However, a few districts are likely to get scanty rainfall,” said an officer. Majority of the dams in the state including Bisalpur dam, Rana Pratap Sagar, Mahi Dam and others too depend on good monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-likely-to-enter-raj-by-june-25/articleshow/76453896.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Monsoon likely to enter Rajasthan by June 25||JAIPUR: The conditions are favorable for the onset of southwest monsoon in the state within a week. According to Jaipur Met office, some parts in the southern Rajasthan close to Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are likely to get monsoon showers by June 25. If monsoon progresses well further, it is likely to cover entire Rajasthan by July 2. According to Jaipur Met office, monsoon would have arrived before June 25 but anti-upper air cyclonic circulation has delayed a bit. “Conditions are favorable for the progress of monsoon to some other parts. It is likely to enter the state especially through districts like Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and Dungarpur by June 25. Its further progress is also dependent on visible factors like humidity levels,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. However, weathermen said there could be minor changes in monsoon dates, but all depends on factors like overall humidity and cyclonic circulation. “Presently, the monsoon is stuck in Madhya Pradesh and is not progressing,” said an officer. According to aipur Met office, an average rainfall of 760 mm was received in Rajasthan in 2019. “Except for the districts including Sriganganagar, Sikar and Nagaur, the rest of the state had received normal to abnormal rainfall last year. Rainfall in Tonk, Ajmer, Jaipur and Rajsamand was adequate enough to elevate the water level of Bisalpur dam,” said an officer. The Met office further stated that this year, rainfall would be more than what it was received in 2019. “The ongoing system has suggested that many places in the state would get abnormal rainfall. However, a few districts are likely to get scanty rainfall,” said an officer. Majority of the dams in the state including Bisalpur dam, Rana Pratap Sagar, Mahi Dam and others too depend on good monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/monsoon-likely-to-enter-raj-by-june-25/articleshow/76456102.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Faculty development programmes move online||COIMBATORE: After they were forced to cancel the annual faculty development programmes (FDPs) held during April and May due to the Covid-19 lockdown, engineering colleges, arts and science colleges, and private schools in the district have now launched week-long online FDPs. Institutions have formed teams of tech-savvy teachers who can efficiently plan and execute Zoom meetings and upload them on YouTube for future access. Last week, Sakthi Institute of Information and Management Studies in Pollachi conducted a seven-day FDP titled ‘Post Covid-19 Challenges and Opportunities – A Global Perspective’ on Zoom and streamed it live on YouTube. “It was the first time we held an online FDP. To organize this, we formed a team of three faculty members well-versed in tech stuff,” said the institute’s director P Subramanian. “Each session uploaded on YouTube got around 3,000-4,000 views.” This is one of the advantages of online sessions, said academics. Unlike face-to-face sessions, where the number of participants is restricted, they can reach interested people across the globe. K P Dhanabalakrishnan, head of the Aeronautical Engineering department of Hindusthan Institute of Technology at Othakkalmandapam, said he makes it a point to ask faculty members who organise online sessions to upload them on YouTube. “Participants might face issues with links or network. So, if there is a recording, they can access it later as well,” he said. The institute plans to conduct a webinar on ‘Career Scope in Aeronautics’ this week and an FDP next week, Dhanabalakrishnan said. While the number of participants is limited for interactive sessions, organisers provide a livestream link for any number of people to view without actively participating. “In personal mails, we can invite 10 people and in our college domain ID, 250 people. So, we post the livestream link, using which any number of people can watch the sessions,” said G Abel Thangaraja, assistant professor of Computer Science, Shri Nehru Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science at Malumachampatti. Lockdown and digital workspaces have also brought out many innovative topics for FDP sessions and webinars. “I have been seeing topics such as ‘Campus-corporate Connect’ in aerospace sector, which is new as far as I have seen, and ‘Opportunity for Students in ISRO’,” said Dhanabalakrishnan. Apart from technical topics, online FDPs also focus on applying for funding and patents, stress management and soft skills. While everyone agrees that online sessions can never be a complete replacement for chalk-and-talk and live interaction, higher education institutions are making the most of their technological wherewithal, for the benefit of students and teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/faculty-development-programmes-move-online/articleshow/76453880.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Udaipur||Monsoon likely to enter Rajasthan by June 25||JAIPUR: The conditions are favorable for the onset of southwest monsoon in the state within a week. According to Jaipur Met office, some parts in the southern Rajasthan close to Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are likely to get monsoon showers by June 25. If monsoon progresses well further, it is likely to cover entire Rajasthan by July 2. According to Jaipur Met office, monsoon would have arrived before June 25 but anti-upper air cyclonic circulation has delayed a bit. “Conditions are favorable for the progress of monsoon to some other parts. It is likely to enter the state especially through districts like Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and Dungarpur by June 25. Its further progress is also dependent on visible factors like humidity levels,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. However, weathermen said there could be minor changes in monsoon dates, but all depends on factors like overall humidity and cyclonic circulation. “Presently, the monsoon is stuck in Madhya Pradesh and is not progressing,” said an officer. According to aipur Met office, an average rainfall of 760 mm was received in Rajasthan in 2019. “Except for the districts including Sriganganagar, Sikar and Nagaur, the rest of the state had received normal to abnormal rainfall last year. Rainfall in Tonk, Ajmer, Jaipur and Rajsamand was adequate enough to elevate the water level of Bisalpur dam,” said an officer. The Met office further stated that this year, rainfall would be more than what it was received in 2019. “The ongoing system has suggested that many places in the state would get abnormal rainfall. However, a few districts are likely to get scanty rainfall,” said an officer. Majority of the dams in the state including Bisalpur dam, Rana Pratap Sagar, Mahi Dam and others too depend on good monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/monsoon-likely-to-enter-raj-by-june-25/articleshow/76456103.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ajmer||Monsoon likely to enter Rajasthan by June 25||JAIPUR: The conditions are favorable for the onset of southwest monsoon in the state within a week. According to Jaipur Met office, some parts in the southern Rajasthan close to Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are likely to get monsoon showers by June 25. If monsoon progresses well further, it is likely to cover entire Rajasthan by July 2. According to Jaipur Met office, monsoon would have arrived before June 25 but anti-upper air cyclonic circulation has delayed a bit. “Conditions are favorable for the progress of monsoon to some other parts. It is likely to enter the state especially through districts like Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and Dungarpur by June 25. Its further progress is also dependent on visible factors like humidity levels,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. However, weathermen said there could be minor changes in monsoon dates, but all depends on factors like overall humidity and cyclonic circulation. “Presently, the monsoon is stuck in Madhya Pradesh and is not progressing,” said an officer. According to aipur Met office, an average rainfall of 760 mm was received in Rajasthan in 2019. “Except for the districts including Sriganganagar, Sikar and Nagaur, the rest of the state had received normal to abnormal rainfall last year. Rainfall in Tonk, Ajmer, Jaipur and Rajsamand was adequate enough to elevate the water level of Bisalpur dam,” said an officer. The Met office further stated that this year, rainfall would be more than what it was received in 2019. “The ongoing system has suggested that many places in the state would get abnormal rainfall. However, a few districts are likely to get scanty rainfall,” said an officer. Majority of the dams in the state including Bisalpur dam, Rana Pratap Sagar, Mahi Dam and others too depend on good monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/monsoon-likely-to-enter-raj-by-june-25/articleshow/76456104.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid positive woman kills self||AHMEDABAD: Meenu Nair, 48, of Meghaninagar committed suicide at her house on Thursday. She used to work as a clerk-cum-stenographer at the sessions court in Lal Darwaja. She was suffering from a skin disease for the last six months, said police. She had fever for the last 15 days and underwent a Covid-19 test on June 17, which came positive. “She was informed of the test results on Wednesday morning and on Thursday, when her son had gone out at about 3pm, she committed suicide by hanging herself to death,” said inspector D J Chudasama of Meghaninagar police station. He said Nair’s daughter Sneha, 24, stays in Australia and her son Sumeet, 20, stayed with her. “We have registered a case of accidental death and are probing the case,” Chudasama said. Police said the deceased’s son stated that her mother had been divorced soon after the births of her children, and she had raised them on her own. She died by hanging herself with a dupatta from a ceiling fan, her son said. Chudasama said that after receiving a message from police control room, cops reached the spot and sent the body for postmortem. “Her last rites will be performed according to Covid-19 protocol. The family of the deceased is in shock and we will complete statements and other formalities later,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-positive-woman-kills-self/articleshow/76452949.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hubballi||Anti-nat’l post: Case filed||A person has been booked by Ron police in Gadag district for allegedly posting anti-national content on his Facebook page on Thursday. Vinod Pujari, PSI, Ron police station told TOI that the youth identified as Basavaraj Gomadi, 27, of Ron, has posted some anti-national content on the Facebook wall of Basavaraj Yash. In his posting, he has praised Chinese soldiers. Taking suo motu cognizance, we have booked a case against Gomadi. He is a native of Sangalad village, in Munavalli of Belagavi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/anti-natl-post-case-filed/articleshow/76451935.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Coronavirus spreads from RG Pudur cluster, officials on high alert||COIMBATORE: Six more new cases were reported from RG Pudur Covid-19 cluster on Thursday. The cluster also showed signs of spreading, with two people from Mylampatti, just 3km away from RG Pudur, testing positive for the virus. Officials have stepped up the efforts to trace contacts of the secondary positive cases in the area. In total, the district reported 18 new novel coronavirus cases on Thursday. While five of them were either contacts of positive cases or have a travel history, nine were local cases with no identified source of infection. Of the six cases reported from the new cluster, two - a 53-year-old woman and a 20-year-old man working in foundries – were residents of RG Pudur and the remaining four comprise a 40-year-old textile shop owner, his 35-year-old wife and two sales boys at his shop. A health department official said, “The textile shop is located within 1km radius of the mill quarters. Its owner, a 40-year-old man, lives in Mylampatti, near Sulur, along with his 35-year-old wife. The sales boys were living in Chinniampalayam. They voluntarily went to Vilankurichi primary health centre and gave samples.” Health officials have now asked the city corporation to cordon off Chinniampalayam as much as possible. “Since people within a 1km radius have tested positive for the virus, including two from another foundry, we have asked local bodies to restrict public movement in those areas. We will also send teams to Mylampatti on Friday to trace the contacts of the shop owner and his wife,” the official said. Three of the new cases - a 39-year-old woman from Sidhanapuram, 82-year-old woman from Podanur and a 33-year-old man from Telugupalayam – were tested for the virus when they went to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. They have been shifted to the ESI Hospital. Another three – a 70-year-old man from Samathur, 67-year-old man from Anamalai and an 82-year-old man from Subbe Goundanputhur – were tested positive for Covid-19 during a screening for the vulnerable population. They also have been admitted to the ESI Hospital. “We are fortunate to identify old people with the virus at the initial stages of infection. Contact tracing of all the above patients will be done,” the official said. A 54-year-old man from Ramanathapuram, who recently returned from Ooty; a three-year-old girl, who returned from Chennai via flight and whose father turned positive; and three contacts of positive patients in Udayampalayam and Saravanampatti are also among the new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virus-spreads-from-rg-pudur-cluster-officials-on-high-alert/articleshow/76453883.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||This doctor is a strict follower of protocol both at hospital, home||COIMBATORE: It has been three months since the Covid-19 nodal doctor of ESI Hospital Dr K Ganesamoorthy had a sit-down meal with his family or gave his two teenage children a hug. He now asks them how their day was and catches up through a long video call after he returns home. Initially, he had banned his wife, a medical officer with a primary health centre, also from having meals and being close to the children. The doctors say the psychological impact of quarantine is harder than stress of treating Covid-19 patients. In mid-March, Dr Ganesamoorthy was informed that he would be the nodal officer for Covid-19 treatment. “Initially, my children were worried. They asked me how safe I would be. Then I showed them a PPE kit, assured them that I would wear one when touching or interacting with patients,” he said. “Even during my video calls with me, they would first check on me and my health and ask if I was careful,” he added. When the first few patients began trickling into the hospital in March third week, the physician began putting in place all the protocols. “I moved myself into one of the bedrooms upstairs. I was initially quarantined in a hotel, but later when I moved back home, I ensured my children don’t come upstairs and I don’t touch anything downstairs,” he said. “In fact, there were weeks together when my kids and I wouldn’t see each other,” he added, admitting that it often felt lonely, for both him and the children. The stress of probably infecting people close to him also played on the doctor’s mind. “It initially felt bad to leave a box of food outside my aged mother’s house daily and not be able to see her. I would also get a fright, when any of my family members coughed or sneezed,” he added. However, three months later, the doctor says his family has gotten used to it. “Now they’re proud that we have not had a single death so far. They take pride in my role in patients’ recoveries. They now know we follow strict protocols when treating patients, which makes them feel more secure,” said the doctor. “We all have accepted that meals together may not be possible for many more months together, but we now make jokes about it,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-doctor-is-a-strict-follower-of-protocol-both-at-hospital-home/articleshow/76453882.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Covid not a stigma, get yourself tested’||Lucknow: Even as the state is scaling up random tests for “vulnerable” people, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that Coronavirus is not a stigma and people should not hesitate in getting themselves tested. On Thursday, he directed all district magistrates to keep a close watch on old age homes and shelters for women and children to ensure that there is no Covid-19 spread in such places. The CM also held a video conferencing on Thursday night with nodal officers appointed to 11 sensitive districts. The CM has asked them to stay on in their respective districts till Sunday and has said that all concerns raised by them would be taken up by the government. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that directions have been issued to DMs to carry out surveillance of vulnerable areas, especially where lots of people are living in close proximity, and identify if there are any cases of Covid-19. “The CM has also given strict instructions to reinforce rules like social distancing, wearing masks, sanitization. Under unlock-1, several activities have started but it has been observed that there is still a lot of indiscipline. Now a clear message has to be given to people that till the time a cure is found, prevention is the best policy,” he said. As a result, the government is going to intensify monitoring of rules under the Epidemic Act and ensure that the night curfew, from 9pm to 5am, is strictly followed. Public address systems and hoardings will be installed in public places and crossings to reiterate the rules. Shopkeepers are being directed to serve only those who are wearing masks and will be held responsible if someone visits their shop or premises without a mask. Directions have also been given to set up Covid helpdesks outside all hospitals to help patients get seamless treatment. A special secretary level officer will be nominated to get direct feedback from both non-Covid and Covid hospitals in all districts. Chief medical officers have been told to inspect and monitor arrangements in these hospitals. In L1 hospitals, Ayush doctors can be deployed if need arises. Ambulance services should have a better response time, the CM added, saying that action would be taken against the operator in case of unnecessary delays. Oxygen supply in ambulances is a must, the CM said, and added that hospitals should ensure prior liaisoning in case transferring patients from one hospital to another to save time. Community surveillance through 70,000 nigrani committees in both rural and urban areas is to be strengthened to get continuous information about prevention and spread of the virus. Civil defence volunteers, NCC members and anganwadi and ASHA workers should be imparted training. Directions have also been given to ensure that all arrangements are in place for the sixth phase of food grain distribution, scheduled to start from June 20. Awasthi said that in each of the past five phases, 15-16 crore people received food grain. “The CM has said that there should be no irregularity with regards to the distribution mechanism or weight and measure during the drive and all persons in need should get food grains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-not-a-stigma-get-yourself-tested/articleshow/76453893.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Salem||Salem: 5 arrested for extorting Rs 6.5 lakh from businessman at gunpoint||SALEM: The Salem city police arrested five people for extorting Rs 6.5 lakh from a jewellery shop owner at gunpoint on Wednesday night. Dhanasekar of Rajaganapathy Nagar in Ammapet had contacted the victim, S Karthik, 37, of Anna Nagar in Ammapet, saying that he wanted to sell 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery for just 6.5 lakh, city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar said. “Dhanasekar told Karthik to get the gold from his house. When Karthik reached there, a five-member gang surrounded him. They brandished a gun, snatched the money from him and escaped from the house,” the commissioner said. A team led by inspector Krishnamurthy nabbed the gang from a hideout and recovered the money. They also seized a toy gun. The gang has been lodged in the Salem Central Prison.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/5-arrested-for-extorting-rs-6-5l-from-bizman-at-gunpoint/articleshow/76453889.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||In Coimbatore, more patients show Covid-19 symptoms now than ever||COIMBATORE: The health department officials say there is a marked increase in the number of Covid-19 patients with symptoms in the district, compared to earlier. At least five of the 105-odd Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the district are facing breathing difficulties and bronchial pneumonia, according to the health department data. Besides ventilation support, they are being provided steroids and antibiotics to control the infection. Another seven have moderate symptoms, including cough, sore throat and muscle pain. Their lungs are also affected. However, as of now, they don’t require full-time oxygen support. Lung opacity was detected in 12 patients undergoing treatment at the PSG Hospitals and the ESI Hospital. Dr Murali, Covid-19 nodal officer, PSG Hospitals, said, “It is true that we are now getting more patients with breathlessness and oxygen saturation rates of 80-85%. They need to be kept in the intensive care unit and ventilation support.” He said the condition four of their patients with severe symptoms has improved and that they have been moved to the ward. “Another four patients with moderate symptoms have oxygen saturation rates of 90% to 95% and they need mild oxygen support intermittently. But they are all recovering and improving fast.” The ESI Hospital too has one patient in the intensive care unit. The patient had recently underwent surgery in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. It also has four patients with lower oxygen saturation levels. Hospital dean Dr Nirmala said, “We have, however, stopped providing them ventilation support.” The remaining patients have mild symptoms, including fever for a day or two, cold and cough. “But their lungs are not affected and can be managed with just paracetamols and vitamins,” Dr Nirmala said. Doctors admitted that they have been seeing an increase in the number of Covid-19 patients with symptoms of late. “In April, except one patient, the remaining were asymptomatic. Two had fever for just a day and required no intervention. However, this month, all our patients needed intervention to keep in check their infection rate,” Dr Murali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-dist-more-patients-show-symptoms-now-than-ever/articleshow/76453908.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
June 19, 2020||Salem||Panchayat officials booked in TN||SALEM: The Kakkapalayam police on Thursday registered a case against Ernapuram panchayat officials based on a complaint filed by activist A Radhakrishnan. In his complaint, Radhakrishnan said the officials had spent Rs 5 lakh for laying tar road on HR&CE owned land without obtaining the department consent. Talking to TOI, Radhakrishnan said the land belonged to Nambiyampatt Arulmigu Cendraya Perumal temple. “We have registered a case under the Tamil Nadu Property Prevention of Damage and Loss Act of 1984,” a senior police officer from the station said. Secretary of the panchayat raj and rural development Hansraj Verma said he would look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/panchayat-officials-booked/articleshow/76453900.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Salem||Explosion kills man in Salem||SALEM: A 50-year-old farmer died and three of his relatives were injured after a device he found on his farmland at Thumbalpatty near Mallur exploded on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as K Mani. “He had spotted the device on his farmland on Wednesday evening. He thought it was an FM radio and took it home. But it exploded when he tried to switch it on,” superintendent of police Deepa S Ganigar said. Mani’s granddaughter V Sowmiya, 11, his nephew Vasantha Kumar, 36, and his relative M Natesan, 65, sustained injuries. They were admitted to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (SGMKMCH). Mani’s wife Amsaveni, 42, who was in the kitchen, had a narrow escape. “I heard a loud sound after which the house was filled with smoke,” she said. Mani’s left arm was found 10ft away from the house. Rural DSP Uma Shankar, who inspected the spot, said the device exploded when Mani connected it to a wall socket. ‘Q’ branch police officers also inspected the place. The Mallur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/explosion-kills-man/articleshow/76453897.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mannequins hinder traffic, trader booked||AHMEDABAD: The city police booked a garment trader from Kalupur who put mannequins to display his clothes near Panchkuva locality on Thursday. Kalupur police station filed an FIR against Jitesh Radadia (30), a resident of Thakkarbapanagar for allegedly causing obstruction to the traffic by putting mannequins at a public place. According to the FIR, a team of Kalupur police station officials was patrolling in their jurisdiction area ahead of Rath Yatra festival to keep vigil over suspicious activities. At that time, the cops spotted a man selling garments by putting different mannequins on pavements and attracting people to buy clothes. The cops went to Radadia and asked him to remove his mannequins from the road and pavements. Police personnel asked Radadia as to why he was selling the clothes by putting obstructions on public way. As Radadia could not give any satisfactory answer, police charged him under section 283 of Indian Penal Code for obstructing the public way. The police FIR reads that Radadia’s business could have proved dangerous to commuters. A policeman said that apart from causing physical obstacles to the traffic, mannequins may also cause distractions to commuters which may result in accidents. This is a rare case where a person has been booked for putting mannequins and blocking traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mannequins-hinder-traffic-trader-booked/articleshow/76452965.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||182 fresh infections take Madhya Pradesh Covid tally to 11,426||BHOPAL: Once again Bhopal and Indore reported most number of Covid-19 cases in a single day. The two cities accounted for 107 of 182 Covid-19 cases reported by the state health bulletin, here on Thursday. Total number of Covid-19 positive cases, since the pandemic began in Madhya Pradesh reached, 11,426. Three Covid-19 deaths in Indore and one in Ratlam were also reported. Total number of deaths has not touched 486, according to health department. About 75% of all Covid-19 patients have recovered in MP. As many as 244 patients recovered in the last 24-hours. No new coronavirus case was reported in 27 districts on Thursday. While virus cases were reported from 52 districts, six of them did not have any active cases on Thursday, the health bulletin said. The number of cases in Indore went up to 4,191 where the death toll has reached 185. Bhopal’s coronavirus tally has risen above 2400. Meanwhile, 73 persons died of coronavirus. Health officials said that there are 1,072 containment zones in the state at present. In MP total cases 11,426, active cases 2,308, new cases 182, death toll 486, recovered 8,632, total number of people tested 2,77,451.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/182-fresh-infections-take-state-covid-tally-to-11426/articleshow/76451948.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Former journalist takes up ‘crimes’ against language||Kochi: For language purists, even a casual skimming through the day’s newspaper could be a cause for increased heart beat because of the volume of typographical and linguistic errors in reports. Former journalist P Prakash’s soon-to-be published book ‘Padashudhi Kosham: Vakkukalude Thettum Sharium’, a lexicon of misrepresented words in Malayalam, is meant to be a primer for those who want to be on the guard against misinformed errors that gets perpetuated. “The book is a compilation of 4,000 words that are prone to erroneous usage that I collected over four years,” says Prakash, who worked for several newspapers and the Press Information Bureau. One of the reasons why Prakash chose to write the book was the pain of spotting errors in Malayalam newspapers on a daily basis. “The errors are now common even on headlines, particularly absence of consonant doubling,” says Prakash citing examples. He’s also aghast at the practice of using double adjectives for certain words. “The word ‘Aashaasyam’, which means desirable is often reproduced as ‘Aashaasyakaram’, which is wrong. You don’t need that additional ‘Karam’. The usage of the word ‘Aaswadyam’ as ‘Aaswadyakaram’ is a similar error,” says Prakash. The words ‘Sayujyam’, meaning salvation and ‘Nishturam’ meaning cruel are also commonly misspelt, he said. “The book would be useful for teachers, students and journalists who would like to write error-free Malayalam,” says Prakash. The book also has 1,000 words from English commonly used in Malayalam but written differently across publications because there has been no standardisation despite wide adoption. “Words of months of English calendar like ‘January’ and words like ‘national’ and ‘bank’ are written differently in newspapers. I have tried to provide an acceptable way of writing them in the book,” said Prakash. “In Malayalam newspapers, there is no uniformity in using words. I have seen the same words being used differently in papers like Malayala Manorama and Mathrubhumi. If the reading is to be complete, the language has to be corrected. If the language is wrong, our reading would also be wrong,” said critic N E Sudheer. According to him, dereliction by the academic community in the state is the main reason for the fall in standards. “The failure of the media to set standards stems from the failure of academicians to intervene. This cannot be corrected unless the state intervenes,” said Sudheer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/former-journalist-takes-up-crimes-against-language/articleshow/76451969.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Knife removed from woman’s chest||COIMBATORE: When a 40-year-old woman, who is a daily wage labourer in Krishnagiri, was stabbed by someone she knew on the right side of her chest on May 25, the woman did not know if she would survive the next day. Bearing the excruciating pain and too scared to pull the knife out, she stayed in her home the whole night. Since the knife had pierced and damaged a portion of her lungs, she had breathing difficulty. On the next day morning, she was rushed to the Salem Government Hospital. From there, the woman was shifted to CMCH at 2pm on May 26. “When we examined the wound and did an X-ray, we realized the knife had fortunately not touched any of her vital organs including her heart. We have two sides for every lung, it had struck only a small portion of one side of the lung. The knife was left untouched in her body and there was no internal bleeding either,” cardiothoracic surgeon Dr E Sreenivasan said. In a three-hour surgery, the doctors removed the knife and repaired the damaged portion of her lungs. The woman was discharged after a nearly 20-day stay in the hospital. “She can now live a normal life. There will be no restrictions or side effects due to the incident. Her breathing is also normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/knife-removed-from-womans-chest/articleshow/76453888.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||4 new Covid-19 cases in Nilgiris, tally goes up to 26||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris recorded four more Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 26. Presently, there are 12 active cases in the district. While two of them are returnees from Chennai, the remaining two are primary contacts of the of the returnees. One of the new cases is a 30-year-old resident of Mel Vannarapettai in Coonoor. He was in Chennai, from where he flew down to Coimbatore airport and reached the hometown by road. His samples were collected at the Coimbatore airport. His 58-year-old father and 50-year-old mother have contracted the virus during his stay with them. A 36-year-old woman resident of Wellington Cantonment area near Coonoor was the fourth one who tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday. Like in the case of the 30-year-old Mel Vannarapettai resident, she had also flown down to Coimbatore airport, where her samples were collected for Covid-19 test, and reached her native by road. According to Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, all the four patients have been admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Officials have also sealed both Mel Vannarapettai and Wellington Cantonment areas and declared them containment zones. Divya said, “Government employees and workers, who travel daily from neighbouring districts, have been asked to stay at the headquarters and discharge their duties.” She said truck drivers would have to undergo Covid-19 test as they return to the district. “They would be kept in isolation camps till their results are out.” With the district seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases, people’s forums and associations demanded the district administration to seal the district border for visitors. According to them, the Nilgiris has been witnessing heavy flow of visitors from within the zone, which also comprises Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem and Erode districts, as e-pass was not required. The district has been witnessing casual movement of vehicles from other districts in the zone since the unlocking of the lockdown. Divya said, “The spike in cases worries us. Only residents of the Nilgiris with address proof will be allowed in through the check posts at Burliar and Kunjappanai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-new-cases-in-nilgiris-tally-goes-up-to-26/articleshow/76453913.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Coimbatore||125kg explosives seized in Erode||Erode: Vellitirupur police seized 125kg explosives from a stone quarry on Thursday.R Thavasiappan of Komarayanur village had lodged a complaint on Thursday about the explosives. “The quarry owners are using explosives illegally to break boulders,” he said.A team led by sub-inspector P Thiyagarajan seized the explosives kept in six cartons.Inquiry revealed that the quarry owners did not have permission to use explosives. “We have registered a case against the management of the quarry,” the SI said.Meanwhile, residents of Komarayanur village requested the district administration to seal the quarry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/125kg-explosives-seized-in-erode/articleshow/76453909.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Now, passenger trains to charge an express cost||Nashik: Travelling by passenger trains is set to cost more as the railways has decided to increase the fare of such trains to the level of express or mail trains. According to a railway official, the Railway Board has decided that all passenger trains that run 200-km or more in a single journey will be converted into express trains and hence their fares will go up when the services resume after lockdown is lifted. The official also pointed out that the directive also includes revising stoppages of the trains if required and increasing their speed at par with the express trains. “The change in fare will vary from 70% to 125 % in comparison with the existing passenger trains fare,” the official said. The travel from Nashik to Mumbai by passenger trains currently costs Rs 45, while that of the Mail or Express train is Rs 75. Similarly, the cost of travel from Nashik to Bhusawal is Rs 55 while that of the mail or express train is 95 per person. The trains that will largely be affected include Deolali-Bhusawal passenger train, Bhusawal-Mumbai passenger train that pass through Nashik Road railway station. “There is a huge population in Nashik that finds its roots in Jalgaon-Bhusawal areas and they prefer traveling by train as it is cosy effective and cheaper than road travel,” Sanjeev Barhate, a resident of Mhasavad in Jalgaon district, said. The other trains in the division that will be affected include Manmad-Pune, Bhusawal-Itarsi, Bhusawal-Nagpur, Bhusawal-Wardha and Bhusawal-Katni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-passenger-trains-to-charge-an-express-cost/articleshow/76450923.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Two headmasters caught on camera exchanging bribe||Lucknow: The UP government has suspended two school headmasters in Hathras district after a video showing them alledgedly exchanging bribe went viral. Following the suspensions, the district basic shiksha adhikari directed the block education officer to file a police complaint against the two headmasters. In the video, Prashant Kumar Bharadwaj, headmaster of a primary school in Naghla Baghel in Sahpau block was seen allgedly giving a bribe of Rs 200 to Satish Kumar, headmaster in primary school, Daadhau, also in Sahpau block in Hathras. The suspension notice issued by BSA Hathras, Manoj Kumar Mishra, stated that Kumar had demanded money from Prashant to share nformation related to foodgrains for mid-day meal. According to Mishra, preliminary investigations carried out by Sahpau’s block education officer found Satish Kumar asking bribe. Prima facie, Kumar was found guilty and has been suspended under the rules of conduct and discipline for government servants in UP. During the suspension tenure, both Prashant and Satish have been attached to the block education officer, Hasayan, who has also been nominated to carry out further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-headmasters-caught-on-camera-exchanging-bribe/articleshow/76453911.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Foresters step up vigil to trace tiger||KOZHIKODE: Forest authorities in Wayanad have intensified surveillance to ascertain the identity of the tiger which mauled to death a 23-year-old tribesman who had gone missing on Tuesday. South Wayanad divisional forest official P Renjith Kumar said they have increased the number of camera traps deployed in the area under the Pathiri reserve forests near Pulpally to 15. The badly mutilated body of a missing youth was found inside the forest on Wednesday. "Today, we checked eight camera traps which were deployed on Wednesday but could not find the images of the tiger in them. We have set up more camera traps to cover a larger area," he said. Steps to deploy cage traps would be initiated after ascertaining the identity of the animal through camera traps and after getting permission from the state chief wildlife warden. The department has intensified patrolling in the area and three teams of 10 members each have been deployed for the task. The nearby tribal colonies have been asked to maintain high vigil. Body of the deceased, Shiva Kumar, was handed over to the relatives after postmortem on Wednesday evening and his funeral was held in the Bassavankolly Kattinayikka Colony at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/foresters-step-up-vigil-to-trace-tiger/articleshow/76451982.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||South Point former students stand by the cyclone-affected||KOLKATA: South Point Ex-Students’ Association (ASPEXS) on Wednesday handed a cheque for Rs 1.2 lakh to Swami Purnatmanandaji Maharaj, secretary (foreign affairs) and chairman of all overseas branches of Bharat Sevashram Sangha, to boost the organization’s effort to alleviate the sufferings of the Amphan-affected people. The former students’ association of South Point has always been in the forefront of providing relief to society at large by marshalling its members—the school alumni spread all over the globe. At the start of the Covid pandemic, PPEs were provided by ASPEXS to Pointer doctors, who are at the frontline of the fight against the novel coronavirus. During earlier natural calamities, like Cyclone Aila, ASPEXS, along with South Point High School, constructed houses for those affected in the Sunderbans. One of the flagship initiatives of ASPEXS is its Care Wing, which provides emotional, medical and, at times, financial assistance to teachers who have retired from the services of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-point-former-students-stand-by-the-cyclone-affected/articleshow/76452984.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Virus tightens stranglehold,cases rise by 100 in three days||Lucknow: City’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 721 with 24 more people, including two policemen, testing positive for novel coronavirus infection on Thursday as the virus struck Lucknow Police for the first time since the outbreak. After crossing the 600-mark on June 15, the city’s corona case count took just three days to add another 100, breaching 700-mark — the fastest spurt since the outbreak on March 11. However, there is the consolation of 447 patients recovering fully and being discharged from hospital, and just 11 losing the battle. Among the two cops, one is a constable deployed in the security of a senior Samajwadi Party leader while the other is posted at police headquarters, said health officers. There had been no cases in Lucknow Police till now though 43 cops deployed in railway security forces and 43 PAC personnel had tested positive. Meanwhile, two family members — 52-year-old brother and one-year-old granddaughter — of the infected SP MLA also tested positive. The MLA was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday. Chief medical officer’s (CMO) office has recommended district administration to declare the locality around MLA’s residence, 5A Duplex Mall Avenue, a containment zone. Among other cases, three members of a family living on Sarojini Naidu Marg, Hazratganj, tested positive while a businessman, his son and two workers were found infected in Rajajipuram. The localities where the two families live will be declared containment zones. Meanwhile, a woman cancer patient who went to RMLIMS for follow up was found positive before undergoing CT scan, and a 39-year-old man from Vinamra Khand, who went to SPM Hospital after suffering a fracture was also found infected. One case each was reported from Martin Purwa, Shaktinagar, Telibagh and Jankipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-tightens-strangleholdcases-rise-by-100-in-three-days/articleshow/76453922.cms||Yusra Husain
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Youth held for smuggling drugs in Malegaon||Nashik: A joint team of Malegaon police and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Nashik, seized a consignment of over 1,000 tablets of Alprasil, popularly known as ‘Kutta Goli’, during a raid at Azadnagar area in Malegaon late on Monday night. The consignment was over Rs 2.6 lakh. The scheduled drug can be sold only on prescription from a medical practitioner as it is taken to treat anxiety and panic. Accordin to FDA officials, the drug can adversely impact one’e health if consumed over a period of time without doctor’s advice. Police have arrested a youth who is said to have smuggled the tablets from Surat in Gujarat. He has been remanded in police custody for four days. This medicine is popular among a section of locals in the textile town. Since local medical stores did not sell them without prescription, peddlers bring it from other states and sell it at a premium here. Officials from the Food and Drug Administration said that there wasn’t any clandestine sale of the medicine in Malegaon since a large number of locals here didn’t have enough money in hand to spend on such addiction. “Now, with the economic activities dlowly picking up pace, the demand for the tablets is going up. Both the FDA and the police are keeping a close tab on the sale of such scheduled drugs and other illegal activities,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-held-for-smuggling-drugs-in-malegaon/articleshow/76450934.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Padma Shri recipient writes to chief secy to stop alleged atrocities on Van Gujjars||Dehradun: In a clash between Van Gujjars and forest staff on Wednesday, two Gujjar women and four forest guards were left injured. The two women had severe head injuries and were rushed to Coronation Hospital. The clash took place in Ramgarh Range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve where eight Van Gujjar families reside. Reacting sharply against the forest department’s move to thrash Van Gujjars, Uttarakhand activist and Padma Shri recipient Avdhash Kaushal, who had been proactively working for the rights of Van Gujjar communities of India, has requested chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh to intervene. A copy of Kaushal’s letter is with TOI where he has reminded the state government of section 2 and 3 of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. The Act states that the forest land, for which rights are recognized for tribal and forest-dwellers, included unclassified forest, undemarcated forests, existing or deemed forests, protected forests, reserved forests, sanctuaries and national parks. Speaking to TOI, Kaushal said, “Forest rights have been explained and defined under section 3 of this Act and include the right to hold and live in forest land for habitation, cultivation for livelihood, community right, right of ownership, including collection and disposal of minor forest produce, traditional and seasonal community rights under state laws or customary rights of the states. The rights recognized under this Act are free from encumbrances of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, including payment of net present value is not required.” The activist in his letter pointed out at the past atrocities of the forest department like burning of settlements of Van Gujjars. The letter further stated, “I kindly request you to strictly ask the forest department to follow the Central Act and not harass the Van Gujjar community. They have been living in these forests much before the forest department came into existence.” The copy of the letter was sent to the chief minister and head of forest force Jairaj. Though the forest officials have a different story to narrate, they claimed that Van Gujjars were trying to expand their settlement in the forest and on being stopped they attacked the forest staff. Incidentally, a complaint against 12 Van Gujjars was registered at Clement Town police outpost by forest official on June 17. Today, seven gujjars were brought to the police station for further investigation. RTR director Amit Verma said, "There are many Van Gujjars staying illegally and trying to encroach upon forest land of Rajaji Tiger Reserve. We will investigate each case and will remove all the illegal ones and rehabilitate the actual Gujjars."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/padma-shri-recipient-writes-to-chief-secy-to-stop-alleged-atrocities-on-van-gujjars/articleshow/76450936.cms||Shivani Azad
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: KTU to offer 40 new courses||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has decided to sanction cutting edge engineering courses in 21 colleges in the state during the 2020-21 academic year. The university syndicate on Thursday decided to sanction 27 undergraduate and 13 postgraduate courses in select colleges. The courses would be offered by three government colleges, two aided colleges, three government controlled self-financing colleges and 13 private engineering colleges. The courses are being sanctioned subject to the final approval of AICTE and the state government, the varsity authorities said. As per the syndicate decision, the number of seats for computer science in College of Engineering Trivandrum (CET) would be increased by 60. Also, the college would offer courses in artificial intelligence and power electronics with 18 seats for each course. Thrissur engineering colleges has been given permission to start five MTech programmes with 18 seats each. New courses being introduced there are in industrial engineering, VLSA instrumentation, health safety and geo technical. Sanction was accorded to Palakkad Sreekrishnapuram Govt Engineering college to start B Tech civil engineering with a student intake of 60. The college would start two MTech courses in Robotics and IOT as well. In the aided sector, K T M engineering college would increase 60 seats each in computer science and mechanical engineering branches. As many as 13 self-financing private engineering colleges have been given permission to start new courses in AI, robotics, data science and machine learning. The syndicate has also appointed a committee led by vice-chancellor M S Rajasree to prepare a report on how to roll out government suggestion to arrange academic activities in engineering colleges in such a way that students pursing higher education would be able to work and earn while they study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ktu-to-offer-40-new-courses/articleshow/76456965.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||4 down with Covid-19 in city||tnnChandigarh: Four people, including a year-old girl, were confirmed to have contracted the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh on Thursday.Of these cases, two are from a family in Sector 31 and contacts of a patient, who had returned from Agra. They are a 32-year-old woman and a year-old girl.Another is a resident of Sector 43. The 43-year-old man was admitted to Government Multispecialty Hospital in Sector 16 with influenza like illness (ILI). He is a Punjab government employee and had last attended his office a week ago. He has four family and seven workplace contacts. All are asymptomatic and are being sampled. An ILI survey was carried out around his house. As many as 56 houses were surveyed and 199 persons covered. None had ILI .The fourth case is a 30-year-old man of Manimajra. He had travelled to Amritsar on June 9 and returned to Chandigarh on June 11. He developed fever on June 13. He was hospitalized on June 16. He has 12 community contacts. All them have been shifted to an institutional quarantine.The UT case count now stands at 374.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-down-with-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/76452990.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Man attacks cousin with knife in public||HYDERABAD: A man attacked his cousin with a knife and axe in full public view over a financial dispute on Thursday in Dundigal. Local police said that 34-year-old Mohammed Javed suffered injuries to this arm and leg as a result of the attack by his cousin, Jeelani. A patrol squad in the area noticed the scuffle from a distance and tried to break off the fight between the two from afar as both of them were armed, however, they could not prevent the attack. Javed managed to resist for some time and fled soon after. Local police said that the two had started a real estate business but of late had been having disagreements over financial issues. On Thursday, Jeelani had called Javed to a cafe to talk and settle their dispute but that soon led to the scuffle. An attempt to murder case was registered against Jeelani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-attacks-cousin-with-knife-in-public/articleshow/76452995.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Noida||UP defends border curbs at meet with Amit Shah||NOIDA: As officials in NCR districts begin work on a unified strategy on Covid-19, after Thursday’s meeting with home minister Amit Shah, the UP government is parallelly defending, both to the Centre and before court, its move to seal the borders of Noida and Ghaziabad with Delhi. UP officials explained the rationale for keeping borders sealed with Delhi at the meeting with Shah, citing a report the government has compiled and also presented to the Supreme Court in its affidavit. According to the report, in the last three weeks of May, 82 of the 196 infected people in Noida (42%) had sourced the infection from Delhi. In Ghaziabad, 45% of patients – 246 of 624 -- had their infection source in Delhi, the report says. Noida officials also reported that there are currently 135 active patients, who had been travelling to Delhi and back. “Between May 15 and June 14, 481 patients have tested positive in Noida. Out of this, 111 affected persons have informed they have business/work in Delhi or that they went to Delhi for medical treatment,” states the report. Quoting the numbers, UP officials again proposed to the central government to continue with regulated movement on the Delhi border. For office-goers whose commute is disrupted as a result of this, the state government has proposed to “advise” companies that it should not have a negative effect on employees. The report also clarified on not allowing home isolation of asymptomatic Covid patients, about which the Supreme Court has asked UP, referring to central guidelines of May 10 that mention states have the liberty to enforce stricter guidelines but not dilute enforcement, depending on the prevalent situation. The report mentions that the state had 5,056 Covid patients on June 14, while a total of 1,01,236 beds available across L1, L2 and L3 wards. It adds that the number of beds in Noida and Ghaziabad are also much higher than the active cases. UP has not resorted to home isolation of positive cases at this point because, “very mild pre-symptomatic cases also are carriers of virus and transmit infection to others. It is very difficult to monitor the movement of such persons during home isolation and this can lead to spread of infection. The government of UP has arranged for sufficient infrastructure for admission of coronavirus-positive patients and there is no shortage of beds for such patients in facilities”, states the report. It adds that it is difficult to manage comorbidities at home and in the larger interest of public health, home isolation will not be conducive to the goal of breaking the chain of transmission and containing the spread of the disease. “This is particularly important in NCR of UP as the neighboring state has a very high number of infected patients, and therefore, it is necessary to take stringent measures in order to contain the spread in this area,” it states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-defends-border-curbs-at-meet-with-shah/articleshow/76454512.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: HC orders inspection of slaughterhouse||KOCHI: The high court has ordered for an inspection by amicus curiae at Kochi corporation’s slaughterhouse at Kaloor to check whether animal waste and blood are being dumped into the Perandoor canal without treatment. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order after considering a plea by Treasa K J through advocate K P Pradeep. It was stated that blood and other noxious animal waste generated from the slaughter of animals is being discharged directly into the canal. The court said it had been issuing orders repeatedly that no one will be permitted to discharge any kind of sewerage or waste into the canal directly. The waste from the slaughterhouse are animal byproducts, which potentially contains pathogens that can cause havoc to the general health of the public. Therefore, such discharge cannot be allowed, the court said. Further, the court said, prima facie it appears that the slaughterhouse is being operated without a proper sewage treatment plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-inspection-of-slaughterhouse/articleshow/76451996.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Affordability keeping many away from seeking therapy||Hyderabad: Along with social stigma, affordability is another hurdle that many seeking help for mental health and addiction issues are hit with. While psychiatric consultations come for no less than Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000 an hour — with the total treatment package running up to Rs 10,000 or more — de-addiction centres in Hyderabad charge anywhere between Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 for a month. As a result, many are forced to either give it a miss or drop out of the treatment mid-way. “The therapy costs Rs 2,000 per session. After a few sessions, I had to discontinue due to financial strain. Also, the medicine would make me numb,” said the 28-year-old Vandana* from Secunderabad who was suffering from chronic depression. Her therapist had insisted on at least 10 more sessions. It for the same reason that Jagan*, despite his infrequent panic attacks, hasn’t been able to go in for therapy. He was told that the sessions and mild medications would cost him close to Rs 10,000. “I quit my job just before the lockdown. I am surviving on my savings...How can I afford it?” the Gachibowli resident said sharing how each time he suffers an attack, he paces up and down a room sweating profusely. But the steep prices notwithstanding, some people that TOI spoke to said, the results are often unsatisfactory. “The only thing they did was keep us cooped up inside a facility with some basic counselling sessions thrown in. In fact, I walked out of the first centre believing I had no addiction problem. I had a relapse soon after,” said Gaurav*, a consultant who coughed up Rs 75,000 between two facilities last year. “The second one was like prison...None of them helped,” he added. Apart from a cap on pricing, doctors also stress the need for more awareness about mental health and its treatment. “While some patients require 12 to 16 sessions, some feel better after five. There are government and private medical colleges and hospital which provide low-cost psychiatric treatment but people are not aware of it. It is high time, government spreads awareness about mental health in the same way they did for Covid-19,” said Dr Virinchi Sharma, a city-based psychiatrist. (*Names of patients changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/affordability-keeping-many-away-from-seeking-therapy/articleshow/76452784.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Patients with co-morbidities recovering well, say officials||HYDERABAD: While nearly half of Covid-19 deaths in the state are being attributed to the twin co-morbidities — diabetes and hypertension, health authorities say that 85-90% patients with these co-morbidities have either recovered or are recovering. Having these diseases under control is what plays an important part in recovery, say experts. While the state has recorded a total of 5,675 Covid-19 cases (as on June 17), around 700 Covid-19 patients had either or both of the co-morbidities. “If you see the number of deaths, it might look like a big number but if you see the percentage of Covid-19 patients who had these co-morbidities and have succumbed, it will be less than 15%,” said a senior official from the state health department. “What makes it more complicated to save patients with such co-morbidities is their uncontrolled levels which can lead to organ failure due to complications arising out of Covid-19,” the official said. Meanwhile, doctors treating Covid-19 patients say that any patient with either of these co-morbidities can take steps to reduce the risk to that of a normal person. “We have many cases of patients with these co-morbidities, including complicated cases, recovering. Patients need not be scared but instead make attempts to keep diabetes and hypertension under control. In fact, a Covid-19 patient having these levels under control is as good as any other normal person when it comes to fighting Covid-19. People having these co-morbidities should try to maintain a good nutritious diet, a healthy body weight...,” said Dr Vinay Sekhar, head of department of Medicine, Gandhi hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-patients-with-co-morbidities-recovering-well/articleshow/76452922.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Flyers still wary, say airlines as air traffic stagnates||HYDERABAD: Close to a month after domestic operations resumed across the country, air traffic to and from the city has hit a plateau — footfalls of between 8,000 and 9,000 per day — with little indication of a rise any time soon. Daily airline connections too continue to hover in the 100 to 115 range, after it started with 39 arrivals and departures on Day 1. Prior to Covid-19 outbreak, the Hyderabad airport handled 480 domestic flights and recorded a footfall of 50,000 or more per day. Airline representatives and aviation sources say that this latest trend points to continuing apprehension among flyers. Unless absolutely necessary, people are still wary of travelling by air, despite operators stressing the various safety measures being put in place. “Though we have opened offices now, we are getting just about one or two per cent of the our total domestic business. Only people from other states, working in the city, are travelling back home at the moment. There is some movement among businessmen but it’s very minuscule,” said Abdul Majid Faheem, chairman, Travel Agents Federation of India (of AP and Telangana). “This is usually the time when holiday packages are in great demand. But that’s come to a naught this time around,” he adds. Speaking at a recent webinar, Union aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that India’s domestic sector is currently operating at 70% of the total 33% approved capacity and it will take time for it to reach 100%. “The demand has more or less remained the same since we re-started our services. We are hoping to be able to add some more connections in July but it all depends on quarantine and lockdown rules being imposed by various states,” said a senior official of a private airline that has been witnessing between 40% and 45% occupancy since resumption of operations. Some prospective flyers told TOI they have put plans on hold for a few more weeks. “I want to visit my parents but since both of them are senior citizens with co-morbidities, I am scared of going there now. Also, there is the 14-day quarantine issue. I won’t get two weeks off from work for that,” said Priyanka Roy from Kharagpur, West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flyers-still-wary-say-airlines-as-air-traffic-stagnates/articleshow/76452986.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Farmers threaten agitation if onions not procured at Rs 20/kg||Nashik: The Maharashtra state onion growers’ association on Thursday threatened to stage an agitation by throwing onions in front of the residences of the MPs and MLAs from July 10 if the central and state governments failed to buy onions from farmers at the rate of Rs 20 per kg.The association has given an ultimatum till July 9 to start with the procurement of the onions at the desired price.The association’s decision comes following the drop in the wholesale onion prices. The average wholesale onion price has now dropped to Rs 750 per quintal.Bharat Dighole, the president of MSOGA, said it costs around Rs 1,000 for a farmer to grow every quintal of onion. Therefore, farmers have to incur heavy losses if they get prices below that. The current minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices are Rs 400 and Rs 1,000 per quintal, respectively. But over 70% of the produce is being sold below Rs 600 per quintal, said Dighole.Earlier, the wholesale onion prices decreased due to the ban on onion export. After the government lifted the ban in March, the farmers faced another crisis in the form of the Covid-19 outbreak. The lockdown affected the demand which led to the drop in the average wholesale price up to to Rs 550 per quintal, said Dighole.Hence, this demand has been made, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-threaten-agitation-if-onions-not-procured-at-rs-20/kg/articleshow/76631351.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Panjagutta steel bridge ready, open for public from today||HYDERABAD: The Panjagutta steel bridge proposed by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corportation (GHMC) in 2016 has now been completed and will be thrown open to the public from Friday. The 100-metre-long bridge, including approaches, was constructed at a cost of Rs 5.95 crore. The steel bridge was constructed to de-congest traffic moving towards Nagarjuna circle from Banjara Hills Road Number 3. The earlier plan to widen the road for a regular bridge had to be shelved as many had objected to the demolition of graves, next to Chutney’s, for the project. The newly constructed steel bridge runs over the graveyard area. “It was not possible to build a regular bridge without demolishing the graves. Keeping all factors in mind, constructing a steel bridge was the only solution,” said a GHMC engineer. “As the steel bridge goes over the graves, there is adequate space for people to perform rituals near the graves. Additional graves can also come up in that space,” the official added. Meanwhile, locals welcomed the move saying that it will help ease the bottleneck at the junction. The civic body now plans to construct another steel bridge which will act as an entrance to the graveyard and a new lane running from the graveyard towards Nagarjuna Circle. Construction of the bridge and the lane, including land acquisition, is estimated to cost around Rs 17 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panjagutta-steel-bridge-ready-open-for-public-from-today/articleshow/76452976.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Boycott China products protests rage across Gujarat||RAJKOT/VADODARA/SURAT: Protests raged over Chinese products across Gujarat on Thursday after 20 Indian soldiers were martyred in Ladakh. From students union to traders and ex-army men joined the protests in Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot demanding boycott of ‘Made In China’ products. In Rajkot, businessman Mayurdhwajsinh Zala cancelled the order of MG Hector car and gave in writing that he did not wish to buy this car any more as MG Hector India is a subsidiary of Chinese Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC). Zala, who is the president of Gujarat State Panchayat Sports and Recreation Club, had booked the car from a showroom in July 2019 by paying Rs 51,000. He was asked to take the delivery of the car before few days back but he refused. “I don’t want to do any business or use any product that has direct or indirect link to China.” Pankaj Brahmbhatt, owner of a Chinese eatery in Nizampura was so was upset that he changed the name of his food-cart on Thursday to Sainese Food from earlier Sai Chinese Food. Traders from Mangal Bazaar in Vadodara burnt Chinese products including phones, electronic items and clothes. “We have decided to stop selling Chinese products now on and promote Indian products,” said Jay Thakor, president of Mangal Bazaar Vepari Mahajan Mandal. While BJP-backed ABVP held a prayer meeting for the martyred soldiers, the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and Youth Congress workers burnt posters of Chinese President Xi Jinping and raised slogans against China near Khanedrao Market crossroads. In Surat, a group of ex-Armymen paid tribute to the martyrs at Arya Samaj Bhavan in Gopipura and later burnt Chinese mobiles and posters of the China president Xi Jinping. “We have taken an oath not to use any Chinese product. We will also spread awareness among the citizens to boycott all Chinese product,” said Manmohan Sharma, president of Poorva Sainik Seva Parishad. Residents of Panchratna Garden apartment in Varachha also broke the China-made TVs and residents threw the TV sets from the fourth floor of the apartment in protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boycott-china-products-protests-rage-across-gujarat/articleshow/76452033.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court issues notices to state, TSWB over burials||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday issued notices to the government, revenue department and Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), asking them to respond to the contents of a PIL that charged religious authorities with not allowing bodies of Covid-19 victims to be buried. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijayaen Reddy was hearing a case filed by Abid Rasool Khan, former chairman of the Telangana State Minorities Commission, who brought to the notice of the court the plight of Muslims during the ongoing pandemic where authorities were not allowing victims’ bodies to be buried at the designated graveyards. Khan wanted the management of Waqf committee to be entrusted to revenue officials during the current crisis. The bench appointed advocate Sanisetti Venkateswarlu as amicus-curiae to assist the court as he had brought to the notice of the court one such case. The case was posted for further hearing in two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-issues-notices-to-state-tswb-over-burials/articleshow/76452960.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, JP Nagar shops closed over lack of sanitation measures||HYDERABAD: After shutting down the Bharatnagar vegetable market in Moosapet, officials have also shut down shops in JP Nagar where a person had tested positive for coronavirus last week. On Tuesday, TOI had published a report on how the residents in the area have raised concerns over the lack of proper screening and sanitation of the colony by the authorities after the person tested positive. “The assistant medical officer visited Bharatnagar premises of Covid positive case along with sanitation staff. Regular bleaching and spraying are being done from past two days in the colony. The chicken shop, mutton shop and electric shops in the premises have been closed,” read a message shared by GHMC deputy commissioner for Moosapet, N Ravi Kumar. The shops were closed after civic officials came under scrutiny for delaying sanitation work and allowing commercial establishments to function in the area two days after the person tested positive. Owners of these such establishments have also come under pressure after authorities inspected the area and increased vigil to ensure all necessary measures are being taken to contain the spread of the virus. One of the residents, Dr K Niharika who had informed TOI about lack of measures taken by the commercial establishments in the area said: “Officials visited the colony after the report was published and closed all shops. We are relieved now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-jp-nagar-shops-closed-over-lack-of-sanitation-measures/articleshow/76453005.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||UP defends border curbs at meet with Amit Shah||NOIDA: As officials in NCR districts begin work on a unified strategy on Covid-19, after Thursday’s meeting with home minister Amit Shah, the UP government is parallelly defending, both to the Centre and before court, its move to seal the borders of Noida and Ghaziabad with Delhi. UP officials explained the rationale for keeping borders sealed with Delhi at the meeting with Shah, citing a report the government has compiled and also presented to the Supreme Court in its affidavit. According to the report, in the last three weeks of May, 82 of the 196 infected people in Noida (42%) had sourced the infection from Delhi. In Ghaziabad, 45% of patients – 246 of 624 -- had their infection source in Delhi, the report says. Noida officials also reported that there are currently 135 active patients, who had been travelling to Delhi and back. “Between May 15 and June 14, 481 patients have tested positive in Noida. Out of this, 111 affected persons have informed they have business/work in Delhi or that they went to Delhi for medical treatment,” states the report. Quoting the numbers, UP officials again proposed to the central government to continue with regulated movement on the Delhi border. For office-goers whose commute is disrupted as a result of this, the state government has proposed to “advise” companies that it should not have a negative effect on employees. The report also clarified on not allowing home isolation of asymptomatic Covid patients, about which the Supreme Court has asked UP, referring to central guidelines of May 10 that mention states have the liberty to enforce stricter guidelines but not dilute enforcement, depending on the prevalent situation. The report mentions that the state had 5,056 Covid patients on June 14, while a total of 1,01,236 beds available across L1, L2 and L3 wards. It adds that the number of beds in Noida and Ghaziabad are also much higher than the active cases. UP has not resorted to home isolation of positive cases at this point because, “very mild pre-symptomatic cases also are carriers of virus and transmit infection to others. It is very difficult to monitor the movement of such persons during home isolation and this can lead to spread of infection. The government of UP has arranged for sufficient infrastructure for admission of coronavirus-positive patients and there is no shortage of beds for such patients in facilities”, states the report. It adds that it is difficult to manage comorbidities at home and in the larger interest of public health, home isolation will not be conducive to the goal of breaking the chain of transmission and containing the spread of the disease. “This is particularly important in NCR of UP as the neighboring state has a very high number of infected patients, and therefore, it is necessary to take stringent measures in order to contain the spread in this area,” it states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/up-defends-border-curbs-at-meet-with-shah/articleshow/76454941.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka government may seek 50% beds in private hospitals||BENGALURU: With cases steadily increasing in Bengaluru, the government is contemplating scaling up participation of private hospitals in the battle against the pandemic. It is likely to seek 50% of beds reserved for Covid-19 in select private hospitals. The state Covid-19 taskforce met in Bengaluru on Thursday and deliberated on the issue of securing more beds in private hospitals. “Many private hospitals, which have the facilities, have volunteered to tie up with the government to treat patients. However, there is no clarity yet on the price matrix,” sources said. Matters pertaining to treatment and hospitalisation costs proposed by private hospitals were also discussed, but no decisions were taken. “We discussed treatment costs in private hospitals and the need to fix prices. Costs proposed by private hospitals in Karnataka have to be compared with those in other states. The matter will be put before the state cabinet shortly,” said health minister B Sriramulu. With 408 active cases in Bengaluru, dedicated wards in Victoria Hospital are running out of beds, while Trauma Care Centre and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, which has 155 beds, have only a few beds vacant. Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) has 500 dedicated beds at Trauma Care Centre and Victoria Hospital for Covid-19. “Henceforth, those infected will be treated at private hospitals too,” said Dr CR Jayanthi, director, BMCRI. “We have 140 patients in isolation wards and 15 patients in ICU. If cases increase, Victoria Hospital will have to admit them,” said Dr KS Manjunath, director, Bowring hospital. Some cases are also being treated in ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital for Chest Diseases (RGICD). “Currently we have three patients. Provision has been made for 150 beds with oxygen supply if needed in the old block,” said Dr C Nagaraja, director, RGICD. The health and family welfare department is also working on admitting asymptomatic patients to care centres, which could be hotels earlier used as quarantine facilities. “We can then focus on patients who need critical care. Covid-19 care centres will also have doctors deputed for routine checks,” said health and family welfare department director Dr Om Prakash Patil. Meanwhile, the taskforce on Thursday also discussed ways to prevent burnout among medical staff. It finally decided to send doctors and nurses on week-long quarantine after a week at work. Though 14-day cycles of work and quarantine was the practice earlier, it had been discontinued at several places after a spike in the cases. 8 cops from one station +veEight police personnel attached to Kalasipalya police station (law and order), West division, tested positive on Thursday. The station is located near KR Market and near two other stations – VV Puram and City Market – where five police personnel (two from VV Puram and three from City Market) were found infected. “All eight have been shifted to Victoria Hospital and 35 people, who have been identified as primary contact, are in quarantine. The number of primary contacts may increase on Friday,” a senior police officer said adding, “The eight had worked in Padarayanapura and Tippunagar [both containment zones],” he said. On Wednesday, tests on nine Bengaluru police personnel, five Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) battalion cops and four from two other stations had confirmed an infection. In all, 26 cops from the city have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-may-seek-50-beds-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/76451999.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 19, 2020||Hubballi||Authorities make fervent appeal to wear masks||Hubballi/ Davanagere/ Chitradurga/ Mandya/ Mysuru: People’s representavies and the authorizes of different districts appealed to people to wear masks at all times when outside during Mask Day event across the state on Thursday. The event was held following a directive from the state government. Inaugurating ‘Mask Day’ programme jointly organised by the Dharwad district administration, the taluk administration, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation in Hubballi, industries minister Jagadish Shettar called upon people to be alert by wearing masks, applying sanitisers and maintaining social distancing. Mask Day activities should be carried out cautiously. “Everything cannot be controlled by imposing fine, but by people’s co-operation,” he said. He also distributed masks and sanitisers to some people, after which a padayatra was taken out from Chennamma Circle to Durgadabail via major thoroughfares of the city. The Davanagere district administration also took out a procession, wherein the participants wore masks and maintained social distancing. DC Mahantesh Bilagi highlighted the need to wear masks to avoid infection. “People in urban areas will be fined Rs 200 in case they don’t wear masks, while the fine is Rs 100 in villages limits. ZP, TP and GP staff must create must create awareness on this,” he said. Each of the five persons, including an on-duty constable, were fined Rs 200 for not wearing masks, said SP Hanumantharaya. Chitradurga ZP chairperson Shashikala Suresh Babu flagged off a jatha in the presence of SP Radhika G, DHO Dr Palaksha, ASHA workers and para-medical staff. The jatha flagged off by MP Sumalatha Ambareesh in Manday passed through major streets of the city and created awareness about the importance of wearing masks. Sumalatha called upon people to help the health authorities in the fight against Covid-19 and also take precautionary measures. “We have to explore all options in this fight. We should wear mask as science has showed that doing so will check infection,” she explained. In Mysuru, people from various walks of life — police, civic body employees, elected representatives and officials of various departments — observed Mask Day. Mysuru City police took out a march from Visvesaraya Circle in the city. Police commissioner handraguppa, who flagged off the march, called upon people to wear masks before stepping out their homes and follow the social distancing norm. Police personnel in the attire of Yama and Yamakinkara drew public attention. Chandragupta said police will penalise the public if they found not wearing masks from Friday. Over 21 cases for violating the norms have been filed. Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar, who flagged off the padayatra organised by Mysuru City Corporation at Agrahara Circle, asked devotees to wear mask compulsorily while visiting temples. “Close-down orders will be issued to temples violating the social distancing norms and SOPs,” he said. CAPTION Be safe than sorry: A roadside flower seller who was not wearing a mask was taken aback when two men dressed as Yama offered her a mask during a drive launched by the Mysuru city police to promote the use of face masks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/authorities-make-fervent-appeal-to-wear-masks/articleshow/76451998.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||In middle path with builders, buyers to pay smaller EMIs for longer to complete deal||Lucknow: Many home buyers who wanted to cancel bookings and get a refund instead from builders following financial crisis due to the pandemic have agreed to a middle path. On the suggestion of Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA), buyers can go ahead with the deal by paying smaller monthly instalments for a longer period in comparison to the agreement signed before. About 100 buyers in the city had cancelled bookings in various private housing projects after their income dropped due to an economic slump triggered by the lockdown. When developers refused to refund the booking amount, they approached e-courts of UPRERA for relief. Developers, however, said that refund would put all the projects in a limbo, affecting others too who still want to purchase homes. Hearings of about 80 petitioners have been completed so far in which the regulatory authority suggested that buyers and developers mutually agree on reducing instalment amount and increasing the time for payment. For instance: If a buyer had booked a unit for Rs 15,000 EMI payable in nine months, they can now pay 10-20% less for a longer period to complete payment. Officials said that in these cases, both parties have agreed to the proposed formula, while talks are underway with others. Mayur Jaiswal, a local businessman who had booked a 2BHK flat in Chinhat said, “The promoter agreed to reduce instalment rate from Rs 17,000 to Rs 13,500. Though I was insisting on Rs 10,000 per month, I agreed at this point.” Aditya Giri, a private developer, said, “The reduction in EMIs will disturb financial planning of builders and they will have to arrange for money from other sources to complete projects but this seems to be the only option in the ongoing crisis.” UPRERA chairman Rajive Kumar said, “The proposal to decrease the instalment amount and increase the time frame to pay off the money was put up by the regulatory authority bench and the idea was mutually agreed to by most complainants.” Over 700 complaints were received by e-courts during the lockdown. Of them, 490 have been resolved. These complaints were related to delay in possession, compensation and refunds among others. Kumar said that a survey among complaints found positive responses towards e-courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-middle-path-with-builders-buyers-to-pay-smaller-emis-for-longer-to-complete-deal/articleshow/76453952.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 19, 2020||Amaravati||Constitutional experts lock horns over resolving council stalemate||AMARAVATI: The indefinite adjournment of the legislative council without passing of the Appropriation Bill (Finance Bill) has kicked up a storm in political and administrative circles as experts are divided on the next course of action, which the government should take. The top brass in the state government held discussions with constitutional and legal experts to overcome the council roadblock. A group of experts associated with the government have reportedly suggested that there is no need for worry as the Bills could be treated as passed by the Upper House after the lapse of the 14-day deadline. They argued that the Upper House cannot indefinitely stall a Money Bill as its role is limited in handling such sensitive issues. “The framers of the Constitution had anticipated such a situation and has provided a way out. The Lower House (assembly), with the members elected by the people, will be the ultimate authority in such matters. There is no need for the Lower House even to consider the recommendations of the Upper House on the matters related to the Appropriation Bill,” said TGV Krishna Reddy, former MLC and advocate. He said that when an Appropriation Bill is sent to the council for its consideration, it has to return it with its recommendations within 14 days. It is up to the government whether to consider or reject the recommendations, if any, before enactment. Interestingly, the state government has exactly 14 days before the ordinance lapses, from the day of the council adjournment. Another legal expert said the inclusion of the subject in the council agenda itself could be taken as an introduction of the Bill in the council and utilise the 14-day clause to treat it as deemed to have been passed without any complication. A senior advocate associated with the TDP camp, however, differed on the 14-day clause, saying that it is applicable only when the Bill is tabled in the House. “In this specific case, the finance minister had not introduced the Appropriation Bill in the House. It is not correct to say that the government can go ahead and treat the Bill as deemed to have been passed after 14 days,” he said. He added that the issue might be referred for judicial scrutiny. Former speaker and opposition leader in the council, Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, blamed the government for the fiasco. “I have not seen such a situation where the government itself has stalled the passage of the Appropriation Bill,” said Yanamala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/constitutional-experts-lock-horns-over-resolving-council-stalemate/articleshow/76455765.cms||Samdani MN
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Concrete blockfalls on man, dies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a freak mishap, a 46-year-old man died here on Thursday after he was crushed under concrete blocks that fell over him during renovation works of a house. Suresh of Kulapparathukonam, Lakshamveedu Colony, Karakkonam, is the deceased. The mishap occurred in a house in Swathi Nagar at Pipinmoodu under Peroorkada police station limits on Thursday afternoon. According to fire and rescue services personnel who attended the case, the mishap occurred around 12.30pm. Suresh Kumar was a construction labourer who was engaged in the renovation works of a house along with his friend Suvarnakumar. He was demolishing a wall on the first floor of the house when the concrete stairs attached to the wall came off and fell over him. “The mishap happened while demolishing the wall attached to the stairs that led to the terrace,” said Thiruvananthapuram fire station officer D Praveen. He first demolished the upper half of the wall and was squatting down to demolish the bottom half. The demolition of wall weakened the structure of stairs and it collapsed over Suresh Kumar who was squatting under it. The fire officer added that by the time the rescue workers reached the spot, his co-workers and locals had pulled him out of the concrete blocks and brought him down to the ground floor. He was rushed to the government district model hospital at Peroorkada where doctors declared him dead. Suresh leaves behind wife and two daughters studying in Class XI and XII. Health officials have collected swabs from the body for Covid-19 test. Postmortem examination will be conducted after receiving the result of the test. Only after that will the body be handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/concrete-blockfalls-on-man-dies/articleshow/76452014.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||100-bed govt hospital acquired for Covid-19 patients in Nashik||NASHIK: With the spike in number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days in the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started acquiring more beds in government as well as private hospitals in the city. On Thursday, the NMC’s health department acquired a 100-bed government hospital — ESI hospital — in the Satpur area. So far, the civic body has also reserved 581 beds in private hospitals. “We have acquired three private hospitals with all their 140 beds to treat patients. We have also acquired 125 beds in five big hospitals in the city,” said the officials. Apart from this, there are 106 small hospitals in the city with 30 or more beds. “To start with, we have acquired 316 beds in these hospitals. We will increase the number if the need arises,” said the officials. “We have decided to increase the reservation of beds up to 80% in these 106 hospitals if the demand for beds increase. We are already turning the New Bytco Hospital into Covid-19 hospital with 300 beds. We have already started purchasing beds and it will be ready in next few days,” they added. The officials have also started increasing the tests of suspects per day and have initiated a health survey of residents to identify the suspects. “We are tracing high risk contacts of the positive patients and sending their swabs for tests immediately,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-bed-govt-hosp-acquired-for-covid-patients-in-nashik/articleshow/76450949.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 19, 2020||Goa||In record sign-off, over 1.4k disembark at MPT||Panaji: Over 1,400 seafarers arrived at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) on Thursday morning aboard the first vessel to bring stranded seamen directly to Goa. Officials said their signing off will be the biggest such operation to take place at one go in the country and an achievement for the state. The seafarers, who arrived from Europe and the US via Mumbai, disembarked from the cruise ship Celebrity Infinity in batches of 100 and had their swab samples taken for testing on the docks in a six-hour-long exercise, with heavy rain and wind causing delays. Forty health services staff divided into nine teams of doctors, nurses and multitask workers tested the seafarers who were then sent back to the vessel. “They will have to remain on the vessel for a maximum of two days till their test results come. Under the new SOP, those who test negative will be sent on 14 days home quarantine,” ports secretary and nodal officer for stranded seafarers P S Reddy, said. The seafarers who were stranded in various parts of Europe and at Miami in the US travelled to Mumbai on two vessels, Anthem of the Seas and Celebrity Infinity. Since facilities were not available for berthing of Anthem of the Seas, the crew were transferred onto Celebrity Infinity and sent to Goa. “The state government managed to convince the company to send all the crew directly to Goa. This is one of the government’s biggest achievements — to have so many seafarers sign off at one time. The government is now negotiating with other companies to bring their seafarers directly to Goa,” Reddy said, adding that logistics involved in bringing seafarers from Mumbai to Goa by road is complicated. “Mumbai is also a Red Zone and we don’t want our people getting infected there,” he said. At least 1,000 more stranded seafarers are expected to be brought back to Goa next week, with the government trying to convince another cruise vessel to sign off its 500-odd Goan crew directly in Goa With this latest vessel to dock at MPT, at least 4,800 seafarers have arrived in the state. Another 3,000 are expected by the end of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-record-sign-off-over-1-4k-disembark-at-mpt/articleshow/76453940.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Constitutional experts lock horns over resolving council stalemate||AMARAVATI: The indefinite adjournment of the legislative council without passing of the Appropriation Bill (Finance Bill) has kicked up a storm in political and administrative circles as experts are divided on the next course of action, which the government should take. The top brass in the state government held discussions with constitutional and legal experts to overcome the council roadblock. A group of experts associated with the government have reportedly suggested that there is no need for worry as the Bills could be treated as passed by the Upper House after the lapse of the 14-day deadline. They argued that the Upper House cannot indefinitely stall a Money Bill as its role is limited in handling such sensitive issues. “The framers of the Constitution had anticipated such a situation and has provided a way out. The Lower House (assembly), with the members elected by the people, will be the ultimate authority in such matters. There is no need for the Lower House even to consider the recommendations of the Upper House on the matters related to the Appropriation Bill,” said TGV Krishna Reddy, former MLC and advocate. He said that when an Appropriation Bill is sent to the council for its consideration, it has to return it with its recommendations within 14 days. It is up to the government whether to consider or reject the recommendations, if any, before enactment. Interestingly, the state government has exactly 14 days before the ordinance lapses, from the day of the council adjournment. Another legal expert said the inclusion of the subject in the council agenda itself could be taken as an introduction of the Bill in the council and utilise the 14-day clause to treat it as deemed to have been passed without any complication. A senior advocate associated with the TDP camp, however, differed on the 14-day clause, saying that it is applicable only when the Bill is tabled in the House. “In this specific case, the finance minister had not introduced the Appropriation Bill in the House. It is not correct to say that the government can go ahead and treat the Bill as deemed to have been passed after 14 days,” he said. He added that the issue might be referred for judicial scrutiny. Former speaker and opposition leader in the council, Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, blamed the government for the fiasco. “I have not seen such a situation where the government itself has stalled the passage of the Appropriation Bill,” said Yanamala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/constitutional-experts-lock-horns-over-resolving-council-stalemate/articleshow/76450956.cms||Samdani MN
June 19, 2020||Goa||Covid hits packed Indiranagar, govt rushes to arrest spread||Panaji: The densely-populated slum area of Indiranagar in Chimbel saw its first Covid-19 cases on Thursday after an elderly couple with no travel history tested positive. The development threw the health department into a tizzy as it frantically began contact-tracing and testing in the area. Swabs of 69 persons were collected on Thursday, with testing set to continue on Friday. The area, which has a similar socio-economic demographic to Mangor Hill and Baina, could prove to be a headache for the health department. However, as of Thursday, health officials were tight-lipped about the situation as test reports of swabs collected there weren’t out yet. “We will get the results on Friday,” an official said. The cases came to light after the couple visited the urban health centre in Panaji. “One of them had a fever,” said Chimbel PHC health officer Dr Jude D’Souza. “Their swabs were taken and tests done.” D’Souza said that it’s being examined whether they could have gotten the infection from family members or elsewhere. The couple’s son repairs ATMs, and had gone to Bicholim a week ago on work. His swab samples, as well as those of his two siblings, have also been collected and sent for testing. Meanwhile, the number of recovered individuals in Goa crossed the 100-mark on Thursday after 13 more persons were cured and discharged. The day also saw 49 new cases, taking the state’s active count to 596. Chimbel, of which Indiranagar is a part, witnessed a spike in cases. Seven members of a family tested positive, bringing the total Covid-19 cases in the area to 21 — 15 of which are from the same family. These cases are linked to Mangor Hill, as a member of the family who worked as a security guard at Vasco urban health centre was among the first to test positive. Thursday saw Mangor Hill’s tally go up by 11, and the number of cases linked to the containment zone now stands at 181. A fresh isolated case was reported in Ambelim, Chinchinim, on Thursday, while cases in other “isolated” locations like Margao, Curtorim and Raia also rose. The health department has so far been unable to find the source of these infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hits-packed-indiranagar-govt-rushes-to-arrest-spread/articleshow/76453947.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Covid-19 patient dies, hospital faces probe||GHAZIABAD: A private hospital faces a magisterial inquiry for allegedly putting a critical Covid-19 patient in an ambulance not equipped with life support systems.  The patient, a 66-year-old woman, had passed away when she reached the designated Covid-19 facility the private hospital was shift-ing her to. The inquiry was ordered by the Ghaziabad district magistrate after Dr Arya Desh Deepak, special officer at L3 Covid facility Santosh Medical College Hospital, informed the administration that that patient had been brought dead. City magistrate Shiv Pratap Shukla will conduct the probe. He has been asked to submit a report within seven days. The patient, Kumkum Singh, was a resident of New Gandhi Nagar. Her son KB Singh said she was admitted to Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar Industrial area on Saturday in an unconscious state due to high blood sugar levels. He claimed Kumkum did not have a fever, cold or cough. “Her Covid test was done on Sunday and the report that came the next day said she was positive. The doctors initially asked us to shift her to a Covid hospital, but later changed their stand. In the meantime, I got in touch with the health department. The chief medical officer wrote a mail to the hospital management on Tuesday night apprising them she had been allocated a bed at Santosh Medical College Hospital for treatment,” Singh, a lawyer by profession, said. “Soon after that, the hospital staff called us and said they would shift the patient in the night itself,” Singh added. “They put pressure on us. I requested them several times not to shift her in the night, but they did not listen.” In his communication to the administration, Dr Deepak stated that the patient was brought to the hospital a 12.26am on Tuesday by a private ambulance without any relatives and doctors. “On check-up, she was found dead,” Dr Deepak noted. Dr Amit Goel, medical superintendent of Sarvodaya Hospital, told TOI, “We received the CMO’s mail around 8.45pm on Tuesday about shifting of the patient. Afterwards, we initiated the process. One casualty medical officer and two paramedical staff had accompanied the patient to the hospital with vein circuit (a breathing system) after taking consent of the family. We had also shared the information with the CMO.” Goel added that Kumkum had fever for the past three-four day and difficulty in breathing. At the time she was brought to the hospital, her oxygen saturation level was very low and blood sugar level very high, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-patient-dies-hosp-faces-probe/articleshow/76454448.cms||Aditya Dev
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Sudheeran flays attempts to politicize rights panel||Thiruvananthapuram: Senior Congress leader V M Sudheeran has urged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan not to politicise Kerala state commission for the protection of child rights. In a letter sent to the chief minister, Sudheeran said that the government overlooked the merit while choosing a candidate to the post of the commission chairperson. In order to appoint a political nominee to a sensitive position, the government has diluted the qualifications required for the post. The government is learnt to have chosen a candidate over a district judge for the bizarre reason' that the said person had been a PTA president of a school. “Government should put an end to these sort of practices that dent the credibility of child rights commission. Merit should be the only criteria while choosing candidates to such important posts,” he said. Child welfare protection council chairman R S Sasikumar and convener Ullur Murali had raised similar charges in a complaint given to the chief minister on Wednesday. It was alleged that the government has decided to appoint an advocate practicing in Thalassery court by overlooking a district judge who had passed orders in several cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The interview panel headed by by social welfare minister K K Shailaja gave first rank to advocate K V Manoj while the child rights commission member M P Antony was ranked second. However, Kasaragod district judge S H Panchapakesan was given third rank in the interview, they had pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sudheeran-flays-attempts-to-politicize-rights-panel/articleshow/76452022.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Goa||Govt mulling over conducting classes for SSC, HSSC students: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that a decision would soon be taken on whether regular classes should be held for SSC and HSSC students. However, he said that with the number of Covid-19 cases rising daily, no decision has yet been taken about the commencement of the new academic year for other classes. Speaking on the sidelines of a Goa Revolution Day function, Sawant said, “We will make arrangements to start regular classes through the education department after the pandemic situation subsides. We will come up with a concrete solution on the issue soon.” Sawant also clarified that the state government has not made online education compulsory as some children would face problems with internet connectivity due to the lack of adequate infrastructure in the state. “Even if some government-aided and unaided schools have started online teaching, we don’t want the remaining children to miss the syllabus,” he said. On poor internet connectivity, Sawant said that one reason why the state lacks required infrastructure is that often, when mobile companies want to erect their towers, the public opposes them. “If we have to move ahead, we need to have public participation,” he said Meanwhile, reacting to the opposition’s demands that the state’s borders be sealed, Sawant said that the borders are being monitored 24x7. “Only Goans are allowed to enter,” he said. Reacting further to Goa Forward Party’s demands for immediate revoking of the order to withdraw and close the house building advance scheme for government employees, Sawant said that the opposition should understand that this is a part of the austerity measures undertaken by his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-mulling-over-conducting-classes-for-ssc-hssc-students-sawant/articleshow/76453956.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||ZP dept heads to monitor hotspots in rural areas of Nashik||Nashik: The heads of department (HoDs) in Nashik zilla parishad have been given the responsibility to monitor the various measures being undertaken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas of the district. According to district health officer Kapil Aher, “ZP CEO Leena Bansod has appointed the heads of various departments to monitor the Covid-19 tracking and treatment process in the hotspots across 15 talukas of the district – excluding Nashik and Malegaon Municipal Corporation limits.” The HoDs will supervise and monitor the contact tracing activities being carried out. They will also look after the infrastructure raised for treating the Covid-19 patients and other protocols for containing the spread of the disease. “Door-to-door survey is being carried out in all the hotspots. The HoDs will monitor the process of identifying senior citizens, ones with comorbidities and children and pregnant women who have contracted the infection,” said Aher. Rural Nashik has witnessed a spurt in the number of Covid-19 positive cases especially after intra-district movement was allowed. While the first patient was detected on March 27, the 100th patient was registered 47 days later on May 15. Thereafter, the next set of 100 patients were registered in just 15 days later by June 2.The rural areas of the district breached the Covid tally of 300-mark on June 11 and the 400-mark in the next five days on June 16. Currently, of the 462 Covid-19 patients registered from the rural areas of the district, 260 people have recovered while 20 have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zp-dept-heads-to-monitor-hotspots-in-rural-areas-of-nashik/articleshow/76450969.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Nara Lokesh was recording proceedings: Velampalli||VIJAYAWADA: Cabinet ministers on Thursday criticised TDP members for disrupting the proceedings of the legislative council and preventing government business from being carried out. They alleged that TDP, which has a majority in the House, had stalled the proceedings purposely to disrupt government’s plans. They also alleged that the chairman and the deputy chairman, who belonged to the TDP, are colluding with the opposition in violation of set rules and practices of the House. Minister for endowments, Velampalli Srinivas Rao, alleged that TDP leaders are violating the rules of the House. He pointed out that TDP MLC Nara Lokesh was taking video of the proceedings that is against the rules. “Lokesh did not stop taking video despite the deputy chairman Reddy Subrahmanyam advising him against it. I had to stop the unruly act,” he said and added that TDP members physically assaulted him on the floor of the House. Minister for water resources, P Anil Kumar, dismissed the allegations of TDP members that he misbehaved and dared them to prove it. “Let us write to the chairman of the House to show us the video footage to prove their charges. If they fail to prove, they should resign,” he demanded. Municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana, alleged that TDP members had come to the House prepared to disrupt the proceedings. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lokesh-was-recording-proceedings-velampalli/articleshow/76450964.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||After cabs and autos, Bengaluru’s state-run buses mull ‘partition’||BENGALURU: Stepping up precautionary measures against the pandemic after five of their employees tested positive, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is planning partitions inside buses to safeguard staff. Of the five who tested positive, two belong to Indiranagar depot and one each to KR Puram, Koramangala and RR Nagar depots. Officials said two are traffic controllers and the remaining are driver-cum-conductors. “Some of them were on leave,” an official said. “For instance, one employee who is infected is in Nanjangud in Mysuru district. BMTC and health department officials are tracing primary and secondary contacts and they are being quarantined. Depots are also being sanitised.” Staffs are highly vulnerable since the corporation has been operating buses to ferry essential workers including medical staff to hospitals, as well as migrant workers to railway stations from where they board Shramik trains. It is also transporting domestic and international flight passengers from the airport to quarantine centres, besides train passengers from Mumbai, a virus hotspot. Many cabs and autorickshaws in the city have already installed fibreglass partitions in their vehicles to ward off an infection. The partition in the driver’s area inside buses, which separates drivers from passengers, is expected to reduce the risk of exposure. BMTC managing director C Shikha said: “Thirty of our buses, which were used to ferry international and domestic flight passengers to quarantine centres, have partitions made of rexine. We are now working on a design which will be installed in all buses.” Currently, BMTC runs around 4,800 of its fleet of 6,100 buses, recording a daily ridership of around 10 lakh. BMTC conductors are too are vulnerable since they issue tickets, accept cash and return change to passengers. BMTC officials say they have introduced digital ticketing through QR code scanning, to promote cashless and contactless travel. However, a ‘tap and pay’ system appears a long way off as the utility needs to float a tender for it. BMTC statistics show an average 1,000 passengers pay through QR-code. This is mainly because most techies are still working from home and many are using personal vehicles to commute. “Common people who cannot afford to travel in private vehicles are using BMTC and they are not tech-savvy. Most regular passengers also have daily passes,” said a BMTC official. BMTC officials said they have provided masks and hand sanitisers to all employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-cabs-and-autos-bengalurus-state-run-buses-mull-partition/articleshow/76452042.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Serious lapses in isolation and testing||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 10-member team led by a public health specialist, comprising house surgeons, post graduates and volunteers, has been tirelessly working for the past three months tracing not only contacts but also laying bare serious lapses in isolation and testing protocol in the district. The recent spate of cases with apparently nil epidemiological link has made their task even more gruelling. More than 200 contacts had to be traced in at least three cases since March. Taking an infected person on a rewind trail spanning 14 days especially when the patient is stressed after being confirmed of Covid-19 presents multiple challenges. “Not many people would be able to recollect where they went, persons they had visited over such a long period of time. We get a basic data from some of their contacts and if we feel that the information is not accurate, we sometimes put forward contradictory statements. We will intentionally create an opposite track of information and then ask probing questions. They will soon correct us and that gives us confirmation of what their contacts would have told us,” one of the members in the team said. As for volunteers, attuning themselves to mood swings of patients was often hurtful in the initial days. Unlike public health specialists and community medicine experts, they were not trained to deal with such reactions. Gradually they learned to be patient and sometimes it helped them establish a bond with patients through frequent follow up calls. The formidable challenge surfaces when the team can’t interact with patients directly. In some cases, contact tracing would begin after the patient had died and the team will have to mostly depend upon inputs from immediate relatives, friends, colleagues and the like. The next task would be to piece together bits of information and fill in missing links. In case of remand prisoners and some patients who are not forthcoming, the task becomes doubly arduous. Owing to legalities involved in their cases, many persons wouldn't divulge much, delaying the crucial isolation and containment procedure. “Gathering direct information from the infected persons is the most accurate way of establishing epidemiological link. Indirect sources could furnish conflicting information. Direct inputs would help us establish vital link between the patient and source of infection,” an official who is part of the disease investigation team said. During their course of preparing travel history, the team has been able to unearth glaring lapses in protocol throwing light into areas requiring immediate intervention. It was only after the publication of route maps that violations of testing protocol became evident in case of a nursing assistant who had tested positive, in the case of vicar whose swab was tested positive after his death. Even recently, the collector sought epidemiological reports from general hospital and medical college after route maps revealed that the patient was not tested despite presenting with breathlessness. The team has been able to pick up speed effectively in contact tracing in the last two weeks despite working non-stop. “We start working on it as early as we get confirmation. Sooner we ready the route map, the faster we could act,” an official said. Meanwhile, five more positive cases were reported in the district on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/serious-lapses-in-isolation-and-testing/articleshow/76452045.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For chariot-makers, all efforts went in vain||Bhubaneswar: Bijay Mahapatra, the chief carpenter of Jagannath’s Nandighosh chariot, was giving finishing touches to his work at Ratha Khala (the place where the chariots were being built) when he received the news that the Supreme Court has put brakes on this year’s Rath Yatra owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The unprecedented news also came as a shock to all other carpenters, who had been toiling hard to complete the giant wooden chariots for the sibling deities — Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra — for the Rath Yatra on June 23. Around 100 carpenters had undergone the Covid-19 test and engaged in chariot work after they tested negative. What pained them the most was that the chariots, even after completion, will not be used for Rath Yatra for the first time. “Every year, the chariots are dismantled after the end of Rath Yatra and used as firewood in the temple kitchen. Some portions of the chariots, including the wheels, are also auctioned by the temple administration to generate revenue for the temple. But this year, our hard work has gone in vain. For the first time, the chariots would not be pulled on Rath Yatra despite being ready,” Mahapatra said. The carpenters said the state government should not have allowed the construction of chariots. “We cannot see the chariots being broken or auctioned before use. We are hurt,” Rabi Bhoi, another carpenter, said. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister of home affairs (MHA) had on May 7 approved the state government’s proposal to start the construction of chariots for Rath Yatra in Puri. The state government had sought the approval of the Centre for the chariot work. This year, the work on the chariots started late. Though the chariot work should have started from Akshaya Tritiya (April 26), the work was suspended owing to the restrictions in the lockdown. “We usually take 45 days to complete the three chariots. This time, we started the work from May 8. The construction work was nearing completion,” another carpenter said. Environmentalists said the government should not have allowed felling of trees for the chariot work amid uncertainty over the Rath Yatra. “Every year, nearly 1,000 trees of different species are felled to meet the requirement of 13,000 cubic feet of wood for the making of three chariots. The height of Taladhwaja chariot of Lord Balabhadra is 45-ft, Nandighosh of Jagannath is 45.6ft and Devidalan chariot of Goddess Subhadra is 44.6ft. “We could have saved the trees this year,” Jayant Pradhan, an environmentalist, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-chariot-makers-all-efforts-went-in-vain/articleshow/76452046.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||‘2017-18 marked by fiscal imprudence’||Amaravati: The audit report of comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG), which was tabled in the assembly on Wednesday, found fault with the TDP government for its poor management of finance during 2017-18. The CAG said that the then government had managed finances with overdrafts for about 231 days in a year. The report said that revenue deficit was reported at Rs 16,152 crore during 2017-18. “Revenue deficit exceeded the zero ceiling despite release of Finance Commission grants,” said CAG. The report said that the state government had secured overdraft from the RBI to the tune of Rs 45,860 crore during the financial year and the delay in repayment had resulted in payment of Rs 44.31 crore interest to the RBI. It said the total debts of the state touched Rs 2,23,706 crore by March 2018. But the government had grossly failed to create assets on similar lines. The report pointed out that the debt repayment ratio had increased to 33.51% from 18.27% in 2016-17. It stated that the government secured loans only to repay old loans resulting in the additional burden on the state exchequer. CAG also pointed out that the state government had planned to construct road network for about 352kms at an estimated Rs 180.52 crore. However, the government could construct only 250kms of the road network. But by the time it spent about 99% of the planned budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2017-18-marked-by-fiscal-imprudence/articleshow/76450976.cms||Samdani MN
June 19, 2020||Mangaluru||39,940 write PU II exams in DK, Udupi||Mangaluru: As many as 39,940 students from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts appeared for the English subject of II Year Pre- University Course examinations on Thursday. The examination was postponed due to pandemic lockdown. Of the total of 39,940 students present for the examination, 26,286 were from DK and 13,454 were from Udupi district. While there were 466 absentees in DK, the number was 163 for Udupi district. Of the 26,286 students who attended the examination, 1,137 were from Kerala. Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar in a virtually held press briefing said two students with health issues appeared for the examination in DK, while nine students appeared for the examination from the containment zone in Udupi and one candidate had health issue. Overall in Karnataka, 223 students from containment zones and 20 with health issues wrote the examination. In all 1,889 students from outside the state appeared for examination. If inter-district movement of students within the state for the exam is considered, out of 20,406 students scheduled to write the exam, 18,517 students appeared for the exam. All students from Kerala appear The Dakshina Kannada district administration and officials of PU department successfully facilitated as many 1,137 students from border state Kerala to appear for examination in the district. As many as 760 students alone queued up at Talapady, one of the major entry points, at 7am. After thermal screening, candidates who wore masks and carried sanitisers were sent to their respective examination centres in buses arranged by the district administration. They were given separate rooms to write examinations and after which again dropped back to Talapady. Like Talapady, other border points were notified in DK, located at Vittal, Mudipu, Sullia and Puttur. “When students come in a large number, social distancing goes for a toss. However, we have done our best to ensure their safety,” said PU official in-charge of Kerala PU students. The parents and students lauded the district administration for conducting examinations smoothly. “We were not allowed to mingle for last minute studies and entered the examination hall 30 minutes prior to the scheduled time,” said a student. Students who appeared for the last exam said the paper was very easy and they will be able to score well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/39940-write-pu-ii-exams-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/76452039.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||15% students in Maharashtra have no devices for remote learning: Study||PUNE: About 15% students in the state do not have access to any medium of communication like a TV, smartphone or radio, data from a sample survey released by the state education department shows. The state is trying hard to provide online education or use other ways to for schooling. The worst-affected districts are Gadchiroli and Palghar where more than 36% have no access to any medium of communication. Cities like Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, and Thane had 10.88%, 3.58%, 10.97% and 16.29% students respectively with no access to any medium of communication, the survey said. About 56% students do not have access to WhatsApp, 69% have no access to SMS, 26.13% have no cellphones, 35.02% have no TV and 89.22% have no access to the radio. Vasant Kalpande, educationist and former chairperson of Maharashtra State Board said that the TV is the best way to reach out to the maximum students. “Kerala has dedicated channels with a timetable for all school students. We have all the necessary infrastructure, what we need is initiative and planning. If not a dedicated channel, at least slots on Doordarshan can help conduct regular classes . We already have about 3,000 programmes from Balchitravani available. At least 1,000 will be relevant which we can use while we make more educational content,” he added. Usha Rane, director of content and training at Pratham, one of the largest non-governmental organisations that works to improve the quality of education in India said 85% students must be reached with some medium of communication, and unconventional methods must be devised to reach the rest. “We had textbooks reach all the students in time. Now, we must fully utilise whatever form of medium the students possess and reach out to those children with quality educational content. For the remaining 15%, we must engage local resources. We can ask students belonging to the National Service Scheme to start teaching groups of students,” she said. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad had also spoken about utilising local volunteers within a gram panchayat to teach students in the area. “From NGOs to self-help groups to volunteers, we are seeking opinions on how best to teach students in areas where no teacher can reach. So efforts are on at all levels,”she added. Mathematician Mangala Narlikar who is associated with the textbook committee said the epidemic should be looked at as an opportunity to revive self-learning among students. “The textbooks have been made extremely easy to understand. It is the perfect time for students to self learn. There are all kinds of examples in the book and whenever there is a problem, they can help each other, or maybe a senior in the community can help them. This will ensure that they are not dependent on teachers, rather teachers work just like a facilitator. Moreover, such a habit will serve them well even in later years when they are studying for competitive examinations,” said Narlikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-pupils-have-no-devices-for-remote-learning-study/articleshow/76453970.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: As online classes begin, textbook crunch hits students from Class V to VIII||PANAJI: While teachers of schools affiliated to the Goa Board have either begun conducting live online classes or reaching out through other virtual platforms, students from Class V to VIII, who are a part of this new learning system, have not yet received their textbooks. They are left to rely only on notes provided by their teachers. Textbooks for Class I to VIII are printed by a Maharashtra-based agency and are provided to students directly by the Goa government under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Book stalls are not allowed to sell them. Officials said that due to restricted movement of interstate vehicles during the lockdown, the books have not been able to reach Goa in time. Some book stall owners have begun requesting that students donate their textbooks from the previous class to others who may need them. “I act as an intermediary between students who would like to donate their books and those who need them. My own child is studying in Class III. Parents come here every day desperate for books. I understand their situation and want to help them,” said Namrata Sardesai, owner of Sardesai Enterprises in Panaji. As book stalls are permitted to sell textbooks for Class IX to XII, the stocks are readily available with them. No shortage has been reported. “Students are relying on whatever notes teachers are providing during online sessions to carry on their studies. For Class I to IV, English language textbooks in mathematics, science etc are available for sale. But as vernacular medium textbooks in these subjects are to be supplied under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, book stalls do not have them,” a teacher said and added that textbooks for Sanskrit and French in the higher classes are always in short supply. While a book stall owner said the shortage was an annual affair and not an offshoot of the lockdown, officials maintained that the lockdown had, in fact, hindered transportation of textbooks this year. “The textbooks are expected next week. The process of distribution to schools will remain the same and will take place taluka-wise. Schools can then plan the onward distribution of books to parents,” said director of the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Nagraj Honnekeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-online-classes-begin-textbook-crunch-hits-students-from-class-v-to-viii/articleshow/76453959.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 19, 2020||Business||Darj body seeks ban on illegal sales of Nepal tea||Kolkata: Amid growing animosity on the India-Nepal border, tea planters in Darjeeling demand a permanent end to sales of “cheap and low-quality” Nepal tea, which is “illegally imported” to India without complying with the required food safety norms. The Hills tea industry has complained that the “spurious leaves” from the Himalayan nation are passed off in the retail markets as iconic Darjeeling Tea by deceiving the unsuspecting consumers and damaging the reputation of India’s first GI-tagged agricultural produce. In a letter to Pramod Kumar Agarwal, chief commissioner of the Customs Kolkata Zone, the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) has alleged that some trucks carrying consignments of tea from Nepal are illegally entering through the Indo-Nepal borders of Raxaul, Jogbani and Panitanki land border points at night on a regular basis. “These illegal consignments which are food safety non-compliant (FSSAI) are reaching the warehouses in Kolkata and Siliguri and are sold in the retail markets of Kolkata and Siliguri,” the letter said. Currently, the import of teas from Nepal has been officially suspended by the Central government. However, the Indo-Nepal Free Trade Agreement empowers any trader to legally import tea from Nepal. But selling it in India or abroad in the name of Darjeeling tea is an infringement of intellectual property rights (IPR). DTA core group chairman Sanay Prakash Bansal also wrote to FSSAI chairman Rita Teaotia that large scale instances of omission and commission in the matter was noted on the ground while the Indian Customs Authority is authorised to only allow the entry of import of tea on strict compliance of the standards of the FSSAI under Food Safety and Standards (Import) Regulation 2017. The estate owners sought 100% testing and compliance of food standards on imported tea leaves and withdrawal of recognition for the testing certification from the National Food & Feed Laboratory in Kathmandu. DTA has made many representations to the Tea Board of India on the continuous infringement of the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) of the Darjeeling Tea in lndia, especially the misuse of the name 'Darjeeling'. Citing clause 22 of the Tea Distribution Export Control Order 2005, the DTA urged the Tea Board deputy chairman Arun Kumar Ray to immediately ban sales and distribution of sale and distribution of imported Nepal tea in loose format “without proper labelling and clear marking”. Around 8 million kg (mkg) tea is produced from 87 tea estates in Darjeeling. The Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), the planters’ body in the Hills, says, about 16 mkg of tea has been imported from Nepal last year out of which about 5 mkg are of orthodox variety. The Hills tea, which has been facing a severe strain from the impact of low price realisation, climate change, fall in global prices, scarcity of skilled labour and high production cost, has always failed to block the entry of low-value-but-similar-looking tea leaves for the last one decade. The Covid lockdown has also wiped out the exportable and profit-making first flush tea in Darjeeling this year causing over 35% loss in revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/darj-body-seeks-ban-on-illegal-sales-of-nepal-tea/articleshow/76453972.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop dies as gun goes off accidentally||tnnChandigarh: A 48-year-old head constable of Punjab Police was killed after his rifle went off accidentally while he was cleaning it in Sector 42 on Thursday noon.Raj Singh, a resident of Sangrur, was deployed in the security of a former Punjab DGP at his house.“Raj was a part of the security of Mohammad Izhar Alam, ex-DGP of Punjab. In the wake of an inspection by senior officials, Raj was cleaning his SLR rifle around 2pm, when it went off accidently and a bullet pierced through his head,” said a cop. His colleagues rushed him to GMH-16, where he was declared brought dead. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The post-mortem will be conducted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-dies-as-gun-goes-off-accidentally/articleshow/76453031.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bhopal||BJP sure of winning 2 seats, holds mock poll||BHOPAL: With support of six non-Congress MLAs, the BJP on Thursday seemed confident of winning two seats in the Rajya Sabha elections to be held on June 19. The BJP legislature party meeting convened at the state headquarters on Thursday discussed poll strategy and the process to be followed during polling amid Covid-19 crisis. The party also conducted mock polling during the meeting. "We will begin our victory march by winning the Rajya Sabha elections tomorrow," said BJP state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, while addressing the MLAs. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan introduced non-Congress MLAs to party members and said that he was thankful to Jyotiraditya Scindia and his colleagues who had resigned and paved way for the fall of Congress government. "The public was fed up with Congress government as the party had not only stopped all welfare schemes but also cheated the public," said Chouhan. BJP central observers Prakash Javdekar and BL Panda lauded chief minister Chouhan for his efforts to control the coronavirus in MP. The BJP has 107 MLAs in the house and the party has also claimed support of two BSP, one SP and three Independent MLAs. Former minister Pradeep Jaiswal who was missing from BJP's dinner on Wednesday was present at the meeting. BSP MLA Rambai Singh and Independent MLA Surendra Singh Shera also confirmed their support to BJP. BJP state president VD Sharma said that the victory in Rajya Sabha elections is crucial for the upcoming bypolls. "We will observe black day on June 24 to mark the imposition of Emergency by the erstwhile Indira Gandhi government," said Sharma. The meeting which culminated into a dinner party also witnessed deliberations over upcoming bypolls on 24 seats in the state. Earlier, the BJP convened meetings of steering and management committees which were attended by Sahasrabuddhe, Javdekar, Gopal Bhargava, Narendra Singh Tomar, Prahlad Patel, Faggan Singh Kulaste and Narottam Mishra among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-sure-of-winning-2-seats-holds-mock-poll/articleshow/76452059.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Chandrababu Naidu meets guv over YSRC ‘high-handedness’||VIJAYAWADA: TDP chief and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at the Raj Bhavan on Thursday and requested him to intervene and “restore democracy in the state”. Naidu submitted a 14-page representation to the governor, listing down the human rights violations committed by the state government and the illegal arrest of the TDP leaders. He alleged that YSRC was targeting its political rivals. TDP leaders and the cadre are being implicated in false cases as part of the political witch-hunt by YSRC, he alleged, adding that the Dalits, who have been sympathetic towards TDP are being targete. He also alleged that false cases were filed against three BC leaders in a span of four days and one of them was sent to jail. In all, 33 TDP leaders have been booked and over 800 TDP activists were physically attacked in the last one year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-meets-guv-over-ysrc-high-handedness/articleshow/76450986.cms||Gopi Dara
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Eight cops from one station test positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: Eight police personnel attached to Kalasipalya police station (law and order), West division, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The station is located near KR Market and near two other stations – VV Puram and City Market – where five police personnel (two from VV Puram and three from City Market) were found infected and one had died last Sunday. “All eight have been shifted to Victoria Hospital and 35 people, who have been identified as primary contact, are in quarantine. The number of primary contacts may increase on Friday,” a senior police officer said adding, “These eight had worked in Padarayanapura and Tipunagar [both containment zones],” he said. On Wednesday, tests on nine Bengaluru police personnel, five Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) battalion cops and four from two other stations had confirmed an infection, while a constable attached to Hennur police station, East division was discharged after seven days of treatment. In all, 26 cops from the city have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Four of them have been discharged, one died and the remaining are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/eight-cops-from-one-station-test-ve/articleshow/76452063.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Saathi’ success: 23 crimes against women cracked||Lucknow: The ‘Saathi’ project launched by Lucknow police commissionerate for working out cases of crime against women and girls has started yielding results, with as many as 23 cases of kidnapping and abduction being resolved. Under the project started by crime against women and safety (CAWAS) cell of the commissionerate, each complainant was assigned a cop, ‘Saathi’ (companion), to help resolve the case. Assistant commissioner of police, CAWAS, Shweta Srivastava said on Thursday, 23 cases of kidnapping and abduction were resolved, while 70 other cases were reviewed in 10 days. “Among the 70 cases, women/girls have been recovered in 37 and subsequent proceedings are on, while action was initiated against offenders and chargesheet filed against them in 23 other cases,” the ACP said. The officer said that 10 other cases are also being worked upon. Other cases including those of rape and cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were also taken up and are being reviewed. Deputy commissioner of police, CAWAS, Charu Nigam said, “The ‘Saathi’ personnel make complainants aware of their rights, schemes in which financial assistance is provided by the government, and get their counselling done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saathi-success-23-crimes-against-women-cracked/articleshow/76453965.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||11 contract the virus in Mohali||tnnMohali: Eleven Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Mohali on Thursday. All of them are direct contacts of Covid-19 patients, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.They include a 34-year-old staff nurse of a Manimajra hospital who is a resident of Bhankharpur, Derabassi; a 25-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man, both of whom have returned from Uttar Pradesh, of Focal Point, Derabassi; two women, aged 55 and 75, of Mubarakpur in Derabassi. Two men of Lalru, aged 66 and 25, are also infected. Kurali residents, a 40-year-old man and a 14-year-old girl; and two men, aged 25 and 27, of Mubarikpur are also positive.Meanwhile, two patients, a Khanpur villager, 30, and a Nayagaon resident, 39, were cured and discharged from a hospital. The civil surgeon said 204 positive cases have been reported in the district so far, of which 67 are active. While 134 patients have recovered, three have succumbed to the virus.At beer plant… The health department has started ‘random sampling’ of all the employees of a beer plant in Bhankharpur, near Derabassi. The move comes after four employees of the plant were found infected with novel coronavirus a few days ago. The civil surgeon said, “The plant has about 350 employees and the sampling work would be completed in five days. On the first day, 41 samples were collected.”The health department has sealed the administrative department of the factory, where the four worked. The rest of the workers of the department have been instructed to home quarantine themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-contract-the-virus-in-mohali/articleshow/76453034.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Jalgaon hospital needs more manpower, equipment, says Panel||NASHIK: The death audit committee set up by Jalgaon district administration has recommended upgradation in manpower and medical equipment to treat Covid-19 patients at Jalgaon Medical College Hospital. The panel, comprising five well-known doctors of Jalgaon, is headed by Dipak Patil. State health minister Rajesh Tope had directed the Jalgaon administration to set up a panel of doctors to ascertain the reasons for high Covid mortality rate in Jalgaon. A district official requesting anonymity told TOI that the committee has stressed for improvement in services of ICU to treat Covid patients. The panel’s report has been sent to the state health department. The panel examined papers related to treatment of 94 Covid patients who had died till June 3. It also interacted with the family members of many of the deceased. Sources in the panel said that manpower, including doctors and health workers at the ICU of the hospital, should be in accordance with the MCI/ICMR guidelines. The ICU must also have equipment like portable X-ray machine and arterial-blood gas (ABG) test machine. Panel sources said that some bereaved families told the committee members that, at times, the patients had to walk to the toilets as ward assistants were not there to help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-hospital-needs-more-manpower-equipment-panel/articleshow/76450982.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In blow to greens, SC okays infrastructure, building plans on 407 acres in Aarey||MUMBAI: A total of 407 acres in the green Aarey Colony in suburban Mumbai, roughly the size of 18 Oval Maidans, can now be used for infrastructure and building construction projects. In a setback to city environmentalists, the Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal by NGO Vanashakti and its director Stalin Dayanand against a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order. In January, the tribunal had upheld a 2016 order of the environment ministry (MoEF) to exclude 407 acres of over 15,000 acres notified as an Ecologically Sensitive Zone (ESZ) around the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). In its appeal before the apex court, Vanashakti said on January 24, 2020 that the NGT bench disposed of its case without hearing the two parties and in their absence. The environment ministry, while justifying the reduced ESZ, had informed the NGT that the state government had proposed the Metro rail shed in the excluded Aarey land and some slums and highrises exist on the boundary with SGNP. Last year, trees were cut on land earmarked for the Metro car shed causing an uproar, and the new government is yet to take a final call on the car shed. Challenging the tribunal’s order before the SC, the NGO said the NGT had “failed to consider that the excluded plot is a heavily forested land that boasts of trees of indigenous forest species and has varied flora and fauna.” The activist also said allowing construction inside an ESZ will cause “irreparable harm to the highly sensitive ecology of the region which harbours 1,300 species of flowering plants, 45 species of mammals, 43 species of reptiles, 300 species of birds and 150 species of butterflies” and “thereby impact the entire biodiversity of the park.” The SC bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Abdul Nazeer on Tuesday, however, observed that Mumbai was “a congested city” and Metro was important, and dismissed the NGO’s appeal. The NGO said that while its challenge was before the NGT, western zone, in Pune, the case was however transferred to the NGT, principal bench, at New Delhi. On January 24, the tribunal passed an ex-parte order without hearing it “wrongly” and “without any application of mind”. It “summarily disposed” the case by accepting the ministry’s affidavit justifying the ESZ reduction. Vanashakti alleged procedural lapses in transfer of the case from it “territorial jurisdiction.” It said the NGT “acted in complete violation of rules of natural justice in deciding the case without hearing any party.” In the SC, the NGO’s counsel also mentioned the environmental damage that reduction of ESZ could cause. The NGT bench of chairperson Justice AK Goel and judicial member Justice S P Wangdi with two expert members Nagin Nanda and Siddhanta Das, after citing two paragraphs from an MoEF affidavit, had in its order said “no further order is necessary”. The ministry had said “the ESZ size was reduced after following due procedure of law and any new construction is allowed as per zonal master plan”. The ministry had said that during a July 2016 meeting, the Maharashtra government representative informed that “various stakeholder and the public requested for the ESZ reduction and to keep it to bare minimum.” The NGO’s appeal said the new notification however negated objections submitted by a large number of citizens and altering the draft notification has restricted the scope of declaring an area as ESZ. “It allows for setting up of all kinds of infrastructure projects (such as the Metro rail projects), commercial establishments, residential buildings, IT Parks including red category industries, in an ESZ area,” the appeal stated. By the reduction, the NGO said, the government “in a blatantly illegal manner allowed unregulated construction activities and infrastructure works of a hazardous nature to commence inside the ESZ and on the border of the SGNP. This is completely against the spirit and purpose of National Wildlife Action Plan, 2002-2016 and the subsequent ESZ Guidelines of 2011.” Among the major projects planned within the exempted 407 acres in Aarey is a slum redevelopment project spread over 90 acres, which will hold 80,000 people. Stalin Dayanand of Vanashakti said, “We will study the SC order once it is uploaded and decide next steps. Mumbai is a congested city, Metro important: SC judgesThe NGO Vanashakti had told the SC in its appeal in the Aarey case that allowing construction inside an Ecologically Sensitive Zone would cause “irreparable harm to the highly sensitive ecology of the region which harbours 1,300 species of flowering plants, 45 species of mammals, 43 species of reptiles, 300 species of birds and 150 species of butterflies” and “thereby impact the entire biodiversity of the park.” The SC bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Abdul Nazeer on Tuesday, however, observed that Mumbai was “a congested city” and Metro was important, and dismissed the NGO’s appeal. The NGO said while its challenge was before the NGT, western zone, in Pune, the case was however transferred to the NGT, principal bench, at New Delhi. On January 24, the tribunal passed an ex-parte order without hearing it “wrongly” and “without any application of mind’.” It “summarily disposed” the case by accepting the ministry’s affidavit justifying the ESZ reduction. Vanashakti alleged procedural lapses in transfer of the case from its “territorial jurisdiction.” It said NGT “acted in complete violation of rules of natural justice in deciding the case without hearing any party.” In the SC, the NGO’s counsel also mentioned the environmental damage that reduction of ESZ could cause. The NGT bench of chairperson Justice AK Goel and judicial member Justice S P Wangdi with two expert members Nagin Nanda and Siddhanta Das, after citing two paras from an MoEF affidavit, had in its order said “no further order is necessary.” The ministry had said “ESZ size was reduced after following due procedure of law and any new construction is allowed as per zonal master plan.” The ministry had said that during a July 2016 meeting, the Maharashtra government representative informed that “various stakeholder and the public requested for the ESZ reduction and to keep it to bare minimum.” The NGO’s appeal said the new notification however negated objections submitted by a large number of citizens and altering the draft notification has restricted the scope of declaring an area as ESZ.“It allows for setting up of all kinds of infrastructure projects (such as the Metro rail projects), commercial establishments, residential buildings, IT Parks including red category industries, in an ESZ area,” the appeal stated. By the reduction, the NGO said, the government “in a blatantly illegal manner allowed unregulated construction activities and infrastructure works of a hazardous nature to commence inside the ESZ and on the border of the SGNP. This is completely against the spirit and purpose of National Wildlife Action Plan, 2002-2016 and the subsequent ESZ Guidelines of 2011.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-blow-to-greens-sc-oks-infra-bldg-plans-on-407-acres-in-aarey/articleshow/76454071.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Conmen posing as Army men dupe man of Rs 38,000||LUCKNOW: With the lockdown ending, gangs posing as Army men have become active on buy-and-sell websites again. Indiranagar resident Abhishek Verma is their latest victim. He was defrauded of Rs 38,000 in the name of a bike deal. Verma has lodged a case in this connection. Verma told police that he had contacted a number after going through an advertisement on the online shopping site. “The man who attended the call introduced himself as an Army officer and later finalised the deal at Rs 21,000,” Verma said in his complaint, adding that he had made the payment. “A little later, I was asked to send Rs 4,250 as advance payment so that the seller could send the bike to me through courier,” he added. Verma made the payment when he received a call from a man named Abhishek who asked him to transfer Rs 5,000 in a bank account which belonged to the bike seller. Verma again transferred the cash and informed the seller. The seller then asked for Rs 8,000 as security. “Verma was promised that he will be given back the excess money but he neither got the bike nor the money,” the police said. Assistant commissioner of police, cybercell, Vivek Ranjan Rai said that for many years cases have been reported in which innocents have been duped by scamsters posing as armymen. “We are compiling such cases and working on them. After lockdown ended, they have again become active,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conmen-posing-as-armymen-dupe-man-of-rs-38000/articleshow/76453983.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Stalker stabs woman to death on market road, days before her wedding||GHAZIABAD: A 19-year-old woman was stabbed multiple times by a stalker in the middle of a road at a market near Ghaziabad’s Tila Mor while she was returning home with her parents on Wednesday evening. She was rushed to a hospital in Delhi, where she succumbed on Thursday morning. Cops said the woman, Naina Kaur, used to live with her parents Baldev Singh (62) and Neelam Kaur (58) in Tulsi Niketan’s Vivek Vihar colony. Her elder sister is married. Naina was pursuing a nursing course in Delhi after completing her intermediate from a school in the capital last year. Her wedding was scheduled for June 22. Baldev told TOI that around 8pm, the family had gone to market and was returning home after buying a SIM card. “Naina wanted to eat chilli potatoes and stopped at a Chinese food outlet with her mother. I turned back to go as it was humid,” said Baldev, who works as a clerk in a private firm in Delhi. “I had only gone 50 metres when three men arrived on a bike. One of them, with his face covered in a mask, pulled Naina’s hands and thrashed her, after which she fell. When my wife tried to rescue her, he slapped her and she became unconscious,” Baldev added. “One of the men stopped me from trying to reach my wife and daughter. When Naina saw her mother lying on the road, she got up and slapped the accused several times. Suddenly, he stabbed her with a knife — first on the neck, abdomen and then other parts. He then fled with the two other people on the bike,” Baldev told TOI. Naina’s distraught father said no one came forward to help. “The people in the market were just watching the murder happen. No one tried to rescue my daughter,” he said. During the fight with the men, Naina’s mother managed to tear the mask of the main accused and identified him as Sheru Khan (22), a resident of Delhi’s Sunder Nagri, police said. “He said he was in love with Naina since the time she used to go to school in Sunder Nagri,” a police officer said. While Sheru Khan is yet to be traced, Ran Singh, SHO of Tila Mor, said that his two accomplices, Asif (22) and Aamir Chaudhary (20), were arrested. Aamir also lives in Sunder Nagri while Asif is a resident of Sahibabad. On the basis of a complaint by Baldev, all three men were booked under IPC Section 302 (punishment for murder). The woman’s body has been sent for autopsy and the report is awaited. “We have put Sheru’s mobile number under surveillance and are trying to trace him. We are also questioning the other two accused,” said Singh. Naina’s cousin Vicky said Naina had been very happy about her wedding. The date had been fixed in January this year. “Around 25 of us were supposed to travel on June 20 for the wedding in Nagpur, where Naina’s fiancé lives and runs a restaurant. All arrangements had been done. Naina had done the shopping for her him as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/stalker-stabs-woman-to-death-on-mkt-road-days-before-her-wedding/articleshow/76453994.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC issues notices to nine private schools over fees||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) education department has served notices to nine private schools for demanding increased fees or payment of the fees upfront for the 2020-21 academic year. Administrative officer Jyotsna Shinde stated that other schools are also on the department’s radar. She said, “We have received complaints from parents and notices have been served to schools seeking their replies.” Another official from the education department said that concerned authorities also visited the schools. As of now, a few complaints have been sorted out and the department is awaiting replies from schools regarding other complaints. According to the official, the schools cannot increase the fee or demand upfront payment considering the pandemic situation as has been conveyed by the state and civic education departments. A parent said that since schools have been closed for the past few months, they should waive the electricity and other costs that are generally included in the academic fees. The education department official said that parent-teacher associations can take a decision on fee waiver. There are over 600 primary and secondary schools in PCMC limits. Over 2 lakh students are enrolled with these schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-pcmc-issues-notices-to-nine-private-schools-over-fees/articleshow/76453977.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb terminates purchase order of tree pruning machine||Mohali: The Punjab local bodies department has terminated the purchase order for tree pruning machine. The local bodies department has also blacklisted the company from participating in any tendering process of the Mohali MC for three years.The order has been issued by the department on Thursday. The company has been further asked to deposit the advance paid by the MC with 12% annual interest within 21 days.The order reads, “In view of the facts and circumstances stated above, the agreement, dated January 10, 2017, regarding purchase of reach mower-cum-tree pruning machine executed by the Mohali municipal corporation with your firm M/s Cosmic Healers Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, and allotment of work of purchase of reach mower-cum-tree pruning machine issued vide Mohali municipal corporation vide work order No. 9/40 dated December 12, 2016, is hereby terminated and cancelled and you are black listed for three years from participating in any work of the municipal corporation and you are directed to deposit the amount of Rs 89.50 lakh paid to you on February 2, 2017 along with interest at the rate of 12% per annum within 21 days, failing which action as per the law shall be initiated against you for the recovery of the said amount.”Recently, four officers of the Mohali municipal corporation have been indicted for irregularities in purchase of tree pruning machine on exorbitant prices. The inquiry report in this regard has been submitted at the Punjab local bodies department conducted by former additional district and session judge B R Bansal.The officers have been directed to report before the additional chief secretary of the local bodies, Punjab, on June 19, who will decide action against the officers. The four officers who have been indicted in the inquiry report are executive engineer Naresh Batta, now posted in Hoshiarpur; Vinayak Kumar, deputy controller finance and accounts (DCFA), now posted at Ludhiana; Mohinder Pal Singh, assistant corporation engineer, now posted as sub-divisional engineer (SDO) at the head office of the local bodies department, Punjab in Sector 35, Chandigarh; and Surinder Goel, junior engineer and now retired.The cancellation of the purchase order report further reads that the vetting report by the chief vigilance officer (trust) opined that the work order was issued by the Mohali MC in violation to the rules of the government and gross irregularities and other serious deficiencies have been found on part of the firm in connivance of MC officials. There is no record with the MC proving that no proper advertisement or public notice was made and how come the said company came to know about the requirement of tree pruning machine.Tree pruning machine was ordered for Rs 1.80 crore in 2017 with multiple functions in which the actual cost of the machine is Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh which is to be mounted on a tractor and Rs 80 lakh for import duty. Contradicting this, the vetting report of the Punjab local bodies opined that such a machine is available locally for Rs 20 lakh and this is overpriced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-terminates-purchase-order-of-tree-pruning-machine/articleshow/76453038.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Pick tobacco stocks at auction platform or lose licence: Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has warned tobacco exporters and traders that they would lose their licence if they fail to pick up stocks from auction platforms. The CM, who held a meeting with officials on Thursday to review the slow pace of purchases, also interacted with tobacco growers via video-link. Stating that the government will announce minimum support price (MSP) for tobacco in a couple of days, the CM asked traders to purchase stocks above MSP level. “Safeguarding the interests of tobacco growers is paramount to the government. The delaying tactics of traders will not be tolerated,” he warned. He further announced that a separate government entity would be set up to purchase tobacco from the market. “It will be headed by an IAS officer. The new entity will coordinate with tobacco board and trading companies. It’s not fair on the part of traders to pick up only fine quality stock and ignore low-grade varieties. Not purchasing stocks is like playing with the lives of growers,” the CM said. He also warned traders against forming a cartel to further lower prices in this hour of crisis. “The entire stock brought to the auction platform should be purchased on the same day of arrival,” Jagan said. Ministers K Kannababu, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Adimulapu Suresh, MP V Balasowry and Agriculture Mission vice-chairman MVS Nagireddy also attended the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pick-tobacco-stocks-at-auction-platform-or-lose-licence-cm/articleshow/76451027.cms||Samdani MN
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Boy ends life after failing in SSC exam||VADODARA: A 15-year-old boy living on Vadsar Road ended his life at home on Thursday evening after he failed in SSC exam. The deceased Shashank Patil was found hanging from the ceiling fan with a dupatta by his mother when she went to his room on the first floor of the house Studying in a school at Danteshwar, Patil went to the room in the afternoon. But when he did not come downstairs for tea, his mother went to check on him and found him hanging. The family members called an ambulance but the paramedical staff declared him dead. During questioning, the family members told police that Patil was upset over his class X result which was declared on June 9. Although he had failed in two subjects, the family members did not say anything or scold Patil, police said. A case of accidental death was registered at Manjalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boy-ends-life-after-failing-in-ssc-exam/articleshow/76452070.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Body offences surge in May||PUNE: Body offences — murder, attempt to murder, assault and weapon-based assaults — touched record numbers for 2020 in May after lockdown restrictions were relaxed. As many as 150 cases were registered in May. The number of such cases stood at 34 in April, and 104 in March, police data showed. “Much of the rise also has to do with the vendettas among various groups of criminals,” a senior police officer said. “Criminal groups waiting for to settle scores clashed at different places; old rivalries too contributed to the numbers,” additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale told TOI. A majority of the cases were reported from areas such as Yerawada, Vimannagar, Chatushrungi, Chandannagar, Vishrantwadi, Khadki, Hadapsar, Mundhwa, Kondhwa, Wanowrie and Bibvewadi, Morale said. In many incidents, sharp weapons, stones, iron rods, sticks and paver blocks were used. “In majority of the cases, police rushed to the site and rushed the injured to the hospital and arrested the suspects within hours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-offences-surge-in-may/articleshow/76453981.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Rajya Sabha polls today, five in fray for four vacancies||VIJAYAWADA: The stage is set for Rajya Sabha election to four seats from the state on Friday. The ruling YSR Congress, which has 151 members in the assembly, has fielded four candidates while opposition TDP, with 23 MLAs on its side, has fielded the fifth one. It will be open ballot this time, where every member will have to show their vote to their respective party representative before dropping it in the ballot box. “If any MLA fails to show it to the party representative, the vote would be considered invalid,” P Balakrishnamacharyulu, assembly secretary and returning officer, told TOI. The parties have already issued whip to their members for Friday’s voting. Opposition TDP, too, has served whip notices to three of its MLAs, who have aligned with the ruling party after leaving the party. The exits of Gannavaram MLA Vallabhaneni Vamsi Mohan and his counterparts from Guntur and Chirala, Maddali Giridhar and Karanam Balaramakrishna Murthy, have brought down TDP’s official count to 20 MLAs in the 175-member assembly. Ministers Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, industrialist Alla Ayodhyarami Reddy, and Reliance Industries vice-president and sitting MP Parimal Nathwani are in the race from the ruling dispensation. TDP has fielded its senior leader Varla Ramaiah. A candidate requires 44 votes to win. TDP has only 20 votes, after the exit of its three MLAs. The counting of votes would be taken up immediately after the polling. Meanwhile, YSRC conducted a mock-voting for its MLAs to apprise them of the voting pattern to be followed on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-polls-today-5-in-fray-for-4-vacancies/articleshow/76451062.cms||Gopi Dara
June 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Scuffle at Kherki toll over Rs 5 coin: Four arrested||GURUGRAM: Four persons have been arrested for allegedly attacking two toll operators at Kherki Daula on Wednesday night after an argument over a fallen coin. Two of them were caught at the toll plaza, one was arrested late in the night after a chase and another was arrested in Ballabhgarh on Thursday. The men have been identified as Jitu and Nikhil, who are residents of Ballabhgarh, and Mohit and Deepak from Faridabad. Deepak was arrested from Ballabhgarh. According to police, the accused had attacked two toll operators after an argument over a coin of Rs 5. The men had stopped at the toll plaza in their car and given a banknote of Rs 100 to pay for the toll. After deducting Rs 65 as toll, the operator, Sukhbir, returned Rs 35. While handing over the change, a coin fell to the ground. One of the men insisted that Sukhbir put the coin in his hand. The operator handed him another coin, saying he would pick up the fallen coin later. This led to an argument. The men were told to leave as they were blocking the way, causing a jam. Suddenly, one of them came out of the car with a knife and attacked Sukhbir. He tried to stab Sukhbir in the stomach. When another staffer, Pankaj, tried to intervene and save Sukhbir, he was attacked too. Both of them started bleeding and were taken to hospital. Sukhbir suffered two cut wounds on his left arm and is undergoing surgery. “Sukhbir tried to save himself and sustained injuries in his arm. Another toll operator tried to intervene and he was attacked too,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, adding that two of the accused were caught on the spot after toll operators raised the alarm, while two others had managed to escape. They were arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/scuffle-at-kherki-toll-over-rs-5-coin-four-arrested/articleshow/76454435.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Sandbazaar app stops sand supply, rates double||Mangaluru: Sand rates have skyrocketed ever since the app launched by the government - www.dksandbazaar.com - to check illegal transportation of sand, has stopped accepting bookings for sand. Those who open the link http://dksandbazaar.com/ can find the message – ‘Bookings are stopped due to limited sand availability. Existing orders will be honoured on priority basis.’ People demand that the app should be made functional immediately to ensure sufficient supply of sand for construction works and also to prevent illegal sand trade. Sand operators are clandestinely supplying the material to construction sites and also to Kerala at night. Mangaluru MLA UT Khader said sand transported illegally fetches up to Rs 20,000 per load, which was earlier only Rs 8,000 through the app. “We introduced sand bazaar app in 2019 to ensure sufficient supply of sand at reasonable price for all. The app was very useful. People were getting sand for Rs 8,000 per load through online booking. However, the system became dysfunctional soon after the government changed. As a result, illegal sand trading is rampant in the district and trucks are carrying sand across borders without passes even during Covid-19 restrictions,” Khader told TOI. When contacted, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI that the app was introduced only for the distribution of sand extracted from coastal regulation zones (CRZ), where sand mining is banned at present. “At present, sand is extracted only in non-CRZs. The issue in non-CRZs is that tenders are approved at different rates in each identified blocks. We have fixed uniform price for sand from CRZs, but the rate in non-CRZs depends on the rate quoted by the tenderer,” the DC said. The district administration has already formed teams involving officials from various departments to prevent illegal sand transportation as per the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2016. Teams will be functioning 24x7 to check illegal sand mining and transportation, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sandbazaar-app-stops-sand-supply-rates-double/articleshow/76452072.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune RTO to increase appointment quota for driving licences||PUNE: The Pune RTO has decided to increase the daily quota of appointments from Monday on an experimental basis to reduce the waiting time for two-wheelers and four-wheelers’ driving licences. "We will check if it works. As many as 150 appointments will be given instead of 70 at the Institute of Driving Training and Research (IDTR) from Monday for those seeking licence for four-wheelers (cars). There will be 150 appointments, instead of 75 at the Alandi Road facility for two-wheelers licence tests," an RTO official said. Sources said that with the increase, the waiting time for applicants will come down. "Since licence procurement remained suspended for almost 3 months, the number of applicants must be large. With the increase, we hope that they will be able to get their licences soon. However, if there is any problem related to social distancing, the order will be withdrawn. The number of daily appointments for learner’s licence remains 50," the official added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-rto-to-increase-appointment-quota-for-driving-licences/articleshow/76453989.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 19, 2020||Pune||PMPML seeks bailout to pay staffers||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has sought a bailout package of Rs36 crore from the civic bodies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to pay salaries and pensions to its employees. "The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) provide funds in 60:40 ratio to the PMPML for operations as well as for covering losses of the previous financial year. This year, the pandemic has changed the scenario and our operations are shut since the past three months. We have requested both the corporations for a bailout of Rs36 crore so that salaries and pensions can be paid," a senior official told TOI. Many employees received money in the range of Rs300-Rs400 as salaries, which resulted in discontentment among the ranks. "There is no work at present for a majority of staff who are called for duty on a rotation basis. Many couldn’t reach the workplaces during lockdown and were marked absent, resulting in salary deduction. The meeting of the board of directors of the PMPML is scheduled on June 22," the official said. Currently, the transport body runs 80 buses on 30 routes in the PCMC area, but the response of passengers has not been encouraging. "We desperately need to begin services in Pune. Several forms of public transport are operational. However, it is the call of the PMC. If the civic body agrees, services can start with 200 buses. If the services remain shut, the PMPML will not be able to pay salaries to the employees," another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-seeks-bailout-to-pay-staffers/articleshow/76454011.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Objections raised as state’s non-Marathi schools don’t get Marathi textbooks||Aurangabad: The local unit of Congress has written to the state government to express discontent as non-Marathi medium schools across the state did not receive Marathi textbooks for the students of Classes 1 and 2 from Bal Bharti. Citing the bill passed in February by Maharashtra Assembly to make Marathi a compulsory subject in all schools of the state, Mohsin Ahmed, the working president of Aurangabad City District Congress Committee wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for provision of Marathi textbooks for students of Classes 1 and 2.The students of classes 1 to 8 in municipal corporation, zilla parishad and private-aided schools get free textbooks printed by Bal Bharti from the state government.Ahmed told TOI that despite the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, classes 1 and 2 from non-Marathi medium schools did not get Marathi textbooks. This meant that parents have to buy textbooks from private stores. “A petition filed in the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court in 2013 against the state government for depriving students of free textbooks had resulted in the court directing immediate supply of textbooks to all students. However, seven years later, no action has been taken ,” Ahmed said.According to him, the lack of provision of Marathi textbooks causes them to lag behind in the language development as compared to other students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/objections-raised-as-states-non-marathi-schools-dont-get-marathi-textbooks/articleshow/76451068.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||BJP plans virtual media blitzkrieg in UP cities||Lucknow: The top brass of BJP, including party chief JP Nadda, is set to reach out to people in Uttar Pradesh to drum up support for the party through virtual public gatherings. Nadda is scheduled to address a public gathering through the social media on June 21, party sources said. Nadda’s outreach to people would come a day after PM Narendra Modi scheduled launch of a nationwide rural livelihood mission scheme from Bihar. UP BJP sources said that Nadda is expected to rake up the 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the PM for the revival of economy as well as the rural livelihood mission in UP which received a maximum number of migrants during the lockdown. A senior BJP leader said that Nadda’s public outreach would essentially be in the west and Braj region. After Nadda, the BJP would hold a virtual public meeting to be addressed by Union minister for Rural Development and panchayati Raj Narendra Singh Tomar on June 24.Tomar is scheduled to reach out to people in Purvanchal (east UP) region. He would be followed by Union textile minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani on June 27. She is scheduled to reach out to people in Bundelkhand and Awadh region. BJP’s apparent planned media blitzkrieg comes less than a month after UP BJP leadership, including state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary SunilBansal hammered out a blueprint to connect the party through virtual medium in the wake of lockdown following Corona pandemic. “We would be ensuring that maximum number of people are reached out to,” said UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, while speaking to TOI. Sources said that the party functionaries have been asked to get BJP leaders’ address live-streamed on multiple social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. The party had earlier organised public rallies to mark completion of one year of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. The virtual media blitz was organised in all six regions of UP. This time too, the party leadership has asked its functionaries to prepare the ground for virtual rallies at the district level. “Party workers district and booth level have been alerted to ensure maximum participation of people in the rallies,” said a party functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-plans-virtual-media-blitzkrieg-in-up-cities/articleshow/76454007.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune-Mumbai travel for work awaits train services||PUNE: Living in Pune and working in Mumbai has lost a great deal of appeal during the lockdown. Ravi Raut, who lives in Talegaon near Pune, has tried everything from staying at his workplace at Mazgaon in Mumbai, to hitching rides or going to the office riding his two-wheeler since a month now. Raut, a government employee, is feeling the stress. “ I have lived in my office for the whole week. Almost every day, I try getting lifts from passing vehicles. I have travelled in trucks and milk vans. There is no other way and if I don’t attend office, I lose the day’s salary. At times, I have no option but to stay in my office and sleep on the tables. I hope the Pune-Mumbai train services are restored fast,” he told TOI. Sahakarnagar resident businessman Dilip Sarda is in the same boat. Sarda, who is in printing business, has many doctors and hospitals in Mumbai, as his clients. He used to travel by Pragati Express or Deccan Queen to Mumbai for business and the transport vehicles used to carry his products like prescriptions and X-ray envelopes. “Now, I have to drive to Mumbai in my car carrying products for delivery at least two to three times a week. I am 59 years old and driving is very stressful and tiresome. However, my clients have been with me for more than 30 years. Each week I drive for around 1,000km,” Sarda said. Another state government employee, who works with Raut, requesting anonymity, said, “For the first few days, I went to office on my two-wheeler but it was extremely tiring. I cannot spend so much on fuel. I have a monthly rail pass which I got for Rs 500. Even now, when I travel on trucks and other transport vehicles, it isn’t for free and I am charged around Rs 200-300 for a one-way ride. Lifts are risky but we have no choice. At times, I stay in the office from Monday to Thursday. My family here lives in fear .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mumbai-travel-for-work-awaits-train-services/articleshow/76453999.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Power min waives fixed charge of industries for July||Lucknow: In a bid to give relief to industries hit by corona-triggered lockdown while acceding to their demand, the Uttar Pradesh power department has decided to waive off their fixed charge in the month of July. The concession would, however, be subjected to the rider that the industrial establishments pay off their pending bills by June 30. The order to this effect was given by energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday. The industry body, Indian Industries Association (IIA), which had been demanding the waiver, welcomed the decision on Thursday. The IIA had put up the demand before chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a meeting through video conferencing. Sharma clarified that those who do not clear all pending bills would not be able to avail the concession which aims to provide relief to industries as they resume operations with the lifting of lockdown. Earlier, the power department had waived off the fixed charge/demand charge of industries in March and April when lockdown was in force. Sharma said the department had decided to waive off the fixed charge for two months in one go and had also extended the last date for payment of bills till May 31. Sharma said UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) had also decided to bear the transaction charge on online payment of bills. He said the interest on security deposit would also be adjusted in the month of July, and as a result the electricity bill of all consumers would be brought down further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-min-waives-fixed-charge-of-industries-for-july/articleshow/76454021.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: 124 stuck in Sharjah to return on Friday||PUNE: As many as 124 people stranded in Sharjah would land in the city on Friday in a chartered flight of Air Arabia. “The Air Arabia flight will land in Pune at 1.20pm. It will fly back around 2.10pm. The passengers will be put on 14-day quarantine in hotels,” an airport official said. A passenger slated to board the flight said, “It is a big relief because I got stuck after my visa expired. I shall now be able to meet my family, though I shall have to travel to Mumbai from Pune.” Last week, a chartered flight of FlyDubai had landed in Pune with 188 stranded passengers. Flights from Afghanistan and Qatar also came to the city in the recent past. The last flight from Dubai was arranged by a Dubai-based businessman. Sources claimed that another chartered flight from Sharjah was expected in Pune soon. Under the Vande Bharat Mission, there has been no direct flight from the United Arab Emirates to the city till now. The Indians stranded in Bahrain have requested the ministry of civil aviation for a flight under the Vande Bharat Mission. “Many from Maharashtra are stuck in Bahrain. We are waiting to be evacuated,” Abhijit Igave, a senior member of a social organisation based in Bahrain, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/124-stuck-in-sharjah-to-return-today/articleshow/76454017.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: 11 Nagpur cops, 1 home guard test negative after contact with positive accused||NAGPUR: Eleven city cops, including senior inspector RN Waghmare of Hudkeshwar police station, heaved a sigh of relief after they tested Covid negative on Thursday. The cops and a home guard, who also tested negative, had come in contact with an accused while taking him to court last week. He was later found to be Covid positive during contact tracing of an unrelated woman. There is a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for cops to avoid arrests, unless it is an heinous crime. But Hudkeshwar police were compelled to arrested the person accused of sexual harassment to avoid a clash between neighbours escalating into a serious situation, said a police official. It’s learnt the male patient, in his mid-20s, was traced during contact tracing of a woman who had tested positive. He was tested on June 15 and found positive the following day. Police said the male patient, working as driver, had gone to Uran from Nagpur to bring a woman back to city. He had gone on June 4 and returned on June 6. After that, he had a fight with neighbours at Narsala on June 8, during which a woman’s sari got torn. There was a cross-complaint in which the man was booked for outraging the modesty of a woman. He was rounded up by Hudkeshwar police the same day after neighbours accused him of creating ruckus and outraging the woman’s modesty. On June 9, the man was taken to court, from where he was granted bail. “We had rushed to get ourselves tested after learning one of our accused had been found positive. The entire lot of cops had gone for testing and were negative,” he said. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the police hospital, said two cops and one home guard had been suggested home quarantine. “We have strictly issued warning to senior inspectors to ensure use of masks, Covid distancing and sanitizers diligently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-cops-1-home-guard-test-ve-after-contact-with-ve-accused/articleshow/76453067.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra govt to spend over Rs 1,000 crore on building 30 skill development colleges||VIJAYAWADA: The government is getting ready to construct 30 skill development colleges across the state. According to the initial estimate, the government would be required to spend Rs 1,210 crore on them. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the programme and examined the designs of the new colleges during a review meeting with the officials at the Tadepalli camp office on Thursday. The officials told the chief minister that the 30 colleges would offer 120 courses spread over 20 sectors. The skill training colleges will be focusing on the needs of the industries in the state and those set to come up. The courses too are designed based on their demands, the officials said. Some of the courses too have been designed keeping in view the national and international demand and the employment offers available. The officials further told the chief minister that industries like Kia Motors, ITC Ltd, Tech Mahindra, HCL, Volvo, Bosch, Hyundai would partner with the government to train the students in employable skills. Jaganmohan Reddy directed the officials to maintain a record of the polytechnic, ITI and engineering students available in the state and match the employment opportunities before starting these skill development colleges. Minister for industries and IT, Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, and Skill Development Corporation chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy and others were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-spend-over-rs-1k-crore-on-building-30-skill-devpt-colleges/articleshow/76451073.cms||Gopi Dara
June 19, 2020||Hubballi||Student upset at being allotted exam centre 30km away||Hubballi: The state government has announced that all arrangements have been made for SSLC students to take their annual examinations scheduled to be held from June 25 at their nearest examination centres. However, a girl SSLC student of Yalamageri village of Koppal district has been allotted a centre which is nearly 30km away from her home. Vijayalaxmi Patil is a student of the residential Best School in Ballari. She returned home after the lockdown was clamped. “I requested that I be allotted the Irakalgada exam centre, which is just 2km away from my home, but I have been allotted the Hiresindogi centre, which is 30km from my village. I am scared that I will have to spend 2-3 hours travelling during the examination, so I am in a dilemma whether to take the exam or skip it,” said Vijaylaxmi Patil. Sannagouda Patil, Vijayalaxmi’s uncle, who is a farmer, said that they requested the school management and BEO to help Vijayalaxmi to take the exam at the nearby centre, but there is no official confirmation regarding this. “The centre is too far away, and we have to accompany her daily. Moreover, there is no bus facility from our village to the examination centre. As it is a question of her future, we are still trying our best to convince Vijayalaxmi to attend the exam in the centre allotted,” he said. “We have approached the Koppal BEO regarding the matter, who assured to provide a vehicle to pick up and drop her back home from the exam centre, if her centre is not changed, but it is not yet officially confirmed,” he added. Vijayalaxmi C, who is the headmistress of Best School in Ballari, said that it was wrong to allot Vijaylaxmi Patil a centre which was so far away. We have approached the SSLC board to allot a nearby centre to Vijalaxami, but we were informed by officials that it is impossible for them to change the centre at this last minute. She said that the school was willing to bear the travel expenses of the girl and her parents to the exam centre and back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/student-upset-at-being-allotted-exam-centre-30km-away/articleshow/76452114.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Timber market reopens as cases drop in Bhavani Peth||PUNE: Strict and continued containment measures in areas under the Bhavani Peth ward office have helped the civic authorities arrest the Covid-19 spread in the locality, paving way for the Timber market on Nehru Road and shops on Shankarsheth Road as well as Shivaji Road to resume operations after a gap of two months. Bhavani Peth was among the most-affected civic wards in the Pune municipal limits since the spread of coronavirus in the city. It had the highest number of active cases (267) on May 15 among all 15 civic wards. In last one month, however, the ward has improved its standing to 10th position in terms of active cases (171). “Almost the entire ward was sealed during the last two lockdowns due to the continued rise in cases. In the latest revision, however, the administration has been able to open up some areas and prime road links, including Timber market, Nehru Road and Shankarsheth Road,” Somnath Bankar, head of Bhavani Peth ward office, said. The Timber market is close to Bhavani Peth temple and also has Lohiyanagar slums nearby. Pune’s biggest market for wood and whole lot of other fitting material, the market is located on Nehru Road. The civic authorities said while some internal areas along the road were still sealed, the shops on the roads were allowed to start operations. “We have narrowed down to the localities still reporting positive cases. More areas will be opened up if new cases are not detected,” Bankar said. Local corporator Avinash Bagwe said containing the spread of the virus was a huge challenge in most pockets of Bhavani Peth due to the high population density. “People here stay in smaller homes. There are congested lanes and hardly any open spaces. More thrust was on home-to-home visits, setting up of swab collection centres near the localities, mobile dispensaries and rigorous contact tracing,” Bagwe said. Another corporator Rafiq Shaikh said he had approached the civic authorities to throw open more areas to reduce hardships of residents, especially senior citizens. “Some areas have not reported cases in the last few days or have few active cases. It will come as a huge relief if these areas get some relaxations,” Shaikh said. In terms of total caseload of 976, the Bhavani Peth ward stands fourth among 15 civic wards. However, when taking only active cases (171) in account, the ward office stands at at 10th spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-timber-market-reopens-as-cases-drop-in-bhavani-peth/articleshow/76454030.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||KGBV job scam: Another Anamika held in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Amethi police arrested another woman working as Anamika Shukla at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) on Wednesday evening. The accused, identified as Aarti, told the police that she had paid Rs 2 lakh to the mastermind of the racket Pushpendra for the job. So far, the police have arrested seven teachers working on educational certificates of Anamika Shukla at government schools. Two teachers, one working in Baraut and another in Rae Bareli, using certificates of Anamika Shukla, are on the run. Superintendent of police, Amethi, Khyati Garg said that acting on complaint of basic shiksha adhikari Vinod Kumar Tripathi, an FIR was lodged on June 6 against a woman for working on documents of Anamika Shukla. “Based on surveillance, a woman identified as Aarti was nabbed near roadways bus depot on Wednesday evening,” said circle officer, city, Piyush Kant Rai. He said that Pushpender had demanded Rs 2 lakh from Aarti for giving her appointment as a teacher in KGBV in Amethi. The officer further said that Aarti was not in a position to give Rs 2 lakh to Pushpendra. “Pushpendra asked me to transfer half of my salary into account of one of his aides every month till the full payment was cleared,” Aarti said while talking to newspersons.  Though Aarti holds a BA degree, she was taking science classes, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgbv-job-scam-another-anamika-held-in-amethi/articleshow/76454046.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Two Nashik villages bag nat’l empowerment award||Nashik: Two villages, Odha and Kotamgaon, in Nashik taluka have been selected among 14 other villages from across the state for central government’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Empowerment Award 2020. The award — cash reward of Rs 10 lakh along with an insignia — will be presented to these villages by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Zilla parishad president Balasaheb Kshirsagar, vice-president Sayajirao Gaikwad and chief executive officer Leena Bansod congratulated the office-bearers and officers of both the gram panchayats. “This is the result of hardwork put in by the villagers, elected representatives and officials who joined hands in the interest of the village, state and the nation. It is a proud moment for Nashik,” Bansod said. She added that the ZP Nashik will strive hard to ensure every village was free from malnourishment, infant mortality, health facilities, among other issues. “The two villages were selected on the nine-point development programme that takes note of sanitation, civic services, individuals taking voluntary actions to support gram panchayats, innovation in revenue generation and others,” Ravindra Pardeshi, ZP deputy CEO, said. Odha village has seen effective implementation of underground sewage construction, biogas plant, water conservation, providing 20 litres of clean water at Rs 5, increasing the revenue of village Panchayat by creating and renting the infrastructure for weekly market. Sarpanch of Kotamgaon Balkrishna Mhaske said the village found its place in the list for works like sanitation, water purification programme, digital schools, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-nashik-villages-bag-natl-empowerment-award/articleshow/76451089.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Jaypee asked to hand over garbage processing plant by Friday evening||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation on Thursday evening sent a notice to Jaiprakash Associate (Jaypee) Limited to take over the city’s garbage processing plant from it by 5pm Friday. The authority has also filed a caveat in the Punjab and Haryana high court to know of any legal course of the company in advance. The move has come following the expiry of the interim stay order of a Chandigarh district court issued on March 12, which had given three months to the company to take appropriate steps. The three months had ended on June 12. “We consulted the senior standing counsel office of the Chandigarh administration and sent the notice. If they don’t hand over, legal action will be taken,” sources in the MC said. MC’s general house had passed a resolution in February to kick the company out of the city, citing poor and unsatisfactory work. MC then sent a notice in March, but the company moved the district courts. The company then approached the local bodies department of the UT administration for an arbitration. The memorandum signed with the company in 2005 was cancelled over improper waste processing, ending into a feud that reached the NGT. The general house, earlier this year, gave the company a month to dismantle its machinery and decided to assess the value of the recently-installed compost plant and pay its worth to Jaypee. Dadumajra villagers and the residents of Sector 38 (West) had also been asking the MC to shift the plant because of its bad odour and improper operation.  MC has asked the firm to send its representative to facilitate the takeover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jaypee-asked-to-hand-over-garbage-processing-plant-by-today-evening/articleshow/76453073.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 19, 2020||Pune||Blueconch Tech plans to hire 1k in next 2 yrs||Pune: City-based Blueconch Technologies plans to hire nearly 1,000 people within the next two years over the expected “exponential growth” in business.  Ramprasad, president, Blueconch Technologies, told TOI that the company had dealt with the impact of Covid-19 very well and was nearly back to 100% of its pre-Covid productivity levels. This has happened even as nearly all its staffers have been working from home since March-end and might continue to do so till September.  Since March this year, when the country went into a total lockdown, the company has also hired over 100 employees, which Ramprasad said was “significant” in the context of the company’s total strength of nearly 1,000 employees.  The product and platform engineering company was recently rechristened as Blueconch Technologies. Previously, it was known as Xpanxion International. “The new brand reflects the company’s wider commitment and its expertise in driving innovations needed to shape the future of customers through digital technology solutions,” the firm, which was acquired by UST Global in 2014, said.  Blueconch with its current revenue of nearly $100 million hopes to grow in size to over $250 million in three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blueconch-tech-plans-to-hire-1k-in-next-2-yrs/articleshow/76454041.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 19, 2020||Pune||Hospitals in Pune not updating daily bed info on dashboard to face action||PUNE: Show-cause notices will be served and action will be taken against hospitals not updating information on availability of beds on the Covid-19 care software dashboard launched by the district administration for the citizens’ benefit. Pune divisional commissioner Deepal Mhaisekar told TOI that the dashboard was functioning and the citizens could check the availability of beds on a real-time basis. He said the onus was on the hospitals to update the availability of beds to ensure that the citizens did not suffer. The administration has listed 104 hospitals from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civil limits, the rural parts of the districts and the cantonment areas. The dashboard data revealed that 2,700 beds were currently vacant (see box). “Most of the hospitals have updated the data. But there are a few hospitals that are yet to do it despite repeated reminders. The municipal commissioners in the corporation areas and the collector in the rural belt will slap the notice on the offending hospitals,” he said. The dashboard provides real-time availability of beds in operation and also on the vacant ones. The administration expected that the dashboard would make the bed availability information system transparent, particularly in the wake of complaints of patients being turned away by many hospitals in the time of Covid-19. Technical adviser to the state government Subhash Salunke, who has been instrumental in putting in place the dashboard system, said, “A team of doctors and revenue officials will also check if the hospitals are properly updating the data. The main objective is to ensure that no patient is refused treatment. One has to understand that there’s no need to panic about bed availability.” Hospital representatives said they have been told to ensure daily information update. A senior district administration official said, “We had launched the dashboard last week. But many hospitals took time to update their data. Hospitals not ensuring the daily update will face action.” He, however, did not divulge the nature of action. The state government had come out with three slabs on per day charges for treatment of Covid-19 patients in private and charitable hospitals. It decided to regulate rates for 80 % of the operational bed capacity in these medical facilities.. For Covid-19 patients, there will be three rate slabs on a per-day basis — Rs4,000, Rs7,500 and Rs9,000 — depending upon the category of wards they have been admitted to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospitals-not-updating-daily-bed-info-on-dashboard-to-face-action/articleshow/76454037.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt gives clearance to acquire land for Sabarimala airport||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has given clearance to acquire 2,263.18 acres of Cheruvally Estate in Erumeli in Kottayam, which was under the possession of Gospel for Asia Charitable Trust, for the proposed greenfield airport for Sabarimala. In the order issued in this regard by principal secretary (revenue) A Jayathilak, the government has given permission to Kottayam district collector to takeover the land under sections of Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The entire cost of compensation for the land acquisition will be deposited before the high court since there still exists a dispute over the title of the land. The further action to disburse the compensation will be made based on the verdict of the HC. The government’s main hurdle will be to end the legal proceedings in the HC before going ahead with the project on the land. The estate extending to 2,263.18 acres held by Gospel for Asia was part of 5,200 acres that was taken over by M G Rajamanickam, special officer appointed for resumption of land held by HML. After inspecting the sale documents of the estate, he found that the sale deed of the estate did not contain any survey number included in original document 1600/1923 held by HML, and issued notice for eviction. HML had disputed the takeover in the court, and the court had ordered in favour of HML. Subsequently, the government asked all district collectors (HML holds land in eight districts) to file a civil suit in the respective local courts within the jurisdiction of which the land is situated, claiming ownership of the land. The civil suit will now decide the fate of 76,769 acres which is with the company and others who have purchased land from the company or its predecessor companies situated in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Wayanad. The new airport in Erumeli was suggested in lieu of the abandoned Aranmula airport, that had run into several issues, including the violation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran has claimed that there is large-scale corruption in the government’s decision to acquire the land for the project. He said that since the lease period has expired, court orders are asking the government to take over the land. When such an order is in force, the decision of the government to acquire the land by paying compensation to Gospel for Asia is dubious, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-gives-clearance-to-acquire-land-for-sabarimala-airport/articleshow/76452143.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||23 positive in Panchkula’s biggest spike||PANCHKULA: In the biggest single-day surge in Panchkula, 23 persons, including three healthcare workers, tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Thursday. Panchkula’s case count now stands at 86, including 58 active cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Of 23 cases, three work at civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula. Twelve cases are from Kalka and Pinjore, including two from Shavna Colony, two from Parade Mohalla, one from Ram Nagar, one from Dhaluwal, one from Bitna Colony, two from Shakti Nagar, one from Ahota Murari Lal, one from Kaushalya Huts and one from Raipur Rani. The rest are from Panchkula city.” All the positive cases were contacts of Covid-19 patients, she added. Of 86 positive cases reported here to date, 27 are from outside the district. Of the 75 cases reported in Panchkula since Unlock 1.0, 27 were from other states. So far, 7,125 samples have been collected in the district. While 6,816 of them were negative, results of 194 are awaited. As many as 36 persons who recovered from Covid-19 have been discharged from hospitals. A total of 969 persons have been home quarantined in the district. The containment zones in Panchkula are: Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, sectors 2, 6, 8, 17, 19, 20, 21, 10, Majri, Bagwali, Jalouli, Barwala, Abheypur, Maddawala villages and Rajiv Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/23-test-ve-in-biggest-single-day-spike-in-pkl/articleshow/76453091.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Man gets 2-year RI for assault||Nashik: A local court presided over by district and sessions judge JP Zapate has slapped two-year rigorous imprisonment along with Rs 5,000 fine to a man found guilty of offence against a government servant in August 2015, city police said. The accused, Sharad Ugle, was charged with assaulting a police personnel attached to the Sarkarwada police station. The incident took place when a team of police officials were informed about Ugle who had created a ruckus in the Ranwadi area of city. However, when the police team reached the spot and tried to intervene, Ugle, who was intoxicated at the time, ended up attacking a policeman. Later, police took Ugle in custody and filed a chargesheet with the help of some eyewitnesses. The court also found him guilty for intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace according to section 504 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-gets-2-year-ri-for-assault/articleshow/76451121.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Parents a relieved lot as stranded children return from Russia||Nagpur: Sunita Wanjari, a resident of Garoba Maidan, was at the Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport as early as 8pm on Wednesday to receive her daughter even though the Vande Bharat flight was scheduled to touch down at midnight from Moscow. “I am not tired at all,” she responded, eagerly waiting outside the arrivals when team TOI spoke to her around 11.50pm. Similarly, Rajat Yedu from Raipur, Sikhander Ahmed from Bhopal, Himendra Singh Chandel from Ujjain and many more parents and siblings had reached the airport hours before the flight arrival to pick up their children. “More than the joy it a relief to see them back home safely in the time of a pandemic,” said Dimpy Bajaj, who had come to receive her sister. Being the first Vande Bharat Mission flight to land in Nagpur, 145 MBBS students stranded in Russian since March lockdown reached the city. NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye was the only public representative to welcome the students and remain till all of them left for their destinations around 3.30am. Another Vande Bharat flight from Russia with as many stranded students and other citizens is likely to land at Nagpur on June 23. Of the 145 students, 28 were from Nagpur. They were immediately sent to 14-day paid quarantine at a private hotel. Another 51 students were from rest of Maharashtra. One student from Bhandara was also quarantined in city as his father and another relative along with the driver had come to pick him up. Fearing close contact with the family members during journey, officials advised him to get quarantined. The Chhattisgarh government had sent a sleeper bus for its 41 students who boarded it at the arrivals and immediately left for Raipur, around 280 kms from here, where they too would be quarantined in a private hotel. Raipur district officials escorted the students in separate official cars. The 25 students and their parents from Madhya Pradesh had too make their own arrangements. Parents had driven in their cars to Nagpur. “My son is in MBBS fourth year. Entire family used to go to Indore for receiving him in all his previous vacation time. This time, I have come alone as only three persons are allowed to travel. He was trying to come early but couldn’t land a seat,” said Ujjain-based Chandel. Parents from Gwalior, Jabalpur, Narsingpur and Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh had come to pick up their children. Dimpy and Raipur’s Yedu too said getting a ticket was difficult. “Lakhs of Indians are stranded and we believe it was sheer luck that my sister could get a seat on this flight,” she said. They thanked MLC Gajbhiye, Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari, CM Uddhav Thackeray and the central government for facilitating the students’ return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-a-relieved-lot-as-stranded-children-return-from-russia/articleshow/76453122.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||UT administrator V P Singh Badnore for tougher quarantine norms||CHANDIGARH: UT administrator V P Singh Badnore on Thursday asked adviser Manoj Parida to examine if the persons violating self-quarantine rules can be penalised by putting them in institutional quarantine centres. At a review meeting, the Chandigarh administration also directed UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta to examine if modifying the term “self-quarantine” to “self-home quarantine” would serve any better in restricting the unnecessary movement of people in such quarantine, from a legal perspective. The deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula were also present at the meeting. The Mohali DC said they have 63 active cases, while the officer from Panchkula put the number of such at 43 in the district. The UT administrator also expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and noted that many of these can be found in visitors coming from outside. He directed the director general of police (DGP), Chandigarh Police, to ensure strict checking at border points and to see that only authorised persons, who have registered themselves for entry to Chandigarh, are allowed the passage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badnore-for-tougher-home-self-quarantine-norms/articleshow/76453098.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Motorcycle taxi service gets cabinet nod in U’khand||Dehradun: Queues of vehicles, which at times extend to over 5 km, are witnessed at entry points of most hill stations such as Mussoorie and Nainital during the peak tourist season. In a major decision, the Uttarakhand cabinet on Thursday approved motorcycle taxi service in the state and directed the transport department to frame the guidelines. One can now either hire a motorcycle or take the services of a rider to move around in the hill stations. The cooperative banks will provide a loan of Rs 60,000 to an individual and the state government will pay the interest for the period of two years. Through their initiative, the state government aims to provide indirect job opportunities to over 20,000 people under the CM Swarozgar Yojana. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “Mussoorie, Nainital, Rishikesh, Bageshwar and Tehri see tourist rush each season and the movement of four-wheelers congest the hill towns. This project will help reduce the traffic issues and at the same time provide job opportunities to youths.” On being asked about the details of the project, he said that the transport department has been issued directions to frame guidelines for the project. “We will have both the facilities. If a person wants to hire a two-wheeler, he will be provided one and the tourist will also have the facility to hire a rider,” said the minister. In other major decisions, the cabinet announced to double the bus fare in city routes of the state. Due to social distancing norms, buses were operating with half capacity leading to financial losses and also making people to take taxi or three wheelers, which cost more for the journey. According to the new tariff, the rate for the first 2 km was Rs 7 and it has been increased to Rs 14. Ticket for travel of 2 to 6 km was for Rs 10 and it has now been doubled to Rs 20, for 6 to 10 km the rate has gone from Rs 15 to Rs 30, for 10 to 14 km. Similarly, the bus fare for AC buses and private buses too have been raised by the state cabinet. “However, these increased rates will be applicable only till the time social distancing norms are in place due to Covid-19,” said Kaushik. Under the CM Swarozgar Yojna, the state cabinet has approved a proposal to provide collateral free loan to roadside shop owners and people selling products on ‘thela.’ Through the initiative, the government intends to provide job opportunity to 50,000 people. Besides, the subsidy provided on the loan by the Centre, the state government has also announced a 2% loan subsidy for people availing the opportunity. The cabinet has also eased the norms for the use of funds under the State Disaster Relief Funds (SDRF). “The guidelines from the Centre were extremely tough and we had requested them to ease the norms for the use of funds. After the nod, we have eased the norms and now the SDRF can be used for making and repairing culverts, trek routes, check dams, drinking water works, school repair and irrigation works,” Kaushik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/motorcycle-taxi-service-gets-cabinet-nod-in-ukhand/articleshow/76451113.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||HC dismisses PIL demanding additional bench in Doon or Haridwar||Nainital: Holding that the decision to appoint a seat of the high court anywhere falls under the ‘discretionary jurisdiction’ of the Chief Justice, the Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday dismissed a PIL filed for the long-standing demand that a seat of the HC should be established in either Haridwar or Dehradun. In its order, a copy of which was made available on Thursday, the division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe held that the demand falls under ‘discretionary jurisdiction’ of the Chief Justice, therefore, no mandamus can be issued to the Chief Justice. “As these are all matters which fall within the discretionary jurisdiction of the Chief Justice, no mandamus can be issued directing the Chief Justice of the HC to have a seat at Dehradun, Haridwar or elsewhere. In the absence of any legal right of his having been violated thereby, it is not open to the petitioner to invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of this court seeking such a relief,” the court order read. The bench, however, permitted the petitioner to make the similar representation before the Chief Justice. “Suffice it, while expressing our disinclination to entertain this writ petition, to make it clear that the order now passed by us shall not disable the petitioner from making a representation to the Chief Justice of the HC, and for the HC to consider the same as it deems fit and proper,” the court order read. Ever since the state of Uttarakhand came into existence two decades ago and the President notified the establishment of HC in Nainital, there has been a demand that an additional seat or at least a circuit bench — bench that holds proceedings for a selected few months of the years — should be established in districts like Dehradun or Haridwar because most of the cases in the court deals with these two districts of the plains. However, the demand has also faced opposition that the establishment of an additional seat may lead to ultimately shifting of the entire HC. The HC said that enough arguments can be made in favour of either side, but the issue that the court is concerned with is whether a mandamus can be issued directing the HC to establish circuit bench in Doon or Haridwar. The court rejected the argument by petitioners that the mandamus can be issued, and therefore dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-dismisses-pil-demanding-additional-bench-in-doon-or-haridwar/articleshow/76451134.cms||Prashant Jha
June 19, 2020||Pune||Outstation Covid-19 patients prefer medical care in Pune||PUNE: Doctors treating Covid-19 patients have observed that many patients seeking medical care for the contagion in the city's private hospitals are from the neighbouring districts of Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Ahmednagar. Patients are also coming to Pune for treatment from Dhule and Jalgaon. They are doctors, businessmen, government officials, and professionals who prefer to be treated at well-equipped hospitals in Pune city after they develop flu-like symptoms or when they are found infected with the coronavirus that causes Covid-19. Some get referred to the hospitals in Pune after their condition deteriorates, medical experts in the city said. Some wish to avoid the stigma. The civic administration has told designated private hospitals to identify such outstation patients. Sanjay Pathare, director (medical services), Ruby Hall Clinic said, “We are getting patients from Solapur followed by Dhule, Jalgaon and Satara for the past one a half months. They are mostly high-profile patients.” At present, a total of 113 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at Ruby Hall Clinic. “Of the 33 critically ill patients, 16 are from outside Pune from districts like Solapur, Dhule, Jalgaon and Satara. We also get such patients with mild symptoms as well,” Pathare said. Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said they have outstation patients seeking medical care for Covid-19 at our hospital. “They are mainly affluent patients seeking the best of medical care. We get critically ill as well as moderately ill patients from neighbouring districts of Pune,” he added. Evolved tertiary care system and evidence-based treatment protocol and care matching world-class standards are the reasons why patients seek treatment at hospitals in Pune, office-bearers of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune branch, said. “The critical care system in Pune is matchless in western Maharashtra. That's why once an affording outstation patients is tested positive for Covid-19, he or she seeks the best of medical care for faster cure. The trend was also seen during the swine flu pandemic,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, a hospital wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Avoiding stigma is another reason “High profile patients want to avoid local media coverage when they test positive. Avoiding stigma is no doubt the reason why they prefer to get treated in Pune,” a doctor from Jehangir Hospital said . Treatment restrictions in small districts makes Pune a preferred destination. Solapur-based surgeon Vijay Shivpuje of Yashodhara Superspecialty Hospital said, “Initially, private hospitals in Solapur were not designated for treatment of Covid-19. Treatment was only possible at government hospitals. This could be why they prefer Pune over Solapur. We have seven to eight private hospitals in Solapur authorized to treat Covid-19 patients. They are doing an excellent job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/outstation-ncov-patients-prefer-medical-care-in-pune/articleshow/76454062.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||High-altitude laboratory to be built at Dugtu village near Panchachuli||Almora: The GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment & Development is setting up a high-altitude high-tech laboratory at Dugtu village near Panchachuli range. Scientists of the institute have said that there are only a handful of such laboratories in the country with such facilities. A senior scientist of the institute Kireet Kumar said, "This lab will have a number of sophisticated facilities which are available only in a few high-altitude laboratories in the country. Latest equipment related to the measuring of weather, carbon dioxide, water hydrology and glaciology, among others, will be installed here. Besides, research equipment related to all climatic parameters will also be made available.” This laboratory is being funded by the National Mission on Himalayan Studies, a scheme of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. According to the official, a budget of nearly Rs 3 crore has been allotted for the laboratory. "With this facility, along with the institute's personal researches, scientists and institutions all over the world will be benefited.” Since the laboratory is being built near the glacier, it can closely observe climate change and global warming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/high-altitude-laboratory-to-be-built-at-dugtu-village-near-panchachuli/articleshow/76451143.cms||Rohit Joshi
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Man killed in accident on Bhowali-Haldwani highway||Nainital: A 40-year-old man identified as Rakesh Kumar died late on Wednesday after the car he was travelling in lost control on an hairpin bend and fell onto a road around 100 metres below. Police said that the incident took place on the Bhowali-Almora national highway near Ratighat. “The incident took place around midnight and the car was coming from Haldwani side. The speeding vehicle lost control on the bend and fell onto the road below. The car would have slipped further into the gorge but it was stopped by the parapet,” said an official, who was at the spot. The official added that when police reached the spot, Kumar was lying a few metres away from his car. “He was severely injured therefore we decided to take him to Community Health Centre, however, soon he was referred to Haldwani but he died on the way,” the official said. Police said that the family of the deceased has been informed and will be handed over the body after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-killed-in-accident-on-bhowali-haldwani-highway/articleshow/76451138.cms||Prashant Jha
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||A first: Three transgenders get vending licence in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: In a novel move to ensure livelihood for transgender community in the city, the municipal corporation has issued vending licences to three members of the community under the essential service provider (ESP) category. Sources said the move was first in the region and the civic body was preparing a detailed case study to submit to the ministry of housing and urban affairs, so that it could be replicated in other parts of the country as well. The three transgender licencees are Shrishti, Mona and Vijayta, who were making a living by selling tea in Industrial Area. Sources said during the street vendors’ survey, they were left out due to some reasons, so later they filed a representation with the street vendors’ cell, which considered their request. “Their proposal was scrutinised by the vendors’ cell and tabled in the 26th meeting of the town vending committee and approved by the chairperson. Three of them were called along with the head of the community, Kajal Mukhi, on Tuesday for registration. They were told about various other schemes, self-help groups, self-entrepreneurship programmes, among others. The cell is committed to work towards mainstreaming and sensitisation of the transgenders through their community organisers,” said Vivek Trivedi, social development officer of the MC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-first-3-transgenders-get-vending-licence/articleshow/76453116.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Suicide cases on the rise post-lockdown in Haridwar, Rishikesh||Haridwar: The cases of suicide have seen a rise in Haridwar and Rishikesh in the past few days. In the majority of cases, the victim took the extreme step due to family disputes, while others had personal reasons. Though there was a decline in such cases during the initial stage of Covid-induced national lockdown, but the cases have seen a fresh spurt, said police. According to police, some 14 suicide cases were reported in the last 15 days. Haridwar’s circle officer Abhay Singh told TOI, “Incidents of suicides have increased in the past few days. The victims’ parents said that they were upset and overreacting over small matters before committing suicide. However, we don’t know the exact reasons as in most of the cases no suicide notes were recovered.” Meanwhile, two married women committed suicide in Haridwar district on Thursday. The first incident took place in Roorkee’s Paniyala village where a 33-year-old married woman, Mamta, hanged herself. The police did not find any suicide note but sources say family dispute triggered her to take this step. Another incident was reported from Salempur village under Ranipur police station where a 24-year-old Rakhi committed suicide. SHO Ranipur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “Rakhi lived with her husband in a rented house where she hanged herself. No suicide note was recovered but she was facing marital problems.” Dr Rajiv Ranjan Tiwari, a neuropsychiatrist, told TOI, “Depression is one of the main causes behind suicide. However, there could be different reasons for the current incidents of suicide. Most of the cases are stress related due to Covid-induced lockdown. Covid fear and uncertainty about the future has led many into depression and anxiety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suicide-cases-on-the-rise-post-lockdown-in-haridwar-rishikesh/articleshow/76451129.cms||MS Nawaz
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Treat your unit as a family in pandemic’||Lucknow: A day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed all wings and establishments of police to train the force in shielding themselves from covid-19, DGP H C Awasthy issued instructions to senior cops to treat their units as a family and help the men in khaki overcome pandemic-induced trauma. Senior officers have also been told to report to headquarters in case of requirement or guidance. The top cop also issued directives that no policeman above the age of 55 should be deployed in containment zones. The officer said all senior officers must ensure their units have safety equipment and maintain vigil on their dietary supplements. At least 200 cops have been infected with coronavirus of which 120 have healed. After the virus spurt among PAC personnel, he instructed commandants to organise awareness workshops in coordination with health teams on ways to observe social-distancing in barracks and improve diet. District police chiefs and two police commissioners must keep a check on duties allotted to cops in containment zones. Those suffering from health ailments should not be given frontline duty and officers ought to ensure that police lines and mess are sanitised, the DGP said. GRP personnel must be provided with hand gloves and face masks while discharging their duties. DGP PRO, Abhay Nath Tripathi also said policemen should be trained in the use of PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/treat-your-unit-as-a-family-in-pandemic/articleshow/76454085.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Within 8 months, Chandigarh reduces 72 acres of Sukhna wetland||CHANDIGARH: While issuing final notification for declaration of Sukhna Lake as a wetland, the UT administration has reduced 72 acres vis-à-vis the draft notification issued eight months ago in October last year. In the draft notification, the administration had proposed Sukhna Lake’s wetland area as 565 acres. But in the final notification issued on Wednesday, it has notified 493 acres under the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rule, 2017, implying that encroachments, setting up of any industry, dumping of waste, discharge of untreated waste and effluents from industries, and any construction of permanent nature within 50 metres from it will be banned. In March, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the administration to complete the exercise within three months. Reacting on UT’s final notification, Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu said though UT’s notification does not directly affect Punjab, indirectly it would have ramifications. “The notification was issued in a hurry. The UT administration should have waited for the Punjab and Haryana high court judgment, as there is still time to file review and special leave petition (SLP). The notification was erroneously based on a 2004 map of Survey of India, which identified the catchment area. Thereby, it has wrongly placed certain restrictions on the activities,” said the MLA. While talking to the TOI, UT’s chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said they have only reduced the wetland area and that too on the basis of a ground survey. “Moreover, there is no change in the total catchment area (wetland area is part of catchment area). This notification is only about Chandigarh, and it has no link with the Punjab area,” he said. Kansal resident Harjot Oberoi said, “The map attached with the notification is of 1:25000 scale, with contour interval of 10 metres in plains. It is not possible to identify the drainage patterns in the plains with the scale and contour interval, so to find the zone of influence in plains we need to identify the drainage patterns and it is only possible at the scale of 1:5000 with the contour interval of 1 to 2 metres.” In the draft notification, the administration used Survey of India’s 2004 map, according to which the area was surveyed and assessed in 1996-97. But when the use of old map was objected to, the administration sought the latest map with the scale 1:5000. However, the Survey of India replied that no such map existed.  The total catchment area of the lake is 42.07 sq km, of which 29.08 sq km falls in Chandigarh, 10.22 sq km in Haryana and 2.77 sq km in Punjab. Points to ponder “We had filed objections against the draft notification of Sukhna as a wetland and demanded that the map should be of 1:5000 scale, but the UT administration did not consider our request. When there are latest techniques available, the UT should have used them for map,” said Kuljit Singh Bains, a Kansal resident. “With the 2004 map, the UT has wrongly placed certain restrictions on activities. A detailed map of 1:5000 or 1:2000 scale was a must to indicate streams and contours,” said Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu.  “UT reduced the wetland area after a detailed survey and I want to clarify that there is no change in the total catchment area. This notification has no direct impact on Punjab,” said UT’s chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/within-8-months-ut-reduces-72-acres-of-sukhna-wetland/articleshow/76453107.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 19, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Over 500 test positive on second straight day, 12 more die in PMR||PUNE: The daily case count came down marginally to 515 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday against the record tally of 550 recorded the previous day. With this, the total number of patients has jumped to 13,750.  Besides, 12 more patients succumbed to coronavirus in PMR on Thursday, taking the total casualty count to 552. Of the new cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits added 451 new cases, pushing the patient count in the areas to 10,751. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas added 33 cases, while rural and Cantonment areas in the Pune district recorded 31 new cases, pushing their case tally to 1,307 and 1,142, respectively. PMC health officials said 245 patients were at critical stage and being treated at various hospitals. Of them, 49 were put on ventilator support. “Besides, 193 patients were discharged after they were declared cured on Thursday. Over 6,900 patients have been discharged so far in PMC limits,” a civic health official said. When it comes to the active cases, those in PMC areas increased to 3,722 on Thursday. Of these, 2,625 patients were being treated at Naidu hospital and other Covid centres, while 124 at the Sassoon General Hospital and 973 at various private hospitals. The PMC on Thursday collected about 2,464 swabs of suspected patients and sent them for testing. For the last few days, the swab collection has remained above 2,000 in the municipal limits. Among the deceased, two died at the Sassoon hospital. They included a 30-year-old woman from the Hadapsar area and a 60-year-old man from the Pune Camp area. The private hospitals reported six deaths, including a 70-year-old man from Kasba Peth, an 84-year-old man from the Hadapsar area, a 65-year-old man from the Dandekar bridge area, a 45-year-old woman from Hadapsar, an 80-year-old woman from the Shivajinagar area, a 70-year-man from the Pune Camp area and a 44-year-man from Solapur. The details of the rest of the patients who succumbed to the infection in PMR were awaited till going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-500-test-positive-on-second-straight-day-12-more-succumb-to-ncov-in-pune/articleshow/76454076.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Police seize cattle, truck driver held||AURANGABAD: A truck driver was arrested for allegedly transporting as many as 22 cows and calves for the purpose of slaughter. Police have seized both the livestock, whose market value is estimated to be around Rs 2 lakh, as well as the truck in which the cattle was being taken. Police said that a team, led by assistant sub-inspector Samiuddin Siddiqui, intercepted the truck at Oasis Chowk around 3.50 am on Wednesday as it was moving under suspicious circumstances. On searching, police found the cattle stuffed in the truck. The driver, Anwar Saeed Qureshi (39) of Dada Colony, Kailashnagar, didn’t have a driving license and couldn’t produce any document to justify transportation of the animals. An offence has been registered against the driver under relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Animal Preservation Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-seize-cattle-truck-driver-held/articleshow/76451140.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Filmmaker Sachy passes away||Thrissur: Script writer and director K R Sachidanandan passed away at Jubilee Mission Medical College Hospital here on Thursday night. He was 48. Sachidanandan, popularly known as Sachy, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after he suffered a heart attack. He had since been on ventilator support. He had been recuperating after a total hip replacement surgery when he suffered the heart attack. A CT scan at Jubilee had earlier suggested hypoxic brain damage. Sachy’s latest film, Ayyappanum Koshiyum, starring Prithviraj and Biju Menon, was a hit just before the Covid-forced lockdown. Sachy started his career as a script writer with Sethunath (Sachi-Sethu). The Sachi-Sethu combo’s first film, Chocolate, starring Prithviraj, Jayasurya, Remya Nambeesan was a super hit. The duo worked on other films Robinhood, Make-up Man and Seniors. But after the flop of Doubles they stopped the collaboration. Sachy’s directorial debut, Anarkkali, was released in 2015. Born in Kodungallur, Sachy took his degree in Commerce from SNM College Maliankara before joining the Govt Law College, Ernakulam. Before making his foray into films, he had practised as a criminal lawyer in the high court for eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/filmmaker-sachy-passes-away/articleshow/76452204.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Fear delaying hospitalisation, pushing up deaths: Experts||BENGALURU: Having reported at least seven deaths on each of the last three days, Karnataka’s Covid-19 toll has touched 114 with Bengaluru alone accounting for 51 (45%) fatalities. Experts say fear of disruption, stigma and quarantine for the entire family is leading to late presentation of cases becoming a non-clinical cause of mortality. Comorbidities and late referrals too are major concerns, they add. A 23-year-old man, Bengaluru’s youngest Covid-19 fatality, declined to stay in the ICU of Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on June 9 when he was referred from a private hospital and subjected to Covid-19 test. He got discharged against medical advice. Once the test result was out, he was traced and rushed to the Trauma Care Centre only to be declared brought dead. “The man had refused to stay in hospital, unwilling to accept that he was a Covid-19 suspect though he was struggling to breathe,” doctors who treated him told TOI. “It’s sad that society has instilled fear among genuine patients who need immediate medical attention. They seek help when the lungs are largely affected and breathing issues arise. Efforts to create awareness have led to fear. This is pathetic,” lamented an expert working with the government in the Covid-19 technical committee. Delay in fever clinics referring cases for testing and later to dedicated hospitals is complicating things, said Dr CR Jayanthi, dean and director of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. According to her, at least in 15 fatalities at BMCRI’s Covid-19 facilities, the presentation was late. “The patients came on ventilators from other hospitals and died here. Shifting and referrals are also causing delay. Their first visit to a hospital itself may have been quite late. By the time they are shifted here, many are already on ventilator. Ideally, patients on ventilator must continue to be treated at the referring hospitals. There are chances they could have developed septicemia, which is the worst form of Covid-19 pneumonia,” explained Dr Jayanthi. Most of the dying patients have had multiple comorbidities like HIV, hepatitis B, cancer and multiple myeloma (cancer of plasma cells), which only worsen the viral infection, Dr Jayanthi said. Currently, there are nine Covid-19 patients on dialysis at BMCRI’s Trauma Care Centre. The government recently directed private hospitals to continue treating Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases turning positive for Covid-19, saying that shifting them to designated hospitals was leading to interruption and delay in treatment and contributing to increased mortalities. A major allegation in the medical community is that senior professors and doctors in BMCRI are not visiting Covid-19 wards and PG medicos are literally running the show. However Dr Jayanthi said it was not true and all doctors are working under a roster system. “ICU patients are being constantly monitored. Rota system is being followed and doctors are working 24/7,” she added. It may be recalled that in May, Jawaid Akhtar, then additional chief secretary, medical education department, had issued a directive saying all doctors in government medical colleges must be delegated work in Covid-19 facilities. The directive was issued following the government’s observation that many doctors were skipping work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fear-delaying-hospitalisation-pushing-up-deaths-experts/articleshow/76452223.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||PO arrested from Solan in Himachal||Chandigarh: The UT police arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) Vikas Walia from Solan in Himachal Pradesh. He was declared PO in a cheating case on January 18, 2020. Vikas had cheated one Ashok Mittal of Rs 36.56 crore by luring him for diamond trade and setting up a factory and showroom. He was also wanted by the Delhi and Mumbai units of CBI, as he had done an embezzlement of Rs 20 crore in the Canara Bank, Chandigarh and Mumbai. The accused had cheated banks and individuals of around Rs. 56.60 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/po-arrested-from-solan-in-himachal/articleshow/76453141.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||NGOs give groceries to 2,100 sanitation workers’ families||Aurangabad: Sanitation workers from the unorganized sector in Aurangabad got a helping hand from NGOs, which provided groceries and food supply to as many as 2,100 families. The Centre for Applied Research and People’s Engagement (Carpe), supported by Bajaj Auto, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages Pvt Ltd and Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) provided grocery to last the families for a month. The campaign, titled Aurangabad Rokona Relief Initiative, is aimed at supporting poor and vulnerable families. Families from Aurangabad city, Waluj, Daulatabad, Khuldabad, Ellora, Jogeshwari and Ghanegaon benefitted from the move. Over 3,310 sanitation workers of Aurangabad and nearby towns have also been given safety kits. Carpe CEO Gauri Mirashi said many residents have stepped forward to help, but a lot more needs to be done. An online crowdfunding campaign - Rocona Relief Initiative - for those engaged in sanitation’ is helping raise funds and around 300 people from the city and across the country have contributed to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngos-give-groceries-to-2100-sanitation-workers-families/articleshow/76451173.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Application in HC says 950 people still stuck in Maharashtra||Nainital: Just a few days after a Shramik train was sent to Maharashtra’s Thane district to bring back registered migrant workers following the petition in the Uttarakhand high court, another application has been moved before the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe saying that migrant workers are still stuck in the Pune and Mumbai. The additional submission, a copy of which is available with TOI, has been made to the intervention application (IA) filed on Monday that alleged that close to 2,500 workers were stuck in Thane. After the HC took cognizance of the application by an NGO named Pravasi Sahyogi Team, the state government gave consent for running a train which was withheld even after a letter from collector of Thane. The additional submission now says that there still are around 950 people stuck in Pune and Mumbai. “We have given an additional submission attaching the list of around 950 people who are still stuck in Maharashtra’s two cities. We have urged the court to issue directions to the state government to arrange for trains or any other mode of transport so that the workers could be brought back,” said Dushyant Mainali, the counsel appearing for petitioner NGO. “The honorable court may very graciously be pleased to direct the respondents to immediately arrange the adequate transportation facility for these stranded migrant workers of Pune and Mumbai and be directed to announce such facility at least in advance 48 hours so as to spread the information to maximum number of stranded migrants,” read the submission. The division bench of the HC will hear the case on Tuesday, along with the public interest litigation (PIL) that has highlighted the plight of migrant workers stuck across the country. The court, while hearing the same PIL, had declared the migrants’ right to return to their home state as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/application-in-hc-says-950-people-still-stuck-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76451151.cms||Prashant Jha
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Dengue advisory for Nashik citizens||Nashik: With the onset of monsoon, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) issued an advisory on dengue on Thursday. Last year, in July, there had been a sudden spike in dengue cases in the city. Learning from the past experience, the health department of the NMC issued a public notice, advising people on precautions. The advisory includes precautions including cleaning and drying the water storage units like water tanks and overhead tanks once a week, covering all household water storages so that mosquito breeding spots are not created, disposing of scrap material like tyres, keeping school and office premises clean, wearing covered clothing and approaching hospitals in case of fever etc. The civic body has also urged people to cooperate with the health teams during their inspection. The city had recorded only 12 cases of dengue between January 1 and June 30 in 2019, but there was a sudden spike July onwards after the monsoon became active. The city had recorded 48 dengue positive cases in July alone, followed by 165 and 117 cases in August and September, respectively. In October, 207 positive cases were registered which increased to 322 in November. The city had recorded 253 cases in December 2019. “There have been only three positive in the first fortnight of June this year,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dengue-advisory-for-nashik-citizens/articleshow/76451161.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 19, 2020||India||China keeps mum on Galwan river dam||NEW DELHI: China on Thursday remained evasive about the number of casualties suffered by it in the Galwan valley clash and also on the role of its troops. It didn't respond to queries on reports that it was building a dam on the Galwan river on the border to obstruct its flow. Asked about allegations that Indian soldiers were brutally attacked with iron rods and spikes by Chinese soldiers, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian reiterated China's allegation, squarely blaming Indian troops for the incident. “The right and wrong of this case is very clear and responsibility doesn't lie with the Chinese side,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-keeps-mum-on-galwan-river-dam/articleshow/76454937.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Amid natl lockdown, SECR earned Rs18.76cr in 17 days||Nagpur: Braving all odds during the lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic, the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) has generated Rs18.76 crore revenue in the last 17 days. Senior SECR officials said the division generated Rs18.76 crore by transporting 0.38 million tonne goods including essential commodities in from June 1 to June 17, using 119 rakes (5,714 wagons). SECR also operated parcel special trains for supply of essential medicines, perishables and other commodities regularly during the nationwide lockdown. “Apart from parcel trains, special attention was paid to loading of goods, in which coal, food grains and fertilizers etc are being transported by the division in different directions. SECR is making every attempt to increase income of the railways despite lockdown,” says divisional commercial manager (DCM) Anurag Kumar Singh. Along with this, special attention is also being given to maintenance of tracks and crossings as per prescribed norms, track tamping, removal of malfunctions in railroading, replacement of defective sleepers from various sections. “During this period, many such works were done which were not possible till now. Utilizing the opportunity, SECR completed backlog of maintenance works. While doing so, entire emphasis was on increasing safety measurements and operational efficiency,” said SECR officials. For the purpose of dynamic growth of the economy, Indian Railways has been working on several measures and action plans from time to time to encourage loading of goods. In this series, a special action plan to focus on new and additional traffic by SECR will be done by creating ‘cargo facilitation unit’ for creation of new and additional traffic and efficient increase in loading. Officials said the function of this unit will be mainly to increase revenue by increasing loading by marking items of new loading in addition to traditional ones. “The railways will also solve the problems by contacting interested parties to encourage loading of goods by cargo facility unit and also continuous contact from time to time through videoconferencing etc.” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-natl-lockdown-secr-earned-rs18-76cr-in-17-days/articleshow/76453233.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||AP records 425 cases, 2 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh registered its highest single-day spike of 425 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. The state also saw two deaths. With this, the Covid-19 tally in AP has increased to 7,496 while the death toll stands at 92. A total of 13,923 samples were tested on Thursday. Of them, 299 locals tested positive, while another 100 cases came from people who returned to Andhra Pradesh from other states. As many as 26 foreign returnees also tested positive. As on June 18, Andhra Pradesh has tested a total of 6,12,397 samples. The number of foreign returnees who tested positive stand at 289 while the positive cases of people travelling from other states increased to 1,353. On the other hand, 131 Covid-19 patients, including 51 people who returned from other states and three foreign returnees, recovered from the virus and were discharged from hospitals across the state on Thursday. The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the state now stands at 3,772, including 742 people from other states and 47 foreign returnees. The total active cases in AP are 3,632 (2,779 local cases), 611 and 242 from other states and foreign returnees, respectively. On the Covid-19 toll front, Kurnool district has reported 31 Covid-19 deaths (highest in the state) followed by Krishna district with 29 deaths and Guntur district with 10 deaths. While Anantapur district witnessed six Covid-19 deaths, five deaths each reported in Chittoor and East Godavari districts. Nellore district has registered four deaths while Vizag and Prakasam districts reported one death each. Vizianagaram and Srikakulam and West Godavari and Kadapa districts haven’t reported any Covid-19 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-records-425-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76453162.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Agra||191 healthcare professionals volunteers to serve covid patients in the district||Agra: Responding to a call by the district administration, 191 people have come forward to volunteer their services for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the district. They include doctors, pharmacists, lab technicians, operation theater technicians, nurses, yoga teachers, Ayurveda and Homeopathy practitioners and sanitation workers. After witnessing a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in the district, the administration began making arrangements for additional beds in L1, L2 and L3 categories. Last week, applications were invited from doctors, paramedics and supporting staff who would want to voluntarily serve Covid-19 patients. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We have registered 191 people who have volunteered to serve Covid-19 patients. Out of these, 90% are paramedical staff. The volunteers will provide support to the existing staff on duty. This will help us ensure better treatment to patients.”Since June 1, over 170 Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in Agra district. So far, 70 patients have died in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/191-healthcare-professionals-volunteers-to-serve-covid-patients-in-the-district/articleshow/76451152.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun DM to now meet residents to resolve complaints||Dehradun: Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava will now meet residents on every Monday, Thursday and Saturday to resolve the complaints and other administrative matters. However, only 25 people will be allowed to meet the DM in a day between the 11 am and 1 pm, following social distancing norms. A prior appointment will have to be taken from the DM’s office through landline numbers. The district administration has also drafted a SOP for visiting the official as a safety measure against the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dehradun-dm-to-now-meet-residents-to-resolve-complaints/articleshow/76451167.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chandigarh||1 held, 3 cops suspended in bribery case||Chandigarh: The CBI has arrested a person for accepting bribe on behalf of cops and booked three policemen of Maloya police station in this connection. Following the registration of FIR, all the three constables have been suspended and sent to police lines. The arrested person, Rajat, allegedly took Rs 14,000 from one Deepak Shahni on behalf of constables Shiv, Nasib and Krishan. They had earlier threatened Deepak to implicate in drug trafficking case. The CBI laid the trap and arrested Rajat taking the bribe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-held-3-cops-suspended-in-bribery-case/articleshow/76453156.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: YCM Hospital to get PPE kits and masks soon||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital will soon get personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks. The civic body’s standing committee has approved expenditure of Rs82 lakh for the purpose. PCMC’s additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said the civic body has around 20,000 PPE kits in stock. “So far, we do not need additional PPE kits, but the purchase rate has been approved for future requirement. The rates have dropped from Rs1,200 to Rs850, per kit,” Patil said. He added that mayor Usha Dhore convened a meeting with the private hospitals on Thursday. The meeting was attended by civic chief Shravan Hardikar and other officials. Private hospitals have been told to charge Covid-19 patients as prescribed by the state government. According to Dhore, PCMC has received a few complaints about high charges at private hospitals. She said that hospitals should comply with the state government guidelines and reserve the required beds for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycmh-to-get-ppe-kits-masks/articleshow/76454106.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cancel coal blocks in ecologically-sensitive areas: Ramesh||Nagpur: Former union environment minister Jairam Ramesh in a communication to environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday has expressed shock at the manner in which coal blocks in areas of very rich biodiversity were put up for auction on Thursday.In its Friday issue, TOI was the first to publish a report on how the Bander coal blocks near the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), which fall in the ‘no go’ zone, were among the list of 41 blocks in the country put up for auction. Earlier, the blocks were rejected twice for coal mining.In 2009-10, while heading the environment ministry, Ramesh had done the ‘go’ and ‘no go’ classification of coal blocks by a joint team of ministry of environment and forest and officials from Coal India Limited (CIL). The classification was itself suggested by the then Coal India chairman.Ramesh pointed out that nine major coalfields were studied and about 70% of the coal blocks fell in the ‘go’ areas that could prima facie be considered for approval and 30% were in ‘no go’ zones. These should under no circumstances be considered for mining. Bander was one of them.The former environment minister reminded Javadekar on how he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have spoken eloquently in global forums on India’s commitment to fight global warming. “What sort of commitment is this that coal blocks in very dense forest areas are being opened up for mining,” asked Ramesh.Talking about the enormous loss this decision would cause to the environment, Ramesh said, “It is a triple disaster. The mining and transportation of coal will impose a very heavy environmental cost. Secondly, it will mean loss of dense forest cover for which no compensatory afforestation will compensate. It will also mean loss of valuable carbon sink and thirdly, public health will be severely affected.” Ramesh also said that some politically powerful producers had been eyeing some of these coal blocks — one dangerously near Tadoba. “Clearly, their influence is very evident in this decision to open up coal mining in such ecologically fragile and sensitive zones,” he added.While criticizing the prime minister, Ramesh said, “The prime minister had compared coal to diamonds on Thursday. This is the language of the 1970s and 1980s. Nobody concerned with global warming and climate change would have made such a statement. At a time when we should be thinking seriously about peaking or plateauing of coal production, the PM’s statement shows that he does not ‘walk the talk’ as far as what he preaches to the world on climate change is concerned.”Urging the government to roll back its decision, Ramesh said, “I request the government to take steps to ensure that the coal blocks in ecologically fragile and sensitive areas put up for auction are cancelled immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cancel-coal-blocks-in-ecologically-sensitive-areas-ramesh/articleshow/76466464.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik mayor orders probe into security deposit collection||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni on Thursday ordered a probe into the alleged controversy of collecting security deposit worth Rs 15,000 each from 700 candidates by the private agency that has got the contract to outsource sanitation workers to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC).During the general body meeting Kulkarni directed additional municipal commissioner Bodhikiran Sonkamble to investigate the case. The directive came after the Shiv Sena corporator Pravin Tidme and Congress corporator Hemlata Patil raised the issue during the general body meeting (GBM) held on Thursday through video conferencing.This was the second GBM held online through video conferencing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. While the NMC requires around 2,500 sanitation staff for the entire city, the current strength is only 1,800 employees. The NMC has decided to outsource 700 workers through private agency that was finalized through tender process and has already given work order. Additional municipal commissioner Sonkamble said that he has already issued a letter to the private agency concerned over collection of the security deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-mayor-orders-probe-into-security-deposit-collection/articleshow/76451171.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 80 new Covid cases||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Thursday recorded 80 new Covid-19 positive cases and with this, the state’s tally reached 2,102. Maximum 27 cases were reported from Dehradun district, followed by Pauri Garhwal (19), Almora (13) and Nainital (6) among others. Among those found infected comprised are a doctor in Tehri Garhwal, a patwari in Rudraprayag, five members of a family in Kotdwar and a few more government officials. Though Uttarakhand is still waiting for the results of 4,411 samples, maximum result awaited are at Haridwar (1,212) followed by US Nagar (950), Almora (641) and Chamoli (408). Till date maximum positive cases in the state have been from Dehradun, followed by Naintal and Tehri. Meanwhile, governor Baby Rani Maurya inspected Doon hospital and interacted with patients via video call. She said, "I visited the hospital to motivate our frontline warriors and to understand the internal situation." Till Thursday, 1,386 patients have been discharged from various hospitals of the state after treatment. Today 124 patients were discharged of which maximum 74 were discharged from Dehradun, 14 from Haridwar, 10 from Rudraprayag, eight each from Nainital and Tehri, seven from Bageshwar and three from Pauri Garhwal. State continues to have 89 containment zones spread across five districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, US Nagr, Pauri and Tehri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-80-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76451172.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Man accused of radicalising youth on FB held by ATS||Lucknow: Acting on classified inputs of intelligence agencies, the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) arrested 30-year-old Mohammed-Inamul-Haq from Riyaz colony in Bareilly. Inamul is accused of radicalising youth for terror activities. The police also seized mobile phones and SIM cards from his possession. Additional director general (ADG) of UP ATS, DK Thakur said that the intelligence agencies found Inamul’s profile to be suspicious in random scanning of social media. “He used to send messages to others on Facebook of planning terror activities and ‘jihad’. His WhatsApp and Telegram accounts also have many objectionable messages,” said the officer. Thakur said that police have seized literature on international terror organisations like al-Qaeda. UP ATS also said that anti-India conversation was retrieved from his WhatsApp and Telegram messaging apps. A source in the UP ATS said that he had saved a photo of slain Hindu leader Kamlesh Tiwari with a message in Arabic. Tiwari was allegedly killed by radicals last year. Police said that Inamul was produced in a court and taken on 10-day remand for further questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-accused-of-radicalising-youth-on-fb-held-by-ats/articleshow/76454108.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Stage set for elections to 3 Rajya Sabha seats today||JAIPUR: The curtains will finally come down on the week-long political drama on Friday as the MLAs vote to elect candidates for the three Rajya Sabha seats from the state. The contest has been made interesting by the BJP, which has fielded two candidates, though its numbers in the state assembly can ensure it of only one seat. The ruling party has become jittery about the victory of its two candidates due to the alleged BJP overtures to Congress and Independent MLAs. Adding spice to the political drama, both the parties have been keeping their MLAs in separate hotels in Jaipur to prevent poaching and cross-voting. BJP’s two candidates — Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat — have been pitted against Congress national general secretary K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi. Other than Venugopal, the remaining three contesting candidates have kept away from the controversies running around. For the first time in Rajasthan, every MLA voter will get a separate pen to mark the ballot paper. This is being done to maintain social distancing and also to leave no chance to any controvery like the one that erupted in Haryana a few years ago over using the same marker pen. On the last day, both camps didn’t see any major political activity. Lawmakers of both camps took a mock poll during the day at their respective hotels under the supervision of central party leaders. The central leaders cautioned MLAs against committing any mistake during the polls. In the BJP camp, central leader Murlidhar Rao held a session on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) campaign launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce dependency on imports. BJP state president Satish Poonia told media that the last three days have been very informative for the MLAs as they had to attend several sessions unlike the Congress camp which was busy playing sports and listening to music. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje joined the BJP camp, addressed party MLAs and held close-door meetings with Poonia and Rao. Sources said that she discussed a strategy to 'gherao' Congress government over its failure at all fronts, especially in handling the Covid-19 crisis. In the Congress camp, the day didn't see much activity. The party's central leader Randeep Surjewala held a press conference targeting the Modi government over the Galwan Valley episode. Lodged in a hotel for the last nine days, the party leaders did their best to keep the mood of their MLAs upbeat. During a mock poll, deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot shared a lighter moment with chief minister Ashok Gehlot when the former showed the ballot paper to the latter that he had cast the vote in favour of the right candidate. Both the parties have directed their lawmakers to be ready by 10am to leave the hotel for the polls. The voting will start at 9am and will go on till 4pm at the state assembly, followed by counting at 5pm. The results will be announced on the same day. Each candidate has to secure 51 votes to enter the Upper House. The BJP has 75 MLAs, including three from its ally RLP. This leaves the saffron party with only 24 votes, making it difficult for it to secure a second seat. The Congress has claimed the support of 125 MLAs, including 107 of its own lawmakers, against the requirement of 102 and is heading for a comfortable victory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stage-set-for-elections-to-3-rs-seats-in-state-today/articleshow/76454091.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government withdraws order on 1,018 name changes||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday withdrew an order changing the anglicised names of 1,018 places in the state that triggered an outcry over the inconsistencies in transliteration. Tamil official language and Tamil culture minister K Pandiarajan said the government would absorb all feedback and reissue an order soon. Prior to that a transliteration protocol would be released. The two-year initiative of the government that included consultations among linguists and scholars at the district and state level, culminating in an order on April 1. It was released in the public domain last week. “We are working on alignment of views by experts on transliteration standards from Tamil to English. Hopefully, we should get this released in two or three days. The government order on the change of English names for Tamil names for places has been withdrawn,” the minister tweeted. The order drew flak in social media amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, and leaders and scholars questioned the rationale behind the standards adopted for transliteration. If Coimbatore became Koyampuththoor, Vellore turned Veeloor and Madurai Mathurai. The ‘Pettais’ of Chennai regained their originality – Saidapettai, Jalladiyaanpettai, Chintadaripettai. The changes made to Erode to Erodu triggered sharp responses from the local elected representatives, since the phrase came from Eru Odai (two streams). The inconsistency becomes clear when Tiruvarur becomes Thiruvaroor while Vidur remains Veedur. Pandiarajan said the government would come up with a transliteration protocol, akin to Mandarin to resolve the issues of inconsistency. “Most of the feedback is about inconsistency. We intend to bring out a transliteration protocol and based on which the translations would be done. We are not going back from the attempt to get the English word to be the same phonetically as Tamil name. A place will have only a name and that name will be in Tamil,” he told TOI. A team of linguists are working on the initiative to come up with a protocol first as there are three transliteration protocols in vogue. Pandiarajan said it would make the job easy since years have passed by and some of the names were 200 years old. “We will ensure that a minimal number of changes happen. We will choose a protocol which is accepted by the linguists; which is easy to abide by; which has minimal number of changes and we will announce it quickly,” the minister said. MDMK chief Vaiko on Wednesday said Tamil Nadu should be changed to ‘Thamilnaadu’ given the wrong pronunciation of North Indians and Egmore should be ‘Elumpoor’ as ‘Ezhumboor’ would cause confusion. Pandiarajan said the previous order was only about communicating the recommendation of the task force, represented by six departments, including Tamil development, revenue, rural development, municipal administration and registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-withdraws-order-on-1018-name-changes/articleshow/76453174.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Court to check Bilal’s mental state||KOTTAYAM: A court here decided to examine the mental state of the accused in Thazhathangady murder case. The judicial first class magistrate court 3 here considered the petition by the prosecution regarding this and asked the remand lawyer to submit details about the mental condition of Mohammed Bilal, 23, who is the accused in the Thazhathangady murder case. The case was adjourned to July 1. The details of the medicines he had recently taken have to be submitted before court. The accused is now lodged in Pala sub-jail. On June 1, Mohammed Saly, 65 and wife Sheeba, 60, were attacked by the youth. Sheeba succumbed to injuries while Saly is still in hospital with critical injuries. The youth was a neighbour of the couple earlier. Bilal was held a few days later from Kochi where he had joined as a cook in a restaurant. The prosecution on Thursday told court that the details regarding his mental condition have to be examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-to-check-bilals-mental-state/articleshow/76452230.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nashik||All-party panel to resolve issue with WRD||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni has decided to appoint an all party committee that will study the water reservation issue and prepare a draft to resolve the disputes with the Water Resources Department (WRD). The panel will also pursue the issue with state water resources minister for early resolution. The decision was taken by Kulkarni after stormy discussions by corporators on a proposal tabled by the civic administration during Thursday’s general body meeting via video-conferencing. The water reservation agreement of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) with WRD is pending for the last few years. The WRD is demanding re-establishment cost of Rs 53 crore due to rise in NMC’s quota of water and thereby reducing the irrigation areas. But the civic body is unwilling to pat the re-establishment cost owing to which the WRD is not singing the water reservation pact with the NMC. “The reservation of water in the dams for the NMC was fixed in 1995 and the WRD’s norms about the re-establishment cost came thereafter. Hence, the re-establishment cost does not apply to NMC,” Shiv Sena corporator Sudhakar Badgujar said. Meanwhile, ruckus was created during the meeting over rise in cost of 10 water supply-related projects those were already approved by the General Body two years ago. The civic administration had tabled the proposal for its approval for additional cost during the GB meeting.  All corporators had opposed the proposal, but mayor went ahead and approved it, leading to the ruckus. Finally, the mayor had to adjourn the meeting for 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/all-party-panel-to-resolve-issue-with-wrd/articleshow/76451192.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ferozepur division moved 14 LT of goods in lockdown||Ludhiana: After the lockdown had been enforced, Ferozpur division of Northern Railway has sent the highest amount of essential items to other states. As per information, the division has transported more than 14 lakh tonne of goods to other states. Moreover, railway authorities have extended their decision of providing relaxation to private transportersby extending the time limit for unloading goods from freight trains. They had been providing 18 hours for the same against the previous nine hours. As per information available with TOI, in the three months of lockdown, Northern Railway had run seven to nine trains, which completed almost 140 trips. Moreover, railway authorities have constantly making efforts in maintaining smooth transportation of essential goods by establishing a parcel monitoring-cum-assistance service by deploying marketing staff to help for customers in booking parcels and getting it delivered to the designated places. The railway authorities have already created a dedicated Whatsapp group for providing relevant information to the customers as well as attending to their queries/problems. Besides, Ferozpur division had also appointed a team under a chief parcel supervisor. Divisional railway manager Rajesh Aggarwal said, “Firozpur division has contributed its part in delivering the essential goods to rest of the nation by running several parcel containing trains.” Moreover, The authorities have decided to not charge manufacturers that were using empathy container of the Railways due to financial crises amid covid-19 spread. This development action has been taken keeping in view the present financial crisis The decision will remain in forces for the next some days and it might be extended after looking at the situation. A transporter who used to ferry goods in freight trains, Amit Gupta, said, “This decision will bring a lot of relief to local manufacturers and those transporting necessary goods and raw materials to different parts of nation. Earlier, they had been facing time limit issues after the curfew had been imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ferozepur-division-moved-14-lt-of-goods-in-lockdown/articleshow/76452242.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Plantation drive in Telangana adding green cover to Rajiv Rahadari||HYDERABAD: The beautification works by planting avenue saplings on Rajiv Rahadari (State Highway-1) from Outer Ring Road junction at Shamirpet seems to be yielding positive results. The drive is also adding to the green cover of the state. According to officials, the avenue plantations were first taken up by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) in 2015 on both sides of the road from Shamirpet to Vantimamidi and later extended up to Gouraram and Pragnapur on request of road users. A number of plantation drives on the highway were also conducted as part of the state government’s Haritha Haram programme. On Thursday, a few a bird’s eye view of the green cover of the expressway went viral on social media. A twitter handle, which shares live news updates of municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao @KTR_News tweeted, “These visuals are not from some foreign country, but our very own Hyderabad Outer Ring Road. Govt of Telangana has taken up massive avenue plantation under #HarithaHaram initiative (sic).” However, while appreciating the work, a few people questioned the cutting down of hundreds of trees for highway expansion. In a tweet, Nagender @Naag2017 said, “Good work sir. But why cutting thousands of big trees due to highway expansions in the state. Why can’t we try to center the trees within the divider range and try not to cut them and the expand the highways. (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plantation-drive-in-t-adding-green-cover-to-rajiv-rahadari/articleshow/76453210.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Abhimanyu murder accused surrenders||KOCHI: Sahal Hamsa (23), the tenth accused who stabbed Abhimanyu, surrendered before the Ernakulam first class magistrate court on Thursday. The accused was on the run for over two years and he was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Abhimanyu M, a second year Chemistry student at Maharaja’s College in Ernakulam was stabbed to death at the back gate of the college at around 12:45 am on July 2018. According to police, with the surrender of Sahal, all 16 prime accused in the case have been nabbed in the sensational murder case, in which Abhimanyu was attacked by sympathizers of Campus Front. Sahal Hamsa, hailing from Nettoor, was reportedly staying undercover in Karnataka. Police said that he returned to Kerala due to the spread of Covid in the area he was staying. Police said that the accused, who was remanded, was taken to Aluva general hospital for sample collection for Covid test. Later, he was transferred to the detention centre at Koratty. The chargesheet filed by police had clearly stated that it was Sahal who stabbed Abhimanyu. Police said that the accused would be sought in custody as they are yet to recover the weapon that he used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/abhimanyu-murder-accused-surrenders/articleshow/76452250.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Ram temple website to offer virtual tour||LUCKNOW: Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, the organization that will construct the Ram temple in Ayodhya, started operating its official website. Arrangements are being made to webcast the religious proceedings at the revered temple that will enable devotees to have a virtual darshan of Ram Lalla. “The website will keep the devotees as well as donors for temple construction updated about the progress made on the temple front,” trustee Anil Mishra told TOI. The website was launched by state culture minister Neelkanth Tewari in a simple ceremony on Wednesday and opened for the public from Thursday morning. “We have made a humble beginning but many features would be added to it in subsequent weeks,” Mishra said. A Facebook page of the temple trust was launched earlier in April while a letter has been sent to Twitter to get its handle verified. Mishra said the trust will release all the official details about the temple construction through the website only. The website will allow people to make donations for temple construction. The levelling of the area near the sanctum sanctorum has been done while the ground is being prepared in other parts now. Meanwhile, sources said the bhumi pujan for temple construction has been deferred in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-website-to-offer-virtual-tour/articleshow/76454118.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||80 more test Covid-19 +ve, 6 deaths take toll to 170||Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 cases across Aurangabad district increased by 80 on Thursday, taking the tally to 3,116. The district also reported as many as six deaths — four at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and two at a private hospital between Wednesday and Thursday — that took the death toll to 170. According to district administration, of the 3,116 cases, a total of 1,753 have recovered and got discharged from the hospitals. The active number of cases currently stands at 1,193. The four deaths that took place at GMCH include a 33-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar, a 55-year-old woman from Samata Nagar, a 57-year-old woman from Parli Vaijnath in Beed and a 59-year-old man from Kaiser Colony. The remaining two deaths of an 81-year-old man from Ganesh Colony and 56-year-old man from Kalamboli took place at a private hospital. So far, 124 deaths due Covid-19 have occurred at GMCH, 45 at three private hospitals and 1 at district civil hospital. Meanwhile, of the 80 positive cases 12 were detected from Bajajnagar, Cidco Waluj and Pandharpur ares on the outskirts of the city. This has led to concerns as many industries are based in these areas and are operating at 50% capacity. According to CP Tripathi, head of Bajaj Auto’s CSR wing, relevant measures such thermal screening and social distancing is being religiously followed at their plant. “Two people working at the plant were found symptomatic. When tested at Bajaj Hospital they were found to be positive. Subsequently, we have traced their contacts and quarantined them,” Tripathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/80-more-test-covid-19-ve-6-deaths-take-toll-to-170/articleshow/76451194.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 19, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 pushes up air freight, UP mangoes to reach Gulf via sea for 1st time||Agra: The king of fruits is now a seafarer. With the pandemic pushing up air freight charges, mango exporters from UP will send consignments of Dussehri, Langra and Saroli — popular mango varieties in the Gulf — via sea for the first time. On Wednesday, the first shipment of 26 tonnes of mangoes left Lucknow for Gujarat port. It will leave Indian shores for Oman four days later. For the delicate fruit, it will be a seven-day journey covering several hundred nautical miles. Nadeem Siddiqui, president of the Mango Export Association of UP, said the decision to export via sea was taken this month since air freight has nearly tripled. “Air freight charges have gone up from Rs 45-Rs 55 per kg to up to Rs 150 per kg since the pandemic disrupted air and cargo services. Comparatively, shipment by sea is now much cheaper at Rs 27 per kg,” he said. To ensure the varieties maintain the quality, aroma and taste that they are known for, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture has lent technical support. A senior official from the Agriculture & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Apeda), a government body that focuses on transport of major exports, said the UP government and the Centre are working to provide logistical aid to mango exporters so that fruit exports from UP can gain international dominance. The senior official said, “We are using reefer containers that can slow down the ripening of the fruit to prevent spoilage. Mangoes have to be stored at temperatures not less than 10 degrees Celsius.” Siddiqui said the next batch of mangoes will leave for Dubai on June 21. “Last year, growers from Lucknow exported 200 tonnes to other countries while exports from Saharanpur amounted to 300 tonnes,” he said. Mangoes from UP are popular in UAE, Qatar, Oman, Japan, Malaysia and the UK. Farmers whose orchards render good-quality yield prefer to sell their produce to exporters since profit margins are neat. “In the wholesale market, a kg of mango sells for Rs 25, but the exporter buys it for up to Rs 40 per kg,” said Akram Baig, an exporter from Pratapgarh. Apart from the pandemic, the weather has also played spoilsport for mango growers this year — unseasonal rains in the past few months have damaged crops. This has prompted farmers to write to the chief minister to seek relief. According toInsram Ali, president of All India Mango Growers’ Association, UP accounts for 23.47% of the total production of mangoes in the country. “UP produced 45-50 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes last year, but this year the yield is likely to be down to 35-40 lakh metric tonnes, resulting in losses of Rs 3,000 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-pushes-up-air-freight-up-mangoes-to-reach-gulf-via-sea-for-1st-time/articleshow/76451165.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||UP ATS arrests Al-Qaeda suspect from Bareilly||Bareilly: A suspected al-Qaeda operative has been arrested from the Quila area of Bareilly district on Thursday. Through surveillance, ATS team got a tip-off that a person named Mohammed Shoeb alias Abu Mohammed Ali, who has been completely radicalised by Al Qaeda, is trying to mobilise youths using social media applications. When an ATS team from Lucknow along with their local officer Manjeet Singh raided a house in Bareilly, they found the person operating the account was actually Inamul Haq, 28, who lives here with his younger brother. Haq is unemployed and remains active on several social media applications under different names. He has been charged with several crimes at ATS police station in Lucknow. A member of ATS team told TOI, “We have recovered much evidence to establish Inamul’s connection with al-Qaeda. He was using social media for diverting youths to terrorism. Our probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-ats-arrests-al-qaeda-suspect-from-bareilly/articleshow/76451251.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 19, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatpur’s Covid deaths the 2nd highest this month||JAIPUR: Bharatpur reported six Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, with 92 persons also testing positive for the virus on the same day. After Jaipur, Bharatpur is at second place in reporting the highest number of Covid deaths in June. The district's tally of virus cases stood at 1,190, the third highest in the state, after Jaipur (2,720) and Jodhpur (2,283). As on Thursday, there are 78 containment zones in Bharatpur district, where health authorities are taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. With six more deaths, the district's toll stands at 26, the third highest after Jaipur (143) and Jodhpur (30). Out of the 26 fatalities in Bharatpur, 22 deaths happened in June. Jaipur has, so far, reported 52 deaths in June, the highest for any district in the state, while Jodhpur saw 11 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatpurs-covid-deaths-the-2nd-highest-this-month/articleshow/76454103.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand unlikely to host Kanwar yatra, but promises gangajal in tankers||DEHRADUN: In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and social distancing norms in place, there is only a “slim possibility” that Uttarakhand can host this year’s Kanwar yatra, which saw a turnout of 3.3 crore last year and traditionally culminates at Haridwar with pilgrims taking a dip at Har ki Pauri and carrying gangajal home. The state government is now contemplating the possibility of providing gangajal to neighbouring states -- including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab, which account for the maximum footfall -- in water tankers. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will hold a video conference with UP CM Yogi Aditynath and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar soon on this, said sources. The yatra is scheduled to begin on July 6 and end on July 20 this year. As many as 3.7 crore devotees came to collect gangajal in 2017 and the number went up to 4.25 crore in 2018. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said Rawat will interact with his counterparts in UP and Haryana in a day or two and finalise a schedule. “Under the present scenario, there is a slim possibility that Uttarakhand will be able to hold this year’s yatra. However, it is too early to take a call and we are waiting for the outcome of the video conference that the three CMs hold,” he said, adding that the issue was also taken up in the cabinet meeting on Thursday. “We have received requests from Haryana to transport gangajal. We can provide tankers with gangajal to the neighbouring states and, if asked, we can also transport it in trucks,” Kaushik added. He said if an agreement is reached, Uttarakhand is ready to bear the expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-unlikely-to-host-kanwar-yatra-but-promises-gangajal-in-tankers/articleshow/76451182.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 19, 2020||Agra||Couple found dead with bullet injury in Etah||AGRA: A junior engineer of Etah thermal power plant was found dead along with his wife inside their rented accommodation in Avantibai colony on Thursday morning. Victims were identified as Dhirender Kumar Vashit (33) and his wife Gangotri (28). The two had shifted to rented house on June 6. They belong to village Abrahimpur under Rijour police limits. SHO Kotwali Nagar Etah Ashok Kumar said, “Victims’ room was locked from inside and they both had bullet injury on their bodies. Prima facie it seems that Dhirender first shot his wife dead and then killed himself. Bodies have been sent for autopsy.” Gangotri’s parents have lodged a case of dowry murder against Dhirender and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/couple-found-dead-with-bullet-injury-in-etah/articleshow/76451160.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Cong rushes to SC on postal ballot in RS polls||NEW DELHI: Fearing that the Election Commission’s decision to allow postal ballots during biennial Rajya Sabha elections on Friday would encourage large-scale cross voting, Gujarat leader of opposition and Congress’ Paresh Dhanani rushed to the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking quashing of the EC notification of June 17. Senior advocate A M Singhvi argued that the EC’s decision to permit postal ballots would convert the open ballot system in RS elections into a secret ballot and nullify party whips to MLAs to cast their votes according to the party line. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna was reluctant to entertain the petition saying the court would not interfere in the election process once it has commenced. “Your best option is to file an election petition challenging the results of the RS polls,” the bench said. However, Singhvi persuaded the bench to issue notice to the EC on Dhanani’s petition even though it posted the case for hearing after July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-rushes-to-sc-on-postal-ballot-in-rs-polls/articleshow/76454947.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||CICU delegation meets min over non-release of payments||Ludhiana: Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) delegation met Union minister for industry & commerce, Som Prakash to discuss the issue of non-release of payments by government organisations to city-based PPE suit manufacturers and other related issues. Giving more information, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “We discussed several important issues, the major one being the non-payment of the due amount to city-based PPE manufacturers. Our delegation informed the minister that HLL Lifecare Limited is an enterprise of ministry of health & family welfare, government of India, and the organisation is not releasing payments for amounts overdue to PPE kit manufacturers. This is being done despite the terms of clearing the credit in five days mentioned on its purchase orders given to the manufacturers. We requested him that the payments should be released immediately, so that businessmen can pay wages and clear other payments.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “We also asked the minister to ensure that testing of all garments should be standardised and should not ban any vendor for failure of sample testing of the product for the next six months. The cost of pre-dispatch inspection and testing at 2% cost of the invoice value is very high, which should be reworked to make it affordable for the manufacturers. The pass and fail shipments can be inspected, tested and should be graded and be suitably channelised for distribution among frontline, midline, back-end warriors, forcing manufacturers into financial and operational difficulties. New instructions should be given for quality checks on inventories in their warehouse.” Sudarshan Gosain, senior member of CICU, said, “We also undertook the issues of difficulties being faced by MSMEs, including managing their finances as there is no inflow of money and the overall working capital cycle. Many leading public sector banks are not following RBI’s policy directive. The banks should speed-up the process of distribution of loans to the industry at minimum documentation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cicu-delegation-meets-min-over-non-release-of-payments/articleshow/76452252.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: waives off admission fees in view of Covid-19||VADODARA: At a time when parents in the city are protesting demand for fees by various private schools, a school in Waghodia has taught a lesson on humanity by knocking off admission fees totally for all its students. It has also allowed the parents to pay the other fees in staggered period over few months. Management of New Sunrise School has said that keeping the precarious financial condition of parents owing to the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, it has waived off the fees. Around 200 students of the school who have been promoted to Class I, IX and XI will benefit from this move. “Everybody, be it organization or individual, has been affected due to this pandemic and at such a juncture it’s imperative that parents and administrators of the schools work with mutual understanding and cooperation,” said school’s managing director, Russy Wadia. He further said that some of the parents whose financial conditions are not good have also been allowed to pay other fees after some months. “We understand what the parents are going through right now. Therefore, we have given them time to pay the other fees and have allowed their wards to attend online classes,” Wadia added. Meanwhile, on Thursday an NGO – Consumer Rights Organization – submitted a memorandum to the district education officer U N Rathod alleging that some schools are not following guidelines of fees regulatory committee (FRC) and are not providing links for online classes to students whose fees have not been paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/school-waives-off-admission-fees-in-view-of-covid-19/articleshow/76452095.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Agra||Two more Covid deaths in Agra district, one die in Meerut||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Two residents of west UP's Agra district tested positive for Covid-19 and died under treatment at Saifai Medical College on Thursday. Also, at least nine new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 1,116. Eight people also tested positive in Bareilly on Thursday. Of these, five were found positive at a government lab in Lucknow while three were tested by a private lab. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Of these eight cases, two are undergoing treatment in Noida and Faridabad. Four are migrants who came to Bareilly by bus on June 15." In Agra, the two men, who passed away due to co-morbid condition, included a 42-year-old man from Bah block suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis with pleural effusion and septic and a 50-year-old man from Nai Ki Mandi suffering from SARI and acute respiratory distress syndrome. So far, 72 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 16 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday, and there are 146 active cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, "So far, 908 people have been cured of the infection." As many as six new Covid-19 cases were reported in Meerut on Thursday taking the total tally to 735, including one found in Kanpur. Also, a 45-year-old woman passed away, taking the death toll to 56, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. At 235, the district, on Thursday, reported the highest number of active cases since the spread of corona here. There were 11 fresh cases in Pilibhit, taking the tally to 101, with 50 active ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-more-covid-deaths-in-agra-district-one-die-in-meerut/articleshow/76451188.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Agra||Social distancing goes for toss as BJP ministers, MPs protest against Chinese products||Agra: Social distancing went for a toss at an anti-China protest held by Agra MP Satyapal Singh Baghel at his residence on Thursday, which was attended by UP cabinet minister GS Dharmesh, Fatehpur Sikri MP Rajkumar Chahar, mayor Naveen Jain, Agra (North) MLA Purushottam Khandelwal and Etmadpur MP Rampratap Singh Chauhan. Videos of the protest show leaders and their supporters raising slogans against China and setting on fire China-made goods such as LCD TV, toys and other electronic gadgets. Agra MP Baghel said, “We have taken an oath that we won’t use China-made product and break their ‘economic backbone’. For them, we are a country of 132 crore consumers, and not like small nations such as Ethiopia, Somalia, Nepal and Bhutan, who cannot impact the Chinese economy.” “They are using our money to buy bombs to attack us. Way before the government decides to ban Chinese products, we must boycott them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/social-distancing-goes-for-toss-as-bjp-ministers-mps-protest-against-chinese-products/articleshow/76451179.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||4 IPS officers promoted in T||Hyderabad: Four senior IPS officers of the 1995 batch have been promoted to the rank of additional director general (ADG) of police. IPS officers R S Praveen Kumar, secretary, TSWREIS, VV Srinivasa Rao, chairman, Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board, Swati Lakra, IG, Women Safety, Mahesh Muralidhar Bhagwat, commissioner of police, Rachakonda, have been promoted to the rank of additional DG. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-ips-officers-promoted-in-t/articleshow/76453219.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Non-collection of waste for 10 days, patients suffer||Aurangabad: Though the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has allowed home isolation of asymptomatic patients as per central government’s guidelines, those opting for this option in zone 6 are having a tough time owing to non-collection of waste from their homes.The solid waste management team of the AMC has worked consistently amid the Covid-19 pandemic towards collection and transportation of waste. But reports are emerging from certain areas about irregular collection and waste management. According to residents of zone 6, the daily collection of waste in the area has been severely affected since last one month.Activist Rahul Ingle of Shahar Parivartan Aghadi said that for the past 10 days waste is not being picked from households in Cidco N-3 and N-4. “Repeated complaints to concerned officials have not borne any result. The households from where positive cases are emerging are suffering as waste is rotting inside their homes,” he said.The responsibility of collecting door-to-door waste from across the city, except zone 6, is being carried out by an agency called P Gopinath Reddy. From May 1, the agency was handed over the task to collect waste from zone 6 as well, but the agency expressed its inability to carry out the service. Subsequently, another contractor was roped in to deploy vehicles for waste collection in zone 6. Using these vehicles the AMC staff are currently carrying out waste collection in zone 6. Zone 6 sanitation inspector Sunil Dabhade said that the AMC is ensuring that the waste collection doesn’t get interrupted even as there is a shift of responsibility. “Sometimes, due to the barricades put up to contain localities with active cases prevent our vehicles to enter the lane. However, we blow the horn and whistle to let the residents know that the vehicle has arrived and they can come and dump their waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/non-collection-of-waste-for-10-days-patients-suffer/articleshow/76451207.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 19, 2020||Agra||Four killed in two different road accidents in Agra & Etah||AGRA: Four people were killed in two different road accidents in the past 24 hours, one in Agra, the other in Etah. At around noon, a truck jumped into the service lane of Agra-Gwalior highway after the driver lost control on the Southern Bypass flyover, which falls under Malpura police station limits. According to police, one unidentified charred body was found from the wreckage. The second accident occurred near Vasundhara village under Awagadh police limits of Etah district late night on Wednesday, when a speeding car suffered a head-on-collision with a truck. All three people in the car died in the accident. According to police, the impact of the accident was so strong, the car had to be cut open in order to retrieve their bodies. The deceased were identified as Sudhir (20), Upender (40) and Rahul, all local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-killed-in-two-different-road-accidents-in-agra-etah/articleshow/76451170.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Old buildings must get safety nod in 6 months||NEW DELHI: With Delhi-NCR rocked by frequent low-intensity tremors over the past couple of months, the three municipal corporations have fixed a deadline of six months for older buildings, which came up before seismic provisions were incorporated in Delhi's building bylaws, to obtain a structural safety certificate. A joint public notice was issued by the civic bodies on Thursday stating that it would be mandatory for five categories of buildings to obtain safety certificates, failing which they would be penalised. The categories include institutional buildings with a large number of occupants - like educational institutes, assembly buildings, hospitals, malls and cinema - and all private and government structures with a height more than 15 metres. Why safety audit could be a long haulThe certificate is mandatory for all buildings without sanctioned plans, irrespective of their date of construction. For buildings with sanctioned plans, the cutoff date is March 20, 2001, when seismic norms were incorporated in Delhi’s building bylaws. "The safety certificate is mandatory for all buildings whose sanctioned plan is 30 years old. No safety audit is required for those whose plans were sanctioned after March 20, 2001, but it is advisable that checking is done for their own safety," said a building department official. The rules have been framed on the lines of Mumbai, which has a similar 30-year time-frame. "The public notice has been issued in compliance with Delhi high court directions," the official said. Earlier, TOI had reported that such a plan was being formulated to improve earthquake resistance of the city’s buildings. A senior engineer said that buildings older than 30 years are comparatively much more at risk. "New buildings or structures usually fall within a couple of years if they have structural faults. If the structure lasts a decade, it is considered safe and only natural calamities or carelessness can cause it to fall," he added. The corporations have put up on their website a list of structural engineers who can be contacted for conducting the safety audit. "Professionals of government institutes specialising in civil engineering can also be hired for this purpose. We have not included private institutes due to the possibility of corruption," said an official. "The panel of structural engineers will be expanded in the coming months," he said. "The engineer will either declare a building safe or recommend alterations and restrengthening measures. In case the buildings have any drawbacks, retrofitting and steps for strengthening will be recommended. A notice will be issued to the owner warning of legal action on failure to carry out the recommended measures." Building owners have a problem on their hands since the corporations have empanelled only 126 structural engineers. There are more than 32 lakh buildings in the capital and over 45,000 are added every year. "We estimate that around 60% of the buildings were constructed before the seismic provisions were incorporated in the bylaws," an official said. The Tejendra Khanna Committee set up in 2006 had found that 70-80% structures violated building norms. The recent tremors in Delhi-NCR have once again highlighted the need for integrated retrofitting and structural strengthening of buildings, a policy for which is yet to be formulated. Delhi lies in Seismic Zone 4 (high damage risk) and areas along the Yamuna up to Noida are the most vulnerable. "We are sitting atop the Moradabad fault line and Delhi falls in the second highest category among the vulnerable areas after some Himalayan regions, such as Uttarakhand," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-old-buildings-must-get-safety-nod-in-6-months/articleshow/76454948.cms||Paras Singh
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Literary body announces awards||Aurangabad: Devkarna Madan and Balu Dugadumwar will jointly receive the annual Narendra Moharir literary award of Marathwada Sahitya Parishad (MaSaPa) for the year 2020. “The honour has been bestowed in recognition to Madan’s work on the literary movement in Marathwada, while Dugadumwar’s work on the life and work of social worker Baba Amte got him the award,” an official release said on Thursday. The MaSaPa also declared other annual awards like Narahar Kurundkar award (Manoj Borgaokar), M B Chitnis award (Chandrakant Wankhede), Kusumtai Deshmukh award (Sandip Jagdale), B Raghunath award (Sopan Halamkar), Kumar Deshmukh award (Jagdish Kadam, Sunanda Gore) and R J Deshmukh award (Sunitaraje Pawar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/literary-body-announces-awards/articleshow/76451221.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Three students drown in reservoir||Warangal: Three students drowned in the Puttalamma reservoir in Bheemaram of Hasanparthy mandal on Thursday. According to Kakatiya University police, the students had rode on their bicycles from Ramaram. As they did not return, the parents started a search and identified their bicyles near the reservoir. Experts swimmers were called, who found the students’ dead bodies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-students-drown-in-reservoir/articleshow/76453230.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Online classes a necessity as education can’t be stopped: Mundhe||Nagpur: In his first interaction through video conferencing with private school principals from city, Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe strongly supported online classes saying they were need of the hour. Speaking to almost 850 participants, Mundhe also clarified NMC was indeed the competent authority for schools under Right to Education Act (RTE) guidelines. The civic chief said schools had a right to recover fee which was decided by the management committee, as long as it was being done in instalments. “Online education is a necessity because education cannot be stopped. We cannot say when exactly schools will reopen hence the online teaching initiative has to continue,” said Mundhe. He expressed concern for those who do not have access to technology for the same. “Findings of a recent survey suggests that in Nagpur around 22% students of Std I-V have zero access to technology needed for online education,” said Mundhe. The same survey mentioned that 32% students (Std VI-VIII) and 22% (Std XI-X) faced the same problem, whereas the numbers for NMC school students was higher. “We have to think about these students. Extraordinary times require extraordinary measures. So it could be congregating students locality wise and providing education at some common place thereby following health guidelines. Or taking help from NGOs to go to students’ homes and teach,” said Mundhe while broadly discussing out-of-the-box solutions. He reiterated there were no “readymade answers” for these questions but he expected all stakeholders will actively work towards a solution. Mundhe even talked about making 900 wifi hotspots in city available for use by students for online education. He urged schools to develop their own learning platforms. “I know there are many in the market like Google Classrooms etc. It’s good that you all are using something, but try to develop your own platform,” said Mundhe. When a participant pointed out that many groups were calling online education “a farce”, Mundhe said, “Tell them it’s necessary and if they have a problem ask them to speak with our office.” It is to be noted that state government itself has issued guidelines promoting online education. Replying to a query from a CBSE school’s principal about the fee controversy, Mundhe said Maharashtra government never announced a fee waiver. “Schools must not ask for entire fee in one go but collect in staggered manner. Fee recovery is important for functioning of schools and they have a right to collect whatever was decided by the school management committee,” said Mundhe. TOI had reported earlier about NMC asserting its right over schools in city, which was questioned by some. Mundhe said, “NMC is the competent authority as per RTE guidelines issued in 2013 and 2014. Why it was never implemented in Nagpur is now an irrelevant question. Some issues like grant-in-aid etc will obviously be handled by state education department, while for others schools can get in touch with my education officer.” What Mundhe Said * Book distribution on campus to be allowed with certain restrictions * Over 900 wifi hotspots in city. Will explore options for use by students * No fixed date for physical school reopening * Sanitization, following guidelines after reopening is school’s responsiblity * Government never announced waiver of school fee or ban on collection * Online education is a necessity * NMC is competent authority in city as per RTE guidelines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-classes-a-necessity-as-education-cant-be-stopped-mundhe/articleshow/76453272.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Test rate cut, cheaper beds in private hospitals next||NEW DELHI: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided that the rate of the Covid-19 RT-PCR test will be reduced to Rs 2,400 for all healthcare facilities, including private and government, to make it more affordable for the public. Private hospitals are soon likely to be asked to offer 60% of their beds at rates lower than the usual amount charged by them. At a meeting of DDMA, LG Anil Baijal asked health department officials to crack down on private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from patients. The lower rates would be decided as per the recommendations of the Paul committee, which was constituted after Union home minister Amit Shah held a review meeting on Sunday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. “DDMA approved recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing Covid-19 testing rate in Delhi at Rs 2,400 for all facilities, whether government or private,” Baijal tweeted after the meeting, which was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and other senior officials. The health department was asked by the LG to ensure that the labs adhered to quality and provided a robust patient feedback and grievance redressal system. Currently, Delhi has 40 testing labs both in the private and public sector with an overall testing capacity of 18,000 samples a day. Affordable testing will encourage more people to get tested, which is critical in the containment and mitigation of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Sources said the discussions revolved around whether Rs 2,400 should be fixed only for the government-collected samples, which are tested in private labs, or even for the samples collected and tested by private facilities. Some members said that private facilities may find it unviable to collect samples and test them for Rs 2,400. However, Kejriwal insisted that the common man should avail of the same price being set for the government-collected samples. The health department, in an order issued on Thursday evening, said that DDMA had accepted the recommendations of the committee for fixing reasonable rates for Covid tests by private labs. It added that Rs 2,400 was inclusive of the costs involved in picking and transportation of samples, documentation and taxes. Earlier, the cost of the test was Rs 4,500. The LG remarked on Twitter that more testing would strengthen the capital’s battle with Covid-19 leading to efficient contact tracing and saving of precious lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-rate-cut-cheaper-beds-in-pvt-hosps-next/articleshow/76454150.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 19, 2020||Pune||No decision yet on relaxation for gyms and non-AC salons: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday told TOI that no decision has been taken on allowing gymnasiums and non-AC salons in Mumbai and Pune to reopen from June end. Also, no permission has been granted to shops to operate simultaneously on both sides of the roads, he said. Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Thursday said that the state government is considering opening gymnasiums and non-AC salons and allowing shops to operate on both sides of the roads by June end. "This could be his viewpoint, but decisions on these matters will be taken only after assessing the situation of Covid-19 cases in the state, especially in Mumbai and Pune. We also need to wait for the guidelines from the Centre," Pawar told TOI. Pawar, however, asserted that the economy has to improve and “keeping things shut for long will not help". "In the initial months of lockdown, NGOs too pitched in to help the needy with food and other requirements. That has reduced now. We cannot keep things closed for long. We need to learn to live with Covid-19 while taking due precautions," he said. The Pune Municipal Corporation administration too has adopted a wait and watch stand on the issue. "Our decisions about opening these facilities will be as per state government's guidelines. Till then, the the status quo remains,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that the administration was aware that people whose livelihood depends on these establishments are facing financial difficulties. “We are not against opening up, but considering the rising number of cases it will be better to wait for a few more days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-decision-yet-on-relaxation-for-gyms-and-non-ac-salons-ajit-pawar/articleshow/76454134.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Another high: 630 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh; 23 casualties||LUCKNOW: The coronavirus infection set a new record for the second consecutive day with 630 cases in 24 hours. The Covid-19 tally crossed the 500-mark third day in a row. A day earlier, on Wednesday 591 cases were reported. With this, the Covid-19 tally for UP reached 15,828 on Thursday. Health officials stated that the state recorded 23 deaths in 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties in UP to 488. As per the Covid bulletin, four deaths were reported in Agra, while three each were recorded in Meerut and Ghaziabad respectively. Two deaths each were reported in Lucknow, Gonda and Kanpur, while Firozabad, Varanasi, Bulandshahr, Prayagraj, Gonda, Bareilly and Jhansi recorded one death each. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that 399 persons were discharged from hospital, taking the total number of persons recovered so far to 9,638. “The number of active infections in the state as on date is 5,659,” he stated. Prasad further said that 16,546 tests were done on Wednesday. “On an average, over 16,000 tests are being done in UP every day,” Prasad added that the random testing will continue in the state. “In the days to come, people working in medicine shops and ‘dhabas’ and those involved in home delivery services will be randomly tested,” he said. Prasad also appealed to people to follow social-distancing norms, use face covers and take proper care of the aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from comorbidities. Among the districts which recorded ten or more cases were: Kanpur Nagar (54), Gautam Budh Nagar (47), Bulandshahr (45), Hapur (32), Ghaziabad (32), Meerut (28), Mathura (26), Hathras (23), Agra (21), Saharanpur (20), Baghpat (20), Ghazipur (19), Firozabad (17), Moradabad (16), Basti (15), Mainpuri (14), Gorakhpur (12), Maharajganj (12), Kannauj (11) and Ayodhya (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-high-630-corona-cases-in-24-hours-in-state-23-casualties/articleshow/76454129.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||‘CPSUs, govt depts not doing procurement as per norms’||Ludhiana: An important meeting regarding the major problems and issues concerning Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSME) industry was organised here, which was presided over by Gurpreet Singh Kahlon, member, National Board for MSME. One of the most important issue which came up during the meeting was the opportunities being given to the MSME sector as per the public procurement policy. Kahlon said, “I held a meeting with the officers of MSME Development Institute, Ludhiana, to know the status of procurement by the Central Public Sector Undertakings (CPSU), government departments from MSME sector under the Public Procurement Policy 2012. As per guidelines of the policy, CPSUs and government departments have been mandated to procure minimum 25% of their annual procurement from micro and small enterprises, of which 3% should be procured from women owned enterprises, 4% from SC/ST enterprises and 18% from other enterprises. I also consulted various representatives of industrial associations of Punjab and it has been noticed that procurement by CPSUs and government departments is not being done as per norms. It is a matter of concern and so the Centre needs to issue necessary instructions in this regard.” Meanwhile, R K Parmar, deputy director of MSME Development Institute, Ludhiana, has also been requested by Kahlon to compile the status of procurement from MSEs under the public procurement policy, so that actual position could be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cpsus-govt-depts-not-doing-procurement-as-per-norms/articleshow/76452260.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi closes in on 50,000 cases, 2,000 deaths||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 case load in Delhi neared 50,000 even as the surge in infection continued with 2,877 new cases, the highest ever in a single day, being reported on Thursday. As per government data, 65 people died due to the infection in the past 24 hours taking the state’s death toll to 1,969. Nearly 73% of the total deaths (1,446) due to Covid-19 have been reported since June 1. Some of the deaths recorded in the past 18 days took place earlier, but were reported late. The case fatality rate (CFR) is 4% compared with the national average of 3%. CFR, in epidemiology, refers to the proportion of people who die from a specified disease among all individuals diagnosed with the disease. Gujarat has the highest CFR in the country at 6.2%, followed by Maharashtra (4.7%). The CFR in UP, which has reported 15,932 Covid-19 cases till date, is 4%, the same as Delhi. Experts said high CFR could be reflective of wider spread of the infection. “The number of people affected by Covid-19 in Delhi may be much higher than what the data shows. This will be clear in the days to come as we test more people,” said a senior doctor. Over the last three days, testing for Covid-19 has gone up from approximately 5,500 to over 8,000 samples daily. On Thursday, the government said 8,276 samples were tested in 24 hours. There are 26,669 active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, the highest in the country after Maharashtra (53,915). While most of the patients have mild symptoms and are being managed under home isolation or at Covid health and care centres, 5,448 (20% of the active cases) are admitted in various hospitals. Of these, 249 are in a critical condition requiring ventilator support. About 850 others are admitted to the ICUs of various hospitals, officials said. Doctors said Delhi needed to ramp up the number of ICU and ventilator beds on an urgent basis because the number of patients was likely to go up as new cases come to light. “The health of the elderly and people with comorbidities, like diabetes, heart disease and other chronic illnesses, often deteriorates suddenly on the seventh to tenth day of the infection. In such cases, they will require critical support like high-flow oxygen or ventilator support immediately. Any delay can be life threatening,” said a doctor. TOI had highlighted how 70% of the ventilator beds in Delhi were running full as on Wednesday. Critical care specialists said given the speed at which new cases were being reported, Delhi may soon be staring at a crisis of ventilator beds. Ventilators are required for 1-2% of all Covid-19 patients who aren’t able to maintain oxygen saturation despite oxygen therapy and supportive medications. Watch Delhi's Covid-19 count close to 50000, 2877 cases reported in past 24 hrs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-closes-in-on-50k-cases-2k-deaths/articleshow/76454159.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 19, 2020||Chennai||TN government tells top bureaucrats to keep tabs on Covid-19 fight in districts||CHENNAI: As Chennai goes into yet another lockdown to control the Covid spread, the Tamil Nadu government intensified the fight against the virus elsewhere in the state too by tasking district monitoring officers to keep a close watch on Covid management activities. Henceforth, each district will have one veteran bureaucrat supervising Covid control measures. The decision comes in the wake of growing Covid numbers in several districts and mounting charges of discrepancies in Covid data. Former health secretary, Beela Rajesh, who is currently Commercial taxes and registration secretary, would be supervising Covid management work in Krishnagiri district. Other veteran bureaucrats like Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Santhosh Babu and Supriya Sahu will take care of Cuddalore, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris districts respectively, where they were sent sometime back as district monitoring officers to oversee implementation of government welfare schemes. By entrusting them the job of supervising Covid control work, the state government hopes to strengthen the battle against the virus and ensure effective implementation of central and state norms. “We would take up district level issues that need state intervention like paucity of testing kits or lack of health care facilities and ensure that the issues are addressed. That’s the broad idea,” said a senior bureaucrat who has been given the Covid control mantle of a northern district. He said they would work out the nitty gritty of the task assigned in a day. Besides supervising containment measures, the officers will also convey to the state government any additional measures required in a district, so that district specific strategies could be adopted. Most of these bureaucrats have served as collectors in the respective districts and are well versed with the topography and demography there. Monitoring officers of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts were asked to keep tab on Covid measures in May itself. On Tuesday, chief secretary K Shanmugam asked the monitoring officers to coordinate with the district authorities to ensure effective containment zone management, focused testing, effective contact tracing, isolation and quarantine management for preventing the further spread of disease. In her video conference with Krishnagiri officials on Thursday, Beela Rajesh inquired about the containment zones, cases and monitoring of essential supplies through volunteers. The district administrators were told to deploy medical teams for counselling in containment areas, and a survey on elders with comorbidities at a village level. They were told to use two or three pulse oximeters in each village for effective monitoring and inspect industries to check social distancing norms, masks and sanitisers and furnish reports. “She said additional teams should be deployed for effective contact tracing and the doubtful cases sent to institutional quarantine, besides hospitalisation of symptomatic cases,” a district official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-tells-top-bureaucrats-to-keep-tabs-on-covid-19-fight-in-districts/articleshow/76453224.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded gurdwara demands Rs 4.76cr||Aurangabad: The superintendent of the Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib gurdwara, Nanded, wrote a letter to the municipal corporation demanding Rs 4.76 crore for the tourist facilities being utilised as quarantine units amid the ongoing pandemic. The communication has caused split within the managing body of the shrine, with a section of members opposing the demand. In his letter to the Nanded Municipal Corporation, gurdwara board superintendent Gurvindersingh Wadhva has charged Rs 3,000 per day as rent for a total of 299 rooms that the shrine has offered to the district administration to set up a quarantine facility and Covid care centre. The total amount includes electricity and other miscellaneous charges. “The Nanded gurdwara is a religious institution that runs on donations offered by pilgrims. The lockdown situation, however, has affected the footfall of pilgrims, affecting the income. As the shrine board has to carry out religious rituals and customs daily, pay salaries to the staff and ensure proper maintenance, it is requested to pay us the Rs 3,000 per day as rent towards ‘Yatri Niwas’,” said the correspondence. Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, one of the board member of the Nanded gurdwara, on Thursday, said, “The board members were neither consulted before handing over ‘Yatri Niwas’ for setting up quarantine facilities nor while asking for Rs 4.76 core rent. If the board superintendent had consulted us, we would have advised against such recovery,” he said. Board members also recalled that a fund of Rs 1,500 crore was provided by the government for the Sikh pilgrim town ahead of ‘Gur-Ta-Gaddi’, the centenary celebration of the consecration of Guru Granth Sahib, in 2008. Board members also recalled that a fund of Rs 1,500 crore was provided by the government for the Sikh pilgrim town ahead of ‘Gur-Ta-Gaddi’, the centenary celebration of the consecration of Guru Granth Sahib, in 2008. When contacted, Wadhva said “Leave aside the current maintenance, we would have to shell out huge amounts towards the maintenance of our tourist facilities once they are handed back to us. There is nothing wrong in seeking financial relief from the government during strained economic situation,” he said. Speaking about the allegations of not consulting the board members, Wadhva said the district administration had ordered, and not requested, to hand over 299 rooms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-gurdwara-demands-rs-4-76cr/articleshow/76451238.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||Woman files FIR against news portal reporter, chief editor||Varanasi: A woman from a Varanasi village has lodged an FIR against the reporter and the chief editor of a news portal for allegedly ‘fabricating her quote and mentioning her in bad light by mocking her caste and poor financial condition’ in a report. Kotwali circle officer Pradeep Singh Chandel said that Mala Devi of Domari village had given her complaint to Ramnagar police on the basis of which an FIR against the chief editor and reporter of a new portal was lodged under Section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of IPC and also various sections of SC/ST Act on June 13. Chandel said that now this case had been given to him for investigation. Domri is one of the villages adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an MP. Mala has said in her complaint that she works as an outsourced sanitary staff with Varanasi Municipal Corporation and lives in Domari village. She said that during the lockdown, a woman identifying herself as a journalist reached her village and started talking about the lockdown. “I told her that I was not facing any problem in feeding my family. But, later I came to know that she falsely mentioned in her news story that I work as a domestic help and wash utensils at others’ places. She has also mentioned in her story that I had just tea and roti to eat and my children were starving during lockdown,” she says in her FIR. “By mentioning that I and my children slept empty stomach, this reporter has mocked my poverty and caste. It has caused mental trauma and my image in society has also been tarnished,” she has said, requesting action against the reporter and her chief editor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-files-fir-against-news-portal-reporter-chief-editor/articleshow/76454139.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Goa||Nod sought to hold supplementary exams||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has sent a proposal to the state government seeking its nod for conducting the Class IX and XI supplementary exams. The exams are normally held in June, but as schools are yet to reopen for the new academic year due to the pandemic, the exams could not be conducted. Online classes have begun, and in many cases, these students are unable to join these sessions for the higher class. “As there is a pandemic and the health of the students is a concern, state government’s nod is required this year. The exams are conducted by the respective schools. There will be a maximum of 20 to 25 students who will answer this exam per school and therefore social distancing should not be an issue,” board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. The exams are usual conducted by schools once they reopen for the new academic year. But as per central government guidelines, schools are likely to reopen only post August 15. In the meantime, most of the teaching will take place online. But these Class IX and XI students in the meantime need to know where they stand and sessions for which class they should be joining. Students who have failed in either one or two subjects are permitted by Goa Board to answer the June supplementary exam. The idea is to these students another opportunity to go to the higher class thus allowing them to complete their SSC or HSSC levels. Some years ago, the board had moved the supplementary exams from October to June, because by October the students already lose out on the chance to go to the higher class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nod-sought-to-hold-supplementary-exams/articleshow/76453336.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uthra murder: Officials gather key evidence||KOLLAM: Forest department officials who interrogated Sooraj and Suresh, the accused in the Uthra murder case, have collected crucial evidence. On May 24 the forest team had raided the house of Suresh of Kalluvathukkal and seized a cobra. He told officials that the snake was caught from the house premises of Radhakrishnan, an Elamkulam native. Later, Radhakrishnan and his neighbours had identified Suresh. On admission that he caught a viper from the house plot of Karthikeyan of Sasthri Mukku, Kalluvathukkal, the investigation team gathered evidence from there too. Based on these, two fresh cases were registered against them. They brought the accused to Chathannur SBI where Suresh conspired with Sooraj to hand over the snake. Another case was charged for conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uthra-murder-officials-gather-key-evidence/articleshow/76452268.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||UP ATS arrests Al-Qaeda suspect from Bareilly||Bareilly: A suspected al-Qaeda operative has been arrested from the Quila area of Bareilly district on Thursday. Through surveillance, ATS team got a tip-off that a person named Mohammed Shoeb alias Abu Mohammed Ali, who has been completely radicalised by Al Qaeda, is trying to mobilise youths using social media applications. When an ATS team from Lucknow along with their local officer Manjeet Singh raided a house in Bareilly, they found the person operating the account was actually Inamul Haq, 28, who lives here with his younger brother. Haq is unemployed and remains active on several social media applications under different names. He has been charged with several crimes at ATS police station in Lucknow. A member of ATS team told TOI, “We have recovered much evidence to establish Inamul’s connection with al-Qaeda. He was using social media for diverting youths to terrorism. Our probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-ats-arrests-al-qaeda-suspect-from-bareilly/articleshow/76451267.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Confusion over DM permission holds up outstation students||NAGPUR: Confusion over permission letters from collector or district magistrate (DM) held up nearly all the arriving outstation students for over two-hours near the arrival area of city airport after they landed in long haul Moscow-Nagpur flight. Parents from Madhya Pradesh were baffled after local officials insisted on certificate from DM in order to let them take their children home. The parents said the Indian embassy didn’t mention any need for a DM letter but instructed them to make own arrangement to ferry their kids to their hometowns out of Nagpur. People from as far as Ujjain, Gwalior, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur and Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh had come. “At 2am, how are we suppose to get this letter,” asked a parent from Bhopal. MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, who was present at the airport, said the Nagpur officials tried to contact their counterparts in MP but to no avail. The stalemate continued for over two-hours. There were also students from Jalgaon, Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha and Raipur in Chhattisgarh. “Some parents shared with me the Indian embassy email giving instructions for pick up from Nagpur airport. Nowhere did it state that the parents would need a permission from DM. I informed the Nagpur officials who agreed to let the MP students go after completing formalities. They will have to go into 14-day quarantine in their own cities,” Gajbhiye said. Many students complained they had gone without food for over 12 hours yet they were happy to return. The students had flown around 3pm Moscow time. Many outstation parents too had a difficult time waiting for their children. The parents had reached airport around 8pm on Wednesday and remained standing outside the arrivals gate until they saw their kids. “We feel cheated. Already, they have charged thrice the regular air fare. Now they wanted to keep our kids in paid quarantine which would have cost another Rs15,000. Nobody is bothered if they have eaten anything or need water after the 9-hour flight,” said a mother from Chhindwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-over-dm-permission-holds-up-outstation-students/articleshow/76453245.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman lodges false ‘rape-in-bus’ complaint for reaching office late||NEW DELHI: A woman in south Delhi had allegedly lodged a false rape complaint to avoid being pulled up by her employer for reaching late to work. The woman filed a complaint at the Okhla police station at 3pm, alleging that she had been raped by a group of men in a moving bus when she was going to Nehru Place from Badarpur. She showed scratch marks on her arms. Police registered a case and formed teams to scan CCTV footage on the said route. The footage showed that the RTV, which she had boarded, did not deviate from its route or stop anywhere on way. The woman’s wounds were also medically examined. The area joint commissioner and DCP personally monitored the probe till 12.30am. However, there were discrepancies in the woman’s statement. When cops verified her version and asked her to record her statement with the magistrate it was found that she had lodged a false complaint. She told the magistrate that she had a fight with a friend on Friday morning. They also had a scuffle during which she had suffered injuries on her arm. She told cops that due to the argument with the man, she reached office late. Her colleagues asked about her injuries and she told them she had have been sexually assaulted in the bus. Her colleagues insisted that she registered a case and accompanied her to the Okhla police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-lodges-false-rape-in-bus-complaint-for-reaching-office-late/articleshow/77044634.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Online counselling for Covid-19||Aurangabad: The city police and NGOs have launched a three-day initiative starting from Thursday to counsel people on how to deal with issues involving coronavirus. Psychiatrists from the city were roped in for the counselling sessions. The city-based NGOs including Selfless Helping Hands, Community Policing and Payam-e-Insaniyat, with the help of assistant police inspector Ghansyam Sonwane have launched the initiative of online counselling session to run between 10 am to 5 pm for three days. Dr Sandeep Sisode, a renowned psychiatrist and the president of Maharashtra State Psychologists Association, Dr Rachna Paud (Psychiatrist), Dr Tejas Gayal (Psychiatrist), Dr Archana Ashtaputre (Psychologist) among others will be present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/online-counselling-for-covid-19/articleshow/76451256.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||T BJP to protest in front of govt hosps||Hyderabad: BJP in Telangana has decided to organise a protest in front of all government hospitals in the city on June 22. The protesters will demand from government stronger and more efficient measures to reduce the spread of Covid-19. On June 21 Yoga Day , the party will conduct programmes related to yoga in all mandals while maintaining safe physical distance and taking all precautionary measures such as use of sanitisers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bjp-to-protest-in-front-of-govt-hosps/articleshow/76453250.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Parks under Melghat open for tourism from today||Nagpur: After a gap of three months, there is news to cheer up wildlife buffs! Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) and sanctuaries under its jurisdiction including Tipeshwar will open for tourism from Friday. The decision was taken after PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar gave a go-ahead to proposal from APCCF (wildlife) & field director of MTR, MS Reddy, to open tourism in parks. The tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries in the state were closed for tourism since March 18, after directives from National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) owing to lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. On June 5, as lockdown was relaxed, NTCA too allowed tourism with certain conditions. PCCF (wildlife) has asked to continue tourism in MTR core till June 30, after which tiger reserves are closed for tourism. Post June 30, safari in Melghat will be available in its buffer zone and sanctuaries. Besides, regulated tourism will be allowed through motorable roads in Tipeshwar, Dnyanganga, Katepurna and Lonar as management plan. This is for the first time that Tipeshwar, which has presence of 15 tigers and other wildlife, will be kept open for monsoon tourism. In Dnyanganga too, a tiger from Tipeshwar has reached the park travelling 2,300km. “We have decided to go for offline bookings as part of Covid-19 precautions. While allowing online bookings, there may be tourists from other states. Hence, we will allow offline entry,” said Reddy. Reddy said there was demand from guides and other stakeholders facing joblessness to start tourism in Melghat. The stakeholders even submitted written requests and also met forest minister Sanjay Rathod during his tour of Melghat on June 12 and 13. “Overall, there are at least 10 gates from where safari will be allowed in these protected areas. The safari will be done with utmost precaution and Covid-19 distancing. We have distributed masks, thermal scanners and sanitizer stock at each gate for guides and staff. Masks will also be made available for nominal payment at these gates. We have not taken call on accommodation as of now,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parks-under-melghat-open-for-tourism-from-today/articleshow/76453285.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Your plans for quake just paper tigers: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Nicely worded affidavits or notifications must be implemented or else these remain mere “paper tigers” Delhi high court said on Thursday pulling up the AAP government and municipal corporations over their failure to put in motion an action plan on improving seismic stability of buildings in the city. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan took stock of earthquake preparedness in the city, but found that not even 25 buildings had been prepared as per the action plan though the government and the civic bodies claimed to have such a plan ready. The court pointed out that the replies filed by Delhi government and the corporations, with regard to steps taken or proposed to make the city safe from earthquake, are just “paper tigers” while hearing a plea by lawyer Arpit Bhargava through videoconferencing. A detailed order is awaited. Bhargava said the court directed the government and the civic bodies to file status reports indicating at least 25 buildings in each of their jurisdictions where the action plan has been implemented and listed the matter for hearing on July 8. The plea submitted that several tremors had struck Delhi since April 12 this year and experts fear a major earthquake can hit the national capital any time. On its part, Delhi government told the court that all the five urban local bodies, including the corporations, Cantonment Board and New Delhi Municipal Council have been asked to ensure compliance with the action plan. They must carry out a complete structural safety audit, detailed survey to identify the unsafe buildings and empanel the structural engineers while identifying high-risk buildings that need retrofitting. It said the onus is on the local bodies to ensure that all new building plans should be sanctioned as per the action plan and to submit their respective disaster management plans. The south corporation, in its affidavit, submitted that Delhi government in an notification dated April 24, proposed to constitute a committee comprising officials from the civic bodies and two experts from IITS of other premier institutes in the field for guiding the general public as well as professionals to ensure effective implementation of the action plan. It said that public notices will be issued for owners of all educational, institutional and assembly buildings, hospitals, malls, cinema halls, and all other buildings having height more than 15 meters for getting their buildings structurally audited from the empanelled engineers and submit a report with the existing building plan to the concerned executive engineer (building) within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-plans-for-quake-just-paper-tigers-hc/articleshow/76453340.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Schools to carry out paper verification||Aurangabad: The school education department has asked schools to carry out document verification of beneficiaries so that admissions under 25% quota of the RTE Act can be done. The move differs from the earlier practice of centralised document verification but aims at avoiding crowding and possible violation of social distancing norms. As per official data, around 1,00,920 beneficiary children were qualified after the first round of the lottery across the state and other more than 75,465 were waiting for subsequent draws as per availability of seats. The school education department has asked schools to carry out the document verification of these one lakh children selected in the first round, whereas separate directives would be issued for the admission of waitlisted students. The school education department has not mentioned any particular time-limit for schools to carry out this process. While the entry point of admission under the RTE Act is Class I, the academic session for students is unlikely to start anytime soon. .“Even if the school-level document verification is prone to lapses, there is no option to go for it during the current pandemic. As a precautionary measure, the beneficiary parents will have to give written undertaking assuring that the facts and supporting documents submitted by them are trustworthy,” a senior official from Aurangabad Zilla Parishad said. Educational activist Prashant Sathe, who had submitted memorandum to the government demanding school-level verification of documents, said all formalities must be expedited at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/schools-to-carry-out-paper-verification/articleshow/76451296.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||2 women die as lorry rams auto||Hyderabad: Two women died and two others got injured after a lorry rammed into the auto rickshaw they were travelling in, in Adilabad on Wednesday. Neradigonda police said that Afsara Begum (45) and Reshma Begum (25) died while undergoing treatment. Two other women sustained minor injuries. The incident took place at Kupti village, when the auto driver was negotiating a curve. The victims were returning after attending a function. They were from Islampura colony. A case was registered against the lorry driver under 304 a (negligence causing death) of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-women-die-as-lorry-rams-auto/articleshow/76453265.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Focus is on training through digital means’||A constant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases has thrown up fresh challenges for the local sports department officials, who are preferring to provide training through digitial means to the players, as only a limited number of coaching centres have been opened so far. Rahul Tawar spoke district sports officer Ravinder Singh about the measures being taken to ensure safety norms for the players who are still coming for coaching and the future plans in the wake of the emerging scenario. What are your plans to tackle the present prevailing conditions when parents are reluctant to send their wards to attend different training sessions amid rising number of Covid-19 cases? In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district for the past several days the local sports department has taken all preventive measures to safeguard the health of local trainees and has suspended the decision of opening 13 local sports training centres. Coaches can understand the health risk which trainees will face while travelling from home to the sports centre on a daily basis.” After taking the decision of not opening several local training centres for local players, how will the local sports department provide the best training to players ? We have issued specific guidelines to all coaches that they should adopt modern ways of online training for providing the best coaching skills to players through digital gadgets so that players of national or international calibre do not suffer and get proper training schedule during morning and evening hours from designated coaches. What kind of safety standards are being implemented in the sports training centre functional in the district? Sports department has opened only two different shooting and athletic sports local sports training centres in the district for catering to the advance coaching to players. We have provided all required safety measures (masks and sanitising material) to both coaches to ensure the implementation of safety norms before start of sports activities in their respective training centres. Sports department is considering the need of adopting the virtual training system for continuing sports activities? The higher authorities of the state sports department will look into the matter of adopting the virtual training system in the next few months if the situation does not improve. As of now, there is no need for such module as local players are getting proper training through their electronic gadgets on a daily basis. Online training sessions have overcome the need for virtual training system module. What is the turnout of trainee players in the two two local sports training centres? Only 50% players are coming to the centres for coaching. After the number of Covid-19 cases rose rapidly, the players are now restricting themselves to their home while following the safety norms. What special measures are being taken to improve the mental toughness of players and to improve their immune system? Sports department has already given directions to all coaches for providing advance training exercises and yoga sessions to local trainees to boost their immune system. Moreover, our coaches are fully trained to provide yoga sessions to people to strengthen their immune system to fight Covid-19 virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/focus-is-on-training-through-digital-means/articleshow/76452275.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 19, 2020||India||Congress ex-CM stakes claim to form govt in Manipur||IMPHAL/GUWAHATI: Three-time former Manipur CM and Congress veteran Okram Ibobi Singh on Thursday staked claim to form a new Secular Progressive Front government in the state, replacing the BJP-led N Biren Singh ministry that was plunged into crisis on Wednesday after three MLAs of the saffron party quit and six others withdrew support. In a letter to governor Najma Heptulla, the leader of the opposition said either a special assembly session must be convened to hold a floor test for the depleted Biren Singh-led coalition or Congress and its allies should be invited to form the next government. Ibobi Singh cited the possible outcome of a pending disqualification case against seven Congress MLAs who had defected to BJP in 2017, only to return to the party, as one of the reasons why he was confident of cobbling together a new government. “In the event the Speaker gives his ruling in the disqualification cases in favour of the seven MLAs of Congress, the effective House strength rises to 56 members. This would also mean that Congress’s strength will increase to 27 and that of SPF will rise to 33 MLAs (Congress 27, NPP 1, TMC 1 and 1 independent), while the BJP and its coalition partners will continue with a combined strength of 23,” the letter states. “Alternatively, since the present ministry is in the minority, it may be dismissed outright. To uphold the principle of democracy, Okram lhobi Singh, leader of the SPF, which commands a majority, may be invited to form the government.” The governor has given Singh an appointment for Friday, hours after RS election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-ex-cm-stakes-claim-to-form-govt-in-manipur/articleshow/76454950.cms||K Sarojkumar Sharma
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||IVRI resumes testing of human samples for Covid-19||Bareilly: The testing of human samples for Covid-19 resumed at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) on Thursday after the institute received diagnostic kits. The IVRI had to stop conducting Covided-19 tests on Tuesday and Wednesday after it ran out of diagnostic kits and reagents. The institute had only tested a few pending samples of Bareilly and Pilibhit districts on Monday. The health departments in Bareilly, Budaun and Pilibhit districts had started sending samples to Lucknow since June 13 which prolonged the wait time of reports. But, the three districts sent fresh samples to IVRI on Thursday morning. Chief medical officer, Bareilly, Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have sent samples for Covid-19 test to IVRI on Thursday.” Sources said the Pilibhit district administration has supplied 1,000 diagnostic kits to IVRI. The institute is likely to receive more kits from Bareilly and Budaun district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ivri-resumes-testing-of-human-samples-for-covid-19/articleshow/76451294.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi-based criminal with Rs 50k bounty held post encounter in UP||Bareilly: A wanted criminal, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, was injured in an encounter in UP’s Moradabad district and later arrested. The history-sheeter, identified only as Ajay, was arrested in a joint operation by the crime branch team of Delhi police and Moradabad police on Wednesday night. Ajay sustained bullet injuries on his leg after police tracked him down to UP’s Pakbara. The accused, in his thirties, tried to flee on a motorbike and also opened fire at police, officers alleged. He was later admitted to the district hospital. Kumar, a resident of Paharganj, is wanted in several cases in Delhi, including murder and attempt to murder. Moradabad superintendent of police (SP city) Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of Pakbara police station and Delhi Crime Branch conducted a raid at Kailsa Road. The team tried to stop the accused but he opened fire. He suffered injuries in his leg in retaliatory fire.”The SP city added that there are several cases against Ajay in Delhi’s Sadar Bazar police station.Moradabad police has recovered a .315 bore revolver, two live cartridges and a motorcycle from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-based-criminal-with-rs-50k-bounty-held-post-encounter-in-up/articleshow/76451307.cms||Maria Khan
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Let’s save our city||During the ongoing battle against the novel coronavirus, this newspaper has consistently exposed wrongdoings, questioned policies and encouraged scientific discussions to set agendas for better management of Covid-19. Today, as Chennai and its neighbouring districts go into another lockdown, it’s time to introspect what we the people have done – and can do – to help the authorities slow down, if not stop, the pandemic. When the government announced the 12-day ‘intense lockdown’ starting Friday, we often heard ourselves asking: What did the previous exercises yield? We don’t yet know how much they helped, but public health experts say the situation could have been worse without those measures, however half-hearted they had been in implementation. And if the result wasn’t heartening, we were equally responsible for it. On the eve of every lockdown we rushed to the market – to buy all that we didn’t need. And, on every day when shops were allowed to remain open, we went there again to stuff our refrigerators with more of the same. This time let’s curb the temptation to shop, let’s stay at home. Three months ago, we frowned at those few who wore masks in public. Soon, as we found the virus creeping closer, we listened to experts tell us that only N95 masks gave full protection, surgical masks were the second option, cotton ones did not help. With less resources and more responsibility to save the best masks for the frontline workers, we settled for cotton masks. Yet, many of us wear masks for the fear of the policeman than the virus. Let’s resolve to wear the mask not as an ornament around our neck, but to cover our nose and mouth to protect ourselves and others. And let’s not forget to wash our hands and not touch our face. At the first news of the first lockdown, our first reaction was to be with our family, our elderly parents. The virus did bring together families, but in the course of its devastating march, it also taught us that the best way to care for our seniors is by staying away from them even while being available for them. The pathogen has killed the young and the old, but scientific evidence is now irrefutable that the elderly and people with comorbidities are the most vulnerable. Let’s resolve to protect our elders by delivering them what they want—without the hug, of course. We don’t expect the government to wave a magic wand to drive the virus away. The least we expect from the government, meanwhile, is transparency. TOI has exposed how the government failed to – or chose not to – record more than 200 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai. It has been a perpetual struggle to gather and publish the number of people tested daily for Covid-19 (the government sometimes gave the number of samples, but not that of people tested). We thank all those well-meaning people within the government who supported us with information and those who confirmed reports we had gathered from other sources. This may not be the last lockdown we would see before the novel coronavirus goes away – or we learn to live with it – but let’s consider it the beginning of the end of our battle against Covid-19 in the southern metropolis of nine million people. We, as a newspaper, would continue to point fingers where it is due, but we would as much extend a helping hand to contain the contagion. Epidemiologists have questioned the wisdom of a 12-day partial lockdown, but that’s a post-mortem we promise to do later. For now, let’s do our bit in the hope that by the end of the month we begin our slow yet promising journey back to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lets-save-our-city/articleshow/76453306.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Snake rescuers demand ID cards||AURANGABAD: As the calls for rescuing snakes are on the rise during the monsoon, the rescuers from Aurangabad have demanded the return of their identity cards citing mobility issues during the current lockdown. The registered snake rescuers, commonly known as ‘Sarp Mitra’ had identity cards issued by the state forest department but they were asked to submitted it in 2017. Nitesh Jadhav, a certified snake rescuer, said, “We get calls to rescue from urban and rural areas. The free and quick movement during the current situation is not possible. We have to travel not only to rescue snakes, but also to release them into natural habitat.” Another certified snake rescuer Manoj Gaikwad said rescue call increases during the rainy season as underground holes and other dwelling places for snakes are submerged. “Minimum 1,500 snakes, including venomous and non-venomous, are rescued from the city limits and outskirts every year, besides those getting killed by humans out of fear. ID cards issued by the forest department in the past helped in distinguishing authorised snake rescuers from unauthorised ones, who take undue advantage like indulgence in trading of snakes and their body parts,” he said. The office of deputy conservator of the forest for Aurangabad range in the past had released the list of 20 certified snake rescuers in Aurangabad district and nearby areas with all of them operating without ID cards. The divisional authorities in the past had pointed fingers at the headquarters-level authorities based at Nagpur over an issue related to the recall of ID cards, but the top authorities had distanced themselves from the matter. S P Wadaskar, the deputy conservator of forest, Aurangabad , could not be reached for his comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/snake-rescuers-demand-id-cards/articleshow/76451308.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid norms go amiss at SAD-BJP protest||Ludhiana: The office- bearers and workers of the district unit of SAD and BJP staged a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office after handing over a memorandum to the DC to be handed over to the governor, on Thursday. But they forgot to maintain the social distancing while protesting and also violated the rule to avoid gathering in large numbers in the wake of Covid spread. The leadership, however, claimed that they had called up limited workers but there was so much anger against the ruling party that people in large number reached the DC office. The leaders handed over the memorandum of their demands, in which it was mentioned that the ruling party could not distribute ration among beneficiaries properly and in time and that is why the labourers ran away to their home towns. They claimed that the ruling party leaders cut the names of blue card holders from the list because they were SAD supporters, which was not justified. They also alleged that Congress leaders were involved in providing liquor to the public at home even during the lockdown and this was the reason that when liquor vends were opened there were no queues while in Delhi and other states 2 km-long lines were seen. The leaders claimed that seed scam had direct involvement of Congress leaders, who gave spurious seeds to farmers. The leaders also raised the demand for action against the ruling party leaders in the illegal liquor factory case registered n Khanna. District president of SAD (urban) Ranjit Dhillon said, “We had invited one constituency head from 14 constituencies but people reached in large numbers. We could not stop them from taking part in the protest because every sector is perturbed with this government.” He said the Congress government did not give any relief to the public, whether it was school fee, electricity bills or water supply dues, despite the fact that so many people had become jobless these days. The cashier of the state BJP unit Gurdev Sharma Debi said, “We had called 11 members from SAD and 11 from BJP, but people gathered their on their own because people are disturbed with government. Only 7 to 8 people had entered the DC office but several other persons who were already there started telling their problems.” He said they did not violate any norms intentionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-norms-go-amiss-at-sad-bjp-protest/articleshow/76452297.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Chewing pan or gutka may cost you Rs 1,000 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Consumption of pan, gutka or tobacco at a public place can prove to be a costly affair during the Covid pandemic. Rules notified under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases Regulations state that there is now complete prohibition on consumption of pan, gutka, tobacco etc. in public areas. Moreover, the powers to issue fines have also been entrusted to junior officials. An order issued by the deputy commissioners of the municipal corporations states that offences under five categories of violations will invite a fine of Rs 500 for the first offence and Rs 1,000 in case of repeated violations. The three civic bodies have issued more than 2,500 spitting fines till last week. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said that a more sustained campaign will be run soon to cause behavioural change in public and these penalties are intended to create a deterrent effect. Besides the consumption of pan, gutka etc. in public places, the five offences as per the directives of Delhi Disaster Management Authority include non-observation of quarantine rules, not maintaining social distancing, not wearing face cover in public places or workplaces and violation of prohibition on spitting in public places. Civic bodies have also devolved the powers to impose fines and even school principals, assistant sanitation inspectors, veterinary services officials, assistant malaria inspectors, public health inspectors, sanitary inspectors and junior engineers, among others, have been empowered to issue fines under these five categories of Covid-related offences. “In case any person fails to pay the penalty on spot action under Section 188 of IPC will be taken against him by police on receipt of complaint from these authorised persons,” the official explained. The personnel authorised to issue challans have also been provided a protection as per the Epidemic Act. A notification issued by the deputy secretary of health and family welfare department states that “no legal proceedings shall lie against authorised persons for anything done in good faith for ensuring stricter compliance.” Read this story in BengaliWatch Chewing pan or gutka at public places can cost you Rs 1,000 in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chewing-pan-or-gutka-may-cost-you-rs-1k/articleshow/76453345.cms||Paras Singh
June 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded gurdwara demands Rs 4.76 cr for quarantine facilities, members divided||Aurangabad: The superintendent of the Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib gurdwara, Nanded, wrote a letter to the municipal corporation demanding Rs 4.76 crore for the tourist facilities being utilised as quarantine units amid the ongoing pandemic. The communication has caused split within the managing body of the shrine, with a section of members opposing the demand. In his letter to the Nanded Municipal Corporation, gurdwara board superintendent Gurvindersingh Wadhva has charged Rs 3,000 per day as rent for a total of 299 rooms that the shrine has offered to the district administration to set up a quarantine facility and Covid care centre. The total amount includes electricity and other miscellaneous charges. “The Nanded gurdwara is a religious institution that runs on donations offered by pilgrims. The lockdown situation, however, has affected the footfall of pilgrims, affecting the income. As the shrine board has to carry out religious rituals and customs daily, pay salaries to the staff and ensure proper maintenance, it is requested to pay us the Rs 3,000 per day as rent towards ‘Yatri Niwas’,” said the correspondence. Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, one of the board member of the Nanded gurdwara, on Thursday, said, “The board members were neither consulted before handing over ‘Yatri Niwas’ for setting up quarantine facilities nor while asking for Rs 4.76 core rent. If the board superintendent had consulted us, we would have advised against such recovery,” he said. Two board members, including Mahajan, have also written a separate letter to the shrine board superintendent, accusing him of not taking members into confidence. Board members also recalled that a fund of Rs 1,500 crore was provided by the government for the Sikh pilgrim town ahead of ‘Gur-Ta-Gaddi’, the centenary celebration of the consecration of Guru Granth Sahib, in 2008. When contacted, Wadhva said the local authorities and the state government should have no qualms in handing over the money to the shrine if the Central government is releasing money for states. “Leave aside the current maintenance, we would have to shell out huge amounts towards the maintenance of our tourist facilities once they are handed back to us. There is nothing wrong in seeking financial relief from the government during strained economic situation,” he said. Speaking about the allegations of not consulting the board members, Wadhva said the district administration had ordered, and not requested, to hand over 299 rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-gurdwara-demands-rs-4-76-cr-for-quarantine-facilities-members-divided/articleshow/76454146.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cops permit bands, but wedding season is almost gone||Nagpur: City police chief BK Upadhyay’s decision to allow musical bands during weddings is a welcome change for families having a wedding in current times. The bands can have maximum of 10 musicians. The top cop, along with collector, is now trying to ensure the wedding halls too get permission from the state. The band owners, already heartbroken with most of the wedding season over, too tried to strike a happy note with the development. Upadhyay, who decided to green signal bands to make marriages more festive, said the band musicians would be included in the mandatory 50 guests allowed for such ceremony by the government. “It’s up to the families to decide whether they want 40 guests and 10 musicians or 45 with five or in whichever equation that will ensure total presence within 50. The police stations have been instructed to this effect,” he said. “Bands are to be played in front of the homes with the musicians following Covid distancing and other norms,” he said. Upadhyay said the lawns have been disallowed by the central government but he was trying to get wedding halls permitted. “In halls, there are better chances to maintain distancing than in a house where 50 guests are difficult to accommodate,” he said. “We have written to the state government for the approval,” he said. Suraj Thakur, owner of New Uttam band at Gandhiputla, said people awareness is needed about the decision on bands. Sunil Taywade, owner of Suraj Band at Khamla, said the decision was a morale booster but he was uncertain about the business he may now get now. “With the rainy season and lockdown having impacted the financial condition of the families, especially the middle class that is the biggest clientele, the scenario remains bleak for us,” Taywade said. “Covid distancing is no problem but we are not sure how the musicians using mouth instruments would play with masks on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-permit-bands-but-wedding-season-is-almost-gone/articleshow/76453330.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 80% private hospital Covid beds occupied as cases rise||KOLKATA: In recent weeks, private hospitals have recorded a sharp surge in demand for Covid-19 beds but 80%-100% of the beds are currently occupied by patients. While some hospitals have already increased the number of Covid beds to meet the demand, others, too, are planning to convert more beds to treat corona patients. “We have 30 Covid beds and we are running with full occupancy most of the time,” a source in Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said. Belle Vue Clinic, which had started with just eight Covid beds, has scaled up the number to 66. “As on Thursday, 53 beds are occupied,” said Belle Vue CEO Pradip Tondon. At Medica, nuclear cardiologist Alok Roy said the hospital currently has 120 Covid beds of which 110 are occupied by 90 confirmed Covid cases and 20 suspected ones. The total count of Covid beds in city private hospitals is around 1,000. Of these, three hospitals — AMRI Hospital Salt Lake’s Annexe Building, Desun Hospital and KPC Medical College — have been designated as Covid facilities and requisitioned by the government. KPC Medical College has the largest share with 200 beds. The largest private Covid facility in the state is Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah with 320 beds. Even as the overall occupancy in the state, taking into account all Covid beds spanning private and public hospitals, is currently 22.3%, the occupancy in private hospitals in Kolkata is way higher, said health officials. The total Covid-19 cases in Bengal stood at 12,300 on Thursday, of which Kolkata accounted for over a third, at 4,269, cases. Of these, 180 were fresh cases that got added to the city’s Covid load on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases in Kolkata to 2,173. Also, neighbouring districts of Howrah and North 24 Parganas have the second and third largest Covid patient count, respectively, who also seek treatment in Kolkata, adding to the pressure on beds. “There is huge demand for Covid beds. Apart from three ICU beds out of seven, all general beds are occupied,” said Peerless Hospital spokesperson Sudipta Mitra. “We have 60 beds dedicated only for Covid treatment. Baring two, all beds are filled,” said Tapas Mukherjee, deputy general manager at Desun Hospital. In the 200-bed KPC Medical College that the government had requisitioned in mid-May, 118 beds are currently occupied. The hospital has treated and discharged 206 patients so far, said Joydip Mitra, CEO of the hospital. On the face of the steep surge in Covid-positive patients since the beginning of June, hospitals, like AMRI, have decided to enhance the number. While AMRI’s Covid hospital in Salt Lake will have 15 more beds, taking the tally to 66, its Dhakuria unit will add 40 more beds to the existing five. “We started off with 16 Covid beds, to which we have already added 24 more. Now with all 40 beds occupied, we are mulling increasing the number further,” said a source at Fortis Hospital. While the Covid bed occupancy has shot up sharply, the occupancy of non-Covid beds continue to be dismal with the rate ranging between 25% and 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/80-pvt-hosp-covid-beds-occupied-as-cases-rise/articleshow/76452328.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Motorist who drove with cabbie on bonnet nabbed||BENGALURU: A 34-year-old motorist who had on Monday rammed a cabbie and sped away with the latter on the bonnet of the car in Basaveshwaranagar was arrested on Wednesday. R Appaji (in pic), resident of Sanjay Gandhinagar, was driving his friend Ravi’s Maruti Swift at the time of the incident. Ravi, who was sitting next to Appaji and egged him on during the incident, has been detained. Appaji owns a cab and drives it for a living. Ravi is a Basaveshwaranagar resident and runs a mineral water business. Cab driver Shankaregowda, 34, was tanking up his vehicle at a fuel station near Shankar Math when Appaji arrived at the bunk in the Swift and honked a few times to pressure Shankaregowda to move. As heated arguments ensued, Appaji allegedly rammed Shankaregowda. When the cabbie tried to take his picture, Appaji dashed his car against him. As Shankaregowda landed on his bonnet, Appaji sped away, ignoring his cries to stop. After about 1 km, Shankaregowda managed to jump off the bonnet when the car slowed down at a turn. “Appaji confessed he was drunk and lost his cool during the argument at the fuel station,” a senior police officer said. CCTV footage of the incident had gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/motorist-who-drove-with-cabbie-on-bonnet-nabbed/articleshow/76432851.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Capt writes to PM to lift ban on export of PPE suits||Ludhiana: In a glimmer of hope for Punjab-based personal protective equipment (PPE) suit manufacturers, more than 90% of whom are based in Ludhiana, chief minister Amarinder Singh has shot off a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi, urging him to lift the ban on export of PPE suits. The PPE manufacturers had been complaining about shortage of orders and huge drop in the rates of the PPE suits within India due to over production. They had been constantly urging the state government to take some action in this regard. In his letter, the CM has said these manufacturers had risen to the occasion in the wake of the Covid outbreak to make Punjab self-reliant in the manufacture of this critical equipment needed by frontline warriors in the fight against the pandemic. Permitting them to export the PPE body coveralls “will also give an impetus to the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, recently launched by government of India under your leadership,” he said in his letter to the Prime Minister, requesting him to consider giving permission for the same. Citing the surplus capacity of production and quality of products manufactured by these units, which started production after obtaining certification from SITRA/DRDO, Amarinder said it appeared that there was not enough domestic demand for PPE kits at present. These manufacturers are finding it difficult to obtain orders from HLL, he pointed out, adding that of the 128 approved manufacturers, only 18 units had received orders from the government of India. The chief minister recalled that on May 21, 2020, the Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister had written to chief ministers of all states to consider directing their respective health departments to place orders on Punjab’s PPE body cover all manufacturers at HLL rates. The minister had also made a request to the Union commerce & industries minister, vide DO dated May 20, 2020, requesting for allowing export of surplus PPE body coveralls from the country, he further said. The 128 approved manufacturers have a cumulative current capacity to manufacture 5,21,050 PPE coveralls every day. Besides, with the manufacturers possessing significant ability to further scale up the total capacity, the potential for exports is massive, according to additional chief secretary Vini Mahajan, who pointed out that the permission to export would not only help revive the state’s industry, but also support the global battle against the Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/capt-writes-to-pm-to-lift-ban-on-export-of-ppe-suits/articleshow/76452326.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Inside NMC’s renovated Indira Gandhi Hospital||Nagpur: The mutli-storey Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in Corporation Colony, Ambazari, looks spic and span, has got state-of-the-art intensive care unit (ICU) and is ready to admit patients of Covid-19 after its bed capacity was increased to 130 from 30 earlier. Earlier, despite having capacity for 30 patients, IGR could admit not more than 20 patients on any given day due to lack of proper facilities. Now, following spike in cases of Covid-19, IGR and four other NMC hospitals have undergone a transformation due to booster dose received in the form of Rs1.79 crore government aid under the district planning committee allocation. Facilities at all the five hospitals have been upgraded, with their combined bed capacity increased to 450 from 60 earlier. The four other hospitals to get facelift are Isolation Hospital at Imambada, Pachpaoli Maternity Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at KT Nagar and Ayush Hospital at Sadar. According to NMC, beds and modern health care infrastructure will be made available to patients free of cost or at affordable cost. IGR will have 16 ICU beds, Pachpaoli 18 and KT Nagar 20. They will be equipped with multi-parameter monitor, syringe pump, central oxygen, central suction system and other equipment to treat serious patients Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that the NMC had approached the district collectorate for funds to renovate the five hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Out of the 450 beds, 300 are ready. The NMC has spent Rs1.25 crore for civil works and Rs54 lakh for electrical works. The NMC has also invested on its own to improve the medical facilities,” said Joshi. TOI was the first to report that the NMC, with the help of government aid, was planning to give facelift to its five hospitals. First-time BJP corporator Parineeta Fuke, who had stressed development of IGR into multi-speciality hospital as it was the only government medical facility in West and South-West assembly constituencies, said the move will definitely provide best treatment at a cheaper rate to patients from these parts of the city. KT Nagar UPHC and Ayush Hospital can now ease the patient load at IGMCH and GMCH. Earlier, both the hospitals didn’t have facility to admit patients who used to be referred to either IGMCH or GMCH. “Now, with the help of DPC grant, we have developed facilities for 120 and 30 beds at UPHC and Ayush Hospital respectively,” said Joshi. NMC’s Isolation Hospital and Pachpaoli Maternity Home, which were overlooked before coronavirus hit the city, too have seen a visible infrastructure improvement. The biggest challenge now before the civic body, sources said, will be to ensure proper maintenance of these hospitals with minimum medical and paramedical staff strength at its disposal. BED CAPACITY Hospital———————Then ——————Now Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya————-300——————130 Isolation Hospital———————-20——————-60 Pachpaoli Maternity Home——— 20——————-110 UPHC, KT Nagar———————-Nil——————120 Ayush Hospital, Sadar—————-Nil———————30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inside-nmcs-renovated-indira-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/76453357.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||After tiff with wife, truck driver parksvehicle on highway in UP & hangs self||Bareilly: A 27-year-old truck driver from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh on way to Farrukhabad district to deliver goods allegedly committed suicide by hanging self from a rope on the top of his vehicle after parking it on the Bareilly-Farrukhabad highway in Katra area of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday night. He reportedly had a tiff with his wife over the phone who was living at her maternal home with two children. His wife was questioned by police on Thursday and it was learnt that the main cause was a marital discord. The autopsy report suggested no foul play. The driver Raju Kumar was a resident of Andharpura village in Faridpur area of Bareilly district. He used to drive a DCM mini-truck for a furniture manufacturing firm. On Wednesday evening, he took a consignment from the firm and left for Farrukhabad. Later that night, his friend Charaspal, a resident of Shahjahanpur who is also a driver working for the firm and was going to Gwalior with a consignment, saw Raju’s truck parked on the roadside near an eatery. Charaspal thought that Raju’s truck may have suffered a breakdown. However, he was shocked to see Raju hanging from a rope used for tying a tarpaulin for covering the vehicle's roof. He informed the police and Raju’s family. Raju's body was handed over to his elder brother Mukesh Kumar and brother-in-law Ravindra Kumar after the autopsy. Ravindra told TOI, "Raju was upset because of problems in his personal life. His wife had refused to come back home with children and he had a quarrel with her over the phone before committing suicide." SHO of Katra police station Harpal Singh told TOI, "A truck driver has committed suicide by hanging himself from a mini-truck. He had a heated argument with his wife before taking the extreme step. The driver's family has not sought action against anyone. So, no FIR has been registered. The truck and consignment will be handed over to the firm after completion of formalities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-tiff-with-wife-truck-driver-parksvehicle-on-highway-in-up-hangs-self/articleshow/76451321.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Cybercrimes go up in lockdown||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat and the country went into lockdown on March 23 and on June 1 the unlocking began, with certain restrictions still in place. Cyber criminals, however, seem to have had a free run during the lockdown, as the volume of cybercrime cases registered shot up considerably in comparison with pre-lockdown volumes. “From siphoning off money to bullying, hacking of Facebook and Instagram accounts, to getting even with romantic partners, a spate of cybercrime was seen. As the adage goes, ‘An idle mind is the devil’s workshop’. While more or less everyone was glued to their mobile phones, some used them constructively and others destructively,” said special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar. From January 1, to the lockdown on March 23, the number of FIRs registered with the cybercrime police station was 30. In the two months or so of the lockdown, the number of such FIRs registered shot up to about 70. Similarly, the cybercrime police station helpline ‘112’, during the lockdown started getting some 50 calls a day about various types of cybercrime. “When people were able to visit in person, after the unlocking began, we started getting 30 to 40 written applications about cybercrime every day. These numbers were not as high before the lockdown,” said a cybercrime police station source. Tomar said that the helpline may also have contributed to the rising numbers. “We have created a lot of awareness among people on dealing with cybercrime. People have started using our helpline and this may also be why the numbers are shooting up,” he added. Most of the calls received on the helpline related to cheating and phishing emails. “Some were about hacking Facebook and Instagram accounts or posting of lewd comments and photos for revenge by romantic partners,” said cybercrime police station official. Sources in the cybercrime police station said that as the unlocking began, some people were reluctant to use cash due to the fear of contracting the virus and used online payments more. Cyber criminals took advantage of this and the number of cyber cheating cases also shot up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cybercrimes-go-up-in-lockdown/articleshow/76452313.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 19, 2020||India||Meghalaya CM in Manipur quandary||SHILLONG/GUWAHATI: Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma’s National People’s Party (NPP) on Thursday faced the dilemma of saving his alliance with BJP in the state by voting for the party’s Rajya Sabha candidate in Manipur in Friday’s  even as he sides with Congress to topple the N Biren Singh government there. “I have apprised the coalition partners in the NPP-led Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) about the political developments in Manipur and assured them that the situation there would not impact Meghalaya,” Sangma said a day after four NPP ministers in Manipur exited the BJP-led coalition to leave the Biren Singh government on shaky ground. Sangma held his Manipur counterpart solely responsible for NPP deciding to quit the coalition on Wednesday along with a TMC legislator and an independent. Three BJP MLAs resigned, too. The situation in Manipur has “a lot to do with the leadership (of Biren Singh)” and should be looked at as “an individual-based issue”, he said. Meghalaya health minister Alexander Laloo Hek, who is from BJP, told TOI, “There will be no impact of the Manipur developments in Meghalaya, but today we have submitted a memorandum to NPP national president Sangma, requesting that his party MLAs in Manipur should vote in favour of the BJP candidate tomorrow in the RS election. We have extended our support to the NPP-backed RS candidate in Meghalaya and expect reciprocation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/meghalaya-cm-in-manipur-quandary/articleshow/76454954.cms||Manosh Das
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai mortality rate above 1%, sharpest spike in Tiruvottiyur||CHENNAI: Data released by Greater Chennai Corporation shows that none of the 15 zones has reported a drop in Covid-19 mortality rate as compared to the statistics 10 days ago. Mortality rate is the percentage of Covid-19 patients who die. The overall mortality rate in Chennai has increased from 0.97% on June 9 to 1.31% as on June 18, data shows. This comes even as the Greater Chennai Corporation is yet to reconcile all the Covid-19 deaths in the city, which have not yet been added to the tally. Zones such as Shollinganallur, Perungudi, Madhavaram, Valasaravakkam and Kodambakkam have kept Chennai’s overall mortality rate under control. If not, the overall mortality rate would have been higher than 1.5%. These are the zones where the number of cases are also less and have not grown at an alarming rate. Among all zones, Tiruvottiyur (zone 1) has recorded the sharpest increase in mortality rate. On June 9, the zone with three deaths had a rate of only 0.34%. On June 18, this jumped five times to 1.73%. The zone recorded 20 deaths in 10 days. The highest mortality rate in the city continues to be in Thiru-vi-ka Nagar zone. It has a rate of 2.15%, recording an increase of 0.43% from June 9 statistics. The zone also has the second highest number of deaths in the city (68), but since its containment strategies are working, the rate of increase in cases has dropped, pushing up the mortality rate. Royapuram, which has the highest deaths in the city (83) has a mortality rate of 1.47%, registering an increase of 0.33 over the last 10 days. Teynampet, which has the third highest number of deaths in the city (64) has a mortality rate higher than that of Royapuram at 1.48%. Senior IAS officials say that identifying co-morbid Covid-19 patients early is now the strategy as the focus has shifted to reducing the number of deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-mortality-rate-above-1-sharpest-spike-in-tiruvottiyur/articleshow/76453347.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways plan to start random swab testing of employees||Ludhiana- After several employees of carriage and wagon department tested positive after they had come in close contact with senior mechanical engineer, who had died on Tuesday from Covid-19, the Northern Railway authorities have been planning to begin process of random throat swab testing of employees of carriage and wagon department deputed at several stations of the division. The authorities have taken the action after finding five more employees affected with Covid-19, who were working in the carriage and wagon department of Ferozepur railway station after undergoing throat swab testing process at the regional health centres. Most of them had come in touch with local employees of Ludhiana and Amritsar stations during duty time. Moreover, local railway authorities have geared up for providing PPE kits to the ticket checking staff, who are deputed at checking of passengers. Apart from that, the railway authorities have taken the decision to add more precautionary measures in the working of track maintenance workers by asking local health department officials for conducting regular medical screening of all as they were coming to the station premises from different parts of the district. However, railway authorities have asked cleanliness department officials to ensure that only 50% officials work at one time for managing the track work as only a limited trains were passing through the city station, which didn’t require excessive maintenance work. On the other hand, divisional railway manager of Ferozepur division has also taken several preventive measures from running a helpline number (9779232535) for all division-level employees and asked the local health department officials to arranges as many beds as possible for Covid-19 patients at the regional hospital of Ferozepur division. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said Northern Railway authorities had fixed June 19 for completing the process of random sampling of employees of carriage and wagon department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-plan-to-start-random-swab-testing-of-employees/articleshow/76452332.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Tremors can’t be seen as sign of big quake’||NEW DELHI: Recent Delhi-NCR tremors do not signal a big event, but a strong earthquake cannot be ruled out, says the Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), an institute under Union science & technology ministry. Sharing past incidents and science behind it, the institute says “such tremors are not unusual” in the Delhi-NCR which has been identified as the second highest seismic hazard zone after the Himalayan region. “The small magnitude earthquakes are frequent, but large magnitude earthquakes are rare to very rare. It is the large earthquakes that cause severe damages both to structures and properties,” says the institute in a report which was flagged by the ministry on Thursday. It says these earthquakes of minor or light magnitude indicate release of strain energy which have been accumulated as a result of northward movement of Indian plate and its collision with the Eurasian plate through fault or weak zones. “There is, however, no need to panic. Since an earthquake cannot be predicted by any mechanism, these tremors cannot be described as the signal of a big event,” said Kalachand Sain, director, WIHG. He told TOI that local authorities must adhere to code of building infrastructure and lifeline structures as per the guiding principles of the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS). Besides, he said, the outcome of recent micro zonation studies for Delhi-NCR should be considered for important construction. “If Delhi-NCR is prepared for it, lives and properties can be saved whenever an earthquake of higher magnitude hits it or the most vulnerable Himalayan region which is just 200 km away from it,” said Sain. Though the Delhi-NCR witnessed 14 earthquakes in the past two months, only the Rohtak earthquake on May 29 had the magnitude of 4.6 on Richter scale – which is considered ‘light’ in terms of release of energy. “India needs to expand its seismic network to record smaller earthquakes occurring in the central and southern Indian shield as well,” said Ramesh Singh, professor, earth system science and remote sensing, Chapman University, California, USA. On recent tremors in Delhi-NCR, Singh too said there was no need to panic as one can experience such small earthquakes in many parts of the country. The WIHG report says the recent events cannot be defined as foreshocks. “If a big earthquake takes place in a region, all smaller events that occurred in the immediate past at that region are categorised as the foreshocks. Therefore, scientifically all these tremors in the Delhi-NCR can be demarcated as the foreshocks only after a big earthquake takes place immediately,” it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tremors-cant-be-seen-as-sign-of-big-quake/articleshow/76453381.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second round of PG medical admissions deferred||AHMEDABAD: After the completion of the first round of admission for PG Medical and dental seats, the second round will now be delayed.While the Admission Committee for Professional Post-Graduate Medical Courses (ACPPGMC) had fixed June 25 for holding the second round, this could only be done once allotment of seats to All-India quota students was over. The second round of admission on PG seats for medical and dental courses for the All-India quota was to start from June 3 and the final process and confirmation on these seats was to take place between June 12 and 18, sources said. Now, the June 18 deadline has been postponed to June 30 due to the transportation problems faced by the students owing to the Covid-19 crisis, sources added. The second round on the state’s quota will be possible only after Gujarat gets its share of seats from the Centre. The new dates for the second round will be announced later by ACPPGMC, sources added. The seats remaining vacant after the second round of All-India quota will also be available for the state students in the second round of admission. In all, 400 seats have remained vacant in MD, MS and MDS courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-round-of-pg-medical-admissions-deferred/articleshow/76452331.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PIL seeks to restrain Rath Yatra in times of Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: A PIL was filed in the Gujarat high court seeking directions to restrain the Rath Yatra procession that is scheduled for June 23 in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner has sought directions to the state authorities to deny permission for the religious procession if it is asked for by Sri Jagannathji Mandir Trust, and to cancel it if has already been granted. The petitioner has contended in the PIL that the Rath Yatra’s route passes through the central part of the city, where there are containment areas due to the outbreak of the disease. More than 5,300 cases of Covid-19 were detected in three containment zones that fall along the procession route, and these areas have witnessed approximately 490 deaths in the last two months or so. Citing the intensity of virus transmission in the walled city area, the PIL claims, “The procession and lokotsav, if given permission, a juggernaut of deadly Covid-19 may infect lakhs of people and all work done by the authorities, civil society and citizens to fight the leviathan of Covid-19 will go in absolute vain and bring up a rather despicable and horrific situation.” The petitioner urged the HC to direct the authorities to provide proper protective equipment to security personnel, civic officials and other frontline workers during the rehearsals, if they intend to grant permission to the Rath Yatra. The petitioner claimed that nearly 400 personnel of forces such as the police, SRP and others have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Deploying them to manage a procession of thousands would be like pushing them into unnecessary risk. If permission is granted, it may spell doom for the entire state, as people usually throng the streets to participate in the procession and get a glimpse of the deities. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has stayed the Rath Yatra procession in Puri in Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-to-restrain-rath-yatra-in-times-of-covid-19/articleshow/76452354.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Unmasked: 1,700 booked in 11 days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has booked 1,727 people for stepping out of their homes without masks since the restrictions were lifted on June 8. It has also booked 23 people who were caught spitting on the road. Out of these, 11 were from the high-security area around Chanakyapuri and four from Lutyens’ Delhi. The violators were made to clean the road. According to the data shared by Delhi Police, the maximum number of people stepping out of their homes without masks was caught in south Delhi. Out of the 1,727 people challaned across the capital, 257 were from here. The maximum number of people violating social distancing norms was found to be from northeast Delhi. More than 105 people were booked here in the past two weeks. Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, said that people violating the government order by not wearing masks when outdoors will have to pay fines between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000. Apart from this, criminal cases under Section 188 IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) can also be registered against the violator. The cops say that most people who had stepped out without masks claimed that they had either kept their masks in their offices or homes nearby and had stepped out to complete a quick chore. Some of them caught near Connaught Place on Thursday claimed to have stepped out without a mask to have lunch. Police officers say that as per the government order, any person working at any site, office and workshop must wear a face mask. “These masks may be standard masks available with the chemist or even homemade washable masks that can be reused after proper washing and disinfection,” the order said. Almost 95% of the people caught spitting on road were found to be chewing tobacco. “We have been keeping water bottles at hand and stopping these violators to clean up the portion of the road before asking them to pay a fine,” said a police officer. Social distancing norms were found to be violated especially during the morning hours near markets or bus stops in border areas. “Despite announcements being made, people try to reach quickly to their destination and in the process violate the norms. We have been using public address systems asking them to keep a distance, but a lot of them were still found to be violating the norms,” said a policeman posted in east Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unmasked-1-7k-booked-in-11-days/articleshow/76453386.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||Parents to be called to schools for free books||Bareilly: For free distribution of nearly 25 lakh school books to 3.77 lakh students in Bareilly enrolled in government and aided schools up to Class VIII, the education department will call parents in a group of four to schools to collect the books. Every year, books are distributed for free to students in the schools but as the educational institutions are closed to control the spread of Covid-19, online classes are being organised. Instead of children, parents will be asked to come to school to collect books. In the first phase, 3.23 lakh books are being supplied to schools in four blocks. On Thursday, Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Vinay Kumar said, "We have received 3.23 lakh books whose verification has been done by a district-level committee. The books are being transferred to block offices and from there it will be sent to respective schools." Kumar added, "We have set a target of sending books to schools after the verification process in a three-day time. To maintain social distancing, the parents will be called in a small group of four to schools to collect textbooks and worksheets." He added that another set of two lakh books will arrive by Thursday night. Officials said teachers have been sharing educational materials to students during online classes in absence of textbooks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/parents-to-be-called-to-schools-for-free-books/articleshow/76451398.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Intermediate students commit suicide in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Two Inter students committed suicide in the state on Thursday, one before the results were declared and the other on finding out that he had failed a subject. An Intermediate student from Chegunta in Medak district, who was anxious about failing the exams, committed suicide hours before the Board of Intermediate Examinations (BIE) announced the results. She had, as she had feared, not cleared a subject. Chegunta police said K Shilpa,18, who is an Intermediate second year student, hanged herself in the absence of her parents. When her mother Pentamma returned home, the teenager was dead. Police said Shilpa, who is a student from a local government college, informed her parents about her fear of failing. “For the last couple of days, Shilpa, who was a BiPC student, had been tense about the results. Her father comforted her by asking her not to bother about the outcome of the exams, but she committed suicide by hanging herself to the ceiling fan in her bedroom before the results were announced,’’ Cheguta police said. The incident took place around 8.30 am. According to police, at the time of incident both her parents were not at home. In an another case, 19-year-old Sandeep, who is an MPC second year student, committed suicide in Miyapur on coming to know that he failed in mathematics. He fell short by just two marks. After the results were declared, Sandeep rang up his father and informed him about his scores. He also called up a few of his friends, who came down to his house. Later in the evening he hanged himself. By the time his father returned, the boy had died. Police did not find any suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxiety-claims-a-life-failure-another/articleshow/76453407.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Most active Covid-19 cases in Tondiarpet||CHENNAI: Tondiarpet has the highest number of active cases in Chennai now surpassing Royapuram, but it is Anna Nagar that has the most number of infected streets in the city. As on June 17, Tondiarpet has reported 2,451 active cases across its 973 streets while Royapuram has 2,398 active cases across 904 streets. Officials said Tondiarpet is a bigger area compared to Royapuram, has a higher population and more slums. “The population of Tondiarpet is 6.2 lakh and it has 144 slum pockets,” said an official. With new cases, the corporation has contained most streets that have three to five cases. On Wednesday, 500 streets reported new cases in the city and on Thursday about 776 streets reported active cases. As per data, 7,801 streets across the city have active cases of which Anna Nagar has the maximum number of streets, 994. The second zone with the highest number of streets affected is Tondiarpet followed by Teynampet. “No other state will give out such micro details. We are extremely transparent and wanted residents to be aware of the positive cases around them. The data will be available on the website and the social media pages,” said joint commissioner, health, Madhusudhan Reddy. With this street level data, all officials have been asked to ensure that the number of cases go down in the next 12 days. “Our target is simple. To reduce the cases and break the chain. We cannot completely eliminate the virus but can ensure that once we reduce the transmission rate, we can control the disease,” said an official. Residents have been seeking streetwise and ward wise data since March when the first case was reported. B Kannan, secretary of T Nagar resident welfare association, said this data will help them keep their elders and children who come under high risk category safe. “We know that Kodambakkam zone is the fifth most affected in terms of infection. However, the zone has several areas such as T Nagar, Vadapalani, Saligramam, West Mambalam, Ashok Nagar, K K Nagar, so it’s extremely vast. This data will ensure we know if there is a new case in our street and we will take precautions,” he said. G Sathish, a resident of OMR said, it helps them in analysing the Covid-19 spread and they would avoid visiting these streets. “We share this data with other residents as well to ensure everyone is aware.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/most-active-covid-19-cases-in-tondiarpet/articleshow/76453397.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Goa||Tillari reservoir level crosses halfway mark, collector’s team maintains watch||Panaji: Following three days of incessant rainfall, the reservoir at Tillari is now filled to half its capacity. The continuous rainfall, caused the water level in Tillari dam to rise by 4% in 48 hours, to 54% of its capacity. Officials of the water resources department said that this year, a team headed by the North Goa collector is monitoring the water levels at Tillari reservoir in Maharashtra. In August last year, a flood-like situation was witnessed in villages of Bicholim and Pernem talukas when the Tillari reservoir reached its full capacity due to concentrated rainfall in the reservoir region. As the dam reached its capacity, officials were forced to release water, which flows into the Goa rivers. This caused the water to breach the river banks and flood the villages along its course. The Navy and fire services personnel had to rescue over 1,000 villagers in villages like Sal which were nearly submerged due to the water release. Farmers in Bicholim, Bardez and Pernem talukas also suffered damages to their crops. The site of the Tillari dam is in the portion under the Western Ghats of Maharashtra and Karnataka, which leads to the region receiving heavy rainfall. The reservoir is located at Tillari Wadi at the confluence of river Tillari with the Kharadi nalla. The reservoir water level at full capacity is 112 metres. In the dam’s history, it was only for the third time that the water level reached its capacity in August 2019. Normally, the dam reaches a maximum of 60% of its capacity. The Tillari reservoir supplies water for irrigation and drinking purposes to Goa in an understanding between the Goa and Maharashtra governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tillari-reservoir-level-crosses-halfway-mark-collectors-team-maintains-watch/articleshow/76453396.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Year after sister’s suicide, Sheetal comes up, trumps with 90%||HYDERABAD: While last year’s intermediate results took away one of their three daughters, who committed suicide after she failed the inter exasmination, this year’s results brought cheer to Arutla’s family as their younger daughter Sheetal secured 452 marks (more than 90%) in the first year. Sheetal, a student of Vivekananda Junior College, Kaghaznagar said her sister’s death has motivated her to do well in the exams. “It was very hard to concentrate on studies after losing my sister,” said 16-year-old Sheetal. In 2019, Anamika was declared as failed after she secured 20 marks in the Telugu exam. She committed suicide on April 18, the day intermediate results were released. However, after re-verification, she secured 48 in Telugu and was declared as passed. In another dramatic development, on June 1, 2019, the board announced that there was an error in uploading marks and said that Anamika secured only 21 marks. “The way the board dealt with my sister and other students’ results is pathetic. They changed her result twice and publicly humiliated her and our family by releasing her answer script to the media,” said Sheetal, who is doing her Inter from Civics, Economics, Commerce (CEC) stream. She wants to become an IAS officer to ensure that no other student suffers like her sister. Her father Ganesh said that all his three daughters are bright students. “Everyone forgot about Anamika, expect us. But her life has been cut short because of the inter result,” said Ganesh, who is a vegetable vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yr-after-sisters-suicide-sheetal-comes-up-trumps-with-90/articleshow/76453406.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 19, 2020||Goa||Many areas flooded, tree falls keep firemen busy||Panaji: Incessant rains which lashed the state on Thursday resulted in trees uprooting and waterlogging at several places across Goa. Camrabhat, a low-lying area in Taleigao which has a dominantly migrant population, experienced massive flooding on Thursday owing to the torrential showers that lashed the state. Parts of Panaji also witnessed flooding owing to the torrential downpour. The water also encroached on the roads after it overflowed from the St Inez nullah on Wednesday night. The department of fire services was on their toes on Thursday after heavy rains threw normal life out of gear. In Panaji alone, there were calls for clearing tree falls in the city and one call for waterlogging at a restaurant in Caranzalem. Fire service officials informed TOI that a huge banyan tree got uprooted and fell on an electricity pole at around 9am at Tivim disrupting power supply for nearly an hour. After receiving information, a team of fire service officers rushed to the spot and cut the branch of the tree using a hydraulic cutter. Approximately 32 calls were received by the control room from 7am to 9pm. These were for tree falls on houses and electrical wires caused by the rainfall activity. In Bicholim, six houses were damaged due to heavy rains over the week. All the losses were estimated as per the preliminary assessment report of the local talathi. Bicholim taluka mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit has directed PWD officials and talathis to submit valuation reports in order to grant compensation to the affected persons. On Wednesday, Pandit, who also holds charge as chief officer of Sankhali Municipal Council, inspected the areas near Shivaji Statue in Sankhali wherein waterlogging was witnessed, and directed municipal engineer Rajesh Fadte to clear the blockage in the drain for smooth flow of water to prevent flooding. Accordingly, municipal officials cleared the blockade in the drains to prevent stagnation of water. In South Goa, as heavy showers lashed many parts, waterlogging was witnessed at many places, disrupting traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/many-areas-flooded-tree-falls-keep-firemen-busy/articleshow/76453404.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Can’t waive rent, landlords need money too: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Tenants alone are not suffering from financial hardship, even landlords can be financially dependent on rent, Delhi high court has said, dismissing a plea that wanted a blanket waiver on payment of rent and protection from eviction during Covid-19 crisis. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan noted that the court will be “extremely slow to interfere in contractual terms” between landlords and tenants, adding that waiver of rent cannot be granted by the court as payment of rent is based on a contract between tenant and landlord. “It ought to be kept in mind that the court cannot do charity at the cost of others. Charity beyond the law is an injustice to others. If the landlord is entitled to receive the rent/ consideration in accordance with law as per the contractual agreement entered between the parties concerned, then, the court cannot, by a general order of the nature sought by the petitioner, waive such amount,” the bench added, refusing to entertain a petition filed by a lawyer Gaurav Jain. Declining any relief, the court noted that “the petition proceeds on the presumption that tenants alone are suffering from financial hardship, or from the economic consequences of the pandemic and consequent lockdown. However, it ought to be kept in mind that even the landlords can be financially dependent on the rent.” The court underlined that “The powers/discretion for waiving off such consideration (rent) vests first with the landlords, who are contractually entitled to the same” and deprecated the petitioner’s conduct. The court imposed a cost of Rs 10,000 on Jain for “wasting judicial time” and said the plea was “thoroughly misconceived and baseless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-waive-rent-landlords-need-money-too-hc/articleshow/76453415.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman booked for abusing cops||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police station on Wednesday booked an unidentified woman for allegedly abusing and threatening cops when they tried to fine her for not wearing mask. K D Raviya, sub-inspector with Satellite police station, said in his FIR that he along with other cops were patrolling near Sundarvan when they spotted a woman not wearing mask. “We were catching and imposing fine on people who were found not wearing masks and spitting here and there. At that time, we spotted a woman who was standing in front of a cafe at around 5 pm on Wednesday without wearing a mask,” said Raviya. Raviya said that he along with other cops went to her and told her that she would be charged for not wearing mask. This irked the woman so much that she started abusing the cops in a loud voice, alleges the FIR. “Her behaviour was indecent and distasteful in public which could not be justified in any circumstances. She also threatened that she would remove the uniforms of cops and get them terminated from their services. She threatened the cops with dire consequences,” said Raviya. At that time, woman assistant sub-inspector Manisha Ramsinh asked for her address, but the woman did not reply. The woman wearing a pink top was so offensive that the police personnel could not even get her to give her identity and address. A cop with Satellite police station said that even the station diary of the police station did not have her details. Meanwhile, the police have filed a case of obstruction in duty and begun an investigation to ascertain the identity of the accused woman and trace her address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-booked-for-abusing-cops/articleshow/76452364.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maha CM calls for low-key Ganpati celebrations due to Covid-19||Mumbai: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday called for low-key Ganpati celebrations this year in view of Covid-19, and urged mandals to undertake social welfare programmes. The 10-day festival begins on August 22. Thackeray, who held a review meeting, said the threat of coronavirus was not over, so it would not be possible to celebrate the festival with usual grandeur. He said there should be no crowding or processions. The state government may grant special permission to mandals like Lalbaugcha Raja and GSB King's Circle to keep large idols, like every year, as they are also puja moortis. But they will have to sign an undertaking on regulating darshan, not permitting large crowds and following norms like social distancing. GSB King’s Circle trustee R G Bhat said, “Our idol is different as it is of clay and carved on site. It is easily soluble. We adorn our regular moorti with gold and silver jewellery. We assured the government we will not have an immersion procession if the need arises.” He said they would create an artificial pond to immerse the idol in the pandal. Lalbaugcha Raja mandal president Balasaheb Kamble said, “Nothing is finalised but the CM has appealed to us to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and organise social and medical activities.” Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti president Naresh Dahibavkar said, “Mandals are in two minds on whether to organise Ganeshotsav in August (Bhadrapad) or February 2021 (Magh). As per scriptures, it is celebrated in Bhadrapad. We will face legal and procedural challenges if we defer it to February.” He said, “The Centre’s postponement of a ban on plaster of paris (PoP) expires in December 2020. So, we may be unable to craft PoP idols next February. Secondly, noise relaxation norms grant four days to Ganeshotsav each year. If we utilise this relaxation in February 2021, can we demand another four days in August-September 2021? Can we use open grounds allowed for pandals during Bhadrapad, later in Magh? Will police, BMC and environment authorities grant us permission in 2021 if we forego the festival in 2020?” He said these issues made him feel it should be in August, on a small scale. Artisans, moortikars, material suppliers, garment and jewellery manufacturers, who do business worth Rs 70 crore during Ganeshotsav, will suffer tremendous losses if the festival is postponed, Dahibavkar said. The samiti sought an extension till December for mandals to file annual balance-sheets before the charity commissioner too. A team of 170 ward-wise volunteers will coordinate implementation of Covid-19 norms with police and BMC. “We need to decide how we can celebrate it in a simple way. Under ‘Mission Begin Again’, we have to take every step cautiously. Our culture and traditions should not be affected, but we should remember our social responsibility. We need to a chalk out programmes accordingly,” Thackeray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-cm-calls-for-low-key-ganpati-celebrations-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76452392.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Meerut||After protests & mahapanchayat, runaway couple found in Bijnor, 'husband' faces abduction charges||Strap: Couple Will Be Produced In A Court On FridayBijnor: Days after a saffron outfit threatened to burn a police station after elopement and marriage of a Hindu girl to a man from a different faith, police on Thursday found the couple in Bijnor. They will now be produced before a court on Friday which will take a call on the case. The girl, 23, had left her home days before her marriage was to be solemnized on June 18. The family members had approached Bijnor’s Nangal Soti police station alleging that she was kidnapped by a man of another community. A case of abduction was then filed against the youth.However, a week later, police received a video in which the girl had sought protection from her family members saying that she has married a man of her choice. “The girl might have married the accused. The lawyer of the youth contacted us and provided a video showing that the girl has married him, without any pressure. They have also sought police protection. We have asked them to produce documents about their marriage,” Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Lakshmi Nivas Mishra had said.The matter also took a communal turn when a member of a lesser-known saffron outfit allegedly threatened to set a police station on fire if the girl is not recovered and sent back home. In a video, Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh’s state general secretary Rajni Jauhar can be heard saying, “Police are supporting the minority community. Family members of the girl are making rounds of police officials but they are not paying heed to them. Wedding of the girl was slated for June 18. Had the girl belonged to a minority community, police would have recovered her immediately. If she is not recovered, people will come on streets and a police station will be set ablaze.”Earlier on Sunday, scores of villagers led by Hindu Vahini and Hindu Jagran Manch staged a ‘dharna’ and threatened to “retaliate” if the police failed to act.Addressing the gathering, district general secretary of Hindu Jagran Manch Abhishek Tyagi said, “A youth of minority community has abducted the girl. Her family members have filed a case against the accused. Family members of the girl are making rounds of police officials. If police don’t find the girl, we will retaliate. We will not tolerate ‘Love Jihad’ here.”Five days later, on Thursday, police found the couple in Bijnor. The SP said, “Two teams were sent to Allahabad and Lucknow to recover the girl as her location was last traced there. But, later, they were found in Bijnor on Thursday. They will be produced before court which is to decide the matter on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-protests-mahapanchayat-runaway-couple-found-in-bijnor-husband-faces-abduction-charges/articleshow/76451421.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger poachers get 3-day FCR||Chandrapur: Three accused poachers involved in the killing of three tigers of a family in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) were sent into forest custody remand (FCR) for three days on Thursday. Park rangers are investigating about their accomplices and their involvement in other poaching cases. Killing of tigress and its cubs to save the illegal liquor brewery in forest close to the core zone of the tiger reserve has shocked wildlife buffs. The security and conservation measures in renowned tiger reserve are being questioned after poaching of the tigers in buffer zone and failure of park management to detect the carcasses for several days. Three accused identified as Suryabhan Thakre (60), Shrawan Madavi (47) and Narendra Dadmal (49) were produced before JMFC court in Bhadrawati on Thursday. They have confessed their crime before the forest officials. Court remanded them into forest custody remand till June 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-poachers-get-3-day-fcr/articleshow/76453402.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP government eyes 25,000 tests by month-end, to add 50,000 Covid-19 beds||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government is aiming to scale up Covid-19 testing to 25,000 a day by the end of the month and will be adding another 50,000 beds to increase Covid-19 dedicated facilities to 1.5 lakh. As the number of tests carried out on Wednesday touched 16,546, UP is looking to take them up to 20,000 by June 20. The state is focusing on random sampling currently and will be increasing its numbers in the coming days. Additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that by carrying out random tests in old age homes and shelters for women and children, 32 cases of infection were detected in Kanpur’s Rajkiya Bal Griha and Nari Niketan. “We are intensifying random tests, first to determine the spread of infection and second, to spread awareness in vulnerable groups and those who have high levels of public interaction that they should be careful. We have carried out these tests in old age homes, other government shelters, urban slums and front-line workers in the medical facilities and will be sharing the results shortly,” he said. In the next phase, testing will be done for auto drivers, truck drivers, dhaba workers, home delivery people, vendors, chemists, fruit and vegetable sellers etc. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to carry out at least 25,000 tests a day, making UP the highest testing state in the country. “Currently, we are at the fifth position. However, since we have the highest population, we should also be carrying out more tests. When we started testing, we were carrying out 60 tests a day in a single lab in Lucknow’s KGMC. Now we are setting up more labs with the CM saying that UP should be prepared with permanent testing facilities,” he said. Till now, 5,15,280 Covid-19 tests have been carried out in the state. TrueNat machines, which can give test results within a few hours, have been provided in each district. Officials said that with an increase in testing, UP was also going to see more positive cases for which it was making preparations like increasing facilities in hospitals. Awasthi said that currently there are 403 L1 facilities in the state, with beds meant for patients with mild symptoms. There were 72 L2 facilities where oxygen facilities were available and 25 L3 facilities in medical colleges equipped with ventilator beds for critical patients. The state has 1,01,236 beds across the three facilities but now these have to be increased to 1.5 lakh by the end of the month. On Wednesday, the CM had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow for even asymptomatic cases to be kept in institutional quarantine, not at home, so that the chain of infection could be broken. The state is also ramping up facilities in all districts along the border with Delhi, from where it is anticipating the spread of virus into UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-eyes-25k-tests-by-month-end-to-add-50000-covid-19-beds/articleshow/76454153.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 19, 2020||Meerut||Sikh man thrashed, turban tossed by mob in UP's Amroha, Union minister calls it 'dastardly'||MEERUT: A strong mob of at least 50 men allegedly caught hold of a Sikh farmer, thrashed him mercilessly and tossed his turban in UP’s Amroha district, a brutal act which was caught on camera and invited widespread condemnation on social media, including from Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The victim, Gurvinder Singh was attacked in retaliation to a road rage incident involving his younger brother on June 14. In her tweet, the Union food processing industries minister has asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take strict action against the attackers. Spoke to UP CM @myogiadityanath ji about the forceful eviction of thousands of #Sikh farmer families from their lan… https://t.co/aXeq2QYlar— Harsimrat Kaur Badal (@HarsimratBadal_) 1592470448000“Sikhs shocked & outraged at images emanating from Uttar Pradesh. Mob severely beat up #Sikh youth & insulted his turban by throwing it into a sewer. I urge CM @myogiadityanath ji to take stringent action against the culprits responsible for this dastardly action,” she wrote in the tweet. An FIR against five named accused and 150 to 200 others unidentified has been registered at Dhanora Mandi police station in the district. Amroha’s superintendent of police (SP) Vipin Tada said, “ Police have arrested two accused in the case. More will be arrested soon." According to the complaint, Gurvinder was returning on a tractor from a market on June 14 evening when he was ambushed by a mob from Sherpur village, just 200 meters away from a local police outpost. In the video of the incident that has now surfaced on social media, Gurvinder can be seen struggling to save himself from a strong mob of 40 to 50 people. He can be seen running from the crowd in a bid to save his life without his turban on his head. According to sources, agitated villagers had attacked Gurvinder after his younger brother was caught in a brawl with a local family from the village over a minor incident of road rage earlier on the same day. Watch Shocking: Younger brother caught in brawl, Sikh man thrashed, turban tossed by mob in UP's Amroha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sikh-man-thrashed-turban-tossed-by-mob-in-amroha-union-minister-calls-it-dastardly/articleshow/76451426.cms||Piyush Rai
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects bail plea of man accused of raping boy||NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rejected bail plea of 58-year-old tailor who had allegedly forced a 15-year-old boy into anal sex and was charged under Section 377 of IPC and Pocso Act. HC observed if the accused was released on bail, there was possibility of increasing the trauma of survivor leading to adversely affecting his ability to depose as witness. “Having considered all the circumstances together, we are of the opinion there is a prima facie case made out against the accused. It also appears the survivor felt very much threatened with continued activities of petitioner. He was required to narrate his woes to his mother in order to get out of his troubles. These circumstances indicate that the minor boy has been put under stress and is very much traumatized due to serious acts committed by the accused,” a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor said. Before dismissing appeal of accused Satish Badnakhe, hailing from Dharni in Amravati, the bench added the allegations made against him were very serious. “There is nothing on record which would prima facie show the minor had some axe to grind against the petitioner. The survivor was allegedly coerced into continuing with unnatural relationship between two males in which the accused was receiver and boy was active partner.” Pleading for prosecution assistant government pleader Kalyani Deshpande contended the accused had induced the minor into physical relationship against the nature. He appears to be a homosexual who likes to act as a passive partner in the relationship, she said. According to her, the accused had indulged into this activity in October last year. When the boy was tired of his daily demand, he decided to reveal the issue to his mother. Subsequently, a police complaint was lodged against the petitioner in November by the boy and accused was arrested. Badnakhe then challenged the FIR and also sought bail from the HC through his counsel SD Chopde contending that the allegations were false. The judges observed that the medical reports of accused and minor show no injuries on their private parts and no communicable diseases. “In accused’s medical report, it has been particularly stated no injuries were found on his private parts. There could be several reasons for it. At this stage, no conclusion can be drawn that because the injuries were absent no intercourse had taken place,” the judges said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-raping-boy/articleshow/76453409.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 19, 2020||India||Covid-scared Reds remove coughing cadre from ranks||RAIPUR: Fearing that a woman Maoist suffering from cold and fever might be infected with Covid-19, dreaded rebel commander Hidma removed her from the outfit and sent her on forced leave to her village in Bijapur district, from where she was arrested on Wednesday. The woman cadre, identified as 32-year-old Sumitra Chapa, was in the Maoist military wing. Active for at least 10 years, she was in ‘platoon 3 of company number 1’ in the banned outfit. She is now at a quarantine centre in Bijapur. The Maoists panicked when she developed severe cough and fever, say police. “As Sumitra has a history of tuberculosis, the senior commanders felt it was not safe for others if she continued to have these symptoms. So, they suspended her,” Bastar Range IG P Sundarraj, told TOI. According to Sundarraj, Sumitra has said that many rebels are suffering from cold, cough, nausea and fever and the Maoists are worried that the virus may be raging in the ranks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-scared-reds-remove-coughing-cadre-from-ranks/articleshow/76454963.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Goa||Smartphones for online classes puts additional financial strain on parents||Panaji: The Goa government’s victim assistance unit (VAU) said on Thursday that online classes are putting a financial strain on families as children are demanding smartphones from parents already struggling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It said that the state government should draw up a standard operating procedure (SOP) for online classes, as well as timings for the same, in the interest of children and schools. “We recommend that the SOPs for online classes for children up to Class XII be the same for government and private schools,” VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho said in a letter to CM Pramod Sawant. “We also recommend that children in pre-primary and primary classes be exempted from online classes, and in lieu of this, they could be given assignments to be done at home and submitted to their teachers on a specified date.” He said that parents have informed him that some schools are conducting online classes even for kindergarten students. “Conducting online classes calls for additional or separate set-up at home,” Pinho said. “Children are now demanding smartphones with internet access. This is putting pressure on families, who are also facing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Another problem is that families living in small houses, and those having more then one child, will not be able to provide the ambience necessary for them to pay attention.” He said that families in which both parents are working also face problems pertaining to monitoring and setting up online classes, especially for younger students. “Many parents who are not tech-savvy are requesting their neighbours for help,” he said. Pinho recommended that teachers upload lectures (which could be in story or animated format to keep kids’ attention) on a web portal, where they could be accessed under parental guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smartphones-for-online-classes-puts-additional-financial-strain-on-parents/articleshow/76453417.cms||Murari Shetye
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man loses Rs 1 lakh to cyber cheat||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Naranpura area of the city on Wednesday lost Rs 1 lakh to an unknown person, who called him and fraudulently got him to divulge details of his two credit cards on the pretext of updating the ‘know your customer’ details linked to his PayTM account. In his FIR at Ghatlodia police station, Harshad Patel, 34, a resident of Arjun Greens near Pragatinagar in Naranpura, states that he has two credit cards of a private bank. On April 4, when he was at home, he got a text message from an unknown number telling him to call a certain number to update his KYC details for his PayTM account, failing which it would be blocked. Patel tried to call the number, but it was constantly busy. On April 5, he got a call from an unknown number, and a male caller told him that he would update the KYC details for him. The person told Patel to download an application named ‘Team Viewer Quick Support’ and use it to update his details. Patel entered the CVV numbers of both his credit cards and a message on the app asked him to transfer Rs 10. Patel tried to transfer the sum but the transaction was not successful. Later, the same person called him again and sought the details that he had updated on the app, but Patel disconnected the phone. He later learned that Rs 1 lakh had been debited from his account. Patel on Wednesday registered a complaint for cheating and breach of trust along with offences under the IT Act with Ghatlodia police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-loses-rs-1-lakh-to-cyber-cheat/articleshow/76452383.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Apex Council meeting on water row unlikely||HYDERABAD: The Apex Council meeting called by the Union ministry of jal shakti with chief ministers of Telangana and AP, which was supposed to be held later this month, may not take place now. Official sources said both the governments are yet to send their agenda points to the Centre. Since the states have not responded, the Centre has not decided on any date for convening the meeting, sources said. A meeting of the Apex Council, the highest body headed by the Union jal shakti minister, is held as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, to resolve various contentious issues between the two Telugu states. Sources in the Telangana government said due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Delhi, the meeting may not happen in near future. “If both the governments insist, the Centre may convene the meeting through a video-conference. But, both Telangana and AP have not sent their agenda points to the Centre till now. Both states are busy combating spiralling Covid-19 cases,” a senior official in Telangana CMO said. Interestingly, this is not the first time that the two states are reluctant to send agenda points to the Centre before holding the Apex Council meeting. In January, 2020, the jal shakti ministry asked Telangana and AP to send issues to be discussed at the council. Both states did not bother to respond. “Even if the Apex Council meeting is delayed, Telangana has got nothing to lose. The ministry has already directed both states to not go ahead with the projects that were not cleared by it,” an official of irrigation department said. Both Telangana and AP have been at loggerheads over new irrigation projects, especially Pothireddypadu and Rayalaseema lift irrigation, and filed complaints to the Krishna River Management Board and Godavari River Management Board. Following this, the Centre last month wrote to both the states, asking them to send agenda points for a meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apex-council-meeting-on-water-row-unlikely/articleshow/76452411.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||Rape survivor tries to kill self in a bid to stop her tormentor’s wedding||BAREILLY: A rape survivor in a bid to stop her tormentor’s wedding, whom she claims to be her husband, allegedly consumed poison in Gadiya Rangeen area of Shahjahanpur district. Police who were already watchful after the 26-year-old woman had shared a video threatening to kill self on June 18 acted swiftly and admitted her to a hospital where her condition is said to be stable. The woman had earlier lodged a "rape" FIR against the son of Jaitipur block chief after their "failed relationship" and the accused had gone to jail as well. The woman claimed that the accused had married her at a temple in Bareilly and now he is marrying another woman. On Thursday, additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam said, "The woman had lodged an FIR under section of rape in 2019 and police had filed a chargesheet in that case and the accused was arrested. Recently, the woman alleged that the accused had married her in a temple and showed a document but the accused and his family denied it. A complaint was lodged in this case and investigation is ongoing." Gautam added, "The woman had tried to harm herself by consuming poison outside the house of the accused but we have managed to save her by providing a timely treatment." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rape-survivor-tries-to-kill-self-in-a-bid-to-stop-her-tormentors-wedding/articleshow/76451441.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 19, 2020||Guwahati||Assam: Man steals patient’s phone, quarantined||GUWAHATI: Amid spiking Covid-19 cases in the state, the theft of a mobile from a patient in the isolation ward of a government hospital, has added to the woes of the administration. Pappu Barman, a 22-year-old youth, sneaked into the ward of the JSB civil hospital in Chirang district headquarter Kajalgaon on Monday night and stole the smartphone of a Covid-19 patient at around 1am. The police launched a hunt and nabbed him from near his home in Bengtal, about 15 km from the hospital. He was brought to the hospital and quarantined on Wednesday. The authorities are awaiting his swab test report. “We never thought anyone would dare go inside an isolation ward. We are shocked because the patient was Covid-19 positive and he was in an active stage,” Manoj Das, superintendent of the hospital, told TOI on Thursday. The hospital has about 15 Covid-19 patients now. “Pappu will be under strict observation till we get his swab report. Since the patient was in an active stage, we fear the mobile could be a carrier of the virus,” said Das. What is also worrying health officials are the secondary contacts, who may have come in contact with Pappu till he was nabbed by the police on Wednesday. Chirang SP, Sudhakar Singh, said, “He was apprehended from near his house. We have informed the health department and the administration. They will take care of the related issues like collecting swab samples and address other health concerns.” Sources in the Chirang district administration said that based on the CCTV footage collected from the hospital and by tracking the stolen phone, police nabbed Pappu. “In three to four days, we are expecting the swab report. After the health issue is resolved, law will take its own course,” said an official of the district administration. An investigating official said the Covid-19 patient had lodged a complaint with the hospital authority on the morning of June 16 about the loss of his smartphone. Immediately, the hospital authorities informed the district deputy commissioner and SP about the incident. “In the CCTV footage, we detected a person with suspicious behaviour, who was roaming in and around the isolation ward. The mobile number was given to the police to expedite the probe. They tracked his movement and apprehended him,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-man-steals-patients-phone-quarantined/articleshow/76454966.cms||Kangkan Kalita
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||RTE admission rules allow self certification of papers||Nagpur: State education department has issued guidelines related to school admissions under the free Right to Education (RTE) Act quota seats, aligning the process with multiple restrictions in place due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The biggest change is that verification of documents will now be done at school level, as members of RTE verification committee may not be able to visit parents’ residence. Also, parents will have to submit an undertaking regarding authenticity of submitted documents. Across the state, 1,00,920 students have been allotted RTE seats while another 75,465 are on the waiting list. Shahid Sharif, a member of the RTE verification committee and an education activist, said people who forge documents must now be very careful. “In their undertaking, parents are also being asked to admit they are aware about the possibility of criminal charges if documents are found to be fake later,” said Sharif. Though initial verification will be done at school for now, it does not mean that the matter ends there. “All documents are open for scrutiny since public money is involved here,” said Sharif. “So, if a year later it is found that parents had submitted fake documents then not only will a criminal case be filed against him/her, but even the child’s admission will be cancelled,” said Sharif. Under new guidelines schools have to call parents to the school for completing the paperwork. This, of course, will be done after taking requisite permission from the local competent authority. The guidelines say parents have to give appointment to parents as crowding cannot be allowed. At least three chances have to given to a parent to come and complete formalities. If the parent is currently stuck in a containment zone or a different city or state, from where travel is not possible, then such appointment date has to be adjusted accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rte-admission-rules-allow-self-certification-of-papers/articleshow/76453430.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 19, 2020||Goa||AAP lambasts Panaji MLA for flooding||Panaji: AAP Goa functionary Valmiki Naik has lashed out at Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate over the inundation of the state’s capital. In a video taken outside Stella Maris chapel in Campal, Naik, standing in knee-deep water, reminded Monserrate of his poll promise last year of sorting out Panaji’s flooding issue by this monsoon. “Your party members occupy seats in the CCP, the state government and the central government. Are you waiting for Donald Trump to join the BJP to solve the issue of floods?” Naik questioned. He further went on to say that “such people” will never be able to solve this problem. Naik had unsuccessfully contested against Monserrate in the Panaji bypoll held last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-lambasts-panaji-mla-for-flooding/articleshow/76453454.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Over 7,000 tested using rapid antigen kits in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The rapid antigen testing for Covid-19 started on a large scale in the capital on Thursday. As many as 7,040 people were tested using the rapid antigen test kits at 193 locations out of which 456 people were found positive. The new testing method is expected to expand the base of testing which is considered critical in containment and mitigation of the novel coronavirus. Initially, the antigen tests are covering people living in the containment zones because they are considered to be at higher risk of infection. On the first day, a total of 341 teams were engaged in carrying out tests using the antigen kits. The ICMR has already conducted training for the health professionals concerned. “During the antigen detection tests, all social distancing norms are being observed. The medical teams have been asked to ensure that all Covid positive cases should be followed up for treatment as per the guidelines issued by the ICMR,” said an official. The use of rapid antigen detection test is part of an overall exercise to ramp up testing. The antigen kits give results within 15 to 30 minutes, which can lead to quick identification of positive cases. Experts believe that testing is a key weapon in the fight against Covid-19. “Two important developments with regard to Covid-19 took place in Delhi today. The rate of testing was reduced to Rs 2,400 and the antigen tests started from today which give result within 15 minutes. I hope that the people of Delhi will not face any testing related problem now,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. At many centres across the city, the antigen testing started as early as 9am and many people having very mild or no symptoms were also tested. Antigen tests are to be conducted on all symptomatic persons with influenza like illness (ILI) and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities of confirmed cases. “The entire process of testing takes only about an hour, those ready for testing have to register themselves at the registration desk before the tests,” said an official. Each testing kit costs Rs 450. An official said that the capital had been given 6 lakh testing kits. ICMR and AIIMS have independently evaluated the standalone antigen tests for quick detection of the Covid-19 and the ICMR has recommended the use of the kits in combination with the gold standard RT-PCR test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-7k-tested-using-rapid-antigen-kits/articleshow/76453445.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||50-year-old marginal farmer found hanging inside home||PILIBHIT: Police on Thursday morning recovered the dead body of a 50-year-old marginal farmer from village Marena under Kareli police outpost of Bilsanda police station, after being alerted by relatives. The body was found hanging inside the compound of his own house. The deceased, who was identified as Ram Kumar Kashyap, reportedly had a wrangle with his family members the night before. Police have sent the body for autopsy. According to SHO Naresh Kashyap, police were told Kashyap hanged himself under the influence of alcohol. No one filed a written complaint in the matter. Police said they will wait for the autopsy report to ascertain whether it was a case of suicide or something else, adding that further action would be based on the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/50-year-old-marginal-farmer-found-hanging-inside-home/articleshow/76451456.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Woman tries to stop murder by son, fails||Nagpur: A migrant labourer was killed during a drunken brawl with a co-worker at Niranjan Nagar on Wednesday. The elderly mother of the accused tried to alert the cops but in vain. Liquor consumption has led to murders at Pardi, New Kamptee, Itwari, Ganeshpeth and Kalamna in the last fortnight. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station appreciated the efforts taken by the woman. “She walked 2km to reach the police station. But by the time she reached the station, the victim had collapsed fatally, leaving us no time to save him,” said Akot. Shakuntala Meshram, in her 60s, had huffed and puffed her way to the station late in the evening when her son Anil engaged in a fisticuff with his co-worker Ramlakhan Pal, 50, after they consumed liquor. Pal, who worked as a mason in the city, had not left for his native place in Uttar Pradesh after lockdown and stayed at Niranjan Nagar. Anil, now in custody for allegedly murdering Pal, worked and stayed with the victim. The duo used to consume liquor together. Anil wanted to enjoy a feast after receiving payment of Rs3,200 after a long time. Police said the fight broke out after a heated exchange while enjoying liquor. Cops managed to nab Anil after Shakuntala approached them but they could not reach the crime scene on time to prevent the murder. “The accused had fled the place but he had suffered an injury to his left arm. He could not go beyond a certain distance and tried to take shelter at an under-construction house from where we nabbed him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-tries-to-stop-murder-by-son-fails/articleshow/76453434.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Up to us to slow down coronavirus||During this lockdown, I will continue to adhere strictly to the restrictions that are put forth by the government. It clearly means social distancing when I come into contact with people outside home. If I do have to go outside, I will do so only to take some fresh air. But I will make sure to have the mask on and try maintaining distance from other people. I firmly believe social distancing is one of the crucial factors in controlling this pandemic. My advice to the general public in Chennai will be to follow the same. It is important to continue wearing the mask for your safety and for the wellbeing of your near and dear ones. Kindly avoid going out as much as possible except for essential needs. At the moment, given the strain that our healthcare systems are under, the main thing is to try and stay at home, as much as possible. We must understand that medical staff are sacrificing time with their loved ones to try and save lives in critical care. It is our duty to stay at home and follow the rules. Also, please call the health authorities if you have symptoms. If you have elders, be very careful who their caregivers are. Please also make sure domestic staff are safe. We cannot afford to relax our vigil because the virus will exploit every opportunity that it gets. So it’s up to us to slow down its transmission as much as possible. I hope the city will succeed in lowering or even flattening the curve. I think it is essential for all of us to do our bit and hope that everyone else does. Our actions are in our control, so if we follow all the proper procedures, we have a good chance against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/up-to-us-to-slow-down-coronavirus/articleshow/76453431.cms||Viswanathan Anand
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Give it up’ call finds few takers, only 1,600 farmers opt out of Rythu Bandhu||Hyderabad: Only four farmers from Sangareddy district came forward in the last season to opt out of Rythu Bandhu scheme. The lukewarm response to a call given by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, himself a farmer, to rich farmers to not avail the Rs 5,000 per acre assistance can be gauged by the fact that only 1,600 farmers have exercised the ‘give it up’ voluntary option till now since the scheme’s launch in May 2018. In a GO issued on Wednesday on the guidelines to implement the scheme, the state government mentioned — for the first time — that ‘give it up’ option should be publicised in a big way and rich farmers should be encouraged to opt out of the scheme. Each season, on an average, 50 lakh farmers in all categories (big, small and medium) avail the Rythu Bandhu benefit. The government has already told farmers that it would extend the scheme only to those who would follow regulated farming and grow crops as told by it. In the first season in 2018 when the scheme was implemented, 1,543 rich landlords from 30 districts, including bureaucrats and politicians, gave back the cheques to the government, thereby saving Rs 2.3 crore to the exchequer. Rangareddy district topped the list with 340 persons, followed by Sangareddy (175), Khammam (144) and Medchal at 140 farmers. From Siddipet area where the CM has his land, 16 farmers gave up the sop in the first season. Later on, there were no takers. Rythu Bandhu Samiti president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy agreed there was a slow response to the CM’s call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-it-up-call-finds-few-takers-only-1600-farmers-opt-out-of-rythu-bandhu/articleshow/76452438.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Testing capacity of private labs not put to full use, Delhi HC tells govt to resolve issues||NEW DELHI: Testing facilities of private laboratories in the city for Covid-19 are not being used to their optimum capacity, Delhi high court noted on Thursday, asking the state government to resolve problems being faced by the labs. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the expert committee, set up by the lieutenant governor to advise Delhi Disaster Management Authority, must address the issues raised by several private labs to maximise their capacity. The court found that the testing data on Delhi government’s website showed that not more than 7,000 tests are being carried daily, while in its affidavit filed in the court the AAP government claimed that with inclusion of one more public lab and two more private labs the testing capacity has increased to 10,700 per day. “The conclusion is that the testing facilities of the private labs are not being used to their optimum capacity, though they have not expressed any hesitation in ramping up the number of testing,” the bench noted. It also listed some of the problems being faced by the labs and noted that “in view of the urgency in the matter and being mindful of the fact that the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi have shot up to 47,102, as of yesterday (June 17), it is imperative that the committee takes an emergent decision and communicates the same to the court, through the Delhi government well before the next date,” posting the plea for hearing on June 22. Twelve private labs in their affidavits filed in the high court said the process of uploading patient registration data remain cumbersome and time consuming as same set of data has to be daily uploaded on the RT-PCR app, the Covid app, ICMR portal and the integrated disease surveillance portal linked to the office of the chief minister. The labs said that all this required engaging several data entry operators so that information can be provided to multiple government agencies on a daily basis, wasting valuable time and diverting their energies from the testing process. They suggested that the process be simplified and a single point agency be designated for all private labs to furnish the requisite information to be shared with all the other government agencies. The labs informed the bench about difficulties faced by them in response to the court’s query on the last date of hearing as to whether they are facing any “bureaucratic red-tapism” and what are the techniques being used by them to test for the coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/testing-capacity-of-pvt-labs-not-put-to-full-use-hc-tells-govt-to-resolve-issues/articleshow/76453420.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||LAC deaths: Kishan Reddy slams Rahul Gandhi||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Thursday lambasted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for playing dirty politics over the bodies of slain soldiers. In press statement, he said: “The Congress scion seems to think that he has discovered an issue that could help re-launch him after all previous launches turned out to be major duds.” The minister also said that Rahul’s urgency in playing politics can be understood by looking at his behaviour during the surgical strikes after Uri attack. “Rahul should remember that the border dispute baggage was left behind by his great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lac-deaths-kishan-reddy-slams-rahul/articleshow/76452454.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Degree admissions to commence by July||HYDERABAD: Degree admissions in the state are set to commence by July with the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE) planning to release the notification over the next few days. “Admissions will be held online through Degree Online Services, Telangana (DOST). We hope classes will resume by September 1. New features will be added to the process this year to make admission more seamless,” said professor R Limbadri, DOST convenor. This year, TSCHE plans to answer student queries through WhatsApp and will also be adding image processing feature in the online admission portal. Notification with schedule for admissions will be released by TSCHE on DOST website https://dost.cgg.gov.in/ before June 30. “We may not reduce syllabus or credits for degree courses but plan to reduce number of holidays for the academic year 2020-21 so that the curriculum can be covered amidst pandemic. We will be issuing a revised academic calendar for all varsities,” said Limbadri. All entrance exams such as Eamcet, ECET, ICET among others will be held as per schedule. This year, the TSCHE is planning to answer student queries through WhatsApp and will also be adding image processing feature in the online admission portal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-admissions-to-commence-by-july/articleshow/76453446.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts fear increase in students’ anxiety||HYDERABAD: The Intermediate results, which led to several suicides last year, is a cause for concern for experts as they fear that anxiety levels might rise among students. Roshni, an anti-suicide helpline, says that they get a minimum of 30-35 calls everyday and most of them are from students. “Before the exams and results, we have always observed an increase in the number of students seeking help. After the results on Thursday, we are expecting to get a number of calls,” said Krishna Kumar, a volunteer and counsellor at Roshni. More than 20 students committed suicide in Telangana last year after the intermediate results were declared. “Students say that the face a lot of pressure from their parents who force them to take up a certain stream and insist on good grades,” added Kumar. It is, therefore, important for every educational institution to have a professional counsellor, said city-based psychiatrist, Dr Radhika Acharya. “Depression and anxiety should be addressed in schools. Sadly, students are facing severe stress and are pushed towards depression. Schools need to have a counsellor to deal with the mental health issues,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-fear-increase-in-students-anxiety/articleshow/76453444.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Railways starts conducting trials to insulate isolation coaches||NEW DELHI: A day after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia inspected the isolation coaches at Shakurbasti Railway Station in west Delhi, where he said that the summer heat was turning to be a problem as the coaches were becoming extremely hot inside, railway officials claimed that trials for two to three insulation materials for these coaches was underway. A total of 503 coaches have been made functional by Indian Railways across nine stations in the capital — a large chunk of which has gone to Anand Vihar Terminal Railway station. With the deployment of these coaches, over 8,000 beds will be created, officials claimed. Until Thursday, Railways said they had not received any request to shift any patient to any of these coaches. S C Jain, railway manager, Delhi division, told TOI that trials were currently ongoing and a solution to the heat problem would soon be found. “The best insulating material will be installed at these coaches. At places where they are covered and have a roof on top, there is no need for any insulating material,” Jain explained, stating that temperatures were also likely to improve from next week with the arrival of the monsoon season. “With rains around, these coaches will be much cooler. We are still looking at the best options and some coaches may be moved around if required to cover them,” said Jain. For each of the nine stations, two liasoning officers — one responsible for maintenance, while the other a doctor from the Railways — have been appointed. Each station will be connected to a hospital, where patients can be shifted in case their condition deteriorates. According to the Union ministry of health, only patients with mild symptoms and no breathing problems or co-morbidity would be sent to these coaches. “These will act as an extension to the hospital and the medical system. Our staff will be available at hand to provide any basic facilities,” said a railways official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rlys-starts-conducting-trials-to-insulate-isolation-coaches/articleshow/76453448.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: HC grants bail to 4-year-old’s mom accused of bank fraud||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court granted bail to a mother, accused of defrauding a bank to the tune of Rs 9 crore. The high court took into consideration that the accused has a four-year-old daughter to look after and that charge sheet has already been filed in the case. Petitioner Anagha Bhusari, former manager at Itwari branch of Andhra Bank, was accused of disbursing 69 loans on the basis of allegedly fabricated documents. She was booked by Lakadganj police under sections 406, 409, 417, 419, 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 469, 471, 472, 474, and 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioner allegedly in connivance with the main accused had defrauded the bank to the tune of Rs9 crore. Earlier, Bhusari had applied for anticipatory bail, but the plea was rejected by Supreme Court after which she surrendered before the sessions court on November 4 last year and was put behind bars. Subsequently, the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) filed a charge sheet that runs into 10,000 pages with statements by 58 witnesses. After remaining behind bars for over five months, Bhusari applied for bail through senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Akshay Sudame. Justice Manish Pitale, after considering that a charge sheet has already been filed and the fact that she has a four years old daughter, allowed her application for bail. The judge also considered the fact that when she was released on temporary/interim bail on April 23, she hadn’t violated any conditions imposed by the HC. “There’s is no dispute about the fact that the charge sheet run into thousands of pages. The prosecution intends to examine about 58 witnesses, thereby indicating that the trial would take its own time. There can be no doubt about the fact that although the documents do indicate petitioner’s prima facie involvement in the offences, they would still have to be proved by the prosecution during the course of trial. There is also nothing to show that granting bail to the applicant would adversely affect the trial,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-grants-bail-to-4-yr-olds-mom-accused-of-bank-fraud/articleshow/76453442.cms||---
June 19, 2020||India||Strict action if salary of medics not paid in time: Govt to hosps||NEW DELHI: The Centre has said that hospitals and medical institutions not paying timely salaries to doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty will face stringent action under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code. This follows the assurance the government gave to the Supreme Court earlier this week in the course of a PIL that said the crucial frontline workers were being put at a disadvantage. The health ministry on Thursday issued an order asking states to ensure timely disbursement of salaries to doctors and health workers on Covid-19 related duties. Violation of the order will be treated as an offence under the Act and action will be taken under IPC, health secretary Preeti Sudan said. “The Chief Secretary of the States/UTs should ensure compliance of this order by all concerned, violation of which will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code, and action taken accordingly against defaulting hospitals/ institutions/authorities,” the order issued by Sudan on Thursday said. The apex court issued an order while hearing a doctor’s petition which alleged that medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and were also not provided facilities to isolate themselves which was a big risk to their families if the medical staff were to get infected. Dr Arushi Jain, in her petition filed through advocates Mithu Jain and Arjun Syal, alleged that frontline healthcare workers engaged in the fight against Covid-19 were either not being paid salaries or their wages were being cut or delayed. Despite government’s constant appeals to treat doctors and healthcare workers with respect, several reports of incidents of ill—treatment and harassment of doctors and nurses have come in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/strict-action-if-salary-of-medics-not-paid-in-time-govt-to-hosps/articleshow/76454968.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 19, 2020||Bareilly||Two more child marriages stopped in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts||BAREILLY: Childline teams in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur have stopped two child marriages and taken corrective action against their parents for not following the Child Marriage Act. The first incident was reported from Bareilly Cantonment area, where a rickshaw puller was planning to marry off his 15-year-old daughter, after the groom’s family offered to bear all expenses of marriage. The father accepted the offer and also convinced his wife. His daughter, who studies in Class VIII, was getting ready for the wedding when a Childline team arrived in the village and took custody of her on June 16. Later, D N Sharma, a member of Bareilly’s Child Welfare Committee, handed back the girl to her parents after counseling them and making them submit a written oath not to repeat the act. The second incident was reported from Jaitipur area of Shahjahanpur, where a farmer was planning to marry off his 17-year-old daughter with a 20-year-old youth on Wednesday. Childline coordinator Vinay Sharma, along with the Jaitipur SHO, arrived at the wedding venue before the groom had arrived and stopped the function. Shahjahanpur CWC chairman Mukesh Singh Parihar told TOI, “We are responding to every report of child marriage with haste, and taking necessary action. Here too, our team made the father submit a written oath after a session of counseling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-more-child-marriages-stopped-in-bareilly-and-shahjahanpur-districts/articleshow/76451492.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 19, 2020||Nagpur||Most Metro coaches here from China, no service yet||Nagpur: Most of the coaches of Nagpur Metro have reached the city from Dalian plant of Chinese Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC) and the rest too would have been here but for the lockdown. MahaMetro has received 19 trains (57 coaches) out of the total 23 trains (69 coaches) ordered. “All the coaches would have been here but the process has been delayed due to coronavirus lockdown in China. We are unable to predict when the remaining would arrive because the lockdown has destroyed the schedule of loading and unloading at ports and road transport,” said a spokesperson. The first set of trains was received from CRRC on January 15, 2019. Before that, MahaMetro was using coaches leased from Hyderabad Metro. Before the lockdown, Metro was using eight trains (24 coaches), four on each of the two reaches. All the 69 coaches would be used when all the four reaches become operational and frequency of trains increases. The 23 trains will cost MahaMetro Rs 718 crore, which is over Rs 200 crore less than provision for buying coaches made in the detailed project report (DPR) of Nagpur Metro. The state government had asked CRRC to set up a coach manufacturing plant in Mihan. The company had agreed to invest Rs 1,500 crore. The factory would have generated employment for 5,000 people. According to MahaMetro sources, CRRC asked the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to assure it would get the orders for coaches of Mumbai and Pune Metros. When Fadnavis told the officials such an assurance could not be given and there would be global tenders for the same, the company scrapped its plans. Meanwhile, MahaMetro officials and staffers are maintaining the idle system since the lockdown began. As of now they have no plans to resume Metro services. The spokesperson said, “The entire system was maintained during lockdown. For this, the trains were operated twice every day on both the tracks. This operation and testing of trains also ensured other supporting systems like overhead electrical equipment(OHE), track, power supply, signalling were also checked regularly. “Other establishments like stations, depot, and receiving substation (RSS) were manned regularly by operations and maintenance (O&M) staff. Preventive maintenance and pre-monsoon works were undertaken in the same period at these establishments.” The construction of remaining portion of Nagpur Metro has picked up pace with easing of labour shortage. The deadline for completing the project was December 2020 but now has been advanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-metro-coaches-here-from-china-no-service-yet/articleshow/76453461.cms||Ashish Roy
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||14-day judicial remand for TPF leader||Hyderabad: Three days after arresting Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president N Krishna in Khammam, National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday brought him to Hyderabad and produced him before Nampally court, which sent him to judicial remand for 14 days. At the time of the arrest, Krishna was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Khammam for various ailments. On Thursday, NIA officials shifted Krishna from Khammam to Hyderabad in an ambulance and produced him before the court, which directed the NIA to shift him to Cherlapally. However, TPF president K Ravi Chander said that even before Krishna’s completely recovery, the NIA took him to Hyderabad in an ambulance and this might further affect Krishna’s health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-day-judicial-remand-for-tpf-leader/articleshow/76452461.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Chennai||Fighting Covid-19 a personal responsibility||During this lockdown, I would do exactly what I had been doing for the last 70 days - household chores and spending time with my family. One big realisation from this pandemic is that any amount of jewellery or expensive clothes do not matter because throughout this pandemic you’ve been doing nothing - just lounging probably in your pajamas. The only good thing about this pandemic is, I have really started taking care of my health, working out every day and following my passion for cooking and most importantly understanding what it is to spend 24X7 with family. We always complain we are not spending time together. But now we are together, morning to evening and that helps a lot to seal the relationship more. For people, my advice would be even if you don’t love yourself, please show some love and care for the elders at home. Do not venture out until and unless it is necessary. If you venture out, it is utmost important that you wear a mask and maintain social distancing. How much can the government do? It is very easy for us to point at the government and say that they have gone wrong. But are we taking responsibility as citizens to make sure that we curtail this Covid spread? We are not doing that. Take it as a personal responsibility and also advise your friends and loved ones that they shouldn’t go out or not without a mask if they have to go out. Wash hands and feet or take a shower as soon as you come back home. That’s the basic rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fighting-covid-a-personal-responsibility/articleshow/76453456.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man detained for stealing Rs 5 lakh from ex-employer’s account||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Saraspur, Vijay Panchal, 25, was detained on Thursday by cybercrime cops for siphoning off Rs 5, 36,974 from his former employer’s bank account during his service tenure. Sharad kumar Kedarnath, a grocery store owner, had stated in his complaint that between October 15, 2018 and April 8, 2019, Panchal, who used to work at the grocery shop as an office boy, had stolen the money. Cybercrime police officials said the accused has been sent for Covid-19 test and he will be formally arrested after arrival of the report. Kedarnath stated in his FIR that he had opened an account in a private bank in 2014. He used to deposit money frequently in the account and had gone to the bank in May 2019 to get details for his income tax returns. While recording the entries in his bank passbook, he discovered that someone had siphoned off Rs 5, 36,974 from his account between October 15, 2018 and April 8, 2019. He then lodged an FIR at the city cybercrime police station. Inspector Sajan Muchal, cybercrime, said that on inquiry it was revealed that a mobile number linked to the account had been changed by an unknown person. It is suspected that the accused had the change done by an insider, received an OTP on the newly added mobile phone, changed the transactional PIN, and then stole the money in a series of transactions spread over time. “It is not possible for just anyone to go and change the mobile number linked to the account, unless he carried valid identity documents and authorization and without verification. So we suspect that the accused took the help of an insider. We are searching for that insider,” Muchal said. Muchal said the case is complicated and they need to learn more by interrogation of the accused, which cannot be done before the test reports arrive and police can formally take the accused into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-detained-for-stealing-rs-5l-from-ex-employers-account/articleshow/76452449.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Kargil hero Major Acharya’s mother Vimala passes away||HYDERABAD: Kargil martyr Major Padmapani Acharya’s mother Vimala Acharya passed away at her house at Hastinapur in the city on Wednesday. She was 80 and had been ailing for some time. On June 28, 1999, Major Padmapani Acharya, who belonged to the 2 Rajputana Rifles, lost his life after fighting bravely during the Pakistan incursion at Kargil heights. Putting aside her grief, Vimala displayed great courage and did not mourn for her son. Addressing several meetings across the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh and also other states, she encouraged youth to join the armed forces to serve the country. Major Padmapani Acharya was also awarded the Maha Vir Chakra for his bravery on the battle front. When Major Padmapani Acharya died, his wife Charulatha Acharya was pregnant. Their 21-year-old daughter Aparajita Acharya told TOI that her grandmother had passed away after prolonged illness and the last rites were conducted on Wednesday evening. “She was a strong and selfless woman,” she said. Vimala Charya’s husband retired from the Indian Air Force as wing commander and he passed away a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kargil-hero-major-acharyas-mother-vimala-passes-away/articleshow/76452469.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporation dispensaries, school staff roped in||NEW DELHI: To enhance the testing capacity for Covid suspected cases, especially in containment zone, the state government has roped in civic body dispensaries, schools and corporation staff for conducting antigen tests. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said they’ve received the orders from the district magistrate and their staff are being trained for this purpose. “Eight dispensaries have been identified by the DM office (south east) for conducting antigen testing and for operating them, a demand for 10 lab technicians, 10 doctors, ward boys, etc, was made. We have provided them with staff. These teams will be headed by coordinating officers from the civic body and Delhi government,” the official said. At some of these dispensaries, RT-PCR test was already being conducted. According to officials, a separate antigen testing facility is likely to come up at the Kalkaji dispensary from Friday. The Centre had given nod to Delhi government for intensifying antigen testing in containment areas. To this purpose, DMs of 11 districts have roped in ASHA workers, auxiliary nurse midwife, and government school teachers, aged below 50, among others. In New Delhi Municipal Council area, a portion of physiotherapy centre at Sarojini Nagar dispensary has been identified for starting antigen testing facility. Meanwhile, in North Delhi Municipal Corporation areas, primary schools, mostly in containment zone, have been selected for the exercise. “Twenty-one schools were identified by the DMs in different areas, including 11 where ration distribution exercise is currently going on.,” an official said. For residents of four lanes in Rana Pratap Bagh, testing started at the north corporation primary school on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-dispensaries-school-staff-roped-in/articleshow/76453462.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 19, 2020||Delhi||With religious zeal, Delhi government turns 29 acres of ashram into 10,000-bed Covid care facility||NEW DELHI: On the outskirts of south Delhi close to the leafy Asola-Bhatti sanctuary are farmhouses and villas. Among them is the ashram of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which is now being converted into a 10,000-bed Covid care facility. Under a vast shed on the 29-acre space used for religious congregations, endless rows of beds are been installed, soaps, water and bins being placed. Overseeing the work, Vikas Sethi, secretary of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre, exclaimed that when the shed, equipped with 5,000 fans, was erected two decades ago, nobody could have envisaged its use as a hospital ward one day. “We were informed about the lieutenant governor arriving on Sunday for a feasibility check. Things were set into motion four days ago,” revealed Sethi. Government officials said the new facility could start receiving Covid patients by the first week of July. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia inspected the work under way at the Radha Soami centre on Thursday. Regarding the world's largest temporary Covid care facility, Kejriwal said, “Patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients will be admitted here. Generally, such patients can be treated at home, but in many cases, people do not have adequate space in their homes. There are no separate toilets in the homes of poor people, and so isolation centres like the Radha Soami Satsang Beas will serve them better.” Currently over 25,000 corona-positive Delhiites are in home isolation, and their health is regularly assessed remotely by surveillance units set up in the districts. B M Mishra, district magistrate, South, elaborated, “The 10,000 beds will be placed in 100 subsections, each with 100 beds. The ashram will provide the space and revamp the flooring, while the medical operations, manpower and healthcare staff are the responsibility of the district administration.” Mishra added that 10% of the beds would have oxygen points. Trained manpower will be key to running such a massive operation, and a number of agencies are expected to pitch in. Sonalika Jivani, SDM, Mehrauli, informed, “We will have around 200 doctors and 600 nurses and paramedics. ITBP is adopting 1,000 beds and will also provide doctors and paramedics. Similarly, the army is likely to take care of some sections. The rest will be managed by Delhi Health Services.” While the campus of the spiritual organisation has numerous buildings and grounds, the hub of activities from July 1 will be the central satsang centre — a pillared hall with roofing, fans, PA system and CCTV cameras. Since the ashram was built to accommodate gatherings of several lakh, it was considered ideal to meet the huge demand for beds likely by the end of July. Sethi also said, “We have a community kitchen where we prepared 65,000 packets of food for migrant labourers every day, so food for 10,000 patients isn’t a problem.” The toilet facilities include 1,000 commodes and urinals. The 70 acres at the complex also allows space for parking. The shed has a sandy floor, but vinyl tiles will be installed to make it easier to disinfect the premises. “Sampling has already started and we have seen a few options,” Sethi said, pointing to the brown vinyl floor of the small model ward. Prefabricated cardboard beds will be used. “These will be easier to disinfect and dispose of,” the secretary added. SDM Jivani said that the beds and mattresses were being donated by various agencies. Earlier on Thursday, Kejriwal also attended a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, where senior Delhi-NCR officials were present to discuss the pandemic. “We talked about how the entire NCR should work together in the battle against Covid-19. We felt that Delhi could not be separated from NCR, but had to fight the infection together,” said Kejriwal. The CM added that it is likely more ICUs will have to be set up in the coming days. “I am in talks with doctors and civic authorities to figure out how to do this,” he said. With Delhi government expecting the number of patients to touch 5.5 lakh at July end, innovation is the buzzword. From modified railway coaches to posh hotel rooms — and now a religious gathering place — the city is boosting the infrastructure required to weather the peak of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-religious-zeal-govt-turns-29-acres-of-ashram-into-10k-bed-covid-care-facility/articleshow/76454170.cms||Paras Singh
June 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Delimitation may alter calculus ahead of civic elections this year||AHMEDABAD: With elections of municipal corporations, municipalities and district and taluka panchayats just four months away, the BJP government made a strategic move expanding the limits of six municipal corporations, with improvement in its electoral prospects being a possible byproduct. Delimitation will now be effected in the municipal wards of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar, in which the BJP will look to reorganize wards in such a way, claims the opposition Congress president Amit Chavda, that the Congress party’s voting strongholds get diluted, ahead of the municipal elections. In major cities like Ahmedabad, the current delimitation will be based on Census 2011, with no increase in the number of wards. Fresh delimitation will be undertaken after Census 2021 figures become available, senior government sources said. In 2011, Bopal-Ghuma, which is now within AMC limits, had a population of 50,000. AMC officials say an area with this much population cannot be assigned a separate ward and hence it is likely that Bopal-Ghuma will be split between two AMC wards. This will tip electoral calculus in the favour of the BJP, the Congress party said. A senior AMC official admitted, “It’s quite possible that South Bopal may be merged with Sarkhej ward and be known as Bopal-Sarkhej while the rest of Bopal will be merged with the Bodakdev ward.” Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and spokesperson of the government reject allegations, “Adding outgrowth areas to large cities is undertaken as suggested by census and is a routine process. There is no political angle to it. This is for the benefit of the citizens of the outgrowth areas. When the Congress undertook delimitation during its rule, our party did not make such allegations.” State Congress president Amit Chavda alleged: “Delimitation and expansion of wards was proposed several years ago. All these years, the BJP government let the outgrowth areas suffer and now with urban body elections approaching, the BJP added these areas to municipal corporations, hoping for political gains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delimitation-may-alter-calculus-ahead-of-civic-elections-this-year/articleshow/76452495.cms||Kapil Dave
June 19, 2020||Goa||Traffic, biz disrupted for nearly 1 hour as Panaji inundated yet again||Panaji: The state capital’s monsoon misery continues. A day after breathing a sigh of relief, streets in Panaji were flooded once again and normal life disrupted as heavy rain lashed the city on Thursday. The roads were flooded for almost an hour, from 9am to 10am, which owners of business establishments in the area attributed to the high tide. “The water receded after a while on its own, but for almost 45 minutes, our business came to a standstill,” Café Central proprietor Ravindra Gaitonde said. Shopkeepers say that on days of heavy rainfall, water from the Altinho hillock cascades down towards the city. This water is supposed to flow directly into the Mandovi through the internal drainage system. But when the tide is high, the water level in the Mandovi rises, thus causing the rainwater to cough its way back onto the streets. Owing to the topography of the road network, the water is often stagnated on Dr Pissurlekar Road and the 18 June Road. “We have been plagued by this problem from the past 40 years. It is high time the civic bodies consult experts to resolve this issue once and for all,” one businessman said. In Mala, rainwater coupled with the high tide in the Rua de Ourem creek left the road opposite Mary Immaculate school inundated. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) attributed the reason for blockage to garbage that had congested the drains there. The issue was resolved after the blockage was cleared. The St Mary’s colony along Stella Maris chapel in Campal was flooded this year too. Last year, CCP had resolved to build a storm water drain and connect it with the inner drains network to enable the water to flow out into the sea. This, however, is yet to materialise. “We had to stall the plan due to the lockdown. However, officials overlooking the Panaji Smart City project have been told to take care of the matter. Now, the works are only pending due to lack of labour force,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. On the issue of flooding due to high tide, Madkaikar said, “This is a real situation which we must accept. No one can do anything at the timing of the high tide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-biz-disrupted-for-nearly-1-hour-as-panaji-inundated-yet-again/articleshow/76453467.cms||Nida Sayed
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 in Hyderabad: Crowded transit points likely virus hotspots||HYDERABAD: Transit points for the city’s local workforce are easy spaces for coronavirus to spread, warn officials. “There are several such points at which both office-goers and labourers gather in the Old City. Mir Chowk and City College bus stop are just two such places,” said Akshay Kumar, who lives in Pathar Gatti. “With cases in Old City on the rise, unrestricted movement to and from transit points is a matter of concern,” he added. “It is common to find people triple-riding or sharing autos heading out from this part of town without masks,” he said. A GHMC official from the area, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were facing an issue when it came to enforcing mask rule. “We are educating and imposing fines on people, especially repeat offenders,” he said, adding that it is employers who must play a proactive role in creating awareness and providing safe means to travel and work. Officials fear that the virus may spread from crowded transit points to less affected areas. Dr Chandra Sekhar Reddy, AMOH, Kukatpally, said: “Travel points such as Balanagar crossroads are where a lot of people gather. From here, they travel towards Kukatpally and Moosapet, which is one of the reasons for a rise in cases in that part of city.” He says it is the apathetic attitude that allows people to commute without masks. Giving another example, activist Harish Daga said, “I see labourers sitting in large groups waiting for work at Liberty junction and Abids circle. It could be a disaster if one person tests positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crowded-transit-points-likely-virus-hotspots/articleshow/76453472.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Mumbai||Airlines slowly add flights; 68 on Thursday in Mumbai||Mumbai: Airlines have been slowly adding flights this week, with Mumbai airport handling 68 scheduled domestic flights on Thursday. The state government on Monday doubled scheduled domestic flights in/out of the airport to 100 a day. As airlines cannot add flights overnight, the airport on Tuesday handled 52 and on Wednesday, 55. The 68 flights on Thursday connected to 18 cities, with 34 departures and 34 arrivals, carrying 6,735 passengers, which included 5,030 at departures and 1,705 at arrivals, said a Mumbai International Airport Ltd spokesperson. Last month, ministry of civil aviation sanctioned 200 flights a day for Mumbai from May 25, when domestic flights resumed after lockdown. But the state government, on the eve of resumption, permitted only 50. The state reduced flights at airports to check spread of coronavirus. The highest passenger load on departures from Mumbai have been to Delhi. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6.05am, while the first arrived at 8.30am from Lucknow, operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo respectively. Meanwhile, the state received 14,203 stranded Indians in 87 repatriation flights so far under Vande Bharat Mission, according to the chief minister’s office. It said 71 flights are scheduled till the month-end. Maharashtra started receiving repatriation flights from May 10. Of the 14,203 passengers, 5,248 are from Mumbai, while 4,615 are from rest of Maharashtra and 4,340 from other states. The passengers have been quarantined in hotels here. Indians have been evacuated from Britain, Singapore, Philippines, US, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Kuwait, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Oman, South Africa, Indonesia, Netherlands, Japan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Tanzania, Spain, Ireland, Qatar, Hong Kong, Kazakhstan, Mauritius, Brazil, Thailand, Kenya, Miami, Vietnam, Italy, Sweden, Ethiopia, Rome, Germany, Malawi, Dubai, West Indies, Norway and Cairo, Ukraine, Russia and Madagascar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airlines-slowly-add-flights-68-on-thursday-in-mumbai/articleshow/76452489.cms||---
June 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Four drown in separate incidents in T||Hyderabad: Three boys and a youngster drowned in two separate incidents in Yadadri and Bhadradri districts on Wednesday. Two boys drowned while playing in a village irrigation tank at Gundala mandal in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district on Wednesday evening. According to Gundala police, the boys — D Karthik (12) and P Naga Chaitanya (13) — entered the tank to play. “They ventured into the deeper portion of the tank and drowned,” police said. Karthik’s father tried to rescue them but in vain. Police, with the help of locals, fished out the bodies. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of the IPC. Karthik was a class IV student, while Chaitanya was in class V. Both belonged to Pachilla village in Gundala mandal. In another incident, 12-year-old Tulasi Ram and Pavan (20) drowned in Godavari river in Bhadradri while taking a bath. “While taking a dip in the river, they drowned. Locals saw them drowning and alerted us,” Bhadradri police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-drown-in-separate-incidents-in-t/articleshow/76452478.cms||---
