June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||This International Yoga Day, practising asanas at home with family is the norm||Since the inception of International Yoga Day in 2015, the agenda for the day was mostly of cities competing to see which one would have the most number of people performing yoga in unison on the morning of June 21. Year-on-year, those numbers have been steadily increasing, but this time around, things will be different, what with the coronavirus pandemic still raging on in the country. Given the immense health benefits of yoga, the Ministry of AYUSH, is pushing for the continued practice of it, albeit from the comfort of your home with the participation of the entire family. The theme, therefore, being ‘Yoga At Home and Yoga With Family’. VIRTUAL MEETS TO CELEBRATE INTERNATIONAL YOGA DAY The plan for the day is for yoga enthusiasts to perform various asanas based on the common protocol released online by the ministry of AYUSH from 7 am to 7.45 am. “With no signs of the pandemic abating, we have to look at the way forward, for which we have initiated virtual yoga meets on terraces or balconies, where people can perform asanas with their family members. People will log on to the ministry link and do the prescribed asanas during that time. Those with low immunity, like children, pregnant women and the elderly are advised to perform yoga inside their home, though,” says yoga exponent Srihari. Yoga trainer Bharat Shetty has a warning, “A room with open windows is the best place to perform yoga. If, for instance, you are doing intense yoga in an outdoor setting, like a terrace or balcony, as your body temperature increases, the relatively cool weather could lead you to fall ill.” YOGA FOR CHARITY Some yoga organisations are also using the occasions to raise money for charity. “We are doing day-long online yoga activities on Sunday, which are open to both beginners and advanced practitioners. All the proceeds of the day will be utilised to build an amphitheatre-cum-classroom for the children of Handakunda village near Udupi,” adds Bharat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-international-yoga-day-practising-asanas-at-home-with-family-is-the-norm/articleshow/76470208.cms||Vinay Lokesh
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Innovation takes city’s women entrepreneurs to the top||With over 6,000 entries from India’s ever-vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem — the second chapter of the Times She UnLTD. Entrepreneur Awards 2020, co-powered by Senco Gold & Diamonds, was more than just a virtual meet. Women with unique expertise and from different business backgrounds impressed jury members under three distinguished categories. It was a remarkable blend of fresh and diverse business ideas that promise a world of opportunities, vigour and success for India’s upcoming womenfolk. The eclectic jury panel for Bengaluru comprised Yasmin Karachiwala, Nawaz Modi Singhania, Master Akshar and Wanitha Ashok in the ‘Fitness & Wellness’ category; Nisha JamVwal, Vinita Chaitanya, Srikanth Iyer and Ramakant Iyer in the ‘Home & Living’ category; and Vandana Mohan, Sabina Chopra, Brian Tellis and Nisha in the ‘Travel and Experiences’ category. The platform aims at putting women entrepreneurs under the spotlight and providing their businesses with the impetus they deserve. “I’ve been on several panels before, but the kind of stories and business ideas I came across here made it a one-of-its-kind experience,” says Sabina. The event proved that there’s no right time or age when it comes to pursuing your passion. Nisha says, “It was inspiring to see a senior participant chasing her love for hospitality business. Even her sons have joined their mother’s business now — something we rarely get to see in our society.” Women today are not only empowering themselves, but other women too. And this came out quite evidently in Chapter 2 of the event. “The fact that many of them are able to turn their passion into a commercial reality while giving back to society is commendable,” says Vandana. Participants under the ‘Home & Living’ category were forthcoming about giving due credit to artisans and craftsmen, who are often neglected. Some of these enterprises were even instrumental in pushing India’s #VocalForLocal campaign. The latest edition of Times She UnLTD also saw a wide spectrum of entries within each category. For instance, fitness was not limited to instructors. It also saw clothing, apps, rejuvenation using salt as well as being innovative with food. Similarly, the ‘Travel & Experiences’ category witnessed an interesting mix of wedding planners, troubleshooters as well as bespoke travel companies. Meanwhile, under the ‘Home & Living’ category, there were tableware product designers, creative interior solutions and even portable homes. And, of course, there were some impeccable innovators too who blew the jury’s mind. Commenting on the tech-savvy participants, Yasmin says, “They have adapted so quickly to the changing times amid the pandemic.” Adding to that, Brian says, “We’re all in the process of evaluating and reinventing ourselves and our offerings. I am going back to thinking like a start-up.” Visit www.timessheunltd.com to view the list of shortlisted candidates from Mumbai, Delhi NCR and Bengaluru. The winners of the second edition will be announced shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/innovation-takes-citys-women-entrepreneurs-to-the-top/articleshow/76470622.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata doctor turns boat into chamber for Amphan and corona affected||It’s 3 in the morning, most of the city is asleep and those with haywire sleep routines in the lockdown are preparing to hit the sack after binge-watching their current favourite shows. But Dr Ajoy Mistry is already up and about. Along with his team of 15-odd people, he has to embark on a boat journey to the remote areas of 24 Parganas to offer medical assistance to villagers and create awareness on the ongoing pandemic. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, this has been a daily ritual for the team that includes four more doctors. Their endeavour began a little before the lockdown with visits to remote areas for distribution of masks and hand sanitisers. But after Cyclone Amphan, they even started travelling to specific areas in the Sundarbans, not just for health check-ups but also to distribute relief materials. “The Amphan crisis hit us when the COVID-19 pandemic was on in full swing. We realised these people needed food, treatment and awareness,” said Dr Mistry, son of social worker and 2018 Padma Shri awardee Subhasini Mistry, the woman behind Humanity Hospital that serves the poor. Though the hospital has a branch in the Sundarbans, the team reaches out to people residing in other remote areas of the region with the help of a boat. “We have covered the entire coastal belt of two 24 Parganas. Migrant workers of brick factories are among those we have treated and helped. We even visited the red-light area in Sundarbans’ Sandeshkhali,” said the doctor, who wraps himself in a PPE suit as he writes prescriptions, checks patients and gives out dry ration along with other team members. Coming to the rescue of the needy runs in Dr Mistry’s family. After losing her husband at the age of 24 due to lack of proper treatment, his gritty mother – who toiled for years as a vegetable vendor, a domestic help and a manual labourer – used her life savings to build a charitable hospital in South 24 Parganas’ Hanspukur village in 1993, where the poor are treated free of cost. “Our main hospital is a designated COVID-19 centre. Despite having limited resources – manpower, PPEs and other equipment – we are fighting this battle ferociously and also extending support to the needy in other places,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-doctor-turns-boat-into-chamber-for-amphan-and-corona-affected/articleshow/76471705.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||India||Bamboo chicks, bubble-wraps, coolers: How Railways trying to keep isolation coaches cool||NEW DELHI: From using bamboo chicks and bubble-wraps to heat-resistant coating and portable coolers, the Railways is trying innovative ways to beat the heat inside isolation coaches deployed to treat coronavirus patients. In a statement, the Railways said on Friday that cover-sheets are also being placed over these coaches - deployed in five states to work as Covid care centres - to keep the interiors cool. Bubble-wrap films are being applied on the coaches, which are expected to bring the inside temperatures down by up to one degree Celsius, it said. Also, the Northern Railways coated the roof of isolation coaches with heat-reflective paint as a trial and found that the temperature inside can be reduced up to 2.2°C using this method, it said. "Trials are also being planned for another coating developed in association with IIT, Mumbai. The trial would be done on 20/6/2020 and the results recorded," the statement said. A senior official also told that the Railways has ordered a trial to paint the roofs of 100 converted coaches in Northern and North Central Railway as per standards prescribed by The Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO). Before the COVID-19 outbreak, a trial was conducted on around 100 coaches of Humsafar Express, Jan Shatabdi Express, Antyodaya Express using another Make-in-India product, 3M Scotchkote Polytech Exp RG700, which is a solar-reflective material that can be applied on various metallic and non-metallic surfaces, officials said. The Railways' Friday statement also said that it has made arrangements to provide bamboo chicks and other such materials to lower the temperature further. A trial has been carried out by placing portable coolers inside the coaches as well, the Railways said, adding a temperature reduction of up to 3°C was achieved using them. "Water mist systems are also being tried out. In the current season of dry air, it is expected that the resulting temperature reduction would enhance the comfort of expected patients," it said. The issue of AC vs non-AC isolation coaches was discussed with the NITI Aayog and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare before modifying the coaches for COVID-19 patients, the railways statement said. It was agreed that AC coaches would not be suitable in view of the potential transmission risk of COVID-19 virus through AC ducting, and generally a higher ambient temperature was expected to assist in fighting the virus, the statement said, adding cross-circulation of air through open windows would also benefit patients. The non-AC coaches would be a little warm in mid-June if the windows are kept closed, and the ambient temperature may also be around 43 °C. But, once mosquito nets are installed and the windows kept open, the cross circulation of air is expected, it said. Even this kind of high temperature is expected to be temporary as the arrival of monsoon and rains would bring relief, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bamboo-chicks-bubble-wraps-coolers-how-railways-trying-to-keep-isolation-coaches-cool/articleshow/76473182.cms||---
June 20, 2020||World||China lukewarm to India's UNSC win||BEIJING: China, on Friday, gave a lukewarm response to India's election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, saying as a permanent member, it would like to enhance cooperation with all newly-elected members of the UN's top organ. Asked for his response to India's election to the non-permanent seat of the UNSC with an overwhelming majority of 184 votes out of total 192 UN members amidst the current round of India-China military tensions, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian did not mention India by name. "The UNSC is an important organ to uphold International peace and security following the UN charter," Zhao said. "As a permanent member, China would like to enhance cooperation with all parties of the UNSC including the newly elected non-permanent members to jointly fulfil the responsibility given by the UN charter," he said. While countries like Germany, Norway and Ukraine have congratulated India on its emphatic victory, China has not done so nor did the Chinese foreign ministry spokesman mention India by name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-lukewarm-to-indias-unsc-win/articleshow/76473313.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Young chartered accountant found hanging inside Ghatkopar flat||MUMBAI: A 32-year-old chartered accountant was found hanging inside his flat in an upmarket area of Tilak Nagar in Ghatkopar on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Viral Shah, a resident of Neelkant Kingdom situated near Tilak Nagar railway station (wWest). Viral is the son of noted doctor Kiran Shah . Viral the son of noted doctor Kiran Shah, had married recently and was doing well in his career. Ghatkopar police said that they haven’t found any suicide note from the spot. It is suspected that he was under depression . “ It is too early to say anything as the family is in deep shock . We are probing the matter from all the angles,”said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-young-chartered-accountant-found-hanging-inside-ghatkopar-flat/articleshow/76473533.cms||Ahmed Ali
June 20, 2020||Goa||Despite tough group, India game for a fight, says U-16 coach Bibiano||Panaji: India’s under-16 national team coach Bibiano Fernandes has impressed many with his philosophy. Even on Thursday when India where handed a tough draw in the AFC U-16 Championship Bahrain 2020 with heavyweights such as Korea Republic, Australia and Uzbekistan in Group C, Bibiano believes India will still be up for the challenge. India will have a chance to settle scores after their 0-1 defeat in the quarterfinals against Korea Republic in the 2018 edition. The only other time India reached this far was in 2002. If India manage to do better and progress to the semifinals, they will gain automatic qualification to the Fifa U-17 World Cup Peru 2021. “When I saw the draw, I thought of my team. They have already given a good account of themselves in the qualifiers with their performance and I believe deep from my heart that these boys can perform at this stage with the other teams,” said Bibiano in an online interaction with the All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Friday. In the qualifiers, India finished as Group B champions in Tashkent from a group which had hosts Uzbekistan, Bahrain and Turkmenistan. India remained undefeated in three matches as they fetched seven points. They scored 11 and conceded only once in their 1-1 draw against Uzbekistan. This will be India’s third consecutive appearance in the AFC U-16 finals, and ninth overall. The former Sporting Clube de Goa midfielder stresses on possession-based football which has won him many admirers. “The boys are learning fast and catching up quickly. I instill values of life in them first. Respect to opponent, teammate, referees, I stress most on that, given my experiences. Then it covers up with discipline which is required to come up in any field,” said Bibiano. The team is mostly based in Goa, but the players and staff have all returned home due to the coronavirus crises. However, they are in touch with online trainings sessions, exercise plans, game analysis and much more. Although Bibiano cannot retain the same team for every edition, the coach believes the current side is much more talented than the previous one because of AIFF’s scouting process and coach education which has improved drastically. The team is currently unbeaten in eight international matches. Last year they scored 28 goals without conceding any from five matches on their way to the SAFF U-15 Championship title. “When we go abroad, India is always underestimated, but after we play they come to know what we are now. We always want to go as dark horses and we have proved that in the past. We have to break the silence with our performance,” said Bibiano. Even if football activities resume, Bibiano will not have the luxury to travel abroad for exposure tours like they did earlier due to the current crisis. Few U-16 participating countries have already started training, but Bibiano will have to wait and watch until they assemble for the camp again. Later, they are planning on having friendly matches with some of the Goa Professional League teams. “Looking at the draw, I was relieved. These boys will make our country proud. I’m just hoping to start the camp and get the boys in best form when the competition comes,” said Bibiano.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-tough-group-india-game-for-a-fight-says-u-16-coach-bibiano/articleshow/76473576.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Political parties stage anti-China protests in Kolkata||KOLKATA: After the India-China standoff at the Galwan valley intensified, political parties and student outfits in Kolkata have started taking it to the streets asking for a boycott to goods manufactured in the neighbouring country.  They have also demanded a befitting reply to Beijing after the Ladakh clash. Congress workers staged a demonstration demanding boycott of Chinese products. They took out a rally with posters and banners calling people to reject “made in China” products. They carried, LCD sets and other electronic goods which they broke into pieces on the street and set them afire. “The way they killed our jawans cannot be tolerated anymore. Purchasing Chinese products is akin to fuelling the Chinese economy. They are using the same money to violate our borders and kill our soldiers,” said Congress leader Arghya Gon. On Wednesday karyakartas of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (West Bengal) had staged a protest in front of the Consulate General office of China in Kolkata against the attack on the Indian soldiers by the Chinese army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/political-parties-stage-anti-china-protests-in-kolkata/articleshow/76473651.cms||Rohit Khanna
June 20, 2020||Business||Govt gives 'emergency use' nod to Glenmark to launch Covid-19 drug Favipiravir||MUMBAI: India’s drug regulator on Friday approved `restricted emergency use’ of antiviral drug Favipiravir, making it one of the first such oral treatments for Covid-19 in the country. The approval paves the way for Mumbai-based Glenmark to launch Favipiravir (FabiFlu) for treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 patients. Sources say the drug is expected to be priced around Rs 100 per tablet, with the average cost of therapy around Rs 3000 per patient, depending on the viral load. Antiviral drug Favipiravir, has shown positive results globally in Japan and China, and has been recently approved in Russia for Covid-19 therapy. This is the second drug recently to get emergency use authorisation, after US-based Gilead Sciences’ approval for injectable remdesivir in India, for severe Covid-19 infections. Under `restricted use', the patient will have to give informed consent before treatment is started. The approval was given based on ``good intermediate results’’ from clinical trials being conducted on around 60 patients, official sources told TOI. In May, Glenmark filed for approval with India’s Drugs Controller General, and is conducting clinical trials on 150 mild-to-moderate patients across 10 hospitals. It became the first company in India to develop Favipiravir-- a move first reported in TOI on April 23. Now, several companies like Cipla, BDR Pharma and Strides Pharma are in the process of getting regulatory approvals. A company official said the approval has been granted based on evaluation of data and in consultation with the subject expert committee, as part of an accelerated approval process, considering the emergency situation and unmet medical need of Covid-19 outbreak. The treatment could help in lowering hospitalisation for patients, and lessening the transmission rate. Says Dr Shashank Joshi, endocrinologist and member of Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force, ``Favipiravir is an early-use antiviral, which has promising results from Japan and China. It's a drug with promise for mild and asymptomatic, high risk patients. The only drawback is a high-pill burden, and a 14-day therapy’’. Favipiravir is an early-use antiviral which has promising results from Japan, China and Italy, and has been reportedly commercialised in UAE and Bangladesh. Japanese company, Fujifilm sells it under the brand, Avigan, which has been approved in Japan since 2014 to treat influenza, and other viral strains that don’t respond to other therapies. The drug which was earlier used to treat Ebola, became off-patent last year, which implies generic versions can be launched anywhere in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-gives-emergency-use-nod-to-glenmark-to-launch-covid-19-drug-favipiravir/articleshow/76473632.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Patriotism runs high at martyrs' farewell||TOLEWAL: Patriotic sentiments ran high as the mortal remains of martyr Gurbinder Singh, who laid down his life fighting the Chinese troops at Galwan Valley, were consigned to flames at his native village Tolewal with full military and state honours. His pyre was lit by his father Labh Singh amid a huge gathering as a large number of people from within and outside the village reached there to pay respects to the martyr. The jawans of Indian Army accorded him a guard of honour with a mournful tune played in the background. The Army officials handed over the tricolour wrapped around the coffin of the body to the family and saluted them in an emotional atmosphere. Earlier, DC Ramvir placed a wreath on the body on behalf of Punjab governor V P Singh Badnaur, cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla on behalf of chief minister Amarinder Singh. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal also visited the family members and expressed his condolences with the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-patriotism-runs-high-at-martyrs-farewell/articleshow/76473711.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 20, 2020||World||Trump: Mail-in voting presents 'biggest risk' to reelection||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump says that mail-in voting presents the greatest threat to his reelection hopes and he suggested that legal efforts in several states launched by his allies might decide November's election. Trump has asserted without evidence that expanded mail-in voting will lead to the “greatest rigged election in history.” In an interview with Politico published Friday, the president underscored that ongoing battles in courts will be pivotal. “My biggest risk is that we don't win lawsuits,” Trump told the publication. “We have many lawsuits going all over. And if we don't win those lawsuits, I think — I think it puts the election at risk.” His campaign and the Republican National Committee have already launched a legal battle in Nevada, where Democrats are pushing for the state to ease restrictions on mailing ballots. Republicans have also been active in New Mexico, Pennsylvania and Georgia. Last month, Trump attacked California's Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom over issuing an executive order expanding vote-by-mail in the state, an issue that has become of greater import as the country deals with the coronavirus pandemic. Trump falsely claimed that Newsom's order would lead to ballots being mailed to everyone in California, including nonresidents. In fact, the California order provides ballots only to people who are registered to vote. Newsom on Thursday signed legislation to mail every voter a ballot for the November election, a bill that passed with support from several Republicans. Some election studies have shown a slightly higher incidence of mail-in voting fraud compared with in-person voting, but the overall risk is extremely low. The Brennan Center for Justice said in 2017 the risk of voting fraud is 0.00004 per cent to 0.0009 per cent. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines issued during the pandemic “encourage mail-in methods of voting if allowed in the jurisdiction.” Several national and battleground state polls show that Trump faces a difficult race against presumptive Democratic nominee, former Vice President Joe Biden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-mail-in-voting-presents-biggest-risk-to-reelection/articleshow/76473807.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Three tests positive for Covid-19, two discharged in Kurukshetra||KURUKSHETRA: Three people tested positive for Covid-19 infection while two patients got discharged after reporting negative in Kurukshetra district on Friday, district civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said. “With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 99 in Ambala district, of which, 61 got discharged, and 38 are active cases”, said Dr Sukhbir. "So far, a total of 9,256 samples have been collected in Kurukshetra district, out of which; 8,876 have reported negative for the infection, 281 reports are awaited and 99 tested positive,” Dr Sukhbir Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-three-tests-positive-for-covid-19-two-discharged-in-kurukshetra/articleshow/76473927.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Woman cheated by 'film producer'||VISAKHAPATNAM: A case was registered at Kancharapalem police station on Friday against a person for allegedly cheating a woman of Rs 5 lakh by promising to give her a role in films. As per the woman's complaint, she was offered a chance to feature in an item song in a movie by Gita Prasad, who told her he was producing the film. The woman claimed she also paid Prasad Rs 5 lakh as advance for getting her the role, while another Rs 5 lakh was supposed to be paid after the release of the film. But when the shooting of the film did not start for months, she demanded her money back. But instead of returning her money Prasad threatened her, she said in her police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-woman-cheated-by-film-producer/articleshow/76473995.cms||Siva G
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana announces Rs 5 crore ex gratia, job & plot for Colonel Santosh Babu’s family||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced ex gratia of Rs 5 crore, a residential plot and a government job of Group I cadre to the kin of Col Santosh Babu, who laid down his life fighting the Chinese army in Galwan Valley along the India-China border. KCR also said 19 other martyred army personnel’s families would be given Rs 10 lakh each. Chandrasekhar Rao said he would personally meet the family of Col Santosh Babu who hails from Suryapet soon and hand over the benefits from the government. For other army personnel,benefits would be extended through union defence minister. The chief minister said the entire country would stand with the families of the martyred. “State governments should extend support to the families apart from the Centre’s assistance. This gives the families of army personnel confidence. Though the state and country were facing financial crisis due to coronavirus, it is time to support families by reducing other expenses,” the CM said during the video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. During the all party meeting through video-conference with Prime Minister, the CM suggested the Centre should pursue long-term and short-term strategies to counter China. The chief minister also made it clear that on this issue, the state government would stand by the central government. KCR said that what we require now is Ran Neethi (war strategy) not Raj Neethi (political strategy/politicisation). The chief minister felt that China had became jealous of the stable and strong governance in the country and its economic prosperity due to which they started the clash. “China and Pakistan have the habit of creating trouble and conflict when they have problems internally. China has a lot of internal problems now. China is also picking up confrontation with countries in along South China Sea coast like Japan, Malaysia and Philippines,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-announces-rs-5cr-ex-gratia-job-plot-for-colonels-family/articleshow/76473420.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||6 more Covid patients get cured in Ludhiana: DC||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said on Friday six more Covid-19 patients had been declared cured in last 24 hours. He said that till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 257. Besides, 23 more positive cases have been reported in the district, he added. Sharma said that so far, 13 people from Ludhiana and 12 from other districts have lost their lives due to the coronavirus infection. He said that 257 patients related to district Ludhiana have been discharged from hospital after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-more-covid-patients-get-cured-in-ludhiana-dc/articleshow/76474170.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai dabbawalas hope to get back on track soon||With Mumbai in the #MissionBeginAgain phase, shops and markets started functioning recently on an odd-even basis, while private offices started operating with a specified number of employees. This week saw the resumption of city’s local trains on the Central and Western line, albeit only for those identified by the state government as essential service workers. For the dabbawalas, who depend on the trains for their operations, this means a longer wait to start work again. Says Subhash Talekar, spokesperson of the Mumbai Dabbawala Association, “Talks are on with the Railways. We have to use the local trains for our lunch tiffin delivery, so we have put forward our request to them. Let’s see what happens.” ‘We are completely dependent on local trains’The 130-year-old dabbawala network spans across the city, however, this is the first time they’ve had to stop their services for so long. Adds Talekar, “We welcomed Unlock 1.0 and are glad that people can go to work now. However, the local trains are not available for us yet, so how do we deliver the lunch? Agar Mumbai ki lifeline local hai, toh hum dabbewalon ki bhi lifeline local hai. If locals don’t work, how will our supply chain be maintained?” Their 5,000-member strong workforce has planned routes to deliver 2,00,000 dabbas each day via these trains. But in the new scenario, they may have to make an overhaul of their well-planned, clockwork-like schedules. “Earlier, we had the timings on our fingertips — the trains would leave every few minutes and we had matched our schedule according to that. Humara timing abhi bigad gaya hai, and we will have to create new schedules.” “We have ruled out buses, because we won’t be able to cover long distances to make it before lunch hour. They will also not allow us to take many dabbas in the buses, maximum two or three. So, we are completely dependent on local trains — if they work, we work. We may be able to cover a short distance on cycles, though that is also tough as the supply comes via the train. ‘Dabbewaley ki poori tayyari hai’The going has been tough for the dabbawalas, as they suspended their services since March 19. “We’ve not received our pagaar (salary). In fact, there is no food to eat in our dabbawala workers’ homes. For now, there is nothing we can do. Many have also left for their villages,” informs Talekar, adding that they are hoping for things to change for the better soon. “Dabbewaley ki poori tayyari hai, they have got masks, sanitiser bottles, etc. But people have to let us in the societies to collect the dabbas. We don’t mind if the dabbas are left by people at the gate; we shall collect it from there. We are hoping that things change in this new post-lockdown phase, after all, dabbawalas have always stood by Mumbai,” he sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dabbawalas-hope-to-get-back-on-track-soon/articleshow/76472038.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM: Build boundary alongside Badshahi Nullah||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the officials to construct a concrete boundary wall alongside the 30km-long Badshahi Nullah to protect it from encroachments. The centuries old nullah drains out rainwater from the southern part of the state capital to Punpun river. While inspecting the ongoing cleaning and development works at the Badshahi Nullah, Nitish also asked the officials to carry out plantation drive on both sides of the drain. He also asked the officials to ensure that the drainage and rainwater passing through it are released into Punpun river only after proper treatment at sewage treatment plants. Nitish also visited different parts of the state capital and inspected the preparations to check re-occurrence of waterlogging in certain areas in the rainy season. He also issued some instructions to the officials of urban development and housing department (UDHD) and Patna district administration to take all necessary steps to ensure timely draining out of rainwater from residential colonies. In 2019, some localities of the state capital, especially Rajendra Nagar and Kankarbagh, had witnessed heavy waterlogging for several days, compelling the state government to constitute a high-level committee headed by development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh to find out the reasons behind the menace. When the CM was inspecting the Yogipur drainage plant and the NBCC plant, UDHD secretary Anand Kishor informed him that accumulated rainwater of Kankarbagh area is pumped out through these plants. CM asked the officials to shift the transformer to a higher place so that uninterrupted supply of electricity could be maintained even in waterlogging and pumping machine could not be shut. He also asked the officials to ensure arrangement of an alternative feeder so that power supply could not be interrupted. He asked the UDHD officials to depute sufficient number of officers and technicians at each pumping machine on a roster basis and monitor their attendance on a regular basis. CM also inspected Pahari sump house. He asked the officials to make arrangements for draining rainwater from either side of the Patna Bypass road to their respective opposite side. He said if rainwater gets accumulated in large quantities on one side of the Bypass, there should be arrangements to shift divert it to the other side. CM also released a magazine ‘Monsoon-2020’ published by the Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCo).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-build-boundary-alongside-badshahi-nullah/articleshow/76471911.cms||Madan Kumar
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Mother arrested for girl suicide||ALAPPUZHA: The special investigation team probing alleged suicide of a 12-year-old girl at Mahadevikad near Karthikappally arrested her 33-year-old mother on Friday. The investigation team led by Thrikkunnapuzha circle inspector R Jose arrested Harsha’s mother, Aswathi, invoking section 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) of Juvenile Justice Act. The 12-year-old Harsha, daughter of Aswathi in her first marriage, was found dead in their house on Sunday. In her statement to police, Harsha’s mother admitted that she scolded her daughter repeatedly for not studying. “When Harsha started to sleep by 9pm while studying, I scolded her. I scolded her loudly whenever she did not obey my words. Normally, when I have supper, my daughter used to bring water for me to drink. On Saturday night, she brought water for me after I scolded her. But I threw it away. I also told her I would send her to the home of her father. Every night before she goes for sleep, she came to me for getting my kiss and she also massages my legs before sleep. But on Saturday, I didn’t give a kiss to her,” Aswathi said. Police said Aswathi used to scold her daughter repeatedly and even assaulted her some times. “Aswathi told us that she beat her daughter with a stick around 10 months ago and there were injury marks over her face after it. Aswathi used to scold her daughter for not studying. The continuous scolding pained her daughter. There were some injury marks in the skin near her eyes and she suffered those injuries around four days ago before her death. Aswathi told us that that injury happened when her daughter was playing with her younger daughter,” said CI R Jose. “However, a detailed investigation is on and more sections will be added based on the probe result. As per the autopsy report, the cause of the death is hanging. We have started a detailed probe based on the statements of their neighbours and local people,” said CI R Jose. The Class VII student was found hanging from the fan of her room at 8am on Sunday. Harsha was the daughter in the first marriage of Aswathi. Aswathi married another man and Harsha was also staying with Aswathi and her stepfather. Aswathi has also a two-and-a-half-year old daughter in her second marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mother-arrested-for-girl-suicide/articleshow/76472794.cms||Sajimon P S
June 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Udupi records second Covid fatality||MANGALURU: Udupi district recorded its second Covid-19 fatality on Friday. A returnee from Mumbai died within four hours after his arrival in Udupi. The district also registered 11 more positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,050. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said a 54-year-old man from Thekkatte, who had arrived from Mumbai, collapsed and died at his house on Friday. “Four people had reached Udupi at 2pm on Friday, who had returned from Mumbai. They visited the district receiving centre, and had undergone thermal scanning. Since the person didn’t show an abnormal temperature during thermal scanning, he was sent for home quarantine. Later, at 5pm, he died, but the reason for his death is yet to be ascertained. A post-mortem will be conducted to find the actual cause of death. However, the swab collected from the person’s throat has tested positive for Covid-19,” the DC said. Jagadeesha requested people to be cautious and follow the guidelines to prevent the spread of the disease. “It is possible to save lives if people visit hospitals immediately after exhibiting any symptoms, and undergo tests. Hiding symptoms will lead to complications, and it will be difficult to save lives. Our team of doctors are working efficiently to ensure that all patients get cured at the earliest. However, the situation worsens when those who arrive from other districts and state do not disclose details,” he said. While Udupi has registered 1,050 cases of Covid-19 so far, the number of active cases is 99 as on Friday. While 950 patients were discharged, the district has reported two deaths. Out of 13,227 samples collected in Udupi, 11,946 tested negative for Covid-19. The district is waiting for the results of 230 more samples. The temple town recorded its first fatality due to the pandemic on May 14, when a returnee from Maharashtra died of a heart attack. Meanwhile, 13 more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in Dakshina Kannada district to 412, as per the bulletin issued by the district administration. Meanwhile, the district also saw the discharge of 30 patients from Wenlock Hospital. There are 208 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-records-second-covid-fatality/articleshow/76472408.cms||Vinobha K T
June 20, 2020||World||Deaths prompt Alaska officials to remove 'Into the Wild' bus||ANCHORAGE(ALASKA): An abandoned bus in the Alaska wilderness where a young man documented his demise over 114 days in 1992 has been removed by officials, frustrated that the bus has become a lure for dangerous, sometimes deadly pilgrimages into treacherous backcountry. An Alaska National Guard Chinook helicopter flew the bus out of the woods just north of Denali National Park and Preserve on Thursday. Christopher McCandless hiked to the bus located about 250 miles (402 kilometers) north of Anchorage nearly three decades ago, and the 24-year-old Virginian died from starvation when he couldn't hike back out because of the swollen Teklanika River. He kept a journal of his plight, discovered when his body was found. McCandless' story was first documented in Jon Krakauer's 1996 book “Into the Wild,” followed by Sean Penn's movie of the same name in 2007. Over the years, the bus became magnet for those wishing to retrace McCandless' steps to the bus to pay homage. But the Teklanika River that prevented McCandless from hiking out also has caused problems for people who came later on pilgrimages. Two women, one from Switzerland in 2010 and one from Belarus in 2019, drowned on such pilgrimages. State officials said there have been 15 other search-and-rescue operations since 2009, including one involving five Italian tourists last winter, one with severe frostbite. “We encourage people to enjoy Alaska's wild areas safely, and we understand the hold this bus has had on the popular imagination,” Department of Natural Resources Commissioner Corri A. Feige said in a statement. “However, this is an abandoned and deteriorating vehicle that was requiring dangerous and costly rescue efforts, but more importantly, was costing some visitors their lives.” In Alaska, the Department of Natural Resources is responsible for protecting and preserving state land. “I was stunned when Commissioner Feige informed me,” Carine McCandless, Christopher's sister, said in an email to The Associated Press. “Though I am saddened by the news, the decision was made with good intentions, and was certainly theirs to make. That bus didn't belong to Chris and it doesn't belong to his family.” The 1940s-era bus, sometimes called “Bus 142” or “The Magic Bus,” was used to house employees by the Yutan Construction Co. when it built an access road about 25 miles west of the Parks Highway, the main thoroughfare between Anchorage and Fairbanks. The National Guard named Thursday's bus lift “Operation Yutan.” The bus was abandoned in 1961 and had become an emergency shelter for those using the backcountry to recreate or hunt. “Seeing those photos of Fairbanks 142 flying out of the bush triggered a flood of complicated emotions for me,” Krakauer said in an email to the AP. Krakauer said he respects the decision to remove the bus, “but some powerful history is attached to that old bus. A great many people care deeply about what happens to it.” For now the bus is being kept in a secure, unnamed location while the department decides what to do with it, Feige said. A release from the Alaska National Guard said the discussion includes “possible plans to display the bus for the public to view at a safe location.” The guard said its air crew also is safekeeping a suitcase that holds sentimental value to the McCandless family. Officials didn't detail what was in the suitcase. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/deaths-prompt-alaska-officials-to-remove-into-the-wild-bus/articleshow/76474588.cms||---
June 20, 2020||India||10 soldiers released after 3 days of talks||NEW DELHI: Ten Indian soldiers, including two majors and two captains, who were held captive by the People’s Liberation Army since the bloody clash Monday night were released on Thursday evening after three days of hectic negotiations between Leh-based 3 Infantry Division commander Major General Abhijit Bapat and his PLA counterpart near “patrolling point-14 (PP-14)” in the Galwan Valley region. “The soldiers, who were not mistreated, walked over to our side. Found to be fine after a medical examination, they are now being debriefed,” a senior army officer said. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian on Friday cryptically said, “China has not presently seized any Indian personnel.” TOI was aware of the capture of the 10 soldiers but took an editorial call to hold back the news while negotiations were on to secure their safe return. The last time the PLA captured Indian soldiers was during the 1962 war. Last Monday was also the first time in 45 years that India suffered fatal casualties along the Line of Actual Control with China. The soldiers were taken captive during the prolonged and brutal clash that erupted after the numerically-superior PLA soldiers, armed with nail-studded iron rods and stones, attacked a team led by Colonel B Santosh near PP-14. Col Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar, and 19 jawans were killed in the clash. Of the 78 soldiers who sustained injuries, 18 were of a serious nature for which they were admitted to the military hospital at Leh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-soldiers-released-after-3-days-of-talks/articleshow/76474618.cms||---
June 20, 2020||India||No intruder is on our land now, no post in anyone’s custody, says PM||NEW DELHI: No one has intruded on India’s borders nor has any post come under anyone’s custody, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting convened in the aftermath of the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley between Indian and Chinese troops. With all parties offering strong support to oppose the Chinese aggression on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — barring Congress which asked several questions of when and how PLA troops intruded across the LAC — the PM asserted that Indian troops took the fight to the Chinese in the Galwan Valley clash. Referring to the violence on the night of June 15, Modi said, “Our 20 soldiers attained martyrdom in Ladakh but they taught a lesson to those who intimidated our motherland." The PM said India was doing everything that needed to be done for the protection of borders. "Today, we have the capability so that none can dare to look toward us with ill intention,” he said, adding that the armed forces were capable of acting in different sectors with coordination. He said this was because of the priority accorded to infrastructure development to make the border areas safer. “The new infrastructure, particularly on the LAC, has improved our patrolling capacity. Those who used to move freely are being interrupted and intercepted by our jawans, which has resulted in tension,” the PM said. Barring Congress, no other party raised any significant questions over the government's handling of the Chinese intrusion and said they would support measures to respond to the bloody skirmish in Galwan Valley that resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers. Regional parties like TRS and BJD, as well as Congress allies like DMK and NCP, criticised the Chinese action. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, in an oblique criticism of Rahul Gandhi, said the issue of whether Indian troops were carrying arms or not was one to be decided by international agreements and was not a matter of discussion. He also tweeted to say, "PLA must be evacuated from occupying high ground in Galwan Valley... It would be advisable to strategise using diplomatic channels to defuse tension on the border and make China see reason." Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, BJP's estranged partner and Congress's new ally, said the nation was united and this was the time to be one with the forces, their families and the government. Sources said the Left parties did not criticise China with CPI warning of proximity to the US and CPM speaking of the principles of Panchsheel. North-eastern parties firmly warned of Chinese designs. Prem Singh Tamang (SKM) said there was faith in the PM. "Where it comes to national security, the PM has taken landmark decisions," he said. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said the PM’s clarity on Kashmir had angered China, as had the government's emphasis on development. The decision to pursue self-reliance or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ policies had rattled China, he added. BJD's Pinaki Mishra said his party stood with the government fully and unconditionally while BSP leader Mayawati appreciated the detailed presentation by foreign minister S Jaishankar. She spoke of the need to take steps on trade and investment to counter China while stating that this was not the time for politics. DMK leader M K Stalin said the nation was united on patriotic issues and welcomed the PM's remarks on China. “Our borders must be protected... We will not retreat when the battle cry is sounded," he said. Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav questioned the intent of China and Pakistan, and said the government must ensure India did not become a dumping ground for Chinese goods. West Bengal CM Mamata Bannerjee said the all-party discussions would not give out a wrong message and said any queries would be dealt with internally. "We will not bow down our head to China," she said and added that Chinese investments in telecom, railways and aviation should be curbed. "China is not a democracy. They are a dictatorship and can do what they feel," she said. Thackeray said India wanted peace but that did not mean it was weak. It was in the nature of China to betray trust. "I want to laud you, prime minister, for talking to us and India is a strong nation, not a dependent one," he is understood to have said. Watch Chinese troops didn’t enter Indian territory, our bravehearts taught them a lesson: PM Narendra Modi at all-party meet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-intruder-is-on-our-land-now-no-post-in-anyones-custody-says-pm/articleshow/76474648.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||Two wheeler firms up production as rural demand kicks off||Chennai: With rural demand kicking off, two wheeler production is close to pre-Covid levels of February. Market leader Hero Motocorp, which sold an average of around 5,00,000-5,50,000 units per month all through the slowdown-hit FY20, is targeting dispatch of 4,50,000 units in June — more than 80% of its normal stock dispatch. Others like Royal Enfield are also rapidly ramping up to meet bookings. “Pre-Covid we used to do around 60,000 units a month and our bookings currently are along those lines,” said Eicher Motor MD & CEO Siddhartha Lal. The demand though is seeing a change in character with entry level and commuter bikes flying off the shelves.Bajaj Auto has indicated in their analyst calls that production is being ramped up to hit 50%-75% depending on the factory and the product line. Pantnagar, which caters mostly to exports, has hit highest capacity utilisation. TVS Motor, say analyst and dealers, is also targeting around 50% utilisation in June (though the company refused to comment), close to the FY20 average of 60%. And Royal Enfield is targeting around 40%-45% capacity utilisation in line with the 50% it has maintained all through fiscal ‘19-‘20.This is a substantial improvement from the 25%-30% capacity utilisation that two wheeler companies worked with in May. “Between May to June, two wheeler capacity utilisation has doubled due to the lure of rural demand,” said an auto analyst.Analysts and industry insiders maintain that Hero Motocorp, with its huge rural footprint, will be ahead in this race for rural demand. Already its 4.5 lakh unit target in June is in line with its pre-Covid February wholesales and four times the May wholesales as well. “There is a clear uptick in the customer sentiment, with a good conversion of inquiries for all products,” said a company spokesman. “We have been seeing robust retail demand and the numbers are improving week-on-week. So we are definitely seeing a positive trend except for the markets badly affected by Covid, such as Maharashtra and Gujarat. We are currently focused on scaling up of operations. All our manufacturing plants have resumed operations now, and about 90% of our customer touchpoints have reopened. Most of our plants have started moving from single to double shift, and we are gradually ramping up production,” he added. Almost half of Hero Motocorp’s total sales come from the rural market. The company retailed over 1,60,000 units of motorcycles and scooters in the domestic market in May.The rural pull is also changing the character of the bikes being sold. “Bullet sales comprised 40% of our May numbers though normally it is 15% of our sales,” said Lal. Analysts say it could also improve the sales of mopeds though the segment has been subdued all through FY20. “Post lockdown we continue to see growing demand especially in the rural market for motorcycles and mopeds. Coupled with prediction of good monsoon (this will drive) demand for two wheelers especially in the rural market,” said a TVS spokesman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/two-wheeler-firms-up-production-as-rural-demand-kicks-off/articleshow/76472870.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 20, 2020||Patna||Raj Bhavan initiates steps for appointment of VCs||PATNA: The chancellor’s secretariat has, of late, initiated steps for appointing the vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors in different universities of the state. Most universities are presently running without full time VCs and as many as three universities are being administered simultaneously by one VC. Raj Bhavan additional secretary Ram Anugrah Narain Singh said the interview for appointment of LNMU VC is scheduled for June 23. “The schedule of interviews for the appointment of VCs of other universities is yet to be decided,” he added. A three-man search committee has already been constituted by the chancellor and as many as 18 applicants have been called for interview. The posts of VCs of LNMU, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) and Jaya Prakash University (JPU) were advertised in October last year. But the appointments could not be made so far owing to some procedural wrangles. Meanwhile, another advertisement was issued by the chancellor’s secretariat in March this year, inviting online applications for appointment of VCs of Patna University (PU), KSD Sanskrit University (KSDSU) and B N Mandal University (BNMU) and the pro-VCs of as many as eight universities – PU, TMBU, LNMU, KSDSU, BNMU, JPU, BRA Bihar University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University. The extended last date for submission of online applications for these posts ended on May 15. All the six universities are being administered by “part-time” VCs for the past several months. While Purnea University VC is officiating as the VC of LNMU and KSDSU besides his own university, the VC of Nalanda Open University is also officiating as the VC of PU. Bihar Agricultural University VC is handling the additional charge of TMBU. BRA Bihar University VC is officiating as the VC of JPU. And, interestingly enough, the chancellor has already directed all the officiating VCs to engage themselves only in day-to-day routine work and refrain themselves from taking any policy decision or decision involving financial implications. Expressing his concern at the “ad-hocism” prevailing in the universities of the state Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha has urged the chancellor to expedite the appointment of full-time VCs and pro-VCs in all the universities with a view to ensuring their smooth functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raj-bhavan-initiates-steps-for-appointment-of-vcs/articleshow/76471972.cms||B K Mishra
June 20, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi lashes out at govt over waterlogging||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday lashed out at the state government over waterlogging in several areas of Patna following continuous rainfall on Thursday night. After visiting the waterlogged streets in Rajvanshi Nagar, Tejashwi said the government did not learn any lesson from prolonged waterlogging in many areas of the state capital last year. “They have done nothing but scam in the name of construction of drains, sump houses and procurement of motors. Anyone can see how crores of rupees have been spent in the name of projects for drainage. This one day rainfall has exposed the government. The residents had used boats last year to move from one place to another. This time they may need ships. Imagine a municipal body like Patna Municipal Corporation which had lost its drainage map. Their sump houses do not function and their motors fail,” said Tejashwi. He also hit out at chief minister Nitish Kumar for visiting sump houses on Friday. “Preparation work should be checked before monsoon and not when rainfall has started. His (Nitish) visit is just a formality, that too because we have urged people to beat drums if he does not come out of his house. This government is concerned only for its chair and not for public. The CM has yet not visited the poor labourers and common people. We will take up this issue,” he said. JD(U) functionaries, however, countered Tejashwi by claiming that he should refrain from doing politics over such issues. “The Nitish government knows how to take care of the residents and handle civic issues. The government took strict action against officials found responsible for waterlogging last year. Besides, numerous steps have been taken to avert any such situation this year. RJD does not need to play politics over every issue,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. Tejashwi, who waded through water and interacted with the residents, said not only Patna but other district headquarters were also facing a similar situation. Previous year’s heavy rainfall had submerged many parts of the state capital and people had to be rescued from localities like Rajendra Nagar, Musallahpur Haat, Kankarbagh, Kadamkuan and Bhootnath Road. National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force team were roped in for rescue and relief operations in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-lashes-out-at-govt-over-waterlogging/articleshow/76471935.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||RJD ignored for all-party meeting in Delhi, protests||PATNA: RJD on Friday staged a protest near Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises in Delhi for not being invited to an all-party meeting called by PM Narendra Modi to discuss the issues related to skirmishes with China at the border. Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s daughter Misa Bharti and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha led the protest. “We are upset for not invited to the all-party meeting over Galwan valley face-off with China,” Jha told reporters. Lalu’s younger son and leader of opposition in Bihar legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also expressed his anguish on Twitter. “RJD is the largest party in Bihar and it has five MPs, but we have not been invited to the all-party meeting on India- China face-off. We want Rajnath Singh ji to clarify as to why RJD hasn’t been invited,” Tejashwi tweeted. Jha also wrote a letter to PM: “RJD is presently the principal opposition party in Bihar, which has a strategic location in the relation with neighbouring countries in the South Asia region because of the open border with Nepal. We are also the largest party in the legislative assembly in Bihar. On raising the issue of exclusion, we were told that those parties with minimum five MPs have been invited. It is regrettable that electoral victory is being used to exclude a historically important party from having a say in the matter of such crucial national interest. It is even more regrettable that Parliament secretariat is unable to count MPs properly. RJD has five members in the Rajya Sabha, which qualified us to join a meeting called for consultation on a great concern of national security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-ignored-for-all-party-meeting-in-delhi-protests/articleshow/76472825.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 20, 2020||Business||Vendors to get cashbacks on e-pays in Rs 10k scheme||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Street hawkers who avail the Rs 10,000 loan under the PM Street Vendor Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme will get a 7% interest subsidy, plus an additional cashback up to Rs 1,200 for using digital payments. To avail the cashback, the vendors will have to receive at least 50 payments per month digitally from either Bhim, Paytm, GooglePay, AmazonPay, PhonePe or other digital platforms. The loans will be provided by scheduled commercial banks, rural banks, small finance banks, cooperative banks, non-banking finance companies and microfinance institutions. The lending will be facilitated by a credit guarantee provided by Sidbi, which will provide guarantees for up to 15% of a lender’s portfolio. The scheme was designed to provide credit for working capital to street vendors to enable them to resume their livelihoods after the Covid-19 epidemic and subsequent lockdown. It is available to anyone selling goods on the streets, footpaths, pavements or in any temporary structure. The vendors have to identify themselves by either vending/identification certificate from any local body or a letter of recommendation from an urban body or membership of any street vendor association. While the loans will be on the books of banks and other lenders, the distribution will be largely through business correspondents of banks and microfinance institutions (MFIs). The details of the scheme, which was announced by the Prime Minister as part of the government’s Garib Kalyan Yojana package, was announced on Friday during the signing of an agreement between Sidbi and the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Sidbi has created a project management unit to facilitate the scheme through a customised digital platform. Sidbi shall also facilitate credit guarantee to lenders through the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE). This is the first time MFIs are being on-boarded on the CGTMSE platform. To facilitate the cashback, the platform will be integrated with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vendors-to-get-cashbacks-on-e-pays-in-rs-10k-scheme/articleshow/76473158.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 23 lakh seized in Patan||Palanpur: A total of 524 boxes of Indian Made Foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 24 lakh were seized from the house of a notorious bootlegger in Patan on Friday.Patan superintendent of police (SP), Akshayraj Makwana, a team raided the premises of bootlegger Kayudin Farooqui in Sadardi locality and arrested four persons including him. They were caught while unloading the boxes from a van at around 3am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-23-lakh-seized-in-patan/articleshow/76473459.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Harassed by loan sharks, couple attempts suicide||Rajkot: Unable to repay Rs 15 lakh loan after incurring heavy loss in business during the post Covid-19 lockdown, a bullion and gold jewellery trader and his wife consumed pesticides at their residence on Amin Marg in Rajkot on Thursday. They were driven to take the drastic step after they could not bear with the harassment allegedly caused by two loan sharks. Police booked the accused on Friday. Police said the victims — Bharat Lodhia (55) and his wife Kiran Lodhia (50) — were allegedly harassed by the accused Pankaj Agrawal and his younger brother, whose name was not revealed. The Lodhia couple’s son Mayur Lodhia (30) has lodged a complaint in this regard.In his complaint, Mayur said that Bharat had taken the loan of Rs 15 lakh from Agrawal last year on 3%interest rate. “Bharat had come in contact with Agrawal, who is a trader in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh; three years ago,” said an official from Malaviyanagar police station. However, after suffering heavy losses in bullion and gold jewellery trading during lockdown period, Bharat was unable to pay the loan. “On Thursday, Agrawal and his younger brother allegedly barged into Bharat’s house, hurled abuses at him and threatened to kill him, if he did not repay their loan. Shocked by this, the Lodhia couple consumed pesticide,” added the official. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the Agrawal brothers. VICTIM IS ACCUSED OF FRAUDDuring investigation in the case police found out that Bharat Lodhia is a fraud accused. In March last year, Sandeep Patadia had lodged a complaint against Lodhia and his sons, accusing them cheating of Rs 1.50 crore. Patadia had alleged that Bharat and his sons had taken four kg gold worth Rs 1.50 crore from different traders and had gone to Mathura to sell it off. Later, Bharat claimed that the gold had been stolen. He promised the traders to pay them the gold amount on Diwali last year. However as Diwali approached, Bharat disappeared along with his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/harassed-by-loan-sharks-couple-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76473438.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Gangsters open fire inside store in Vanthali; two held||Rajkot: Six gangsters in an extortion bid opened indiscriminate fire inside a departmental store in Vanthali of Junagadh district on Friday morning. Two of the gang members were held within few hours of the firing from nearby village.Police and eye witnesses said that the gangsters were armed with country-made pistols and muskets.Police said while Rahim Gameti (26) and Imran Gameti (23) were caught, their co-accused, identified as Pola Isha, Khuri Isha, Bhikha Gameti and Aneesh Gameti were still at large. “The accused are the members of the infamous Jusab Allarakha Gang. They had opened fire in the store owned by Krasar Bharadia when the latter refused to cow down before their extortion demand,” said an official from Junagadh special operation group (SOG). No casualty was reported in the firing, said police. Soon after the incident, Junagadh district police formed three teams consisting of the officials from Junagadh SOG, crime branch and Vanthali police station. “When we received a tip-off that the accused were hiding in a farm at Sonaradi village, we rushed there. However after seeing us, the accused started fleeing on two motorcycles they found in the farm. We chased them for two and a half kilometres. While the other accused managed to escape, we caught hold of Rahim Gameti (26) and Imran Gameti (23),” said an official from the Junagadh crime branch. The accused were booked under various sections of Arms Act and Indian Penal Code dealing with criminal intimidation, extortion and vehicle theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gangsters-open-fire-inside-store-in-vanthali-two-held/articleshow/76473722.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Private hospital totally dedicated for Covid||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Friday designated a private hospital in Mavdi area to treat Covid-19 patients. Patients who do not wish to go to the civil hospital may get treated in 54-bedded Star Synergy hospital, said RMC sources. The civic body believes that instead of reserving beds in each private hospital, it’s a better option to designate an entire hospital for Covid. RMC has also fixed charges inclusive of taxes for this hospital like Rs 8,400 per day for general ward, Rs 17,800 per day for isolation ward and Rs 21,500 per day for ventilation plus isolation charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/private-hospital-totally-dedicated-for-covid/articleshow/76473475.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Nightlong downpour leaves Patna's anti-deluge plan in deep water||PATNA: The waterlogging in several areas in the city after overnight rains on Thursday has washed away the claims of authorities regarding their preparations, including setting up a standard operating procedure (SOP) and recommendations of various committees, to prevent a repeat of the last year’s waterlogging nightmare in the state capital. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) and urban development and housing department have been claiming for the past couple of months that most monsoon preparedness works, including cleaning of major drains, manholes and catchpits in the city were to be completed before the arrival of monsoon. However, in a meeting convened by deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on May 22, officials concerned told him that only 35-75% of various types of works for monsoon preparedness was completed till then. It was told that the work is being carried out despite the lockdown. Instructions were issued to procure several types of water-pumping machines utilising an estimated outlay of Rs167crore by July 31. However, UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma told TOI on Friday that many such machines could not be procured due to lockdown. “Monsoon preparedness work got slightly affected due to lockdown but the situation is much better this year, which was evident with timely discharge of accumulated rainwater from most areas on Friday,” the minister said. Meanwhile, PMC Himanshu Sharma told TOI that around 100 pumps have been procured. “We have installed a diesel pump in Rajendra Nagar. Besides, construction of drainage system is on after which waterlogging problem will be over in the area. Only very low-lying areas are facing this problem and we are working on it,” he said. Sharma had earlier told Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad in an online review meeting on June 5 that drainage cleaning works were targeted to be completed by June 10. Another meeting in this regard was convened by Prasad on Thursday. “A meeting was held with PMC commissioner, managing director of BUIDCo and all MLAs of Patna on Thursday. Directions were given to complete the cleaning works in all drains and start running all water drainage pumps. All measures are being taken to ensure that waterlogging like last year do not reoccur this year,” Ravi Shankar tweeted. After last year’s waterlogging, a four-member probe committee was formed by the state government to identify officials responsible for slackness as well as suggesting measures for preventing waterlogging in the city during monsoon. Later, the disaster management department also initiated the process of preparation of a standard operating procedure for prevention of waterlogging in the state capital. Even CM Nitish Kumar has been reviewing the steps being taken for prevention of waterlogging. Nitish had also asked officials to increase capacity of all existing sump houses and make arrangement of an alternative power feeder along with a dedicated feeder for each sump house. “All 39 sump houses in Patna are working up to their maximum capacity. The works on expansion of the capacity of sump houses are also in the pipeline,” minister Sharma said on Friday. Even in 2015, PMC had drafted an SoP for tackling waterlogging conditions in the city. The 40-page SoP laid out tasks and responsibilities for total 18 agencies, including the PMC, health department, road construction department, water resource department and district administration among others to ensure timely removal of accumulated rainwater from the city streets. It envisaged steps for pre- monsoon measures, setting up control rooms, routine monitoring and action- plan for emergency operations among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nightlong-downpour-leaves-city-anti-deluge-plan-in-deep-water/articleshow/76473197.cms||Archi Rani
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Over 900 new Covid cases in a week, micro-clusters cross 1,500 mark||KOLKATA: The city, which saw over 900 Covid cases in the past week, added 500 new containment units in the same period, taking the total count beyond 1,500 on Friday. The spread of the virus has been such that 143 of the 144 KMC wards—with a sole exception of Ward 47—has at least one containment unit. Two of Behala and Joka’s wards—119 and 144—which had managed to keep Covid at bay for the past three months, finally reported their first cases on Friday. While one case was reported at Genxx Valley in Joka, a prime condominium in southwest Kolkata, the other was in a standalone building on Archarya Binobha Bhabe Road in Behala. Ward 45, which had also remained Covid-free except for a couple of people contracting the novel coronavirus initially, is again back with a fresh case on Ezra Street close to Dalhousie. With as many as 132 new containment units being added in the past 48 hours, the city now has 1,512 high-risk clusters. South Kolkata witnessed a surge in cases as multiple people inside Fort William, the CISF unit at Garden Reach, and the staff quarters of a hospital at Hazra, were detected with the novel coronavirus. Also, cases were reported from apartment complexes, such as South City, and Silver Spring. Besides, two offices in two different parts of the city were declared containment units, while slums also remained a cause of worry, with the one at Baghbazar alone reporting 15 fresh cases. Beadon Street, which had remained Covid-free in the initial days of June, was again back on the containment map. The spike in Kolkata has been rapid. On June 12, the figure was 3,356, while it rose to 4269 on June 18. On the positive side, though, this is the first time in June that the total fresh cases in week went below 1,000 with the number standing at 913. The last-week active figure was 1,750 and it’s 2,713 this week till June 18. These statistics prompted KMC and police, and even the common man, to take guard. While KMC arranged for random swab tests at high-rises and scaled up tests at slums in the Bagbazar-Kumortuli area, police put up temporary barricades in a few areas. “While this is not the norm, we are only using barricades, where containment units are next to busy stretches that witness a lot of pedestrian movements,” said an officer. Residents too are getting themselves tested by KMC officials. Ram Avatar Agarwal, a resident of a tower in north Kolkata, said, “When SSKM team came to our complex, I was not keen on a test. But after my daughter, a doctor, said I should not miss the chance provided by a government healthcare institute, I agreed.” Police pointed out some labourers in high-risk areas, desperate to arrange for food, broke physical distancing rules. “With very little resources, wage earners are going out in search of job or food. This desperation brings them closer to contamination risk,” said an officer in Beliaghata. The good and the badWard 47—which includes parts of BB Ganguly Street and Lalbazar—remained the only one of the 144 KMC wards, where no Covid case was reported till Friday. It being part of the central business district, the lockdown helped contain the spread of the virus. A KMC team, along with cops, traders and residents, has been trying to maintain social distancing as the ground rule there. “We insist everyone wears a mask. With offices reopening, we have to be careful,” said a local even as Bowbazar cops kept their fingers crossed At least 12 cases have surfaced from the 3km Sarat Bose Road and nearby Southern Park and Maddox Square over the past 24 hours. “Almost 40% of all Bhowanipore cases, especially the fresh ones, are from high-rises,” said police. A KMC official said, “Cases in Ward 72 started surfacing in the past two weeks after unlocking began. While major markets, like Jadubabu Bazar and Lansdowne Market, remain concern areas, reports from slums (Pyarabagan and Monoharpukur) are equally worrying.” Atin Ghosh, a member of KMC board of administrators, said special teams were deployed in the ever-growing containment clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-900-new-cases-in-a-week-micro-clusters-cross-1500-mark/articleshow/76474224.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 20, 2020||Patna||Illegal phone exchange busted in Patna, two held||PATNA: Acting on a tip-off by the Intelligence bureau (IB), Patna police busted an illegal telephone exchange, which was being used to turn internet calls (VoIP) into local cellular calls by bypassing legal telecommunication networks through computer software and equipment like sim box, routers, transceivers and server. The exchange was running inside a private building at lane number 2 in Salimpur Ahra under Gandhi Maidan police station. The raid conducted on Thursday midnight continued till Friday to nab more persons involved in running the exchange. Two persons were arrested from the room they had taken on rent to run the telephone exchange. The arrested persons were identified as Rajeev Banik of Durgapur in West Bengal and Adnan Sami from Bokaro in Jharkhand. Police said a team of department of telecommunication was also involved in zeroing in on the location of the illegal telephone exchange with the help of IB. Police said a laptop, a computer, printer, server, transceivers, sim box, routers, optical fibres, batteries and other items were seized from the room. At least three members of the gang were still evading arrest, police sources said. “They were using a foreign software to convert voice call received on internet from abroad into regular calls on local cellular network. A local mobile number of Bihar would flash on cellphone screen while the caller would be sitting somewhere abroad. Most of such calls originated from countries with high international call rates like the Middle East,” a police officer privy to the raids said. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, when contacted, told TOI over phone that the exchange was unearthed with the help of IB. “Such exchanges pose security threat as they don’t use legal gateway. But nothing has surfaced yet to establish that any suspicious calls were made through this exchange,” the SSP said. “We have got to know that the exchange was used to bypass legal gateway of telecommunication network. It was being used to make a call on reduced tariff rates. Someone calling from abroad would have to pay local call tariff instead of higher international call rates,” he said, adding further investigation were going on in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illegal-phone-exchange-busted-in-city-two-held/articleshow/76473023.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 20, 2020||Varanasi||PM seeks timely completion of Kashi projects||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a review meeting on various development projects being carried out in Varanasi via video conferencing and exhorted the officials to ensure their timely completion without compromising on the quality. A presentation using a drone video of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham project was made for the PM, who was also apprised of the efforts being undertaken for an effective management of Covid-19. The meeting was attended by public representatives of Varanasi, including UP ministers Neelakanth Tiwari, Ravindra Jaiswal, MLAs Surendra Narayan Singh, Saurabh Shrivastava, Neel Ratan Neelu, MLCs Ashok Dhawan, Laxman Acharya besides divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi. Reviewing the progress of Kashi Vishwanath Dham project, PM directed that all old temples which were unearthed during the execution of the project should be protected and preserved. Help of experts should be taken to maintain their historical and architectural legacy. Carbon dating should be conducted so that these temples and their importance is highlighted to the tourists and the pilgrims. The Kashi Vishwanath Trust should prepare a route map with appropriate tourist guides to facilitate the pilgrims who visit this complex. The PM also reviewed in detail all the projects which are being undertaken in Varanasi. He was informed that more than 100 major projects with the financial outflow of around Rs. 8,000 crores are currently being undertaken in Varanasi for creation of social and physical infrastructure like hospital buildings, national waterways, ring roads, by-pass and International Convention Centre built with India-Japan collaboration. The PM exhorted the officials to expedite completion of all development projects within the timeline and also maintain highest standards of quality. He directed that optimum utilisation of non-renewable energy should be done for creation of next generation infrastructure. Saturation of households and street lights with LED bulbs should be taken on mission mode in the district. For increasing tourism and travel footfall in Kashi, he directed that work of cruise tourism, light and sound show, rejuvenation of Khidkiya and Dashaswamedh Ghats, display of Ganga Aarti through audio-video screens should be fast-tracked. All efforts should be made to promote and propagate the role of Kashi as one of the key repositories of world heritage. He directed the officials to organise week-long festivals of countries like Japan, Thailand, etc., where Buddhism is practised to celebrate their art and cultural heritage. He also directed the officials to identify a model road which, with a suitable theme reflecting this heritage of Kashi to be developed as a Gaurav Path with active participation of the local citizens. He further directed that Kashi being a tourist destination should excel in all parameters of sanitation and cleanliness. All efforts should be taken so as to achieve the desired levels of ODF plus, use of mechanised sweeping and cleaning, ensuring 100% door-to-door waste collection and making the entire environment very positive and healthy. PM said that Varanasi should become a hub of the National Waterway connecting the city to Haldia. Planning should be done for development of the entire eco-system, cargo shipping and freight movement. He also directed the officials to complete the expansion and modernisation works of the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport on priority so that Kashi becomes one of the leading cities which provides state-of-art rail, road, water and air connectivity. The PM also reviewed the progress of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat announcements and directed that the benefits of this scheme should reach the citizens expeditiously. The progress of PM SVANidhi Scheme for street vendors should be closely monitored. All street vendors should be equipped with appropriate technology and infrastructure, for helping them switch to cashless transactions. Their bank accounts should be opened up and their business and credit profile should be digitally linked, so that they utilise maximum benefit of the collateral free loans under the PM SVANidhi Scheme. He emphasised that farmers are one of the key priorities of the government and intensive efforts should be made to enhance their incomes. He directed for promotion of bee keeping and highlighted the potential of bee wax in augmenting the income of the farmers. The officials were asked to ensure setting up a packaging institute in Varanasi on priority, so as to enable the farmers get better purchase of their products and make them export ready in Varanasi itself. He appreciated the efforts of the administration for promotion of export of vegetables and mangoes in collaboration with the APEDA (Ministry of Commerce). He said that focus should be on creation of wealth from the generated waste either in the form of waste to energy or waste to compost for the use of farmers should be popularised and promoted. He also highlighted that zero budget farming should be promoted and propagated among farmers highlighting their tangible and intangible benefits. The preparation for tacking the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic was also reviewed in detail. The PM highlighted extensive and effective utilisation of Aarogya Setu App for testing, tracing and ensuring quality treatment of patients through this medium. Efforts made by the district administration for providing food, shelter and quarantine services were also appreciated. He directed that appropriate skill mapping of the returning migrant workers be taken up on priority and they should be provided gainful employment on the basis of their skill sets. Feedback was also taken about the positive impact of PM Garib Kalyan Yojana and State Government led COVID relief schemes in times of distress. The PM also reviewed the progress of Gram Panchayat Development Programme prepared by NITI Aayog reflecting his vision about saturation of Varanasi district on nine key sectors of rural development, panchayati raj, sanitation, health and nutrition, education, social welfare, agriculture and allied activities and the livelihood and the skill domains. He said that nutrition should be promoted as a community movement of Anganwadi Centres, self help groups. Adoption of Aanganwadi Centres by different organisation and community members, arranging healthy baby competition and creating a variety of food items from children’s weaning food was also suggested by the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-seeks-timely-completion-of-kashi-projects/articleshow/76471963.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Not many buyers for house-making items||PATNA: There are just not enough buyers for the items required for quality transformation of a house or an apartment flat into a home, traders complain. The coronavirus pandemic is also acting as a big drag on the production of these items in factories located outside Bihar due to labour shortage, they feel. The market is just not picking up. It will take time for the business to reach the level of the pre-lockdown days. Even the new stocks are not getting retail customers in good numbers is the common refrain of the retailers. Their observation has bearing on items related to sanitary wares (water pipe, plumbing, toilets, others), paints, as required for minimal interior decoration (doors, plywood, mirror, door handle, others), kitchen utilities like utensils, ovens and even food items. Further, there has been short supply of some items, which has resulted in price rise. Arun Kumar, a shopkeeper on East Boring Canal Road, said: “The prices of limited quantity of items that we are getting from the companies as new stocks have been increased.” As to the prices of foodgrains and other edible items, they have largely remained stable, but mustard oil and refined oil have been selling dearer by Rs10-15/litre. The price of raw mustard has increased by Rs20/kg, while the fast items like Maggi, sauce, various brands of biscuits and detergents are in short supply due to teething problems faced in production. However, their retail prices have not increased. The prices of sanitary items and paints have not been changed. Shopkeepers like Arun or Sanjay Kumar Sharma said they, along with others in business, have been mostly trying to dispose of the old stock by reducing prices to fit in with the demand of the customers, who don’t prefer high priced new stocks. One Jaggu Sao, who sells kitchenware and utensils, said: “The market is just not lifting up, even if the items we sell are essential for any home. The problem is whatever items the customers purchase will last for eight to 10 years. The new customers are coming in very small numbers. There are also restrictions on occasions like marriage and puja.” The shopkeepers agreed that the factories in other states have not yet started producing their items due to labour shortage and lack of supply of packing and other related materials. As to the short supply of branded biscuits and other fast items, the shopkeepers said the parent companies usually get them manufactured in “small companies and then use the packing material of their brand. But even these smaller companies, mostly located in Maharashtra and Gujarat, are plagued by labour shortage”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/not-many-buyers-for-house-making-items/articleshow/76472576.cms||Abhay Singh
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Migrant hands hold Saurashtra farms steady||RAJKOT: While the migrant labour crisis has hit the industrial productions across the state, it seems to have hardly impacted the agriculture sector in Saurashtra region. The primary reason being that the farm labourers are not hired on daily wages or paid salaries. They are mostly offered 25% partnership by the farmers for cultivating their land. This means, labourers will get one-fourth of the total yield, besides facilities like place to stay and food. Most of the farmers in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar and Devbhumi Dwarka district give farmland for cultivation on contract, where the labourers get 25-30% of the yield. Majority of the farm labourers working in Saurashtra region come from districts like Panchmahal, Dahod, Godhra, Chhota Udepur and neighbouring state of Madhya Pradesh. With the beginning of the Kharif season, the Saurashtra farmers have started sowing groundnut and cotton without worrying about shortage of labourers. Samrabhai Gogra, who has farm between Chotila and Than in Surendrangar district has begun sowing groundnut. “I have 27 migrant farm labourer working in my farm. When the lockdown started I assured them safety here and provided them with food and a place to live. I assured them minimum wage plus food even when there was no work.” There are many farmers like Gogra, who have provided facilities to labourers during lockdown and prevented them from going back to their natives. In some cases where the labourers had gone back, many are returning for Kharif season. A farmer leader in Surendranagar Ratan Dodiya said, “There are about 30 lakh migrant labourers working across Saurashtra. They are given Rs 10,000 as advance on arrival and thereafter before harvesting they are given Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh advance which is then adjusted with the yield.” Girdhar Vaghela a farmer of Bhanvad taluka in Jamnagar said, “A farmer usually continues with the same set of labourers for years. Sowing doesn’t require much help. They will be required three-four weeks later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrants-keep-saurashtra-farms-steady/articleshow/76472518.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 20, 2020||Surat||Two Surtis save two young lives with their stem cells||Surat: Defying the extreme fear conditions owing to the spread of coronavirus, two dedicated blood stem cell donors from Surat city didn’t hesitate even for a second while trying to save two lives. In one of the donations that took place in the last 12 days through DATRI, India's largest blood stem donor registry, 29-year-old Jay Patel, a resident of Pal area in the city, gave a fresh hope to a young patient battling for life. And so did Vipur Patel, a fitness enthusiast who works for a diamond company in the city. Patel’s priceless gift helped save a paediatric patient. It is worth mentioning here that Patel, who recently graduated to fatherhood after his wife delivered a baby girl, didn’t let his benevolence suffocate in the hands of family commitments. The blood stem cell donation was collected at a Surat-based hospital under the supervision of Dr Dharmesh Vaghasiya (Haemato-oncologist & Bone Marrow Transplant physician) and Dr Hasmukh Ballar (Pediatric Hematologic-Oncologist and Hematologist). “I am extremely happy. At the time of registering with DATRI, I never thought that I would get a chance to save a life within a few years of registering,” gushed Jay Patel, an interior designer, while sharing with TOI his experience. Jalpa Sukhanandi, Head Donor Recruitment and Counselling at DATRI, said, “We ensured the safety of the two young donors and their family at every step of the procedure. A dedicated team at the NGO took all required approvals and travelled 24 hours non-stop to ensure that the collected Blood Stem Cells are delivered to the hospitals located outside the state at the earliest.” Interestingly, of the seven donations that have taken place in Gujarat since January this year, six have been donors from the city alone. Surat is leading blood stem cell donations in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-surtis-save-two-young-lives-with-their-stem-cells/articleshow/76472103.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||Radio Mirchi posts strong Q4 revenue||MUMBAI: Entertainment Network (India) Ltd, or ENIL, the operator of India’s no.1 FM radio channel Radio Mirchi, on Friday announced results for Q4 and FY20. The company posted a total revenue of over Rs 149 crore during the fourth quarter, a de-growth of 14.8% compared to Q4FY19, of which 9% was on account of Covid-19. The FY20 revenue was nearly Rs 541 crore, a de-growth of 12.9%, of which 2.6% was on account of the coronavirus. Underlying ebitda for the quarter stood at almost Rs 14 crore and at nearly Rs 89 crore for the full year, falling largely due to the Covid-19 impact of Rs 14 crore. Reported ebitda — after the impact of Ind AS 116 — degrew by 69% to reach Rs 23 crore during the quarter and Rs 124 crore for the full year. Profit after tax for the year was lower at Rs 15 crore, and the loss for the quarter was over Rs 2 crore due to the combined impact of Covid-19 & Ind AS 116. The board recommended a dividend of Re 1 per equity share of Rs 10 each for the financial year 2019-20, at its meeting held on June 19. ENIL MD & CEO Prashant Panday said, “While it has been a disappointing quarter for all media companies and for Mirchi as well, I am delighted that we have grown stronger in so many ways. Our revenue market share has grown by nearly 650 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) over the last two years." "Radio listenership in the top cities has grown by 55% and the time spent on it by 109% during the lockdown. We remain #1 in listenership. Our solutions business has seen improvement in profitability. We generated around Rs 60 crore of cash during the quarter, and had Rs 227 crore in the bank as on March 31, 2020 — a major strength during this crisis. While FY21 will remain challenging, strong brands like ours will gain when the market bounces back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/radio-mirchi-posts-strong-q4-revenue/articleshow/76473047.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Entrepreneur moms push the ‘buy local’ campaign in Vadodara||VADODARA: ‘Be Atmanirbhar’ is the buzzword among the moms in Vadodara since the lockdown was lifted by the government last month. A group of mothers have come together to promote women entrepreneurs in the city and ensure that their start-ups survive amid the slowdown in the economy post-lockdown. Priyanka Kapur, who runs a group Moms of Vadodara, has initiated a campaign ‘GoLocalBuyLocal’ that is fast picking up among women in the city. “Due to the lockdown, so many businesses, especially run by small entrepreneurs, suffered over the last two months. These entrepreneurs included many moms who run business and are financially independent. They need support in this hour of crisis,” Kapur told TOI. “Post-lockdown, there have been campaigns to buy local products and support Indian entrepreneurs. So we decided to encourage people to buy local products sold by moms in the city. I began the campaign from my group that has more than 2,500 moms as members,” Kapur said. She added that now she is reaching out to Barodians and urging them to buy products and services offered by entrepreneur moms. “I have a small business of manufacturing and selling sanitary napkins. Since the GoLocalBuyLocal’ campaign took off, I have been getting calls from women for buying napkins. It is a very good initiative for our businesses that have suffered due to the lockdown,” said Asha Pandhre, mother of a five-year-old son. “I have always believed that one can support our country’s economy by buying local products. This campaign will surely help women entrepreneurs from the city and ensure that their businesses survive and grow,” said Mohini Rastogi Desai, another entrepreneur and mother of an eight-year-old daughter. She sells various products including garments and handicrafts on her online store. Kapur said that she will be holding an online meet on June 21 to reach out to a wider audience of mothers who either want to start a new business or buy from local entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/entrepreneur-moms-push-the-buy-local-campaign/articleshow/76471577.cms||Tushar Tere
June 20, 2020||Business||PNB reports Q4 net loss of Rs 697 crore||MUMBAI: Punjab National Bank (PNB) has reported a net loss of Rs 697 crore for the quarter ended March 2020. The bank had suffered a net loss of Rs 4,749 crore for the quarter ended March 2019. For the full year, the bank has clocked a net profit of Rs 336 crore as against a loss of Rs 9,975 crore in FY19. The bank reported a net loss despite provisions for bad loans falling from Rs 9,153 crore in March 2019 to Rs 4,901 crore in the quarter ended in March 2020. The losses before tax were Rs 969 crore. However, write-back of tax provisions of Rs 271 crore lowered the loss to Rs 697 crore. The bank’s deposits as on March 2020 stood at Rs 7.03 lakh crore — a 4% increase from Rs 6.76 lakh crore in March 2019. The bank’s advances rose 3% to Rs 4.71 lakh crore from Rs 4.58 lakh crore during the same period. The bank has said that there was a divergence of Rs 2,617 crore in the bad loans (gross NPAs) that it had declared for March 2019 and the ones identified by the RBI. Had the gross NPAs been in line with what RBI had identified, the net loss for the year ended March 2019 would have been Rs 11,335 core as against the Rs 9,975 crore posted last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pnb-reports-q4-net-loss-of-rs-697-crore/articleshow/76472849.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Coimbatore||RG Pudur cluster reports 7 of 14 new cases||COIMBATORE: The RG Pudur cluster on Friday reported seven of the 14 new Covid-19 cases in the district, prompting health department officials to take strict measures to restrict the public movement in the area. The cluster has a total of 31 cases now. While sources said another 14 people - including four from RG Pudur, two from Raja Street and one from Kavundampalayam – were also tested positive, the cases were not officially declared on Friday. A senior health officer said the RG Pudur cluster was growing daily. The number of cases is expected to go up further, he said. “Of the 220-odd samples that were collected on Wednesday, some results are yet to arrive. Also, four people’s results have not been declared as they were found to be on borderline. They have been shifted to the ESI Hospital.” The new cases were reported from Chinniampalayam area in the cluster. The health department has asked the city corporation and Sulur block development office to restrict people’s movement in the Chinniampalayam area. Pointing out that 670 samples have already been collected from the cluster, the official said contact tracing and sample collection drive would continue. “Door-to-door survey is going on in Chinniampalayam rural area in Sulur block and RG Pudur in corporation area.” The officer said they have extended the sampling to Mylampatti, which is part of the new cluster, and another factory in Chinniampalayam, from where two people have tested positive. “So, we are expected to see more positive cases.” Among the new cases are a 28-year-old man from Chokkampudur, who is the brother of a Mumbai returnee who tested positive earlier, a 50-year-old woman and an 8-year-old man from Karamadai, and a 70-year-old woman from Sirumugai. The last three are also contacts of some earlier positive cases. A 45-year-old man from Raja Street is also among the new cases and he was tested for the novel coronavirus when he approached a private hospital for some other procedure. His source of infection is yet to be traced. There is also an imported case - a 28-year-old woman from Theethipalayam who returned from Chennai. Her samples were collected at the district check post. However, patients are recovering fast. ESI Hospital discharged another 11 patients, one of them a pregnant woman and another a cervical cancer patient, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rg-pudur-cluster-reports-7-of-14-new-cases/articleshow/76474252.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kanpur||First cyber police stn of Kanpur range to function from June 23||KANPUR: A dedicated police station to tackle cyber crime,first of its kind in Kanpur range and third in the state, has been set up in Traffic Lines to deal with hi-tech cases. It will start functioning from June 23. Such of Cyber police stations were previously launched in Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow. “Apart from Kanpur, the Cyber police station will also register first information report of Kanpur Dehat, Auraiya, Kannauj, Farrukhabad and Etawah. Besides an inspector and a sub-inspector rank officials, eight male and eight lady constables have been deployed at the police station to tackle all cyber cases from June 23. This Cyber police station will coordinate with Regional Cyber Crime coordination centre in Lucknow and India Cyber Crime coordination centre in Delhi,” said SP crime Rajesh Yadav. Circle officer Nazirabad Gitanjali Singh has been deployed as an observer. The facility will function under the supervision of IG Range Mohit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/first-cyber-police-stn-of-kanpur-range-to-function-from-june-23/articleshow/76472544.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Living with Covid-19: Impact on higher education and way ahead||By: Prof Madhusudan Chakraborty PATNA: The devastating effects of the lockdown on the world economy are felt virtually in all spheres of life. The fear generated by the Covid-19 pandemic is unlikely to disappear even after vaccines and necessary medicines are made available to one and all. Naturally, life will not be the same again. In such a scenario, the impact of the pandemic on university education is drawing the attention of educationists and experts. The education system has to adjust itself to the new reality. Universities in Bihar and other states have proactively employed advanced online technologies to reach out to students at home and are teaching on digital platforms. However, teachers as well as students are facing infrastructural and technology related issues as has been seen in several universities across Bihar recently. While teachers are facing a tough challenge in engaging students of uneven quality in a virtual classroom, the problem is more serious for students who do not have the same level or same quality of access to the digital platform. The Covid-19 pandemic has posed a serious challenge to the process of imparting higher education. It is time that educationists and regulatory authorities put their heads together and deliberate on the education system to be pursued and work out strategies, spell out the rules and regulations to be followed in future. It may be worthwhile assessing how online education compares with the standard classroom teaching and which programmes could be offered fully online. During the lockdown period, science, medicine and technology students are missing the workshops and laboratory practice. Many may suggest that the loss of practical classes be compensated by training through simulation. But employers and society at large are not likely to accept it. Modern education in these areas requires skills and knowledge base in advanced technologies through both simulation and hands on practice. All students pursuing science and engineering education must soil their hands in the workshop and laboratory and enjoy the happenings in reality. Further, the universities would be required to augment the infrastructure, both physical and intellectual. The existing infrastructures may be inadequate in the current pandemic and even in the post-pandemic world. In case of compulsory attendance, the universities have to provide more classrooms and better provisions in workshops and laboratories to avoid crowding. The current lockdown situation should be seized as an opportunity to innovate and develop new techniques to impart education that would be safe, user friendly, robust and accessible to all at a reasonable cost. Another challenge is to keep the weaker students engaged. This would require enough patience and skills in every teacher for the success of an online education system. (The writer is former director of IIT-Bhubaneswar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/living-with-covid-19-impact-on-higher-education-way-ahead/articleshow/76472739.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||RIL tops $150 billion m-cap as it turns ‘zero-net debt’ company||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL), the most valued company in India, on Friday crossed another milestone as it surpassed the $150-billion market capitalisation mark. The achievement came after its chairman Mukesh Ambani said the company had met its “promise to shareholders” by becoming net debt-free ahead of its March 2021 deadline. After a relatively decent start of the session, the RIL stock rallied soon after Ambani’s statement and closed 6.5% higher, giving it an mcap of almost Rs 11.5 lakh crore on the BSE, translating into $151 billion. From sinking to a multi-year low of Rs 868 on March 23 this year, the stock hit a high of Rs 1,789 during Friday’s session after its chairman said, “I have fulfilled my promise to shareholders by making Reliance net-debt free much before our original schedule of March 31, 2021.” RIL’s closest rival in terms of mcap is software exporting major TCS at Rs 7.7 lakh crore, followed by HDFC Bank at Rs 5.7 lakh crore and HUL at Rs 4.9 lakh crore. The strong rally in RIL on Friday, an index-heavyweight, also sent the sensex to a three-month closing high at 34,732 points as the benchmark gained 524 points. Last August at RIL’s annual shareholder meeting, Ambani, who is now the ninth richest person in the world according to Forbes, had pledged that he will slash the company’s net debt to zero by the end of fiscal 2021. A ‘zero-net debt’ status is attained when a company’s cash equals the debt on its books. Starting December 2019, RIL has secured investment commitments of Rs 1.75 lakh crore through share sales in its digital and petrol retail units and also through a Rs 53,124-crore rights offer to its existing shareholders, the largest ever in India. The combined fund mobilisation is in excess of Reliance’s net debt of Rs 1.61 lakh crore. Though RIL has become free at the net debt level, it will continue to carry debt on its balance sheet. The company’s debt primarily increased because of its aggressive rollout of its wireless business under Jio brand name. As part of the road map to slash Reliance’s net debt to zero, Ambani had said that he planned to sell a stake in the company’s oil-to-chemicals unit to Saudi Aramco. But with that deal facing delays, the billionaire chairman went on a fund-mobilisation spree over the last nine weeks by signing in 10 international investors in Jio. The rights offer was also launched and closed in this period. Since April 22, when it sold almost 10% to social media giant Facebook, RIL has raised Rs 1.16 lakh crore by selling a quarter of Jio to another nine US and Middle Eastern buyers, including Saudi Arabia’s PIF. RIL said PIF’s investment “marks the end of Jio’s current phase of induction of financial investors”. Its next big plan is to take Jio public, which will be another milestone in its history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-tops-150bn-mcap-as-it-turns-zero-net-debt-co/articleshow/76473134.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||After Saamna blasts PM on Galwan, CM Uddhav Thackeray applies salve||MUMBAI: After Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna slammed prime minister Narendra Modi on the India-China border clashes, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured him on Friday that his party was with the Centre. Thackeray, as the president of the Shiv Sena, attended the all-party leaders virtual meeting called by Modi in the evening to discuss the India-China face-off. Unarmed clashes with soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army, as the Chinese standing army is called, left 20 armymen dead in the Galwan vallety in Ladakh. “There is a common feeling across the country that we all are one and will stand behind the Indian forces,” Thackeray said at the meet. “Though India wants peace, it does not mean that it’s a weak country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-saamna-blasts-pm-on-galwan-cm-applies-salve/articleshow/76473251.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hubballi||In this small Gadag village, almost every household is home to a soldier||HUBBALLI: The face-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the Himalayan heights has ignited the latent patriotic fervour in Hatalgeri, a small village in Gadag district, which is proud of its distinction of having at least one member of nearly every household in the Indian armed forces. In fact, a few families boast of three of their members being in the armed forces. As of now, there are as many as 150 residents of the village serving in the Indian Army. Before the situation along the LAC escalated, 10 soldiers serving in different regiments returned home for their vacation, but they are now eagerly awaiting calls to return to action. Furthermore, two of the soldiers who returned home to tie the matrimonial knot, are contemplating deferring their wedding since they might be called to the front anytime now. Manjunath Kurubar and Purushottam Pujar, residents of the village, said that it was the Kargil War that kindled the spirit of patriotism among the youth in the Gadag hamlet. In the aftermath of the 1999 conflict, more and more youngsters from the village started to enlist in the armed forces. “They started working on their fitness in order to meet the requirements stipulated by the armed forces. One of the soldiers from our village took a bullet when Pulwama was attacked, and resumed duty after he recovered from the injury,” they told TOI. Satish Navalli, 23, a soldier who was on duty along the border in Rajasthan, said that his parents had summoned him home since they were planning on getting him married. “But I have decided to put these plans on hold since I might be asked to return to duty at any moment. Serving the nation comes first,” said Satish, adding that his youngest brother Bhimanna too had recently enlisted with the Indian Army, and was undergoing training in Bengaluru. Manjunath Beleri, 26, another soldier stationed in Rajasthan, returned home to get engaged. Although the wedding was scheduled to be held soon, Beleri has asked his parents to postpone the ceremony. “During such an emergency, we need to be prepared to face any and all challenges,” he added. NK Ananth Beleri, 31, currently serving in Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, said that each child in the village wanted to grow up to become a soldier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-this-small-gadag-village-almost-every-household-is-home-to-a-soldier/articleshow/76474265.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 20, 2020||Business||Urjit Patel to head government think tank||MUMBAI: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Urjit Patel has been appointed chairman of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) for a four-year term starting June 22. He will replace Vijay Kelkar, who has held office since November 2014. The NIPFP is an autonomous research institute, which comes under the finance ministry. It acts as think tank for the government and conducts research on public finance and contributes to policy-making. Before Kelkar, C Rangarajan, also a former RBI governor, was the chairman of NIPFP. Patel’s appointment is significant and is seen an indication that the government wants him to continue to be on board despite his sudden resignation in December 2018, following differences with the finance ministry. “NIPFP is privileged to have Urjit Patel as its chairperson for a four-year term commencing June 22, 2020,” the economic think tank said in a statement. Patel’s tenure saw some of the widest reforms in the RBI. The monetary policy committee as an institution for rate setting was introduced during his tenure. Patel also scrapped all loan-restructuring schemes and pushed banks to clean up their loan books using the insolvency process. That resulted in bad loans spiking, but addressed some long-standing stressed accounts in banks’ books. This also resulted in half of public sector banks facing prompt corrective action, which included restrictions on lending. His tenure also saw a big push for corporate governance in public and private sector banks. While the government did not interfere with the clean-up process, Patel had ended up crossing swords with finance ministry officials and government nominees on the board of the RBI over issues of the central bank’s independence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/urjit-patel-to-head-govt-think-tank/articleshow/76473159.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Monsoon misery returns to haunt western part of city||PATNA: The residents of western part of the state capital have not forgotten the waterlogging following incessant rain last year. With the first spell of monsoon rain lashing Patna overnight on Thursday, the last year’s misery has started haunting them again as rainwater entered their premises on Friday morning. Subodh Singh, a retired police officer and resident of Vivek Vihar colony off Gola Road, woke up in the morning to find almost all houses in the locality surrounded by a pool of water. “I had to wade through knee-deep water to reach the milk booth. It is frightening. When only the first smart shower of this monsoon left about 75 houses of this colony surrounded by water, we can well imagine the scenario in the days to come,” he said. Keshav Jha of the same colony said lack of drainage led to such a situation last year and even things today stood as it were there. “Since heavy rain filled the gaps between lanes and low-lying vacant spaces, mostly used for dumping of garbage, leech and reptiles have a free access to our premises with waterlogging,” he said. If taken together the residential areas on both sides of Gola Road, at least 25 colonies had to bear with the hellish condition after the incessant rain. Bhup Narayan Pathak of Arpana Bank Colony phase-II said all lanes were under rainwater as there were no drains. “We were hopeful of getting some relief this monsoon, but no drainage network could come up till date,” he added. Punam Cooperative Colony resident Alakh Sharma, Asha Lata Shrivastav and Amrendra Kumar Sinha also stated that though residents had temporarily developed some lanes with brick fillings through contributions, lack of drainage has led to the similar situation this year. Rajesh Sharma, a trader of Gola Road, said even the service lanes parallel to Bailey Road is not walkable due to the garbage piled up after clearing the drains has spread all over. He said the roads and lanes in Visveswaraya Nagar were submerged in waterlogging. Admitting people’s miseries in these new colonies, numbering around 50, Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav said soon after getting complaints from people, he personally asked the officials to clear water from near Sonu Market and Sainik Colony in the morning. “Though the chief minister had issued directions to make Patna, including Danapur area, free from the problem of waterlogging, the executing agencies failed to come up with satisfactory works,” he said. The MP feared that if the officials and agencies concerned failed in taking up their tasks sincerely, residents of these colonies might face a condition worse than the last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/monsoon-misery-returns-to-haunt-western-part-of-city/articleshow/76471885.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||Yatra expects 92% fall in Q1 revenue||TNN Bengaluru: Online travel portal Yatra expects its revenues in the ongoing April-June quarter to fall by about 92% to $1.8-2.2 million from $32.6 million during the same period in 2019, according to a filing made by the Nasdaq-listed company. In financial year 2019-20, the company saw its revenues fall by 28% to $98 million from $135 million in FY19. “These expected decreases compared to 2019 are driven by the significant impact of Covid-19. As of June 15, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents and term deposits of $38 million,” the company said. Yatra has also said separately that it will sell 12.5 million ordinary shares at a public offering price of $0.80 per unit, taking the gross size of the potential offer to $10 million, as it shores up its balance sheet. The development comes as Yatra has terminated its $338-million merger with US-based software firm Ebix over a year after the deal was announced. It is also suing Ebix in the US, stating its conduct breached material terms of agreements and frustrated Yatra’s ability to close the transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yatra-expects-92-fall-in-q1-revenue/articleshow/76473088.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Four martyrs cremated with full military honours||PATNA/BHOJPUR/SAMASTIPUR: Four martyred Army soldiers from state were cremated at their respective native places in Bhojpur, Vaishali, Samastipur and Saharsa districts with full military honours on Friday. A sea of mourners, with Tricolour in their hands, participated in the last journey of the four martyrs. Bodies of the four soldiers – Chandan Kumar from Bhojpur, Jai Kishore Singh from Vaishali, Aman Kumar from Samastipur and Kundan Kumar from Saharsa – were brought to Patna airport in an AN-32 aircraft of Indian Air Force on Thursday along with the body Kundan Kumar Ojha from Sahebganj in Jhakhand. All these soldiers had laid down their lives in clashes with the People's Liberation Army of China at Galwan Valley on June 15. Havildar Sunil Kumar from Bihta in Patna was also martyred in in the clash. His body had reached Patna on Wednesday and was cremated on Thursday. The martyr from Bhojpur was cremated on his ancestral land on the bank of the Asani river at Gyanpura village under Jagdishpur block of the district. Jagdishpur circle officer Jairam Prasad Singh said martyr’s father Hridayanand Singh lit the funeral pyre. “Chandan’s three more brothers are serving in the Army,” he added. Agriculture minister Prem Kumar, RJD MLA Ram Bishun Singh Lohia, Agiyaon JD(U) MLA Prabhu Nath Ram, DM Roshan Kushwaha, SP Sushil Kumar and several others attended the cremation. In Vaishali, the martyr was cremated at Baba Garinath ghat situated on the bank of the Gandak river. The martyr’s father, Raj Kapoor Singh, lit the funeral pyre. RCD minister Nand Kishore Yadav, labour minister Vijay Kumar Sinha and others were present at the ghat. Martyr Singh’s another brother is also in the Army. His father said he would be happy if his two more sons, who are still studying, join the Army. In Samastipur, martyr Aman was cremated on the bank of the Ganga, about 5km from his native village Sultanpur in Mohiuddinnagar block. Aman’s younger brother Raj Aryan, who is also in Army, performed the last rites as the condition of his father, a heart patient, had deteriorated. Planning and development minister Maheshwar Hazari, Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha and some other VIPs attended the cremation. In Saharsa, martyr Kundan was cremated on his ancestral land at Aaran village. The scene was very emotional as his five-year-old son, Roshan, lit funeral pyre. PHED minister Vinod Narayan Jha, SC/ST welfare minister Ramesh Rishidev and others attended cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-martyrs-cremated-with-full-military-honours/articleshow/76472810.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Pandemic prompts people to explore their creative side||PATNA: From learning music and dance to cooking different delicacies, reading books and watching web series, people managed to indulge themselves in various activities in these trying times of Covid-19 pandemic. Teenagers and children, who stay indoors following closure of educational institutions, said they learned several creative things during the crisis. Hansika (17), a student of Notre Dame Academy, said she has learned painting abstract art. “I have always tried to learn different forms of painting, including pop art. During the lockdown, I got enough time to work on these skills. My art teacher gives me lessons via online platforms,” she said. Kankarbagh resident Shreya Sinha, who recently returned to the city from Pune, has self-quarantined herself for 21 days. “In order to not feel isolated, I have started learning Spanish by attending online workshops and webinars. I love watching Spanish movies, but most of them are not in English. Hence, it will also help me understand the language used by the actors,” the 22-year-old said. Some people said they have got used to staying indoors. “I used to feel quite alone in the beginning. However, I soon started utilising the time in doing things I couldn’t do because of work pressure. For me, good home cooked food is like a solace. I have learned to cook at least 25 dishes, including ‘chhole bhature’ and garlic bread,” said Ananya Chandra, a collegian. Meanwhile, several people are spending pandemic reading and watching movies and web series. “I recently discovered my love for documentaries and dramas. I have downloaded several dramas, including ‘As You Like It’ of Shakespeare. Since the pandemic is likely to stay for several months, I have made myself mentally prepared for it,” said Rajshri Prasad, an undergraduate. Several fitness freaks, who used to spend hours at gyms, have switched to yoga and meditation for staying fit. “Yoga, in comparison to working out at gyms, is much more relaxing. Not only does it stretches the muscles, but also increases flexibility. Besides, it doesn’t require use of external machines and helps me in relying on my body,” said Satyam, a resident of Boring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pandemic-prompts-people-to-explore-their-creative-side/articleshow/76472638.cms||Archi Rani
June 20, 2020||Patna||Nitish: Make interstate bus terminus ready by July-end||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar inspected the interstate bus terminus, which is under construction, at Ramachak Bairiya on Patna-Gaya Road on Friday asked the agencies concerned to make the facility ready at the earliest. “People from across the state will be benefited once the ISBT becomes operational. Work on this project should be expedited,” Nitish said. A senior official said the CM asked the agencies concerned to make the facility ready by the end of July, so that it may be inaugurated by August. “Work is in the final stages and it will be expedited as per the instructions issued by the CM,” he said. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Buidco) is the nodal agency for the project and it is being executed by Mumbai-based Shapoorji Palanji Private Limited. The construction work on the project started in December 2017 and the project is being executed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 300 crore. The upcoming ISBT, spread over an area of 25.46 acres, will have state-of-the-art infrastructure with Wi-Fi, multi-level car parking, safety and security measures and quality passenger amenities, among others. The multi-storey buildings will accommodate bus terminus as well as commercial establishments. “The ISBT will have the capacity to facilitate 3,000 bus trips per day and around 1.50 lakh passengers are expected to use the facility on a daily basis. The parking bays in the facility will have 73 departure platforms, 70 arrival platforms, 51 idle parking (city buses) bays and three workshop areas for maintenance and servicing of buses,” an executive of the construction agency said. The executive added that the ISBT complex will have four blocks – A, B, C and D. “While Block A will be for arrival of buses, Block B will be used for departure. Block C will create a link between blocks A and B. Block D, on the other hand, will be dedicated for commercial purpose,” he said. According to sources, the ISBT will act as a transit point for buses running between Bihar and neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Apart from parking bays for buses, the complex will have several other utility structures, including dormitory-cum-workshop station for drivers with capacity to accommodate 200 drivers at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-make-interstate-bus-terminus-ready-by-july-end/articleshow/76472984.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar Cong keeps Rahul’s birthday a low-key affair||PATNA: Even as former Congress president Rahul Gandhi turned 50 on Friday, the party’s state unit avoided any celebration and instead gathered at Sadaquat Ashram here to pay homage to the soldiers who laid down their lives in clashes with the People's Liberation Army of China at Galwan Valley on June 15. The party also distributed food among the poor to mark the day. It also cancelled the launch of its digital membership drive programme in view of the India-China tension and coronavirus pandemic. A condolence meet was held at Sadaquat Ashram to pay tributes to the martyrs. While presiding over the condolence meet, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee working president Sameer Kumar Singh said China’s PLA attacked Indian forces from the back and used sharp weapons. “People demand revenge from China,” Singh said. Party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha visited the house of martyr Aman Kumar Singh in Samastipur and handed over a condolence letter sent by Rahul Gandhi. He also met family members of martyr Jai Kishore Singh at his Vaishali residence. State Congress working president Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj said, “We distributed food packets among the poor. But that was not to celebrate Rahulji’s birthday, but help those in distress. Also, 20 of our brave soldiers have laid down their lives for the country and this food distribution was like food given on ‘shradh’. Our party functionaries are visiting the houses of martyrs and meeting their family members. We will do whatever little we can for them.” State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said the party had earlier planned to celebrate the day as ‘Seva Diwas’ on a large scale. “Though food distribution was in the list to do, we kept it a simple affair. We have also postponed the launch of our digital membership drive.” Meanwhile, the youth wing of the state Congress distributed dry food material among the needy people. Its president Gunjan Patel demanded Rs 7,500 per month to each poor family and 200 days of work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-cong-keeps-rahuls-birthday-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/76472772.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 20, 2020||Patna||21 cops dismissed for ’16 Gopalganj hooch tragedy||PATNA: Altogether 21 police personnel, including three sub-inspectors, have been dismissed from service for negligence of duty, which had led to infamous Khajurbanni hooch tragedy in Gopalganj on August 16, 2016. The tragedy had left 16 people dead. A notification regarding the dismissal of the police persons was issued by the state police headquarters on Friday Deputy inspector general (Saran range) Vijay Kumar Verma said among those dismissed from service were three sub-inspectors, five assistant sub-inspectors and 13 constables, who were then posted at Town police station in Gopalganj district when the tragedy struck the families. The punitive action was initiated against the police personnel after they were held guilty in departmental proceedings. Verma said the SPs of the districts concerned have been provided the list of the erring police personnel. “All the police personnel posted at the Town police station were put under suspension following the incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-cops-dismissed-for-16-gopalganj-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/76472995.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar seeks ST status for Noniya caste||PATNA: The state government has decided to recommend to the Centre that people of Noniya caste found in the state be considered synonymous with the Khariya tribal group, paving the way for their eventual inclusion in Scheduled Tribes (ST) category by the Centre. In Bihar, Noniya caste has otherwise been put in the extremely backward caste (EBC) category. A predominant section of the Khariya tribal group is found in Odisha, followed by Jharkhand, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. However, since 2015, the leaders of Noniya caste, along with that of Nishad and Mallah EBCs, had become active demanding from the state government that it recommend to the Centre for their inclusion in the ST category. Sources said the state government has decided to take the initiative with regard to the social status change of the Noniya caste on the directive of CM Nitish Kumar. The recommendation would be sent to the ST programme ministry at the Centre for consideration. Incidentally, when the state government had recommended to the Centre for the same in 2018, the ST programme ministry had returned it with the advisory that it also prepare a detailed ethnographic report on these castes and duly submit them to it for consideration. Accordingly, the state government asked the A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies (ANSISS) to prepare the detailed ethnographic report on the Noniyas. In the backdrop of this report, the state government has come round to the view that the Noniyas, even though they had been put in the EBC category, had more similarities with the Khariya tribal group. Accordingly, on the directive of the CM, it has been decided to recommend to the central ST programme ministry that the Noniyas be treated as synonymous with the Khariya ST group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-seeks-st-status-for-noniya-caste/articleshow/76472841.cms||Abhay Singh
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||MP government to move SC over GI tag for Basmati-growing regions||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the Madras High Court's ruling in the matter of not providing GI (geographical indication) tag to the state's Basmati rice- growing regions, state minister Kamal Patel said on Friday. Earlier this year, the state government and a Basmati growers association lost two separate cases in the Madras high court filed in 2016, challenging the exclusion of 13 districts of the state from a map submitted by the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) for GI tags. “We are traditional growers of high-quality basmati rice. However, our farmers have not been getting the right price for the produce because of the lack of GI (geographical indication) tag,” the state agriculture minister said. After reviewing the situation, the matter has been filed in Supreme Court on May 28 and the hearing will begin soon, Patel said, adding that the government will take all possible measures to protect the interest of farmers. The matter dates back to 2008 when the APEDA filed an application before the Chennai-based assistant registrar of GI seeking GI-Tag for the basmati rice. In 2010, the state government had opposed the APEDA's application on the ground that it had excluded 13 basmati- producing districts, following which the authority directed APEDA to again file its application along with a map clearly showing areas where the rice is actually cultivated. However, the APEDA moved to Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB) against the authority and since then the litigation in the matter is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-to-move-sc-over-gi-tag-for-basmati-growing-regions/articleshow/76473191.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fresh CISCE instructions likely for remaining tests||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations is likely to issue fresh instructions next week on how the remaining ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) examinations will be held after several affiliated schools flagged their concerns on Friday. The schools mentioned issues including if a candidate can appear for some exams but be absent for others due to genuine reasons and whether carrying bags on the campus can be banned during examinations. On Friday, council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon dismissed proposals from several schools who were planning to ask parents to submit either a self-declaration form, a medical certificate or an RT-PCR test report for students coming from containment zones. “We have been clearly given instructions against seeking any self-declaration or undertaking from parents of students who choose to appear in the examinations. We have been told to only adhere to the instructions provided by the Council,” said principal of Rammohan Mission School Sujoy Biswas. A school in central Kolkata which had sought guidelines from a hospital before holding the remaining ICSE and ISC exams from July 1 also submitted the hospital’s health advisory, which included recording the temperature of the student at the examination hall, filling up a self-declaration form, wearing N95 mask on campus, sanitization of hand, bags and desks, keeping more than 3ft distance among students and sanitizing surfaces every three hours. There were two issues doing the rounds among principals after Friday’s meeting. “There are several teachers — seniors with health issues — who are in two minds about invigilation. Additionally, some schools have not preserved the pre-board exam marks of 2018-2019,” said a principal. A school that made RT-PCR test reports mandatory for students from containment zones indicated they have withdrawn the circular. On Friday, the principal said the school will wait for a verdict from Bombay High Court before taking a final call. St James School principal T H Ireland had earlier decided to ask each candidate to submit a medical certificate on the first day of the exam. “Since the council has requested schools to refrain from seeking any such certificate, we shall follow the instructions,” Ireland said. CISCE has asked schools not to put any pressure on parents over the decision to allow students to appear for the exams. In addition, schools have been asked to submit the pre-board exam marks for the last academic year — 2018-2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-cisce-instructions-likely-for-remaining-tests/articleshow/76473040.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Unable to attend online classes, Howrah girl kills self||HOWRAH: A Class X girl committed suicide in Howrah’s Nischinda on Thursday for not being able to attend her school’s online classes as she didn’t have a computer or a smartphone. The deceased, Shibani Kumari Sau (16), was found hanging in her room at Nischinda’s Rajchandrapur on Thursday evening. No suicide note was found in the room. Shibani’s father Santu Sau, a truck owner-cum-driver, said his daughter studied in an English-medium school in Bally. “Shibani was my youngest child. Before lockdown 1.0, my wife, my eldest son and I went to our native home in Bihar’s Samastipur. Shibani and my other son Shivom stayed back at Nischinda. Shibani and Shivom shared a smartphone, which got damaged after it accidentally fell from Shivom’s hand on March 26. They could not get it repaired during the lockdown. The mobile repairing shop did not open during the first phase of unlocking. Shibani’s online classes commenced 10 days ago. Shibani was fearing she would fail as she was not being able to attend online classes. She was very depressed. She had called me on Wednesday from another mobile phone — a push button handset — and informed me of her concerns. I told her that I would get back to Nischinda and buy her a smartphone. I asked her not to get disheartened and gather the class notes she had missed from her classmates. I obviously couldn’t drive it into her,” Santu said. On Thursday afternoon, Shivom had left for his cricket practice after lunch. On returning around 6pm, Shivom grew suspicious after Shibani didn’t open the door despite his repeated knocks. On looking through a window, Shivom was shocked to see his sister hanging from a door panel inside. He called in the neighbours. Nischinda police station was informed and cops arrived and sent the girl’s body for a post-mortem. An inconsolable Santu said, “I was shocked when I got a call from the police station. I drove through the night and returned here. She was my favourite child. God grabbed her from me.” A senior police officer said, “An investigation has started. We haven’t found a suicide note. Preliminary investigation shows the girl took her life out of depression over not being able to pursue her studies. We have heard she was a good student.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unable-to-attend-online-classes-girl-kills-self/articleshow/76473056.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 20, 2020||Surat||Covid alert for a community in Surat||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has sounded a specific Covid-19 alert for a community whose 25% population suffers from a genetic blood disorder called G6PD deficiency that affects the red blood cells. SMC has asked members of Vataliya Prajapati to take ‘extra care’ as they cannot be administered drugs like hydrochloroquine as they could lead to severe internal bleeding. Nearly 1.5 lakh Vataliya Prajapati community people live in Surat and majority of them in Katargam zone, which has turned into a Covid-19 hotspot with nearly 700 cases. Dr Parul Vadgama, head of department (HOD), respiratory medicine, New Civil Hospital (NCH), told TOI, “About 20-25% males and 13-15% females in this community have G6PD deficiency. The state government must make G6PD test mandatory for patients from this community if they test Covid-19 positive.” Nandlal Pandav, president of Vataliya Prajapati Samaj, who suffers from this disorder, told TOI: “Covid-19 is a huge challenge for the community. We have already communicated to our people to take extra precautions to protect themselves from the infection.” Pandav said around two weeks ago, nearly 200 from the community had gathered for the funeral of an elderly man who died in Katargam. Of these, around 20 community members tested positive for Covid-19. SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said, “We had organized a meeting with Vataliya Prajapati leaders over this issue and special teams have been assigned to look after the community members. There is a special line of treatment if anyone from this community tests positive for Covid-19.” Subject of researchSurat: Vataliya Prajapatis have been a subject of research among scientists for the high prevalence of G6PD deficiency. Dr S R Joshi, immunology and haematology researcher, told TOI: "Our study done 20 years ago found that 27% people in this community, mostly males, suffer from this enzyme deficiency. Vataliya Prajapatis work in diamond and textile industries, education, medical and legal fields and government too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-alert-for-a-community-in-surat/articleshow/76473567.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||At Rs 35,000 crore, Ruchi Soya’s m-cap nears large companies like Tata Motors||MUMBAI: Ruchi Soya, a company that began the year under the ambit of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and was subsequently taken over by Patanjali Ayurved, currently has a market capitalisation of nearly Rs 35,000 crore, placing it close to that of large companies like Tata Motors and Tata Steel. The edible oil company is also valued more than Hindustan Petroleum, Hindalco and Bosch, each among the top companies in their respective sector. Ruchi Soya’s stock started the year at Rs 16.9 and has rallied almost non-stop to its Friday close at Rs 1,181, a 52-week high. During this period, it was often locked at the 5% upper circuit. The 52-week low for the stock was Rs 3.28, BSE data showed. So far this year, Ruchi Soya’s stock has risen 70 times. And from its year-low figure, the rise has been a phenomenal 360 times. Currently, Ruchi Soya stock is under BSE’s additional surveillance mechanism (ASM) that kicks in when, among other reasons, a stock hits upper circuit continuously. One of the reasons for this spurt in its share price is the low floating stock in the market. Right now, just 0.97% of the company’s total total equity of 29.6 crore shares is with the public, while its promoters hold 99.03%, or about 28.6 crore shares, its latest shareholding pattern on the BSE showed. Patanjali Ayurved holds 48.2%, Divya Yog Mandir Trust 20.3%, Patanjali Parivahan 16.9% and Patanjali Gramodhyog Nyas 13.5%. Market players said Ruchi Soya’s takeover by Patanjali, run by yoga guru Baba Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna, is expected to help it turn around its fortunes and hence the strong investor interest. As part of the deal under IBC, lenders approved Patanjali’s Rs 4,350-crore bid. Under the deal, Patanjali was also required to infuse another Rs 450 crore through the preferential allotment route, which is yet to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-rs-35000cr-ruchi-soyas-mcap-nears-large-cos-like-tamo/articleshow/76473099.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Lovebirds commit suicide in Bihra's Gopalganj||PATNA: Apparently unhappy over parents’ decision to marry her with another man, an 18-year-old girl and her 21-year-old fiance allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison at Adampur village under Majha police station in Gopalganj district on Friday. The incident took place nine days before the girl’s wedding was scheduled to be solemnized on June 28. While the girl died on the spot, the youth breathed his last on way to Gorakhpur. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said no suicide note was recovered. However, prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide. “The police will probe the case from different angles. As of now, it seems that they committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance. The autopsy report will throw more light on the matter. The bodies were sent to the Sadar hospital for postmortem,” he said. An investigating officer said the girl and her boyfriend belonged to the same caste, but their families were opposed to their marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lovebirds-commit-suicide-in-gopalganj/articleshow/76473009.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Widespread rainfall in Bihar till June 22: Met||PATNA: The state capital received 87mm rainfall since Thursday night. Heavy rainfall was also reported at one or two places over south Bihar, northwest and north central parts during the past 24 hours. Southwest monsoon, which made its onset in Bihar on June 13, has been quite active over the state since then. India Meteorological Department stated that Bihar was expected to witness widespread rainfall till June 22 (Monday). The places which received significant rainfall included Lakhisarai (150mm), Garhi (90mm), Arwal, Patna, Saraiya, Jalalpur, Marhaura and Amanpur (80mm each) and Sripalpur, Galgalia, Rewaghat, Jehanabad, Darauli, Barhaiya (60mm each). Patna weather office on Friday stated that rainfall with thunderstorm was likely to occur at many places over Bihar on Saturday and Sunday as well. The prevailing spell of weather has been attributed to three weather systems in the region. A trough line was passing from south Uttar Pradesh to south Assam across Jharkhand and West Bengal on Friday. Besides, a cyclonic circulation was situated over south Assam and its neighbourhood. Another cyclonic circulation was situated over southeast Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood. “Moisture incursion from the trough line along with the two cyclonic circulations in the region is leading to good rainfall over Bihar and neighbouring states. This rainy spell is likely to prevail at least till Sunday,” a senior official at Patna Meteorological Centre said. The northern limit of monsoon was passing through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widespread-rainfall-till-june-22-met/articleshow/76471957.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 20, 2020||Business||25% Indians willing to stop insurance premiums: Survey||MUMBAI: Over one fourth of Indian policyholders are willing to sacrifice property and life insurance premium payments to ease their financial burden, according to an Asia-Pacific survey by global reinsurer Swiss Re. At the same time, Indian consumers are second-most active in Asia-Pacific in seeking insurance, driven by financial and mental health concerns. Swiss Re conducted a consumer survey after the Covid-19 pandemic began to understand the reaction of consumers to the crisis. Almost a third of consumers in India are feeling overwhelmed or anxious about their financial future — the second highest among APAC markets surveyed after Japan. Also, 64% of the consumers surveyed are concerned about their mental health — the highest of all surveyed markets. In India, the survey was conducted in Mumbai and Bengaluru and has implications for persistency of insurance policies. In the case of motor insurance, the regulator has taken proactive action by withdrawing an earlier directive mandating sale of only long-term policies — three-years for cars and five years for two-wheelers. “To make up for this financial strain, many Indian consumers were happy to sacrifice home or motor insurance (28%), while a quarter would cut life insurance premiums (25%) to help ease the burden. These were some of the highest figures in the region,” Swiss Re head (P&C client markets for India) Amitabha Ray said in a report. Swiss Re said that Australians are the most likely country to give up their life insurance when under financial pressures. Over 1 in 4 (28%) said that if they were financially disadvantaged due to Covid-19, they would sacrifice their life insurance premiums. In China, the number willing to give up life insurance (25%) is same as in India. At the same time, Indian consumers are among the most active and engaged when it comes to insurance, trailing only China for researching new policies and satisfaction levels, proving the potential and importance of insurance in this growing market. More than any other surveyed market, a higher number of Indian consumers noticed additional benefits after researching policies recently, with 63% saying they discovered new features such as Covid-19 testing and unlimited hospital cover. “Along with being proactive, Indian consumers’ trust in insurers paying out on valid claims is high, with 61% agreeing with this statement and almost all (95%) felt that insurers are being just as proactive or more so than similar providers during this time,” said Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/25-indians-willing-to-stop-insurance-premiums-survey/articleshow/76472816.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Overnight rainfall leaves many areas in city waterlogged||PATNA: The overnight rain caused waterlogging in several areas of the state capital, including Patliputra Colony, Kadamkuan, Lohanipur, Rajendra Nagar, Rajvanshi Nagar and Kankarbagh on Friday. The residents in the areas claimed that despite years of complaining and the so-called measures taken by the authorities, they are forced to face waterlogging troubles in just a few hours of rain. Attributing improper garbage disposal and inadequate drainage as the main reasons for waterlogging in some localities of Patliputra Colony, secretary of Pataliputra Vikas Manch Abhay Nandan said he received many complaints and thereafter got several drains cleaned on Friday as water had entered many houses. “People are afraid of rain as they have still not forgot the last year’s waterlogging damaging their household goods and furniture besides causing much hardships like lack of food and drinking water,” he said. Md Faisal of Patliputra Colony said the Nehru Nagar drain was choked by garbage due to which several localities were facing waterlogging woes. A similar situation was in Rajvanshi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar and Lohanipur, where commuters faced problems of accumulated rainwater. Vishal Kumar of Bahadurpur Shyam Mandir lane, which was submerged in water, said: “In just a few hours of rainfall, a situation like this has occurred. I fear what will happen in the coming days if monsoon rain continues,” he said. Several roads in Kadamkuan and Lohanipur are also dug up for laying pipes, making the situation worse for the residents. Shivam Shrivastava at Congress Maidan Road in Kadamkuan said he was not prepared for waterlogging this year. “Given the tall government claims, I hoped we would not face a bad situation this time. However, rainwater has accumulated near my house in Saraswati Lane since Thursday afternoon,” he said. Bhanwar Pokhar residents also face waterlogging even after light spell of rain. Shadan Imam said: “The new neighbouring roads lead to waterlogging in Bhanwar Pokhar. As they are much higher, the water gets collected in my locality. This is not a new thing; it has been happening for years and the authorities don’t seem to care about it.” Senior officials in urban development and housing department (UDHD), however, claimed that despite incessant rain for several hours on Thursday, they were able to remove water from most waterlogged areas in the city. “From construction of sump houses to installation of pumps, several steps have been taken to keep the city free from waterlogging. And keeping in mind the rainfall for nearly 12 hours last night, the situation would have been worse. But it’s like an achievement for us as accumulated water from most areas was drained out within three-four hours. Besides, several works that got delayed due to unavailability of several items are being done now. I am sure things would be very different in a month or two,” UDHD secretary Anand Kishor said. PMC Commissioner Himanshu Sharma said areas like Congress Maidan Road, Jagat Narayan Road, Rajendra Nagar road number 1, 2 and 13B, Indra Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Ram Krishna Nagar, MIG Colony and Patliputra Colony were the topmost priority and several steps were being taken to discharge accumulated water. “A diesel pump has been installed in Rajendra Nagar and pumps are being used to remove water from Kankarbagh area,” he said. He said there were issues in drainage system and sump houses in the city last year. “The situation this time is very different and things are under control. We have even identified several points that need to be focused,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/overnight-rainfall-leaves-many-areas-in-city-waterlogged/articleshow/76471861.cms||Archi Rani
June 20, 2020||Business||USCIS rescinds memos restrictive for H-1Bs||Mumbai: US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the immigration agency of the Trump administration, has rescinded two controversial policy memos that targeted H-1B visa applications filed by IT service and consulting companies. While clearly articulating that officials adjudicating H-1B visa applications should not apply the rescinded policy memos, the immigration agency has issued fresh guidance. These steps follow the favourable summary court order won by ITServe Alliance, a large coalition of IT service companies in the US, run mainly by Indian-Americans. TOI had front-paged coverage of this judgment in its edition of March 12. Subsequently, USCIS had entered into a settlement agreement with ITServe on May 20. USCIS states in its new guidance (introduced by a fresh policy memo dated July 17) that it will abstain from the application of the itinerary requirement. The now rescinded February 2018 policy memo required IT service companies, which typically place their employees at third-party customer sites, to file detailed itineraries of their H-1B visa holders as also customer contracts. USCIS adds that a sponsoring employer is not required by existing regulations to submit contracts or legal agreements between it and third parties. However, the sponsoring employer must demonstrate eligibility for the H-1B visa sought. For determination of the employer-employee relationship, USCIS calls upon its officials to not apply the earlier 2010 policy memo (also known as the Neufeld Memo), which now stands rescinded. This memo had created a restrictive definition of employer-employee relationships. “Under the Immigration and Naturalization Service Regulation, 1991, an employer-employee relationship is evidenced by some aspect of control, which can be shown in various ways, be it the ability to hire, to pay, to fire, to supervise or to control. USCIS had abandoned this regulation and required assignment of day-to-day tasks to show that an employer-employee relationship existed,” explains Immigration.com managing attorney Rajiv Khanna. Under the new guidance, a USCIS official is only required to consider whether the sponsoring employer meets at least one of the “hire, pay, fire, supervise, or otherwise control the work of” factors with respect to the beneficiary (for whom the H-1B visa is being sought).USCIS has in the past called for requests for evidence in many cases to determine whether or not the job position was a speciality occupation. Rejection rates, based on this ground, were also high. Immigration experts and companies contacted by TOI expect that, under the revised guidelines, the approach will be more tempered. Under the new guidance, if an official approves of an H-1B application but for a lesser validity period than requested, he or she must explain the reason for such a decision. The policy memos that now stand rescinded had resulted in a higher rate of denial of new H-1B applications filed by IT service companies, rising from 2% in fiscal 2015 to over 30% in fiscal 2019, according to the National Foundation for America Policy. Amid the uncertainty that currently prevails on whether US President Trump will, in the coming days, introduce a temporary ban on H-1B visas, this step by USCIS is being hailed as a significant victory for IT service companies and H-1B workers (a major chunk of which are Indians). “USCIS’s 180-degree turn today represents a significant victory to all H-1B stakeholders, it demonstrates the importance of lawsuits via US federal courts, which cast light on USCIS’s shadowy adjudication processes,” sums up Florida-based immigration attorney Ashwin Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uscis-rescinds-memos-restrictive-for-h-1bs/articleshow/76472988.cms||Lubna Kably
June 20, 2020||Business||Record 1.2bn new game downloads in 1 week: Report||Mumbai: Lockdowns around the world have resulted in housebound folks exploring different forms of entertainment. Besides the popularity of video-streaming services, mobile gaming activity has also been on the rise. There were a record 1.2 billion new game downloads in the week starting March 29, according to a joint report by App Annie and IDC. It found the download surges followed right after countries went into various stages of lockdown. Worldwide, users downloaded 35% more mobile games per week in March than in January this year. The report has also found a correlation between the time spent at home during the lockdown in various countries, including India, and the rise in mobile gaming activity. It provided a source of entertainment as well as a social connection through online multiplayer modes. “In March-April, it was children who were playing games because they could not go out. In May, even parents started playing the same games,” explained e-sports company Nodwin Gaming’s MD & co-founder Akshat Rathee. “We are now looking at 335% increase in registration for our tournaments, 250% increase in viewership, 198% increase in watch times.” The downloads also reflected user preferences towards certain game genres. While casual games were one of the most popular genres in the peak weeks as compared to Q42019, the time spent playing action games also saw a significant increase. According to the report, action games accounted for the most time spent among game genres in Q12020 by at least a factor of 8 and saw the greatest growth quarter-over-quarter. Worldwide, sub-genres like Woodturning (simulation), Ludo King (board) and Gardenscapes — New Acres (casual) were among the most downloaded games during this period. In India, the top five grossing mobile games (iOS and Google Play combined) in Q12020 were PUBG Mobile, Free Fire, Coin Master, Teen Patti and Candy Crush Saga. “In our products, we have seen time consumption shoot up anywhere between 40% and 60% per user on an average in this period,” said Rajan Navani, vice-chairman & MD of JetSynthesys, which has developed games like Sachin Saga Cricket Champions and Super Ludo. “Before the pandemic, users used to play mainly for 2-3 hours on an average daily basis. We witnessed a spike in the time spent up to 10-12 hours in a day when offices were shut and people were locked inside their homes. Earlier, maximum tournaments were played during late evenings. However, users started to play maximum tournaments and games during the afternoon time period as well,” pointed out Yash Pariani, CEO & founder of e-sports company Indian Gaming League (IGL). According to the App Annie-IDC report, even though games only represent about 40% of the total downloads, they made up around 70% of the consumer spend. “The spending that goes into app stores is predominantly coming from games. However, in the first quarter this year, (consumer spend) has actually grown at a much faster rate than what we have observed in previous years,” said Donny Kristianto, senior market insights manager, App Annie. “In India, a large part of the monetisation for mobile games comes through advertising. The rates during this time have actually gone down because advertisers are fewer as there is no opportunity for the user to buy products from the market. However, time spent on games has increased at the same time, so the reduction in terms of rates have been neutralised to keep revenues roundabout with a 10-20% growth,” said Navani. That said, there is a segment that is still willing to spend in this climate. “The total spend ability for those who pay for video-streaming services has increased. This is because they are not eating out and traveling as much. Most of these people still have jobs,” said Rathee. “We have grown to 60% in terms of revenue till now, since the lockdown began. I believe that this is eventually going to get bigger in the coming months,” said Pariani. Since 2014, mobile gaming has grown larger than any other forms of gaming combined. Now, according to the report, it is set to extend its global lead to 2.8 times that of PC/Mac gaming and 3.1 times that of home game consoles in 2020. This is driven by both an increase in consumers and spend per user.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/record-1-2bn-new-game-downloads-in-1-week-report/articleshow/76473486.cms||Ashutosh Desai
June 20, 2020||Allahabad||HC turns down contempt plea against KVT development work||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday dismissed a contempt petition alleging that the construction activity in Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple and surrounding areas is being carried out by Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board in disobedience of the interim order of this court dated July 27, 2012, which restrained raising of any construction within 200 meters from the highest flood level at the banks of river Ganga in Varanasi. Dismissing the contempt petition filed by Pradeep Kumar Srivastava and two others, Justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani said that it has been filed with oblique motives and imposed a cost (fine) of Rs. 5,000 on each of the applicants, which shall be deposited by them separately within one month to Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board. Terming the petition as frivolous, the court observed, “No case for contempt has been made out by the applicants. The contempt application has been filed by the applicants with oblique motive, so as to impede development work being carried by the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board in larger public interest, for pious cause and for protection of environment and cleanliness of the river Ganga.” The petitioners had alleged that despite the interim order dated July 27, 2012, passed in Kautilya Society’s case regarding restriction on construction within 200 meters of the bank of river Ganga in Varanasi, the chief executive officer of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board has issued a tender notice inviting tenders for certain constructions/ development work in Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple and surrounding areas, which fall within 200 meters from the highest flood level of river Ganga in Varanasi. The entire development work is being carried out within 200 meters of river Ganga. The restriction with regard to the construction has not been lifted by the writ court. Therefore, the chief executive officer of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board has wilfully disobeyed the interim order of the writ court passed in the aforesaid PIL in the Kautilya Society’s case, thus has been rendered liable for punishment under contempt of court Act, the petitioners added. Rejecting all the pleas of the petitioners, the court said that the applicants have wilfully tried to mislead this court. Despite specific order, they failed to categorically state in the affidavit as to what constructions are contrary to the interim order dated July 27, 2012, in Kautilya Society’s case. Thus, no case for wilful disobedience of the order of the writ court dated July 27, 2012, passed in Kautilya Society’s case, has been made out. Instead, this contempt application is based on gross suppression and concealment of material facts and misleading averments, which itself are contemptuous in nature, the court further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-contempt-plea-against-kvt-development-work/articleshow/76470542.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Two BSP MLAs vote for BJP, leave supporters confused||BHOPAL: Ahead of bypolls on 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh, the two BSP MLAs who had earlier supported the Kamal Nath-led Congress government voted in favour of BJP candidates in Rajya Sabha election on Friday. Both Rambai and Sanjeev Singh admitted to have voted in favour of BJP Rajya Sabha candidates. “Yes, I voted for the BJP candidate,” Patharia MLA Rambai told TOI adding that BSP supremo Mayawati had not issued any directive on Rajya Sabha polls. Sanjeev Singh, the MLA from Bhind, said, “I am the chief party whip and did not issue one for the RS election. I voted for BJP.” There were reports earlier that BSP would contest all 24 bypolls, 16 of which are in the Gwalior-Chambal region, where BSP has a presence owing to the caste equation. Asked if BSP intended to contest the bypolls, Rambai, the more vocal of the two, said, “At the moment, it is not clear if Behenji (Mayawati) will field party candidates for bypolls. “ Among the 24 seats is Gohad in Bhind district, where Scindia supporter Ranveer Jatav crossed over to BJP. BSP MLA Sanjeev Singh, who represents Bhind constituency, said, “We are unsure about contesting the bypolls to be held on 24 seats, but the elections are important.” Asked how he would face the electorate in Bhind, after supporting BJP in RS polls, if he canvasses for the BSP candidate from Gohad, Singh said, “These are two different issues.” When Congress was in power, both MLAs supported Congress. “As it (Congress) was considered closer to BSP than BJP,” Singh explained. BSP voters and local leaders are confused, said party sources. “In 2018, during the SC/ST Anti-Atrocities Act agitation, in which six people were killed in Gwalior-Chambal region, BSP cadres were beaten up by police. BJP was in power then. Cases were registered against them. But now, the party seems to have gone closer to BJP as is evident by its voting in favour of BJP candidates in RS polls,” a party leader said. Repeated attempts to talk to state BSP president Ramakant Pippal did not yield any result. He did not reply to text messages, either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-bsp-mlas-vote-for-bjp-leave-supporters-confused/articleshow/76473266.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Private hospitals in Mumbai flout state cap on PPE rates, continue to overcharge||MUMBAI: Nearly a month after the state government capped Covid-19 treatment charges at private hospitals, incidents of overcharging continue to be reported. Mulund resident Rahul Ahire recently lodged a complaint with the state authorities and the police for allegedly being charged exorbitantly for personal protective equipment (PPE) and treatment during his 11-day hospitalization at Manisha Universal Multispecialty Hospital in Mulund. Hospitals TOI spoke to said a quality PPE is priced at Rs 1,000. Ahire, a 30-year-old sales executive, said he was charged Rs 3,000 per day for PPE in the general ward and Rs 5,000 after he was shifted to the ICU. Similarly, he was charged Rs 1,000 for gloves used in the ICU and half the price in the general ward. After testing positive for the infection, he was initially taken to a civic quarantine centre where he developed breathing difficulty. His family then decided to shift him to a private hospital. Ahire got admitted to Manisha Hospital on June 5 in a general ward but had to be shifted to an ICU the next day after his oxygen saturation level dropped to 88. “I was billed over Rs 80,000 for consumables. I was charged Rs 12,000 for a dozen face shields and another Rs 12,000 for 12 N95 masks. Overall, my bill rose to 3.5 lakh for a few days of ICU care where I needed only oxygen support. After negotiations, the hospital waived Rs 47,000,” said Ahire, adding he also had to pay a deposit of Rs 2 lakh at the time of admission. Despite repeated attempts, the hospital could not be reached for comment. The state had come out with a notification on April 30 and later it issued a revised notification on May 21, capping the prices of treatment. It had also stated that hospitals cannot charge more than 10% of their net procurement cost for consumables such as PPEs. Three months into the epidemic, the cost of PPEs has drastically dropped with greater availability. Mihir Kotecha, BJP MLA from Mulund, has cited the case of another local hospital where patients were charged Rs 3,000 for PPEs, and Rs 800 for each face shield and N95 mask. “Five IAS-level officers are supposed to check that the charges are being complied with but that’s clearly not happening,” he said, adding there was an urgent need to strictly cap charges of consumables. A senior state official said implementation of the notification rests with the BMC. “The IAS officers are supposed to keep an eye on profiteering by private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-hosps-in-city-flout-state-cap-on-ppe-rates-continue-to-overcharge/articleshow/76473269.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 20, 2020||Goa||Schools advised to tune in to Fit India’s Yoga Day programme||Panaji: The director of education has asked heads of schools to advise students and teaching fraternity to tune in to the special programme to celebrate International Yoga Day on Sunday. Renowned fitness icon Shilpa Shetty will conduct the live session on the Fit India Youtube channel while the minister for youth affairs and sports along with two sports icons are likely to join the live session. The Fit India Mission is conducting the campaign for overall physical, emotional and mental well-being of school students, especially during the lockdown. “All heads of government/government aided/unaided/primary/secondary/higher secondary and special schools are advised to share this with all the students, teaching fraternity so that maximum number of students and their families can benefit from the programme,” director of education Vandana Rao stated in a circular issued on Friday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-advised-to-tune-in-to-fit-indias-yoga-day-programme/articleshow/76474274.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Five more deaths in Bihar, Covid-19 cases cross 7,000-mark||PATNA: For the second consecutive day on Friday, five Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bihar, taking the toll to 49 even as the total number of coronavirus patients crossed the 7,000 mark with 250 new cases taking the total to 7,290 in the state. With 5,098 recoveries, the number of active cases stand at 2,142. Among Friday’s cases, 15 were reported from Patna, including 11 from Naubatpur, one from Punpun and one from Kadamkuan in the city. The location of the other two cases was not given by the health department. While two deaths were officially reported from Darbhanga, taking the toll to five in the district, one death each was reported from Nalanda, Nawada and Saran. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the Saran native was 58 years old and had returned from Delhi on Wednesday. “His health deteriorated on the train and after reaching Patna he came to NMCH. He was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. His report confirming coronavirus came on Thursday and he died on Friday,” Kumar said. This is the fourth death of a Covid-19 positive person in Saran. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM said both the deceased were referred to Patna and had died on Thursday. “While a woman, 71, was a resident of Tarauni village in Benipur in Darbhanga and was comorbid. Her son had returned from Mumbai and both were found positive for Covid-19. Since she developed severe symptoms, she was referred to Patna from Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. Another 55-year-old male was a resident of ward 39 in Darbhanga. He died at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday,” said Thiyagrajan. No details were given by the health department regarding the deaths in Nalanda and Nawada. As per information shared by the health department, cases were reported from 19 districts with maximum 36 cases from Buxar. Other districts which reported a large number of cases include Saran with 17 people testing positive, followed by Patna with 15 cases, Samastipur with 10 and Banka and Gopalganj with seven cases each. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 187 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. In the same time period, 137 people have recovered. “Total 5,098 people have recovered from coronavirus, and they account for 71% of the total cases,” said Lokesh. He further said 1,45,562 samples have been tested so far in Bihar. Of the total positive cases registered in Bihar, 4,736 are migrants who returned to the state after May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-more-deaths-in-bihar-covid-cases-cross-7k-mark/articleshow/76473276.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private buses go off road as diesel price tops Rs 72||KOLKATA: With diesel price reaching Rs 72.5 a litre on Friday, private buses on dozen routes stayed off the roads, claiming operating services with the old fare structure would spell heavy losses. But with so few buses on roads, mostly in north Kolkata, commuters, who have already been struggling to reach workplaces, were left in a lurch. Coming to their aid, the state buses scaled up operations, with WBTC running some services in the north but that led to fewer government buses in south Kolkata. “Since June 7, there has not been a day, when diesel price did not rise. Rs 70 a litre was the threshold. After breaching it, the price rise is now crippling us. Unless there is an immediate fare revision, taking into account the possibility of further rise of diesel price, the demand-supply gap in services will plague mobility,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates secretary. WBTC on Friday ran over 1,300 buses and SBSTC 200. “But if private bus operators stop running buses, there will be a crisis. We can’t stretch our operation beyond a point and the ease in mobility that could be achieved will go,” said a transport official. Operators on Friday met the fare regulatory committee members and demanded immediate rate revision. The committee members assured the private operators of working on a formula and that they would shortly submit a report to the transport minister.  The sudden withdrawal of private buses took place at a time when commute was inching back to the “new normal”. A day earlier, many had claimed that after a long time, they did not have to wait for long to board a bus. But the diesel price rise and the consequent higher bus operation cost would upset the ease of mobility, said a transport department official. Among the routes that saw no service were 78, 203, 3C/1, 222, 201, 34C, 79, DN2, K4, 230, 234, 72 and 53. Most routes in south Kolkata ran normally. But bus operators pointed out with limited passengers and diesel price rise, most routes “might shut”. Urging private operators to keep services on, transport officials said there would be a surge of passengers, once local trains resume services and then, more buses would be required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-buses-go-off-road-as-diesel-price-tops-rs-72/articleshow/76474263.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 525 more infected, Haryana nears 10,000||CHANDIGARH: With 525 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Friday, the state’s total number of cases has reached 9,743. Gurugram and Faridabad also crossed the 4,000 and 2,000 mark, respectively. Besides, 10 Covid patients died in a single day, taking the toll to 144. Of the Covid-19 patients so far, 6,693 are male, 3,049 are female and one transgender. Among those dead, 62 patients were those who did not have any comorbidity. As many as 333 patients were discharged from various hospitals, pushing the recovery rate in state to 50.18%, with overall 4,889 recoveries. Now, the state has 4,710 active patients. Of the 63 patients whose condition is stated to be critical, 44 are on oxygen support. The Covid positive rate and death rate in the state has gone up to 4.83% and 1.48%, respectively. Gurugram and Faridabad continue to remain on top of the Covid table. With 161 new cases, Faridabad had the most from any district in Haryana. Besides, five deaths were also reported in the district. With this, Faridabad’s total count of cases is now 2,003 cases and 51 deaths. Gurugram had 145 new cases and three deaths. With this, the overall tallt of the district is 4,136 cases and 55 deaths. Sonipat recorded 36 new cases and one death. While Bhiwani had one death. Besides, 32 new cases have come from Mahendergarh, 26 from Ambala. 20 from Rohtak, 18 from Bhiwani, 17 from Palwal, 13 from Panchkula and 12 from Nuh. Seven cases each have been reported in Jhajjar, Panipat and Charkhi Dadri districts, six in Hisar, three in Kurukshetra, two cases each in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Rewari and Kaithal districts and one in Jind. Six people, including four of a family, tested positive in Karnal. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said a day after a 27-year-old woman from Ghandhi Nagar of Karnal tested positive, her husband, son (4) and daughter (2), and nephew were found infected.  MP advised quarantineKarnal Panipat MP Sanjay Bhatia has been advised quarantine after the husband of party’s Panipat leader was found to be Covid positive. Panipat civil surgeon confirmed the positive case but refused to share more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/525-more-infected-haryana-nears-10k/articleshow/76474268.cms||Manvir Saini
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Top artistes, writers back online plea to free Varavara Rao||HYDERABAD: In a first such move, over 500 prominent personalities from across the country have issued a strongly-worded public statement, calling for the immediate bail of revolutionary poet Varvara Rao and 10 other activists, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case. Under the aegis of the India Cultural Forum (ICF), filmmakers Aparna Sen, Soumitra Chatterjee, Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Anurag Kashyap, actor Naseeruddin Shah and Jnanpith winner and author Amitav Ghosh called for “the release of activists on humanitarian grounds” at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the country. Speaking to TOI, filmmaker and actor Aparna Sen, who is said the continued incarceration of these activists is a human rights violation. “These activists are not convicted criminals and are not planning to flee the country. They should be granted bail immediately,” she said. Speaking of Rao, who resides in Hyderabad and is now in a high-security prison, Sen said, “He is 80-years-old and in poor health. At a time when coronavirus cases have been reported in jails, he must be given relief without delay.” Rao, who was shifted to JJ Hospital in Mumbai after he fainted in Taloja jail, has since been sent back to his cell. Sen lamented the loss of spaces for dissent in the country, saying “this is against the spirit of democracy”, as the public statement read: “We are very disturbed at the insistence on incarcerating eminent human rights defenders and student dissenters under such circumstances. The focus should surely not be on the suppression of dissent in our country, but on the containment of the pandemic for all, in prison and out of it.” The other arrested activists include Sudha Bhardwaj, Shoma Sen, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalvez, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale and Rona Wilson. The statement also expressed concern over the denial of bail to student activist Safoora Zargar of Jamia Millia University and human rights activist of Assam, Akhil Gogoi. Support for Rao grew in political circles on Friday with 14 MPs, including Kanimozhi Karunanidhi (DMK), Komati Reddy Venkat Reddy (Congress) and Uttam Kumar Reddy (Congress) writing to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to secure his release. They also requested access to medical treatment for professor GN Saibaba whose health condition too is vulnerable. As voices grew louder on Friday for Varavara Rao’s bail, professor K Satyanarayana, Rao’s son-in-law said there has been an absolute lack of information regarding his condition. “We are depending on our sources including relatives of other inmates for news about him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/top-artistes-writers-back-online-plea-to-free-varavara-rao/articleshow/76474293.cms||Uttara Varma
June 20, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 525 more infected, Haryana nears 10,000||CHANDIGARH: With 525 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Friday, the state’s total number of cases has reached 9,743. Gurugram and Faridabad also crossed the 4,000 and 2,000 mark, respectively. Besides, 10 Covid patients died in a single day, taking the toll to 144. Of the Covid-19 patients so far, 6,693 are male, 3,049 are female and one transgender. Among those dead, 62 patients were those who did not have any comorbidity. As many as 333 patients were discharged from various hospitals, pushing the recovery rate in state to 50.18%, with overall 4,889 recoveries. Now, the state has 4,710 active patients. Of the 63 patients whose condition is stated to be critical, 44 are on oxygen support. The Covid positive rate and death rate in the state has gone up to 4.83% and 1.48%, respectively. Gurugram and Faridabad continue to remain on top of the Covid table. With 161 new cases, Faridabad had the most from any district in Haryana. Besides, five deaths were also reported in the district. With this, Faridabad’s total count of cases is now 2,003 cases and 51 deaths. Gurugram had 145 new cases and three deaths. With this, the overall tallt of the district is 4,136 cases and 55 deaths. Sonipat recorded 36 new cases and one death. While Bhiwani had one death. Besides, 32 new cases have come from Mahendergarh, 26 from Ambala. 20 from Rohtak, 18 from Bhiwani, 17 from Palwal, 13 from Panchkula and 12 from Nuh. Seven cases each have been reported in Jhajjar, Panipat and Charkhi Dadri districts, six in Hisar, three in Kurukshetra, two cases each in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Rewari and Kaithal districts and one in Jind. Six people, including four of a family, tested positive in Karnal. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said a day after a 27-year-old woman from Ghandhi Nagar of Karnal tested positive, her husband, son (4) and daughter (2), and nephew were found infected.  MP advised quarantineKarnal Panipat MP Sanjay Bhatia has been advised quarantine after the husband of party’s Panipat leader was found to be Covid positive. Panipat civil surgeon confirmed the positive case but refused to share more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/525-more-infected-haryana-nears-10k/articleshow/76479448.cms||Manvir Saini
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University admission process kicks off today||NEW DELHI: The registration process for Delhi University admissions will begin from Saturday. This year, the admission portal would be reopened at a later stage for students to upload their Class XII board exam marks following the declaration of results by CBSE. The process would be for admission into undergraduate programmes in 63 colleges and for postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses. DU would also see “contactless admission” where students won’t be required to visit colleges to complete the process. Like last year, the university would be releasing just five cutoff lists. After the fifth list, a special cutoff would be released for general category students to fill the seats. A special drive would be conducted for the reserved category seats. The session in all colleges is likely to begin from September 1. In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the DU administration said the decision was taken to keep the entire admission process online so that students, who often travel long distances to reach Delhi, won’t need to come to the colleges. The varsity would also not conduct extra curricular activities trials and students would be admitted through the sports quota on the basis of their certificates. The registration process would also begin on Saturday for the entrance-based admission in around 10 courses. National Testing Agency would be notifying the entrance schedule. The rules of admission would be similar to last year’s. However, there would be a 10% increase under the economically weaker section (EWS) category quota from 15%, which was implemented last year, to 25%. Another important change this year is that students who wish to study philosophy and social work won’t face a 2.5% deduction in their best of four marks. This was a long-standing demand of these two departments and college teachers as the subjects were not offered at the school level. Also, standard mathematics and applied mathematics would be considered for admission to BCom and economics (hons) courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-admission-process-kicks-off-today/articleshow/76473339.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Local contact main cause for 10 of 22 deaths in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The increase in the number positive cases is attributed to the people who came from outside the state. As per government records, 52.19% of the positive cases reported in Kerala were seen in persons who arrived from abroad. However, this is not the case when it comes to deaths occurring in the state. Of the 22 deaths reported (including the person from Mahe) here, 10 patients contracted the disease via local contact. Among this lot, health department is yet to trace the source in six cases. Of the four deaths in capital city, three patients were infected via local contact and their sources haven’t been traced. Similarly, of the five deaths in Kannur (including the Mahe native), three got the disease in a similar manner. Source has not been identified in the case of the four-month-old baby, who died in Malappuram on April 24. There is another death from Malappuram, which can be attributed to local contact. The 65-year-old in Kollam, who died on May 31, was infected by a local contact and the source remains a mystery. The 87-year-old man who died in Thrissur on June 7 was also infected by a local contact. “This shows that the government’s testing strategy must be revamped. More samples are being collected now. But, we have to believe that the samples even now are being collected from people who had travel history or from those who are primary or secondary contacts. As part of sentinel surveillance, samples of priority groups are being collected and that was the reason why we are getting more positives from health workers,” said Dr Arun NM, an internal medicine expert. Apart from the one death in Kannur on June 18, all other deaths happened due to comorbidity. “In 11 cases, Covid positive results came either on the day of death or after patient expired. We cannot claim that it would have been beneficial if we could have traced positivity among them before. But, this shows that our testing should have been more effective,” he said. More testing of samples must be done in the areas where more cases are reported. “More important is the fact that testing has to be done judiciously depending on the availability of testing kits. There is no point in conducting retests in the same area,” said IMA state vice-president Dr N Sulphi. Persons coming to OP with symptoms of fever and cough and especially if they are from containment zones, they must be tested for Covid-19. Also, persons with suspect symptoms coming to hospitals should be tested. But, all these depend on the availability of testing kits. Now, more people will land in Kerala from abroad and we will be in need of more testing kits. A scientific approach on sample collection is what we must do now, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/local-contact-main-cause-for-10-of-22-deaths-in-state/articleshow/76472255.cms||Rajiv G
June 20, 2020||Shimla||32 test positive, Himachal Covid tally crosses 600||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Friday reported 32 new cases of Covid-19, pushing the number of positive cases in the state so far to 627. Among the fresh cases, 14 were reported from Hamirpur district, eight each from Kangra and Solan district and two from Bilaspur. Twelve positive patients have also recovered — four from Una district, three each from Solan and Chamba and two from Sirmaur. The state now has 223 active cases, 11 have migrated out of state while 385 have recovered and six have died, while two other positive patients from Shimla and Chamba have died due to some other reasons. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 29-year-old male from Bhuhana village, a 32-year-old male from Rupehar, two males —28 and 58 — from Gaggal Kholi, a 59-year-old male from Thural, a 51-year-old male from Jheol near Dharamsala, a 29-year-old female from Dhanag near Baijnath and a 26-year-old male from Biara near Panchrukhi have been tested positive. All of them have history of travelling to Delhi and NCR. Of the eight persons testing positive in Solan district, four are from Chambaghat, who were in home quarantine since their return from Delhi, one person was in institutional quarantine after returning from the national capital and one person from Parwanoo had returned recently from Ghaziabad, and a 50-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man from Baddi. A total of 52,319 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Friday, of them 32,751 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 19,568 are under active surveillance. So far 60,855 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 58,926 have tested negative, while the results of 1,310 samples are awaited. In Hamirpur, six patients had returned from Delhi — a couple and their two-year-old daughter from Sujanpur, and an elderly woman and her two granddaughters from f Barsar. The other patients included a woman and her two children from Tarakwari , a youth from Galore and a two-year-old girl from Khupri in Bhoraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/32-test-positive-himachal-covid-tally-crosses-600/articleshow/76474271.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Mandatory pre-flight testing for NRKs only from June 25||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Mandatory pre-flight Covid-19 testing for those coming to Kerala from abroad will now come into force on June 25. Passengers travelling on flights from overseas to Kerala from that date should get themselves tested and have in their possession Covid-19-negative certificates before boarding flights. The decision is based on an arrangement to transport Covid-19 negative and positive people separately. Dr K Ellangovan, principal secretary, Norka said that the implementation has been extended by four days as various expatriate organizations had sought more time to facilitate Covid-19 testing. As per the state Cabinet decision the government had sought the support of the Centre in providing TrueNat kits to embassies of those countries without facilities for rapid testing. The state had expressed willingness to distribute the kits if the Centre cannot provide them. However, the central government is yet to respond to the demand by the state on the Covid-negative certificate and also on providing the kits to embassies. Sunday LockdownMeanwhile, the state government has also decided to withdraw the total lockdown this Sunday. “As part of regulatory measures in connection with the activities for containment of Covid-19 in the state, orders were issued declaring Sundays as lockdown days with only limited permissible activities. Now since many exams, including entrance examinations for admission to various courses, are being scheduled on June 21, government is pleased to order that such regulations and restrictions will not be applicable for June 21 (Sunday),” an order issued by chief secretary Viswas Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mandatory-pre-flight-testing-for-nrks-only-from-june-25/articleshow/76472257.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Clinical trials of potential Covid drug on at GMCH||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur, is one of the three GMCs in the state among the 10 hospitals in India conducting clinical trials of anti-flu medicine favipiravir as potential treatment for Covid-19. Dr Rajesh Gosavi, head of medicine department of the GMCH, said, “Presently, clinical trials of favipiravir are underway on 27 patients. We can’t share any more details due to confidentiality laws. But, the state medical education department and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) will share the results of our trials in a month or so.” Recently, the DGCI has approved restricted use of favipiravir for Covid-19 treatment. It can be used only in case of emergency and family consent will be mandatory. Course duration is 14 days and its effect on the first 1,000 patients will be monitored. Clinical trials of favipiravir are being conducted in 10 leading government and private hospitals across India. GMCH Nagpur, GMCH Aurangabad and GGCH Mumbai are the three of them in Maharashtra. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of medical education department of Maharashtra, confirmed this development in a tweet on June 19. “Medical education department is conducting path-breaking research in many of its institutions. Plasma trials, BCG as therapy, antibody testing trials etc are some of the other research activities. Clinical trial of favipiravir is important and could bring sustainable positive results,” said Dr Mukherjee. At least 50 different drugs are being tested in the country ranging from HIV protease inhibitors to antivirals to ACE inhibitors, anti-inflammatory, pneumonia, respiratory, malaria, TB, arthritis, leprosy, immune modulators and anti-diarrhoea. Favipiravir is a purine nucleic acid analogue and a potent RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor approved for use in influenza-like cases. Sources have confirmed to TOI that initial results of favipiravir are promising and many patients are getting cured with its use. What Is Favipiravir Antiviral medication used to treat influenza in Japan It is also being studied to treat other viral infections In Feb 2020, China used it for experimental Covid treatment It reduced viral clearance time; 91% patients had improved CT scans with few side effects Clinical trials started in Italy in March; in the USA from April and the UK in May Russia approved it for Covid-19 treatment in hospital settings on May 29 Clinical trials underway on 27 patients at GMCH, Nagpur In India, clinical trial results expected within a month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clinical-trials-of-potential-covid-drug-on-at-gmch/articleshow/76474270.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Tug of war over Covid patient in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The presence of a Covid positive patient amidst them for 90 hours has split a Kalighat neighbourhood into two. The fact that a 32-year-old patient is physically handicapped and has lost his father suddenly about a month ago — in a non-covid case — has only added to the confusion. The incident has been reported from the Kalighat Road area. “One section is adamant that with the youth being asymptomatic, should stay in home quarantine. The other believes that this can be detrimental for his health since he lives with his old mother, who won’t be able to help in case there is an emergency. In all this, since June 16, the health department ambulances have come twice, only to leave without him on both occasions,” said an officer. Cops said the man had been running pillar to post for his father’s claims, a reason he might have contracted the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tug-of-war-over-covid-patient/articleshow/76474272.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 20, 2020||Kozhikode||An exclusive flight for expats from a panchayat||Kozhikode: A chartered repatriation flight from the UAE, which landed at Karipur airport on Friday night, turned out to be unique as it was the first instance of expats from a panchayat chartering their own flight to reach home. The flight was chartered by ‘Oruma Kalpakanchery’, a collective of around 4,000 expats in the UAE from Kalpakanchery panchayat in Malappuram. Of the 183 passengers who arrived in the chartered SpiceJet flight, 102 were from the panchayat and the rest from nearby areas. Chief patron of Oruma Kalpakanchery A P Shamsudheen bin Mohidheen said that the collective chartered the flight to ensure that expats from the panchayat, who were stranded in the UAE during the pandemic, could safely reach home. "The collective became more active (in community service) ever since Covid began and has been providing various services including food and quarantine facilities to expats from the panchayat in UAE. We have made available quarantine facilities to those who tested positive. The initiative to charter flight for expats from the panchayat was taken up as there were a lot of people who were desperate to fly home and couldn’t get Vande Bharat flight tickets," he said. He said that the ticket fare was AED 1,100 and 10% of the passengers were provided free tickets. "Also, we gave preference to priority groups and 88 passengers were women. Also 40% passengers faced visa cancellation, 20% lost jobs and 30% had medical issues," he added. President K Moideenkutty said the panchayat has made arrangements to ensure quarantine facilities for the 102 passengers. "We inspected all 102 houses and assessed facilities there for quarantine. Seven persons will be in institutional quarantine of the panchayat. The initiative by Oruma collective has come as a great help to expat families who have been waiting for the return of their loved ones," he added. Oruma Kalpakanchery president Basheer Padiyath, patron Dr Anvar Ameen, secretary Abdul Wahid Mayyeri and KMCC leader Anwar Naha were present at Ras Al Khaimah airport from where the flight took off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/an-exclusive-flight-for-expats-from-a-panchayat/articleshow/76472281.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Pvt hosps submit proposal; offer infra, discounted rates||Kochi: The government has sought the help of private hospitals to ensure that non-Covid patients, treated in government hospitals, are not neglected during the pandemic. Around 50% Keralites go to government hospitals for treatment. In this public-private partnership, some private hospitals have agreed to treat non-Covid patients – referred from government hospitals – on voluntary basis without charging fees, while others have submitted a proposal offering subsidised rates for in-patients. Some have offered a portion of their hospital infrastructure to the government free of cost where government doctors will run OP, IP and even conduct operations here. Health department is in the process of finalizing a plan. It had asked private hospitals to give a list of hospitals that are willing to be a part of this arrangement. “Government is always open and that’s why CM and health minister held meetings with private hospitals. Government asked them to submit proposals. While some agreed to help on voluntary basis, a few are asking payment. We will decide on a partnership in the next few days and it will be declared soon,” said health secretary Rajan Khobragade. “At present, the situation in Kerala is under control. But, government is unwilling to take chances and wants to ensure that non-Covid patients get necessary treatment. They have come out with several options and now private hospitals are working on how it can be implemented,” said IMA secretary Dr Gopikumar P. At many places like Nilambur, Mananthavady, Kodungallur and Palakkad, government hospitals are treating Covid patients, making treatment difficult for non-Covid patients, especially the poor. “In this partnership, patients from government hospitals will get free treatment in private hospitals. We have submitted a proposal with reduced rates to treat in-patients referred from government hospitals. This rate will be valid only for two months (and renewed based on Covid situation). It is a tad higher than Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati rates that aren’t viable in our case,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. Private hospital managements said that while government has agreed to reimburse cost for IP patients, a special discounted OP rates scheme will be there for patients from government hospitals. “For OP patients, we will be offering 30-50% discount in consultation fees and 20 % discount for diagnostic tests,” he added. Meanwhile, Medicare hospital in Kodungallur and St Joseph hospital, Vincent Giri hospital and Jyothi hospital (all in Mananthavady) have provided their infrastructure to the government. “When the government asked if any private hospital was willing to give space, we volunteered as part of our social responsibility,” added Medicare Hospital director Dr P K Mohamed Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-hosps-submit-proposal-offer-infra-discounted-rates/articleshow/76472268.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia & Sumer Singh make it to Rajya Sabha, Congress gets a surprise vote from BJP||BHOPAL: For an election where the outcome wasn’t a surprise, there was plenty of drama in the Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sabha voting on Friday. As expected BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki won, and Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh got a second term. Surprisingly, Congress got an extra vote –93 instead of 92 – meaning someone in BJP cross-voted. There was strong speculation that it was BJP MLA Gopal Jatav, from Guna SC reserved seat, who voted for Congress Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya. He, however, denied this and insisted he had voted for “Maharaja (Scindia) and the party”. A second BJP vote was rejected. To add to the drama, six of the seven former Congress allies – BSP MLAs Ram Bai Singh and Sanjeev Singh Kushwaha, SP’s Rajesh Shukla and Independents Surendra Singh Shera, Pradip Jaiswal and Vikram Singh Rana – are believed to have voted for BJP candidates. As the final act, Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhury, who is Covid-positive, arrived in full PPE kit to vote after everyone else had left. Samajwadi Party suspended Shukla late at night for "anti-party activity". Scindia thanked the party leadership in a video message: “Heartfelt gratitude to the BJP legislators and the party's top leadership. You have entrusted me with responsibility by electing me to Rajya Sabha from my home state.”“I, along with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, under the guidance and strong leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, will work for the development and growth of Madhya Pradesh,” said Scindia. He also thanked BJP workers, saying, “Since I was Covid-positive, I have not been able to appear before you but I will be with you soon.” Former CM Kamal Nath said they expected the result. “When 22 MLAs quit Congress, we knew that we would get only one Rajya Sabha seat. We are getting that one seat but we are not upset about it as BJP is getting its second seat through monetary deals,” he said. Returning officer and principal secretary of Vidhan Sabha, AP Singh told TOI that in a House of 206 Scindia got 56 votes, Solanki 55, Digvijaya 57 and Baraiya 36 votes. “Two votes got rejected,” he said. Asked about cross voting and rejected votes, he said, “During voting, we cannot find out who voted for whom. Besides, we cannot find out the names of voters whose vote got rejected.” Sources said it’s BJP MLA Jugalkishore Bagri, from SC-reserved Raigaon seat, whose vote got rejected. Jatav denied having voted for Congress. “I voted in favour of my party and Maharaja Jyotiraditya Scindia. I have not cross-voted. I am not aware if my vote got rejected,” Jatav told reporters after the results. Cabinet minister Tulsiram Silawat, however, said that one vote got “rejected and one wasted”. “We have received information that one vote got rejected while another vote went to Congress. The party leadership will take appropriate action in the matter. I congratulate Scindia for his victory,” Silawat told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjps-scindia-solanki-make-it-to-rs-cong-gets-a-surprise-vote-from-bjp/articleshow/76473345.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mysuru||Drive launched to remove fishing nets from rivers||Mysuru: The forest department is on a drive to remove fishing nets laid across Cauvery and Kapila rivers to curtail illegal fishing. The nets are those abandoned by miscreants involved in illegally fishing. Illegal fishing all along the rivers, by using dynamites and nets, has become a headache for foresters as the fishermen enter the forest area without permission. Besides carrying out illegal fishing through nets and coracles, they also hunt other wild animals. The department had deployed anti-poaching watchers in all wildlife sanctuaries, where rivers flow inside the forest area. Despite such measures, illegal fishing, especially to catch the masheer fish protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, is carried out blatantly. In April, the forest staff attached to Cauvery Wildlife Division and Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Division seized more than 13 coracles and 30 nets which were used by villagers for fishing in Cauvery. The staff conducted raids at various places on the river bank. The department suffered a setback when two of its staff drowned after their patrolling boat capsized in the backwaters of Kabini at Gundre forest range under Bandipur Tiger Reserve in the last week of April. However, the department has resumed the drive to remove fish nets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drive-launched-to-remove-fishing-nets-from-rivers/articleshow/76472261.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Govt restricts staff strength in offices||Kochi: In a major change in the work schedule of public servants in the state, the government on Thursday issued an order restricting the number of officials who should turn up for duty daily. While there should be a maximum of 50% staff strength at offices like village offices, the number of staff strength in other offices should be limited to the capacity of the office to accommodate people allowing them to work by following social distancing and other safety measures. Those employees who don’t turn up should work from home. The head of each office should ask employees to work on a rotation basis, the order stated. On June 7, the government had issued an order instructing all the public servants to turn up for duty. Now, the change is being made following repeated incidents of government officials contracting the Covid-19 leading to quarantining of others who worked along with them. “In the existing circumstances, if an employee becomes Covid-19 positive, the entire office will have to be closed down. When a cop at Kalamassery police station was tested Covid-19 positive, the entire personnel had to be quarantined. Now, the station is being manned by cops from other stations,” agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar said. Those residing in one district and work in offices in another district should report to offices like collectorate and panchayats in their home districts. Such employees should secure permission of their superiors for the work arrangement. “This arrangement had been successfully implemented by the departments like health during the first phase of lockdown itself. Now, it is being extended to all other departments,” said Dr K P Aravindan, health expert. While employees welcome the decision of the government, they also air apprehensions regarding work from home. “Only a few employees can work from home due to the nature of work done by them. One thing which can be suggested is clearing of backlog. Employees who work from home can take pending files home and clear the backlog,” said K K Sunil Kumar, Ernakulam district secretary, NGO Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-restricts-staff-strength-in-offices/articleshow/76472285.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Indore||Traders pledge to tear ties with China||INDORE: Traders of Indore have called for a boycott of Chinese goods and demanded sops to boost local manufacturers to cater to home demand, amid growing tensions between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Traders of Maharani Road, Ranipura and Jail Road, among other markets dealing with over 70 per cent supplies from China, have cancelled orders, while most have pledged not to place any fresh orders for Chinese goods. Close to 80 per cent supplies of fancy lights, panels, sound systems, cordless microphones, mixers, amplifiers, footwears, toys, plastic items, auto parts and raisins among others come from China with limited or almost no options available in the Indian market, claimed trade associations. Chinese goods have captured lion’s share in these markets due to economic prices and several options unlike Indian manufactured products that come expensive and have less varieties. Ahilya Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “Traders have pledged not to keep any trade ties with China after what has happened at the LAC. Traders have cancelled orders and now no fresh consignments will be booked from China.” In Siyaganj, the wholesale market for grocery and dry fruits, raisins come from China. A blanket ban on Chinese goods across sectors looks difficult amid huge inventories and no alternate mode of supplies within the country. Though traders claimed to boycott Chinese goods in phases by clearing pending stocks and boosting local manufacturing.  Maharani Road Vyapari Mahasangh president Jitendra Ramnani said, “The need is to prepare a roadmap for boosting local manufacturing and simplifying the procedures for setting up small plants by providing actual single window. Local manufacturing can be promoted only if we provide relaxations in tax and handhold small units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/traders-pledge-to-tear-ties-with-china/articleshow/76473365.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: NIBM Road residents take lead to feed people in need||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Murali Krishnan, a 59-year-old resident of the Raheja Vistas housing society, has always been interested in volunteering. Shortly after the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced, he, along with a few friends, immediately set out to help the community around their housing society. Krishan said, “When the pandemic broke out in March, we started distributing packets of food among migrant workers, the help from personnel attached to the Kondhwa Police. Initially, our volunteers cooked and packed the food. But as the scale of the operation grew, we pooled in Rs 1 lakh and got a catering service to help us distribute the food. We distributed food in all the slums near the NIBM Road area.” The process to feed scores took a lot of planning. Krishan said,”My wife and I started this initiative in our society, in which we would keep a box downstairs for everyone to put food in, including well-packed leftovers, fruits, biscuits and other packaged snacks. In the evenings, I would collect the box and distribute it. We also tried to lift the general mood by conducting a felicitation ceremony for frontline officers from the Kondhwa police station. On May 31, we invited them over to our society and we honoured them by cheering them on. We also distributed boxes of sweets. We have set aside funds for donation in case there’s a need.” Many housing societies on NIBM Road payed a crucial role in ensuring the poor had supplies. A resident of Grafikon Paradise,Yogendra Kumar Gupta (61), said neighbours, along with the NIBM Residents’ Forum collected Rs1 lakh which was used to put together food packets. “A few people from our society helped a lot. When the first lockdown was announced, after three to four days, we decided to do something for the poor. We bought 100 kg of rice, dal, oil and soap to distribute among those left without a source of income,” he said. N Faizi (49) the Bhrama Exuberance housing society, said Covid-19 screening was essential for security guards, domestic workers, gardeners, delivery boys and so on. As the secretary of her society, along with some partners and sponsors, she went on to organise free health camps every 15 days. “We also distributed ration packets to people in areas such as Meethanagar, Bhimnagar, Siddharthnagar and other neighbourhoods around Kondhwa,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nibm-road-residents-take-lead-to-feed-people-in-need/articleshow/76474275.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Local bodies impose lockdown in villages||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases surging across the state, local body authorities have taken it upon themselves to impose lockdown in their jurisdictions if any resident tests positive. The panchayats and municipalities are actively joining the fight against Covid-19, even as the country relaxes certain lockdown norms. The local bodies in villages have been observed to be ensuring that anybody travelling from outside is kept in home isolation. If a new case is detected, lockdown is also being announced in the entire village, with all shops being closed. Panchayats also actively see to it that all villagers wear mask when stepping outside. The sarpanaches are taking keen interest to see that social distance is maintained in shops and wherever a group of people has to come together. Mahadevpur villagers have imposed four days of complete lock down after the first case of Covid-19 in their village was detected. Same is the case with Ramaymapet village of the Medak district, where three days of lockdown was imposed after a person tested positive. As earlier reported by TOI, the villagers there used a Mahatma Gandhi statue to tell the residents about the importance of wearing a mask. “We ensured that all shops remain shut after a Covid-19 case was detected here,” said Yadgiri Reddy, a resident. In another instance, villagers of Ramanappet in Yadadri district put 70 people under home quarantine after a women tested positive there. In Nizamabad’s Armoor town, all the shops are being closed by afternoon. In few villages of Siddipet district, sarapanches are ensuring that no one visits the houses of people who are under home quarantine or isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/local-bodies-impose-lockdown-in-villages/articleshow/76473355.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Overseas returnees get self-registration option in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After observing that scrutiny of home quarantine facility of overseas returnees, through local self-government institutions, is ineffective on the basis of details provided during Norka registration, government has decided to implement self-registration in their case. It should be done only after obtaining a flight ticket. The order issued by principal secretary (Norka) on Friday said that many times there are variations in the details furnished by NRK traveller for Norka registration and flight passenger manifest. “This adversely affects proper quarantine of travellers and causes delay in their registration process at the arrival airport,” the order said. The government has now issued a standard operating procedure for overseas returnees, including self-registration at ‘covid19jagratha’ portal after obtaining a travel ticket as done by domestic travellers now. Till date, the details of NRKs reaching various airports in state were captured at the airport of their arrival through the portal using passenger manifest and Norka registration details. In the latest self-registration process, an auto-generated permit number will be issued to them after completing registration. NRKs can either use their own e-mail address or an Indian mobile number for registration. They also can get the registration done through their friends or relatives to obtain permit number. In the case of chartered flights, it would be the responsibility of the person who arranges the flight to get all passengers registered. The permit will be used at the check-in counter after their arrival here to retrieve their record and add more details. However, existing registration at the check-in counter of arrival at the airport will continue, for anyone who comes without a registration or who are computer illiterates. LSGIs have been asked to verify home quarantine facility of each passenger and enter the details in the portal before their arrival. It would be on the basis of their report that district collectors would decide the nature of quarantine for the returning person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/overseas-returnees-get-self-registration-option/articleshow/76472302.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mys-B’luru train timing changed following demand||Mysuru: Weeks after South Western Railway resumed train services between Mysuru and Bengaluru, it altered timings following popular demand. According to revised schedule, SBC-Mysuru-SBC Special Express will leave Bengaluru at 6.15pm and reach Mysuru at 9.05pm everyday from June 21 and in reverse direction, the train will depart from Mysuru station at 6.45am and reach Bengaluru at 9.35am from June 22. The timing is similar to that of Chamundi Express that was being run during pre-lockdown period. Now that all train services cancelled following Covid-19 crisis, it is the only special train operational between the cities. Due to inconvenience caused by the odd timings, passenger traffic had dipped, according to officials. Divisional commercial manager and PRO, SWR, Mysuru division, Priya Shetty confirmed the changed schedule of the special express operated between the two cities starting from June 21. “After a section of passengers urged for altering the timing, we had requested our higher-ups and it was approved,” she said. The train service that was commenced on May 22 was earlier leaving Bengaluru at 9.20am and leaving Mysuru city at 1.45 pm on return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mys-bluru-train-timing-changed-following-demand/articleshow/76472293.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Two home guards booked for attack||Rajkot: Two home guards and their unidentified accomplice were booked for allegedly stabbing a resident of Bhagwatipara locality in Rajkot on Friday. Police said the accused Sagar Garchar and his brother Kishor Garchar, both of whom home guards with Rajkot B division police station, and their unidentified aide, allegedly stabbed Kalu Natada (45). In his complaint, Natada has alleged that the accused had attacked him, harbouring a grudge against him for an altercation he had with Sagar. “Two months ago, Sagar was passing by the residence of Natada in a police SUV, driving at full speed. At that time, Natada had stopped him and had entered into an altercation with him for over speeding. Nursing a grudge against him, the accused had attacked him,” said an official of Rajkot B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-home-guards-booked-for-attack/articleshow/76472577.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Post Galwan, Chinese cyber armies wage war against India||Nagpur: Maharashtra cyber security cell, also working as intelligence and analytical unit, has observed a steep rise in cyber attacks on Indian computers from Chengdu province of China. The spike in attacks aimed at paralysing Indian economy and informatics were noticed shortly after the Gulwan skirmish on Indo-Chinese border this week. A sudden surge in denial of access attacks and attempts of IP hijacking in the last few days have caught the attention of the Maharashtra cyber sleuths, who are now set to issue advisories cautioning against such damages. The attacks have originated from capital of the Chinese province of Sichuan — Chengdu — which is incidentally the headquarters of cyber wing of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). IG Yashasvi Yadav of Maharashtra cyber security wing said the Chinese cyber armies have launched massive attacks targeting our banking and IT sectors, especially in Delhi and other cities. “We are caught amid an undeclared cyber war with Chinese hackers. There have been massive attempts on the Indian computers by the Chinese cyber army, but we are yet to come across any loss,” said Yadav. “There could be multiple reasons behind their failure so far like use of firewalls and anti-attack softwares. But, there is need to be aware and cautious,” he said. Yadav said the Chinese cyber crooks can choke our servers with attacks like denial of access in which the system receives excessively high traffic than it can handle leading to complete collapse. “IP hijacking can enable the Chinese attackers to gain control of our computer system following which they would be in a position to monitor the entire traffic passing through a server. Till now, we have been fortunate enough to survive the attacks, but one should be watchful and remain ready with the required protective software,” he said. The Maharashtra cyber security cell has also issued an alert about a fake Indian passport template on sale on the dark net. The template can be used to create fake identity. Such fake passports would be difficult to trace unless the information therein is cross-checked with the original database available with the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/post-galwan-chinese-cyber-armies-wage-war-against-india/articleshow/76474279.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Markets of Delhi find ways to stay afloat in crisis||NEW DELHI: Marginal improvement in business is being reported from the key markets of Delhi, enough for traders’ associations to demand the relaxation of the 9pm curfew limit. Some markets in south Delhi have decided to remain open on their weekly closure days to make up the shortfall in transactions as much as is possible. The Walled City, with its narrow lanes and kuchas, is, however, still a cause of concern. South Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar Market had earlier decided to remain shut between June 15 and 20, but this was reversed after a review meeting. Ashok Randhawa of the Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association said that while footfall is still low, there is slow improvement. “Closed the market would have sent a wrong message. There is a 5-10% improvement in the number of customers, so shutting shop would have brought that down to zero,” he explained. Greater Kailash 1 M Block Market Association’s Rajender Sharda’s also reported a steady influx of shoppers. “We have done away with the weekly market closure on Tuesdays. From having no customers, we have reached a stage where we are recording 35% of pre-lockdown sales,” Sharda disclosed. Encouraged by the arrivals of shoppers, market association want 9pm closure deadline lifted. “Due to the curfew, shops begin winding up around 8pm,” said Sharda. A few kilometres away in South Extension Part 1, Vijay Kumar, member of the market body, said that at a time when sales were picking up, the 9pm closure was a disincentive. He also said, “Because of limited bus services and with the Delhi Metro in-operational, shop staff have to leave earlier than 9pm. The authorities should look at this.” Many markets are trying to adjust their business timings to prevent crowding. The around 1,000 jewellery shops of Kucha Mahajani in old Delhi open on alternate days, while Lajpat Rai Market operates on a three-days-weekly basis. However, Sanjay Bhargav, who heads the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said the Walled City markets are still spooked by Delhi government’s estimation of 5.5 lakh Covid cases by July end. “Only 15-20% of essential shops are opened here,” Bhargav said. “The rest, finding that no customers were coming, did not think it worth risking the infection to open. We are receiving reports of Covid-19 deaths in other Walled City markets.” Brijesh Goyal, heads of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s trade wing, gave ballpark figure of 15% improvement in sales. “Customers from outside Delhi aren’t coming because of transport hassles,” he noted. “The focus of customers is on essential items and urgent repairs and purchases.” Goyal echoed that Delhi Metro was essential for buyers, sellers and shop workers, and business sentiment would revive once the urban train network reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/markets-find-ways-to-stay-afloat-in-crisis/articleshow/76473404.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Parking woes resurface at Pune airport||PUNE: The parking space crunch resurfaced at the city airport barely a fortnight after resumption of passenger flight service since May 25, compelling many motorists to park their two-wheelers on footpaths along New Airport Road. The situation is thus despite less than 40 flight movements from the airport at present. An airline’s official said, “The problems are primarily because the parking number-1 has been shut down,” said an airline official. Purushottam Jain, who went to drop his cousin, said, “The parking number-2 is used by autorickshaws, Ola and Uber cabs. The little space left is used by private cars and official vehicles of the AAI. “ Ravi Suresh Jain, director of Pebbles Infratech, which is constructing a new multi-level car parking lot, said, “We have got full possession of parking number-1 and hope excavation work will be over in a week. Work has started in full scale, but rains remain an issue.” An airport official said the, “Things could not move forward because of the pandemic. The PMC should be providing us with some alternative space until the new facility is ready within two years. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parking-woes-resurface-at-airport/articleshow/76474276.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Truant power threatens to pull plug on e-classes||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as students, teachers and parents struggle to adapt to virtual classrooms necessitated by the lockdown brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, erratic power supply threatens to throw another spanner in the works. One of the most frequent messages popping up on school WhatsApp groups, created by class teachers for coordinating classes, these days is about students missing classes due to power failure, either at their end or that of the teachers. High-school students are the main casualty of power outages as most schools following CBSE, ICSE syllabi conduct classes for long hours. While the state education department and most private schools provide students the option to access the recorded version of classes, a few schools are still reluctant to provide students with that option. “Since online classes were started without much preparation, several students are suffering for want of enough good quality computer/mobile phone devices. Smartphones are not available in shops even if you are willing to pay Rs 10,000. My children manage classes with whatever equipment that was available at home before the lockdown. But now the biggest nightmare is that our internet modem could go off every time power supply fails. The same is true at the school end. The only solace is that my kids’ school offers the content offline as well, so that they can join the missing pieces of information at their own convenience,” said R Reshmi, mother of two children admitted to a CBSE school in the city. Uninterrupted power supply will, most likely, continue to be a pipedream. KSEB officials say the board has enough and more power for distribution but that it is not in a position to guarantee seamless supply owing to reasons beyond their control. “Kerala is a thickly vegetated place, and supply interruptions due to uprooting of trees and tree branches falling over power lines are common during the rainy season. We have not introduced any curbs, other than the inevitable ones for repair, maintenance and development work. In fact, the board has surrendered 65 MU of electricity we had contracted earlier. We are doing our best to ensure interruption-free supply, but to cope with voltage fluctuations and outages for short periods, consumers, especially those who attend online classes, may depend on power backup arrangements,” said KSEB chairman and managing director N S Pillai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/truant-power-threatens-to-pull-plug-on-e-classes/articleshow/76472321.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 20, 2020||Pune||Temghar gets live water storage after heavy rain||Pune: The Temghar dam had live water storage from Friday morning after its catchment recorded 116mm rainfall in just 24 hours. The dam had no live water storage for the last six months because of the ongoing repair works of its wall. Storage increased to 2% on Friday after consistent rains. The dam, which had received the highest rainfall of over 4,000mm last monsoon, has recorded 505mm rainfall from June 1. Besides Temghar, other three dams in the Khadakwasla irrigation circle — Panshet, Varasgaon and Khadakwasla — got over 40mm rainfall in 24 hours as well. The cumulative rainfall in the catchments of Panshet and Varasgaon till Friday surged to 350mm and 342mm respectively, while Khadakwasla’s catchments got 190mm rainfall from the beginning of June. State irrigation department officials said the increase in Temghar’s stock was marginal, but it was still significant because the rainfall in the catchment of the dam had already crossed the 500mm-mark. “This year, the dams have recorded good spells in June because of the Cyclone Nisarga,” the official said. The Temghar dam, which has a maximum storage capacity of 3.15 TMC, can store water to its full capacity during monsoon despite the incomplete repair works, the state irrigation department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temghar-gets-live-water-storage-after-heavy-rain/articleshow/76474280.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 20, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Locust swarms enter Jhansi from MP districts||JHANSI: After a major attack of locusts over a week ago, the district witnessed yet another storm of locust swarms bordering MP districts on Friday morning. By Friday evening, two of the swarm got diverted back to neighbouring MP districts. While one of the swarms entered from Shivpuri through Raksa and attacked Tehroli, another one entered from Niwari and settled over Bangra and Mauranipur. The third swarm came from Ashok Nagar, MP through Chanderi and reached Matatila of Lalitpur border. The administration, along with locals of affected villages, used drums and plates to produce sounds, thereby preventing the locust from settling over crops. In addition to this, officers from the agriculture department reached the affected villages to apprise farmers about methods to get rid of locusts. As per deputy director, agriculture, Kamal Katiyar, two out of three locust swarms went further ahead to Chattarpur and Tikamgarh districts of MP, while the third one which spread over two kilometres settled in Marah village of Garotha tehsil. “We are on high alert and are observing their movement closely. At night, we will sprinkle pesticides which comprise of chloropyriphos, cypremethrine, lemdacyclothrin and diflubenzuron, to eliminate locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/locust-swarms-enter-jhansi-from-mp-districts/articleshow/76472830.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Practice yoga, attain peace, guv tells Goans||Panaji: In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday urged people to practice yoga to overcome stress, boost their immunity and attain mental peace. In his message ahead of the International Yoga Day, governor said that many experienced heightened stress and panic owing to the pandemic. “The lockdown made people homebound. Whether it’s dealing with the at-risk family members or a fluctuating economy or trying to juggle work or simply adjusting to a new, unfamiliar situation, stress can easily pile up resulting into negativity,” Malik said. He said that in such times Yoga plays a humongous role in the wellbeing of the practitioner. “Yoga helps us relax, unwind and de-stress. It incorporates breathing techniques, meditation, asanas (poses) and kriyas designed to encourage relaxation and reduce stress,” he said, adding, “Yoga has also proved to be helpful in a number of health conditions too.” “On this day, I urge all to adopt the practice of Yoga and make it an integral part of one’s life. In this troubled time, it is of utmost importance to protect the health of oneself and one’s family,” he said. “Let us all come together and celebrate the Yoga day on June 21 and give ourselves the gift of well-being, both physical and mental,” he said. Governor said that human mind is ordinarily fickle and turned outward. It is impetuous, strong and obstinate. It is very difficult to control mind as it is restless and accustomed to act on impulse. Mind can be controlled only by non-attachment and constant practice. “Yoga is an art to control, train and discipline the wavering mind. Absorption in material side of life leads to disbalanced condition of consciousness. Yoga attempts to explore the inner world of consciousness and helps to harmonise us with our inner selves. Yoga helps us to discipline our minds and eliminate our prejudices and idiosyncrasies. It helps in destruction of our false inflated egos and liberates us from all undue outwardly desires. It ensures discipline which destroy all our sorrows,” Malik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/practice-yoga-attain-peace-guv-tells-goans/articleshow/76474281.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab adds 217 cases, 9 deaths to corona tally||Chandigarh: The rapid pace of coronavirus spread in Punjab continues as the state reached the 3,832 cases mark on Friday with addition of 217 fresh cases, highest since May 5 when 215 cases were reported. Not only that, nine people infected with the virus died, highest single-day deaths in the state till date. Four police personnel, a death surgeon and an inmate were among those who have tested positive. Jalandhar recorded 79 cases, of which 57 were new cases with no contact with positive cases or travel history while 22 were contacts of positive cases. Amritsar continues to register high number of cases with 35 reported from the district, which included 15 cases of influenza-like illness (ILI), 10 contacts of positive cases and 10 self-reported cases. Ludhiana recorded 19 cases -- 13 contacts of positive case, three cases of ILI and three new cases -- while 18 cases were reported from Sangrur and 11 from Mohali. A total of eight cases each were reported from Patiala and Pathankot, seven from Kapurthala, six from Muktsar and five each from Hoshiarpur and Faridkot. Ferozepur, Barnala and Bathinda recorded three cases each, while two people tested positive in Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarn Taran. Gurdaspur, Ropar and Fazilka recorded one case each. Nine deaths were reported -- two each from Jalandhar and Amritsar and one each in Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala and Tarn Taran-- taking the overall death toll to 92. A total of 66 patients were discharged after they recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-adds-217-cases-9-deaths-to-corona-tally/articleshow/76474285.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kanpur||Man claiming to be scribe held for blackmailing SI in Etawah||KANPUR:A man was arrested for allegedly blackmailing a police sub-inspector over a video clip in Etawah district on Friday. Sanat Tiwari, who claims himself to be a journalist, had allegedly blackmailed SI Subodh Sahai with a video clip threatening to make it viral on social media if he did not pay him Rs 50,000. According to police, when Sahai refused to pay him the money, Tiwari allegedly made the video clip viral on social media platforms on June 18. “Sahai later brought the matter to the knowledge of SSP Etawah Akash Tomar and lodged a complaint with the Civil Lines police on June 18,” police said. Subsequently, a probe was ordered by the SSP. “It came to fore that Tiwari had procured a video clip of a police raid at a hotel in the city on March 13 2020, wherein Sahai along with other police personnel was conducting an investigation of the hotel premises in search of criminals and in the process checking DVR (digital video recorder) of CCTV cameras installed there. Tiwari, somehow procured the video clip of police raid from and tried to blackmail the SI and extort Rs 50,000 from him. When the SI refused, Tiwari projected it as theft and loot by Sahai and his team members and made the video footage viral on social media platforms on June 18,” said the SSP. Acting on a tip off, police on June 19 arrested Tiwari from near ITI crossing of the city. “An FIR under section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 179 (refusing to answer public servant authorised to question), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life, etc.), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 3 Epidemic Act, 51/57 Disaster Management Act and 74 IT Act has been lodged at Civil Lines police station in this regard,” said the SSP. The police have also recovered a mobile phone, three mikes and three identity cards of separate news channels, from Tiwari’s possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-claiming-to-be-scribe-heldfor-blackmailing-si-in-etawah/articleshow/76472798.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 20, 2020||Kanpur||Four more arrested for anti-CAA violence in December||KANPUR: Four people have been arrested here for their alleged involvement in violence during the anti-CAA protests in Beconganj police area of the city in December 2019. Liaqat (56) of Readymade market area of Beconganj, Arsalan (21), of Vishwanath Ka Hata, Dilshad (20) of Pinjare Wali Gali, Hiraman Ka Purwa and Gurgut (20) of Beconganj were arrested on Friday after being identified on the basis of CCTV footage for allegedly indulging in stone pelting during the violence that broke out in Beconganj police area in December 2019, the police said. “All the four accused were absconding since the violence. Police had been trying to zero-in on the alleged troublemakers on the basis of CCTV footage from areas where the violence broke out and arrested four persons here on Friday,” said SP (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal. The city witnessed violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) after Friday prayers in December 20. “They have been booked under 147, 148, 149 , 153 , 307 , 323, 332,, 333, 353 , 427, 436 , 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 188/34 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 7 CLA Act, and sent to jail,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-more-arrested-for-anti-caa-violence-in-dec/articleshow/76472668.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kanpur||City’s private hospital allowed to treat corona infested patients||Done/ALVI Kanpur: The district administration on Thursday permitted a private nursing home to treat corona infected persons. A hospital, situated at the Civil Lines, had proposed to treat Covid-19 patients at a meeting called by the district administration. The district administration had called a meeting of private nursing homes and sought their help in the treatment of rising cases of corona infected persons. It is being presumed that some more nursing homes might come forward to offer their services in this regard. Patients to be treated by private nursing homes will have to bear the cost of treatment. In view of shortage of beds in government hospitals to treat such a large number of corona patients in the city, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari made an appeal to private nursing homes to come forward and treat corona patients. The Nursing Homes Association held a meeting with the district magistrate on Thursday evening in which president of the association Dr MK Saravagi proposed to treat corona patients in his hospital. After he assured that all preparation would be made according to the Covid-19 protocol, the DM granted permission to the private hospital to treat corona infected persons. CMO Dr A K Shukla, Dr Awadh Dubey, Dr Archana Bhadauria, Dr Deepak Agarwal ,Dr AC Agarwal and Dr Rita Mittal were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/citys-private-hospital-allowed-to-treat-corona-infested-patients/articleshow/76454015.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Fishermen rescue 5 Olive Ridleys trapped in discarded net at Benaulim beach||Colva: Five adult Olive Ridley turtles that were found tangled in a discarded fishing net at Benaulim beach on Friday, got a new lease of life after fishermen rescued them. While four were promptly released back into the sea, one was handed over to officials of the forest department as it was injured. Pele Fernandes said he spotted the distressed flippers at around 1.30pm when he was fishing with three of his workers at the beach. The men freed the turtles from the net they were snared in and carried them to the water. They said four of the turtles immediately began swimming out but the fifth was swept back to shore as its right flippers had deep wounds and were bleeding. “No sooner had we rescued the turtles than another fisherman offered me Rs 6,000 for each. But I turned him down because I did not want to sell endangered species,” Fernandes told TOI. Range forest officer Prakash Naik said the forest department subsequently took possession of the injured turtle and would attempt to treat its wounds. “Else, the turtle will be sent to the rescue centre at Cotigao,” he said. Goa’s turtle conservation programme commenced in 1996 with the protection of Olive Ridley turtles at Morjim. Mandrem, Morjim, Agonda and Galgibaga are designated as turtle nesting sites in the state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fishermen-rescue-5-olive-ridleys-trapped-in-discarded-net-at-benaulim-beach/articleshow/76474291.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Elephant project grant partly unused||Pune: The Kolhapur forest department has not spent the full grant of Rs98 lakh available under the Project Elephant for capacity building and restoration of wildlife habitat for 2019-20. The expenditure statement of the forest department revealed that only Rs 43lakh has been spent and no major work has been carried out. No money has been spent on construction of elephant-proof trenches, creation of forest pond etc. V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forests, Kolhapur, said the department will focus on establishment of elephant camp to stop tusker menace on Maharashtra-Karnataka border areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elephant-project-grant-partly-unused/articleshow/76474286.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 20, 2020||Indore||Illegal miners pelt stones at team, mining officer shifted||INDORE: A group of over 20 people pelted stones at a team of police, mining and administrative officials, who had gone to Chinar hills in Tejaji Nagar to initiate action against illegal mining activities in the area, and vandalised the police vehicle. Tejaji Nagar police station in charge Neeraj Medha told TOI that they had received a tip-off about illegal mining activities taking place in Chinar hills area. The team was attacked when they were returning with seized earth movers and dumper. No one was injured in the incident. “Two persons - Kunal Patwari and Chetan Patwari - along with their accomplices have been booked for deterring public servant from discharging duty and for damaging public property and endangering safety of others,” he said. Patwari had been absconding in a violence case registered against him at Rau police station some time ago. He had attacked the employee at the toll plaza following a dispute. Rumours were rife about the accused being related to former state minister and Congress leader Jitu Patwari, who categorically denied it. “I don’t have any relationship with the accused and I also don’t support anybody involved in the wrong activities. The police should take appropriate action against the accused,” he told TOI. Following the incident, state government immediately transferred Indore mining officer Pradeep Khanna to Sheopur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/illegal-miners-pelt-stones-at-team-mining-officer-shifted/articleshow/76473391.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Street vendor’s daughter scores 992, sets eye on IIT||HYDERABAD: From selling idlis as a 12-year-old along with her parents to securing 992 marks in Intermediate exams, Kalyani K from Adilabad has come a long way. Kalyani, who is the daughter of a street food vendor, said that she could pursue her Intermediate studies in a private institute as a charitable trust sponsored her education after class 10. “I wanted to do my computer science engineering from one of the IITs and secure a well-paying job so that I can help students like me get proper education,” Kalyani told TOI. A student of Sri Chaitanya Junior College, Dilsukhnagar, Kalyani said that she secured 9.7 grade point average (GPA) in class 10. “There was no way we could afford the fees at a corporate college and get proper coaching for the Joint Entrance Examination. One of my teachers suggested approaching a charitable trust in Nacharam and after conducting an exam, they assured me they will sponsor my education.” She said that her parents go to different colonies to sell idlis for a living.  “For about a year, when I was in class 6, my sister and I used to accompany our parents and sell idlis. But, with both of us excelling in studies, my parents encouraged us to focus on studies,” said Kalyani, who secured 97 NTA score in JEE (Main) adding that with this score she can get a seat in NIT, Warangal. Kalyani said that while she could get JEE coaching, her sister, who opted for BiPC in Intermediate couldn’t get coaching as she joined a local college due to financial constraints. “She took a break for a year to prepare for NEET. Now, she will be appearing for medical entrance and I will give JEE Advanced exam,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/street-vendors-daughter-scores-992-sets-eye-on-iit/articleshow/76473369.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government not sharing info on Jal Jeevan Mission, says Centre||HYDERABAD: The Centre has slammed the Telangana government for not sharing information on its flagship programme Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in the state. It also said tap connections in rural areas in Telangana leaves a lot to be desired as several households still do not get potable water. Jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the Telangana government has not yet finalised the annual action plan for JJM and asked it to share the status of rural water supply (RWS) scheme in the state. JJM is being implemented by the Centre since 2019 with an objective to provide 55 litres of potable water per person per day in every household by providing tap connections in rural areas by 2024. The Centre had allocated Rs 412 crore for Telangana under the scheme in 2020-21. Telangana has also taken up Mission Bhagiratha scheme to provide drinking water to every household. The Union minister, in his letter addressed to the state government on Thursday,said that complete updation of the tap connection data in integrated management information system (IMIS) of the ministry has not happened. He said the state so far has remained non-responsive to numerous requests made by his ministry for real-time data updation. So far, only partial updation was done in JJM-IMIS. He said Telangana was allocated Rs 259.14 crore in 2019-20 but only Rs 105.52 crore could be released by the Centre as the state was unable to avail second instalment due to non-reporting of physical progress and non-submission of proper utilisation certificates. Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao said the government has not received any letter so far. “Once we get the letter, we will provide the information to the Centre,” he said. He said the funds under JJM were being used in areas not covered under Mission Bhagiratha. Engineer-in-chief of Mission Bhagiratha Krupakar Reddy said the state had submitted JJM action plan on May 21 and the Centre had even released Rs 82.70 crore grant towards the first instalment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-not-sharing-info-on-jal-jeevan-mission-says-centre/articleshow/76473394.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Inter student ends life in Mahabubabad||HYDERABAD: A 16-year-old girl, who belonged to a tribal community, died by suicide by jumping into a well at Chendugudem of Gudur mandal headquarters in Mahabubabad on Friday morning. Family members suspect that she committed suicide as she failed in the Intermediate first year exams, the results of which were announced on Thursday. Gudur sub-inspector Yasin said that Sarayu, who was a Tribal Welfare Junior College student, had failed in one paper. “On Thursday, her parents counselled her and told her not to get upset, however, she remained disappointed,” he said. According to police, on Friday, at around 6 am, the girl went missing. “Sarayu’s mother asked her brother to look for her. When he went to the terrace, he saw his younger sister walking towards a well, which is located on the rear of the house. When he tried to reach out to her, she jumped into the well. Sarayu’s brother was in a helpless situation since he did not know how to swim and the girl drowned,” the sub-inspector said. Later, the villagers managed to fish out the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-student-ends-life-in-mahabubabad/articleshow/76473401.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Supreme Court asks Delhi government for status of trauma centre to be built in Dwarka||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday sought a status report from the Delhi government on progress in construction of a new trauma centre in Dwarka, for which the SC had asked Uphaar fire tragedy case convicts and Sushil and Gopal Ansal to deposit Rs 60 crore almost five years ago. While examining Delhi government's preparedness and lapses in the fight against Covid-19, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah told the state that Safdarjung Hospital's trauma centre, a dedicated Covid hospital, had done well in helping patients and wanted to know the status of the new trauma centre that was ordered to be constructed almost five years ago by the apex court. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, appeared clueless and said he would seek instructions. Justice Kaul said, "Four-five years ago, the Supreme Court had directed setting up of a new trauma centre in Dwarka. The existing trauma centre has done well during the pandemic. What has happened to the new one? Money deposited with the Delhi government should not lie idle. If it is not utilised, then someone should be held accountable." In 2014, the SC had given the option of depositing Rs 100 crore to the Ansal brothers to offset enhancement of their proposed imprisonment. In her 2014 judgment, Justice Gyan Sudha Mishra had ordered the Delhi government to earmark a location in Dwarka and allot five acres for construction of a trauma centre, to be treated as an extension of Safdarjung Hospital. The SC had directed that it would be constructed by the Ansals under the supervision of a committee that would include representatives of the Association for Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT), Safdarjung Hospital medical superintendent, secretary general of SC and other experts and would be named ‘Victims of Uphaar Memorial Trauma Centre’. However, on the review plea of the Ansals, the SC in August 2015 reduced the fine amount to Rs 60 crore and said the money would be utilised for "setting up a new trauma centre or upgrading existing trauma centres of hospitals managed by the Delhi government”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-asks-for-status-of-trauma-centre-to-be-built-in-dwarka/articleshow/76473425.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Protest over school fee in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Parents protested against payment of school fee in Kolkata on Friday. The education department had earlier requested all schools to stop increasing the fee in this academic session. Though the schools have kept the fee same, demonstrations are on in demand of reducing the existing fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protest-over-school-fee/articleshow/76474292.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Language no barrier, Sreeja secures 987||HYDERABAD: Studying in a Telugu medium school until class 10 did not stop Saka Sreeja (17) from securing 987 marks in her Inter exams. She had put in double effort, especially during her first year, to understand and study subjects in English, and the painstaking effort paid off. “While the college provided me with English textbooks, I bought Telugu textbooks as well. I used to first study a lesson in Telugu, understand it and then again study it in English so that I can write the exams in English,” said Sreeja, adding that it used to be very time consuming to study in both the languages but it was all worth it as she scored 434 out of 440 in her first year exams. Sreeja, a student of Telangana Social Welfare Junior College in Ibrahimpatnam, is the daughter of weavers from Adilabad district and is preparing for NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/language-no-barrier-sreeja-secures-987/articleshow/76473372.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Railway line to Gajwel completed||HYDERABAD: The railway line to Gajwel constituency, headquarters of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s constituency, has finally been completed, announced the South Central Railway (SCR) on Friday. The project is crucial for the state as it passes through the hinterlands of Gajwel, Siddipet, Sircilla and Vemulawada districts. Santioned in 2016 with an estimated cost of Rs 1,160 crore, the 31km track between Manoharabad and Gajwel was laid as part of the 151km-long Manohabad-Kothapally railway line. “Once the project is completed, it will provide shortest rail connectivity to Karimnagar from Hyderabad. This is a cost sharing projest with two-third cost being borne by railways and one-third by the state. The total land required for this project is being provided by state, including annuity for the first five years,” said the general manager at SCR, Gajanan Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railway-line-to-gajwel-completed/articleshow/76473418.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Helpline: Only 1% of callers had Covid||AHMEDABAD: The 104 fever helpline for Ahmedabad, which has been attending calls at patient’s doorsteps, says that in the last fortnight just 1% of the patients it attended to tested positive for Covid-19. This has instilled some hope in health officials tracking the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Since June 1, the 104 fever helpline attended to 3,280 calls, of which 265 cases were referred to hospitals for tests and only 32 were shifted to hospitals for Covid treatment. “This shows that not all fever cases are to be suspected for Covid-19. Fevers may also indicate other underlying conditions, especially in the old and vulnerable, who may need immediate attention. So it is important to report fevers,” says deputy municipal commissioner Mukesh Gadhvi. The helpline has been attending to patients who cannot approach hospitals or urban health centre due to illness, old age or other reasons. It provides medical services at the doorstep of such patients. “Following directions from ACS Rajiv Gupta, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad city, we have been providing counselling, screening and medical assistance to patients who have symptoms like fever, cough or other Covid-related symptoms,” says Gadhvi. The service has attended to 15,857 calls so far, of which 440 patients were referred to hospitals. A note from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said there are 40-odd fever vans in the city which attend to an average of 235 calls a day. Another emerging concern for the AMC is dengue fever, which senior AMC officials say could overlap with Covid symptoms in the coming month.  “Identification of dengue fever and severe malaria cases early are also very important for us. Our fever vans are taking special care regarding this,” said a senior AMC health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/helpline-only-1-of-callers-had-covid/articleshow/76473376.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Bank employee tests Covid positive; branch sealed off||MYSURU: A city bank branch in Saraswathipuram was sealed off after a woman employee, one among six positive cases in Mysuru on Friday, was found to be infected with the novel coronavirus. She is a primary contact of a positive patient, her brother, in Kolar. The brother is a cop in Kolar and was in Mysuru from June 6 to 11. Soon after he returned to work, he was subjected to a Covid test in Kolar and tested positive. Authorities tipped-off their counterparts in Mysuru as he had stayed with his sister for five days. The woman works in Syndicate Bank’s Saraswathipuram branch, which is now sealed off and disinfected. The disinfectant spray was also sprayed in the vicinity. Throat swabs of four of the siblings’ relatives were collected soon after and one of the relatives among has tested positive. As the woman employee would have had contact with scores of customers at the bank, authorities have requested all those who visited the bank in the last one week to self-quarantine and undergo a Covid test at the earliest. This is the first case in Mysuru wherein a bank employee has tested positive. Four relatives of TN couple infected After a couple from Tamil Nadu tested positive, four of their relatives too were found to be infected. One among them is an 82-year-old woman, the oldest Covid patient in Mysuru. The 82-year-old’s daughter and son-in-law had come to Mysuru to visit her when she was hospitalized last week. The thermal scanner at the hospital picked up the change in temperature. When tested, the couple were positive for the infection.The grandson too has tested positive. Meanwhile, another woman is the primary contact of a Nanjangud patient. With six fresh cases, Mysuru's Covid tally has gone up to 129, said DC Abhiram G Sankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bank-employee-tests-positive-branch-sealed-off/articleshow/76472343.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 20, 2020||Goa||Varsity staff come to aid of 15 rock python hatchlings||Panaji: Around 15 hatchlings of the Indian rock python were rescued and released in a safer place by zoology department academics, even as they emerged from their egg shells in Goa University campus on Friday morning. The 15 eggs— lying on a concrete step near a drain in pouring rain – about to be swept by a gushing flow were noticed by a faculty member. On being informed, Nitin Sawant, an assistant professor of GU’s zoology department and his student, a junior research fellow, Dikansh Parmar rushed to the spot. “We saw almost 15 eggs near one of the faculty blocks and brought them to safety. One hatchling had already emerged from the shell,” Sawant said. Sawant is also working on a project funded by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to study diversity of herpeto fauna in Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. “Indian rock python is not in the endangered list but included in schedule one as per Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, due to threat from humans in wildlife trade,” Sawant said. “Each female can lay 18 to 100 eggs. There are dogs and predators in the area, so we are not sure how many were laid,” Sawant said. The hatchlings were recorded for various details. “Each individual measured between1.5 to 2 feet and weighed on an average 70-80g,” Parmar said. Despite having several buildings and a busy thoroughfare along a network of roads, GU campus boasts of rich flora and fauna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/varsity-staff-come-to-aid-of-15-rock-python-hatchlings/articleshow/76474304.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat doctors demand more corona tests, laboratories||AHMEDABAD: Doctors in Gujarat have been opposing restrictions on Covid testing and their associations asserted before the Gujarat high court on Friday that the number of tests done in the state must be increased, in line with the Centre’s insistence on increased testing in Delhi. The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) and Indian Medical Association’s Gujarat chapter questioned the Gujarat government’s restrictions on Covid testing and demanded that prior permission from the government authority should not be mandatory to test asymptomatic doctors and health workers. The government has been removing one restriction after another, but a prescription by an MD is still required to get approval for testing of asymptomatic persons. The associations’ advocate, Mitul Shelat, submitted that the Supreme Court has also said that any person is entitled to this test and the government should remove all obstacles. He claimed that many government dispensaries in rural areas do not have MDs and in such a scenario, the case has to be referred to the district headquarters where an MD is available. While emphasizing the need to increase testing, the lawyer cited the Centre’s insistence that Delhi should test three times more than it is doing. “After the instructions, the daily number of tests in Delhi went up from 6,000 to 18,000. Looking at the population of Gujarat, present testing is not enough and there should be at least 40,000 tests per day,” he submitted. The lawyer also told the HC that there are 19 laboratories approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid testing, but five private laboratories and two government ones have been waiting for the state government’s nod to start testing for the last month. He argued that laboratory facilities should also be augmented, and each district should have a laboratory for Covid testing. The state government’s stand that restrictions on Covid testing are “reasonable” and “in public interest” was vehemently opposed by senior counsel Anshin Desai as well. For ICMR, assistant solicitor general Devang Vyas submitted that a prescription from any physician is the only requirement for Covid testing. To this, Shelat argued that when the ICMR is not placing any bar, the Gujarat government is unnecessarily insisting that only MDs can prescribe the test and not MBBS degree holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-demand-more-corona-tests-laboratories/articleshow/76473408.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress hopes to stop 2 netas from quitting||HYDERABAD: Two Congress leaders — Bhadradri MLA Podem Veeraiah and Warangal district unit president N Rajender Reddy — are upset with the leadership in the state for not resolving their issues. Former deputy chief minister Damodar Raja Narasimha and AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao held talks and cajoled them to not take any hasty decision. Hanumanth Rao has written a letter to AICC general secretary in charge of Telangana RC Khuntia with a copy of it addressed to TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy to convene a core committee meeting to discuss the issue. Party leaders from other constituencies are holding programmes in the constituencies of Veeraiah and Rajender due to which they are upset. Despite complaints lodged with the party leaders, no action has been taken, said Hanumanth Rao. Sources said two ministers and three senior leaders from the ruling TRS are trying to get Veeraiah and Rajender to defect to TRS. Elections to both Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation and Khammam Municipal Corporation are due early next year. Veeraiah and Rajender are important leaders in the undivided districts of Warangal and Khammam and the electoral prospects of Congress would become weak if the two defect to TRS. Rajender was denied the assembly ticket in December 2018 elections. Veeraiah and Rajender refused to comment on the issue. Earlier, 12 Congress MLAs had defected to TRS and merged CLP with the ruling party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-hopes-to-stop-2-netas-from-quitting/articleshow/76473431.cms||Roushan Ali
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Parents urged to be cautious||HYDERABAD: After three Intermediate students committed suicide after the release of results, the Telangana Balala Hakula Sangham (TBHS) on Friday said that parents of students, especially of those who failed to clear the exams, should be extra careful and provide moral support to their children. TBHS members said that parents should stop comparing their kids with others and keep a close watch on them. “Every year after the results are announced, we see students trying to end their lives. It is important that elders keep a close watch on them and completely avoid comparing their children to others or discuss about the results as it might spur them to attempt suicide,” said E Raghunandan, convenor, TBHS. They said that parents or elders at home should look for signs of depression and seek help if required. “Students should be told not to get disheartened. They should be encouraged to prepare for the supplementary examinations so that they can confidently appear for the exams and clear all subjects,” said G Kistaiah, a member of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-urged-to-be-cautious/articleshow/76473412.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Pool sampling picks up pace in Bhopal to speed up testing||BHOPAL: More than 6,000-pooled Covid-19 samples were taken in Bhopal to contain the spread of disease. Pool sampling is a unique concept where samples of several people are mixed to make one pool and it is then tested. If any pooled sample tests positive, then samples of those who were in the pool is again tested to identify the exact positive patient. This is apart from routine sampling. In normal samplings, the count per million in Bhopal is higher than Mumbai, said sources. While a little more than 19,000 samples per million were taken in Mumbai, more than 26,000 per million samples have been taken in Bhopal. The district administration in the state capital has been doing one-of-its-kind pool sampling since the past two months. On April 29, the district administration sought permission from senior health officials of the government as well as the appropriate authorities for conducting pool sampling. The then district collector Tarun Pithode, who was transferred on June 18, had said, “We take samples of everyone, but when there are low-risk samples, we identify it through contact tracing. In pool sampling, what we do is like we mix five samples in one. Suppose we have 200 samples, we only have to do 40 tests, but if any of these 40 comes positive, we do sampling of each of the five individuals of the pool which has come positive, thus only 45 tests have to be done for 200 people.” “We have done more than 71,000 normal samples along with 6,000 pool samples,” he had said. “In our contact tracing, we do advance tracing, we do not conceal any information. If there is a patient, P, his family members are primary contacts, his friends are secondary contacts, then of these primary and secondary contacts, those who have spent more time with the patient are considered the high-risk suspected patients. Others who have hardly met the patient are low-risk. Then we trace 10 houses to the left of the patient’s house and 10 houses to the right and five houses in front of the patient’s house,” Pithode had said. “The pool samples are from low-risk people. We have also traced advance contacts, like if the primary contact high-risk person had met someone else, then we also traced that,” he said. Talking to TOI after his transfer, Pithode said, “I can assure that the city is safe now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sample-pooling-helps-bhopal-admin-increase-testing-rate/articleshow/76472373.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||CCTVs help cops penalize those not wearing masks||Vadodara: Roam around the city without wearing your face mask, now an e-challan will follow you home. The police department has decided to penalize people not wearing the mask in public places will utilize CCTVs to spot the offenders. The civic body is already taking fines from people caught without their masks. “Many people drive vehicles without wearing the mandatory face mask. We have decided to use CCTVs to spot, identify and penalize such people,” said a cop, adding that the same system to catch traffic offenders will be used here to send the e-challans. For more than three months now that cops have stopped using CCTVs to penalize traffic offenders. But now, the same system will come handy for the cops to track down those flouting the mask rule while driving vehicles. The police have already fined 334 persons and collected Rs 66,800 from people for spitting in public places and not wearing their masks. “The city has been consistently witnessing rise in number of positive cases and so, it is important that people follow the rules strictly. And with the lifting of lockdown, wearing face mask will ensure that infection doesn’t spread,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cctvs-help-cops-penalize-those-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76471720.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Surat||ISO certification for Surat airport||Surat: Amid the nationwide lockdown and the coronavirus pandemic, the Surat international airport has added yet another feather in its cap by acquiring three international standards certifications under the Integrated Management System (IMS). Official sources said that the Surat international airport has obtained the IMS certification of quality management standards (ISO 9001:2015), environmental management standards (ISO 14001:2015) and Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ISO 45001:2013). Airport director Aman Saini told TOI, “This is indeed a big achievement for garnering international acknowledgement for the airport operations, environment and occupational health and safety management.” “This assures that the operations at Surat airport is in line with international standards with a focus on customer satisfaction. In a very short span of two years, the airport is catered by more than 20 daily flights and the passenger movement of 4,000 per day,” added Saini. According to Saini, the ISO certification also proves that the airport performs its tasks in accordance with international standards to continuously improve the convenience of passenger through relevant standards. Sources said that the airport has received environment clearance (EC) from the central government for the extension of the terminal building project. Work on the terminal building expansion has already started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/iso-certification-for-surat-airport/articleshow/76472149.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Business||HDC handles record cargo||Kolkata: The Haldia Dock Complex (HDC) under the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) has achieved an all-time record by handling 46.67 million tonne (MT) of cargo in 2019-20. This was a growth of 3.3% against the national average of 0.8% for all major Indian ports. The highest-ever cargo handled (4.63 MT) in a single month was achieved in January, 2020. “HDC has been successful in not only retaining its cargo but also mobilising new cargo such as steel. It handled 7.27 MT since April, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. HDC has evolved marketing strategies to woo prospective organisations to invest via land-related activities. The ministry of shipping is in the process of making a township policy for SPMPT,” a Kolkata port official said. HDC has made several other records, including the single day record handling of 20,320 million tonnes of non-cooking coal in terms of cargo lighterage at the Sandheads on February 3 this year. The highest ever single vessel LPG parcel load of 27,980 million tonnes was discharged on June 10. SPMPT chairman Vinit Kumar personally monitored operations at both HDC and the Kolkata Dock System (KDS) during the Covid-19 situation. This worked as a morale booster for employees. Senior officers, including deputy chairman Balaji Arun Kumar, also took up the challenge and ensured that operations don’t suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdc-handles-record-cargo/articleshow/76474553.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Relative murders businessman in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A Congress leader and real estate businessman from Jadcherla was stabbed to death by his relative at Kothur in Rangareddy district on Friday evening. The victim, Ramachandra Reddy (60) was kidnapped by his relative A Pratap Reddy, and his driver from Shadnagar on Friday. “There was a dispute between Ramachandra Reddy and Pratap Reddy pertaining to two acres of land. On Friday, Pratap Reddy called Ramchandra Reddy to Shadnagar to discuss about the land dispute and settle the matter,” said Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy. Ramchandra Reddy reached Shadnagar at around 11 am and spoke to Pratap Reddy for about an hour before returning to Jadcherla. At around 4 pm, Ramachandra Reddy met Pratap Reddy again near Delhi World School in Shadnagar. Pratap Reddy asked Ramachandra Reddy’s driver to get down from the car so that they could discuss the matter in private. “They had an argument about the property dispute. During the argument, Pratap Reddy and his driver stabbed Ramachandra Reddy in the chest with scissors and killed him. A little later, Pratap, along with his driver, fled the place to go to a real estate venture near Penjerla village in Kothur mandal, leaving Ramachandra Reddy’s body in his car,” said a Shadnagar police official. Meanwhile, Ramchandra Reddy’s son lodged a complaint alleging that his father was kidnapped by Pratap Reddy. At around 7 pm, Pratap called Shadnagar police and informed them about the murder and the location of the body. Police shifted the body for post-mortem and launched a man hunt to nab the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relative-murders-businessman/articleshow/76473450.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre, state initiate process for relief to Col Bikkumalla Santosh’s family||HYDERABAD: The family of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu is entitled to benefits from both the state and central governments for the supreme sacrifice he made for the country. Director of Sainik Welfare Col P Ramesh Kumar has already indicated to the family what the benefits would be and the zilla sainik welfare officer of Nalgonda has paid a visit to their house in Suryapet as per the procedures involved. “We have informed the family that — in due course — we would be assisting them in getting all the benefits the family can avail and is entitled to. I have also personally conveyed my condolences to the wife of martyr Santosh Babu,” Col Ramesh said. As per the norms, children of martyrs will be given preference in allocation of seats for higher education in the quota allotted for the armed forces. There are a number of measures which are coordinated by the sainik welfare department unit concerned with the Army headquarters and Kendriya Sainik Board. Col Babu was killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The last rites were performed in Suryapet on June 18. The relief provided by the central government to the kin of soldiers who died defending the country includes an ex gratia of Rs 35 lakh. Also, Directorate of Indian Army Veterans gives an ex gratia of Rs 8 lakh. A liberalised family pension, equivalent to the pay drawn by the soldier if he were in service till the period of his entitled service is provided. Also provided are reimbursement of tuition fee, books, uniforms, for education of children, computer grant for wards and widows and grants for wedding of daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-state-initiate-process-for-relief-to-col-santoshs-family/articleshow/76473413.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||One-third of district’s cases in last 19 days||Ahmedabad: In 19 days of June, Ahmedabad district recorded 6,078 Covid-19 cases, which is 33.3% of the district’s total tally of 18,258 so far. The cases include those recorded in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits. In June, 454 deaths have been recorded so far in the district, which is 35% of the district’s total of 1,296 deaths. In 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, Ahmedabad added 312 new cases. It was the 13th consecutive day on which the district recorded 300-plus cases. Now the district is fourth in terms of cases in India after Mumbai, Delhi, and Chennai. In terms of deaths, the district is third — behind Mumbai and Delhi. In the 24-hour period under consideration, 21 deaths were registered in the district. Surat district recorded the second highest number of cases (93). That is the highest for the district in June. It is followed by Vadodara (45) and Mehsana (12). Surat recorded four deaths whereas Surendranagar and Mehsana recorded one death each. Over the past two days, Surat has recorded 10 deaths, which is 8.6% of the total 116 . As on Friday evening, ten Gujarat districts have recorded ten or more deaths. The discharges include 206 in Ahmedabad, 55 in Surat, 21 in Vadodara and eight in Anand. Of the 26,198 total Covid-19 patients in Gujarat, 6,412 (24.5%) are active, 18,167 (69.3%) have been discharged, and 1,619 (6.2%) are dead. Gujarat carried out 5,557 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 3.14 lakh. Persons under quarantine in Gujarat rose to 2.17 lakh of whom 2.13 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-third-of-districts-cases-in-last-19-days/articleshow/76473430.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 4 held for stealing jewellery from shop||HYDERABAD: Special Operations Team (SOT), Rachakonda along with Neredmet police on Friday arrested four burglars from Rajasthan who were residing in Hyderabad. Gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 47.2 lakh were seized. The accused were identified as Pappuram Devasi, Sukhdev Singh Chowhan, Manchiram Devasi and Dudaram Gurjar from Pali district in Rajasthan. According to the police, Pappuram, who worked as a salesman at a jewellery shop in Neredmet, along with Sukhdev, planned to steal the ornaments from the shop where he worked. Pappuram was worried after the shop owner lodged a police complaint and went to Sukhdev’s house where the other two associates were also staying. As Pappuram went missing soon after the burglary, police suspected him and nabbed all four accused at Sukhdev’s house in Alwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-stealing-jewellery-from-shop/articleshow/76473437.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Amritsar||‘Plasma therapy in Amritsar hospital soon’||CHANDIGARH: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has accorded approval to Government Medical College, Amritsar, to treat patients of Covid-19 with plasma therapy, whose initial results a minister in Punjab has described as “extremely encouraging”. Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni said they were ready to start the therapy within few days. He said initial results of plasma therapy at Faridkot had been “extremely encouraging”. Under the therapy, the plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 is preserved for transfusing the same in critically ill patient. The minister said any patient who has has recovered from Covid and whose report (RT-PCR) is found negative, could donate plasma after 14 days as their blood contains antibodies which are helpful in fighting the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/plasma-therapy-in-asr-hospital-soon/articleshow/76474312.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Door-to-door survey deferred for lack of training in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A two-day massive health survey to identify suspected Covid-19 patients in densely populated colonies and slums of Bhopal, which was supposed to begin on Saturday has been postponed for now. It will now be held after making adequate preparations and imparting proper training to 500 survey teams comprising Asha and Anganwadi workers. A one-day training session, however, was conducted at Samanvay Bhawan on Friday. The teams will be further trained to use “Sarthak” app of the state government for the survey. Avinash Lavaniya, who took over as Bhopal collector on Friday morning, in his address to survey teams said, “It was only with the help of Asha and Anganwadi workers that Bhopal could attain freedom from coronavirus pandemic. The coronavirus pandemic has been under control to a large extent in the city because of the hard work of ground workers, who carry out surveys, screening, and sampling of people. It is their valuable contribution that has allowed the district administration to fight the pandemic.” He, at the same time, cautioned them to observe all the protective measures to save themselves from infection. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was also scheduled to address them through video conference, but he left for Rewa in the morning to participate in the last rites of martyred soldier Deepak Singh. Chief medical officer, Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, who was also present at the training session, told TOI that the survey has been deferred for some days so as to impart more training to survey teams. “Our survey teams will visit 50 slum areas of the city and they will be followed by screening and sampling teams. If a person is found in a serious condition with symptoms of coronavirus, he would be sent to the hospital for admission and samples would be taken of those needing tests,” he said. A press communique by the district administration said that 500 survey teams have been constituted comprising more than 1,500 persons. Each team will carry out a survey at 50 houses everyday. The survey will continue for two days and 4 to 5 lakh people would be covered under the survey. The training was imparted to survey teams in two sessions at Samanvay Bhawan on Friday. The communique, however, did not specify the dates of the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/door-to-door-survey-deferred-for-lack-of-training/articleshow/76472389.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Three critical Covid-19 patients moved to ICU, isolated cases continue to grow||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count crossed the 600-mark on Friday as 20 persons tested for the novel coronavirus, the lowest daily increase in more than a week. Meanwhile, even as three patients at the Covid hospital were moved to ICU after their condition turned critical, nine more were cured, taking the total number of recovered patients to 118. While most cases in the state so far are either from or linked to or from the Mangor Hill containment zone, the number of “isolated” cases is rising. On Friday itself, Margao, Curtorim and Indiranagar in Chimbel saw two cases each, along with five from Chinchinim. The past two days has also seen two priests from Salcete test positive, and contact tracing is on. Of the three patients shifted to ICU on Friday, two of them were brought in from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital with pneumonia. The condition of all three is stable, sources said. The Covid hospital has only seen a handful of ICU cases, and only one — a 56-year-old security guard — required ventilator support. He later was declared stable and taken off the ventilator. Friday also saw Mormugao Municipal Council’s ward IV (Sada) declared a containment zone. While one person tested positive, swabs of many more were collected. However, even as cases spike around the state, the health department is yet to identify the source of infection of the cases not linked to Mangor Hill. A particularly vexing case is the senior citizen from Porvorim who tested positive on Wednesday. Health officials are clueless as to how or where he could have contracted the infection from, as all his family members have tested negative so far. In pursuit of the source of his infection, 218 swabs were collected on Friday. Meanwhile, Indiranagar, which reported two cases — a couple — testing positive on Thursday, saw two more cases as members of their family also tested positive. Chimbel PHC health officer Dr Jude D’Souza said that their son and nephew tested positive, while a sister and another brother who stayed in the same house tested negative. They, however, have been quarantined. “We have collected swab samples of 69 persons in the area,” D’Souza said, adding that these are of people in the immediate neighbourhood of the couple and those they have come in contact with. “The results are expected on Saturday. Swab collection will continue, and, depending on results, authorities will take the call what to do next.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-critical-covid-patients-moved-to-icu-isolated-cases-continue-to-grow/articleshow/76474306.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC refuses to interfere in KNRUHS PG medical exams||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday refused to interfere in the decision of the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) to conduct examinations for PG medical courses from June 20 to June 29. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy however made it clear that it will conduct quick supplementary exams for those who could not write examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Treat them as regular students,” it said. B Karunakar Reddy, the vice-chancellor of the varsity appeared before the court through video-conference and assured that they will not even ask the students to pay exam fee for the supplementary exams. “They paid the exam fee for the current exams and the same will be adjusted for their supplementary exams,” he said. The bench was hearing pleas from some PG students who wanted the exams to be postponed. Their counsel, Sama Sandeep Reddy, spoke about the advice and cautions given by the state governor and Medical Council of India (MCI). The bench said that even they did not direct the postponement. In fact they sought conducting of exams with precautions. The vice-chancellor said that he spoke to the secretary general of MCI, who said that exams can be conducted. He added that he has been coordinating with the governor’s office on the issue. Nearly 1,200 PG students are there in the state and all of them are associated with various government and private hospitals. For 158 students working with Gandhi Hospital, the authorities made arrangements at Kamineni Hospital for writing the exams as Gandhi Hospital is the special hospital for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-knruhs-pg-medical-exams/articleshow/76474307.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana won’t deny Rythu Bandhu benefit to any farmer: KTR||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Friday dismissed rumours that the state government would deny Rythu Bandhu scheme benefits to farmers if they do not strictly follow the guidelines on regulated farming. KTR said the opposition parties were spreading lies on Rythu Bandhu and urged the farmers to not believe them. He clarified that the government was not trying to dictate the farmers on what to sow and when to cultivate, but was only advising them to cultivate those crops which have a good demand in the market. “The TRS government is the first government in the country to introduce Rythu Bandhu. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao always thinks about farmers’ welfare. Every farmer in the state will get Rythu Bandhu benefit. The government has no intention to deny the benefit to any farmer in Telangana,” he asserted. Not long ago, senior government officials had said that Rythu Bandhu would not be extended to those farmers if they do not adhere to the crop pattern set by the government. The chief minister had also dropped enough hints on not giving the scheme sops if the farmers do not follow regulated farming. The minister was taking part in the zilla parishad general body meeting in Rajanna-Sircilla district apart from participating in developmental works in Gambhiraopet and other places in the district. He directed agriculture officers to provide details of the farmers who cultivated which crops by July 15. He said farmers should utilise the services of Rythu Vedikas for cultivation. The minister said the state was racing ahead with a second green revolution, white revolution, blue revolution and pink revolution. “These revolutions will definitely boost Telangana’s economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-wont-deny-rythu-bandhu-benefit-to-any-farmer-ktr/articleshow/76473428.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Stray dogs fall prey to snares||Mangaluru: Increasingly stray dogs are falling prey to snares laid to trap wild boars, porcupines and monitor lizards in the outskirts of Mangaluru, or areas close to the forest range, said animal rescuer Tauseef Ahmed. On Thursday, a dog that had a binding wire snare stuck to one of its hind legs for quite a few days, was rescued from Boliyar panchayat. Tauseef, founder and rescuer at Mr Rescuer, said, “This incident was reported at Mudipu, about 30km from the city. Since the dog was not friendly, removing the snare was a challenge. With great difficulty, I managed to pin down the dog, along with the panchayat members, after which the snare was removed. The snare had in fact bitten into the muscle tissue and new tissues had started growing over it. The wound was cleaned with antiseptic, and ointment was applied. Antibiotics and painkillers have been handed over to the panchayat staff who are looking after the dog,” he said. Snares or barbed wires are often set up by farmers around agricultural fields, to prevent animals such as wild boars from destroying their crops. There have been several instances of sloth bears and leopards falling victim to these deadly traps. “Dogs falling prey to snares is a matter of concern. In the last four months, especially near the area surrounding Mudipu and Thokottu, there have been at least seven cases of dogs falling prey to snares. Since these areas are away from the city, it is difficult for animal rescuers to reach the spot on time. These kinds of snares are used to trap wild boars, wild birds, rabbits, deer and toddy cats for meat. The snare is made by binding wire and food is laid to attract the animal. During the lockdown, stray dogs may have gone into the forest in search of food. These incidents also indicate that poaching is on the rise,” he said. Tauseef has brought this incident to the notice of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/stray-dogs-fall-prey-to-snares/articleshow/76472385.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 20, 2020||World||White House announces plans for July 4th celebration||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump is moving ahead with a lower-key ``Salute to America`` celebration this year on July Fourth, despite concerns from some lawmakers about the crowds the event could generate during the coronavirus pandemic. Washington has held an Independence Day celebration for decades, featuring a parade along Constitution Avenue, a concert on the Capitol lawn with music by the National Symphony Orchestra and fireworks beginning at dusk near the Washington Monument. Trump altered the lineup last year by adding his speech, moving the fireworks closer to the Lincoln Memorial and summoning an array of tanks and warplanes to entertain the crowds. The White House said that the president and first lady Melania Trump will host the event this year from the White House's South Lawn and the Ellipse. It said the president will deliver remarks and that the ceremony will include music, military demonstrations and flyovers. Last year, Trump spoke near the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. ``As President Trump has said, there will be an Independence Day celebration this year and it will have a different look than 2019 to ensure the health and safety of those attending,`` said White House spokesman Judd Deere. ``The American people have shown tremendous courage and spirit in the fight against this global pandemic just as our forefathers did in the fight to secure our independence, and both deserve celebration on America's birthday this year.`` Democratic lawmakers from the Washington region have stated their strong opposition to an event like last year's. ``Given the current COVID-19 crisis, we believe such an event would needlessly risk the health and safety of thousands of Americans. Further, this event would come at the cost of millions of taxpayer dollars while we are facing an unprecedented economic downturn due to the pandemic,`` the lawmakers said in a May 26 letter to Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Interior Secretary David Bernhardt. One of the lawmakers who signed the letter, Rep. Don Beyer, D-Va., said after Friday's announcement from the White House that the president should be capable of celebrating Independence Day responsibly. ``Instead he is using the military to stage yet another costly political photo op,'' Beyer asserted. The crowds on the National Mall are expected to be smaller, in part because one of the biggest draws of the day, the annual parade, has been cancelled. The parade is co-hosted by the National Park Service and a website for the event said local leadership projected that COVID-19 infection levels will not be abated to the degree that it would be safe or prudent to conduct the parade. The annual fireworks show will go on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/white-house-announces-plans-for-july-4th-celebration/articleshow/76474705.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||GIDC allots 14,380 sqm plot at Verna Industrial estate for maritime cluster||Panaji: India’s first maritime cluster took another step forward with Goa Industrial Development Corporation allotting an industrial plot at Verna industrial estate to Konkan Maritime Cluster on Friday. The maritime cluster, a consortium of 49 Goan enterprises, will utilise the 14,380 sqm of land to setup a world-class common facility for manufacturing, design and allied services for the shipbuilding industry. With the land allotted, the maritime cluster will now approach the Centre for a one-time grant to setup the common manufacturing and design facility at Verna. The Goa government is likely to contribute 10% of the setup cost, said sources. “I presented the allotment letter of the plot at Verna Industrial Estate to the Konkan Maritime Cluster, a consortium of 49 Goan entrepreneurial enterprises in the sunrise sector of ship building which aims to hand hold its stakeholders by creating world class facilities and thereby allowing the Goan enterprises to compete in the world market,” GIDC chairman Glen Ticlo said. Initially incorporated as Western Shipbuilding Pvt Ltd, the maritime cluster has rebranded itself to Konkan Maritime Cluster. Mandovi Drydocks director Atrey Sawant serves as the director of Konkan Maritime Cluster along with Vijai Marine Shipyard’s Suraj Dialani. The move to setup the maritime cluster began in October 2018 when an application was made to the state-level steering committee. The maritime cluster has been proposed under the Centre’s Sagarmala programme based on the state government’s recommendation. “The cluster will create common facilities not only for the ship builders of Goa but also for the other manufacturers who may require the services of the cluster. Jobs for our youth with focus on a skill development facility within the cluster is a major takeaway for us,” Ticlo said. Ship building is a major industry in Goa and it supports many livelihoods. The maritime cluster will have a common facility for cutting and shaping of plates for vessels. Software for design of ships, which local architects cannot afford, will also be procured. The facility will also have space for material testing and final assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-allots-14380-sqm-plot-at-verna-industrial-estate-for-maritime-cluster/articleshow/76474334.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TSHRC seeks report from DCP||HYDERABAD: TSHRC on Friday called for a report from DCP, West Zone with respect to allegations made against police inspector, Asifnagar. Mohd Shafi filed a complaint against the inspector of police for allegedly abusing and physically assaulting him after his house owner filed a ‘false’ complaint against him so as to forcefully vacate him from the premises. The case was filed against inspector for allegedly getting involved in civil disputes. TSHRC directed the DCP, West Zone to file a report by July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tshrc-seeks-report-from-dcp/articleshow/76473464.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mysuru||Centre can sell petrol at Rs 25-30: Siddaramaiah||MYSURU: The centre must remove excise duty on petroleum products and ensure people get petrol and diesel at a cheaper price, said former chief minister Siddaramaiah. After launching a protest against petrol and diesel hike by filling petrol in bikes for Rs 25 per litre organized by former MLA MK Somashekar near Chikkamanikethana Marriage Hall, Siddaramaiah said the basic price of fuel is Rs 18.6. “But petrol is sold at Rs 79 and diesel at Rs 71 per litre. While the central government levies excise duty, the state levies sales tax. When Dr Manmohan Singh was the PM, crude oil price was $125 per barrel. But today it has fallen to just $39. The centre can sell petrol and diesel for Rs 25 to Rs 30. Instead, it is increasing prices everyday. From past 10 days fuel prices have increased by around Rs 5.5 per litre, increasing the burden on farmers and the poor,” he said. Siddaramaiah said people are already in distress due to coronavirus. “People are suffering without food and employment. Along with fuel prices, the government has also increased electricity price. I request government to not think of making profit in such a crisis,” he said. Siddaramaiah said, “PM Modi’s misrule has ruined both the health of the people and the country’s economy.” “Around 62 percent of people have lost their jobs. There is unemployment and migrant workers have no work. The government is creating a chaos in the country and the economy is in doldrums. But CM BS Yediyurappa has no guts to question PM Modi and demand the Rs 5,494 crore which is pending from the 15th Finance Commission to the state,” he said. Siddaramaiah said the state government was planning to close Indira Canteens. “By amending the Land Reforms Act, the state government is helping corporates purchase agriculture lands. During the lockdown, laws are amended through ordinances which is against constitution and democracy. As the state has imposed section 144, we will have to take up jail bharo agitation against such anti-people policies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/centre-can-sell-petrol-at-rs-25-30-siddaramaiah/articleshow/76469453.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 450 Covid-19 beds at new Burari hospital||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to open a newly constructed hospital in Burari to ramp up the health infrastructure in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the capital. Out of its 700 beds, 450 will be reserved for Covid-19 patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. Every third bed in the hospital will be equipped with oxygen supply. “Almost all preparations for Covid-19 treatment have been done here. Around 125 beds already have oxygen supply and another 125 beds will be provided oxygen through cylinders,” the chief minister said during a visit to the hospital on Friday. “The establishment of this facility will be another great step in our bid to install more beds to treat more Covid-19 patients in the city,” Kejriwal added. In the meantime, the Covid-19 testing has been expanded to 13,074 on Friday after introduction of the rapid antigen testing kits in the national capital on Thursday. The target is to conduct 18,000 tests daily by Saturday. The Burari hospital will be one of the largest Covid-19 health facilities. The construction of the hospital was completed recently and in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, there were demands to open it. Delhi government so far has five existing Covid-19 hospitals. The opening of the hospital will also take some load off the healthcare staff at these five facilities, said an official. The government estimates that it will need 15,000 beds by June 30 and 30,000 by July 15. To avoid any crisis, the government is coordinating with private players to create additional infrastructure. In south Delhi, 10,000 Covid beds are being readied at a religious establishment while the government has attached several hotels, including Taj Mansingh, to private hospitals to house patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/450-covid-beds-at-new-burari-hosp/articleshow/76474311.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||No kick in liquor business, dealers struggle for licence fee in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With liquor sales consistently spiralling downwards, wine dealers from the city say they are struggling to raise funds for the quarterly license fee due on Saturday. The situation, they say, is much the same among shop owners across Telangana. As per the rulebook, each of the 2,213 wine shops in the state — of them roughly 430 are in within Greater Hyderabad limits — is expected to pay anywhere between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 30 lakh, at the beginning of every quarter. The payment due on June 20 is for the July to September period. But with a 45-day lockdown hitting them hard and liquor sales, even post reopening, touching just about 50% of their usual business, dealers say that paying the fee will be a Herculean task. While members of the wine dealers association had even written to government authorities, seeking a waiver in license fee for the lockdown period, no relief has come their way so far. “There will be a lot of people who will not be able to pay the fee tomorrow (on Saturday),” said D Venkateshwara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Dealers’ Association reiterating how sales have been extremely slow owing to pay cuts and job losses among patrons. The rise in cost of alcohol too is a factor, he said. Last month, Telangana hiked the price of liquor by 16%. “The Delhi government had also levied a corona cess of 70%. But it rolled it back after it harmed liquor sales. The Telangana government, however, has taken no such measure,” said another wine retailer from Madhapur adding, “I know people who are borrowing funds from family, friends to pay the fee. Because if we don’t our bank guarantee will be forfeited.” While appealing for a waiver, the association had also given authorities the option to extend the license period by 45 days, so that they can earn the money and subsequently pay the fee. This was proposed considering the high revenue — of Rs 4.5 crore (approx) — that Telangana collectively earns as license fee from wine dealers every day. “We have received their suggestions but haven’t taken any decision yet. We will discuss the matter with the chief minister and then see what best we can do,” said V Srinivas Goud, minister of prohibition and excise, Telangana. He is, however, hopeful that most wine dealers will pay the license fee without much trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-kick-in-liquor-biz-dealers-struggle-for-licence-fee/articleshow/76474328.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Avinash Lavaniya takes over as Bhopal district collector||BHOPAL: Avinash Lavaniya took over as district collector, Bhopal, on Friday morning. Immediately after taking charge, Lavaniya held a meeting with district officials concerned to discuss the Coronavirus situation in Bhopal. He said in the meeting that there has been good progress towards containing Coronavirus infection in Bhopal and we shall continue with the same strategy, but more focus is required to be given on reducing the death rate of Covid-19 patients and growth rate of the Coronavirus. He further said that there was a sizeable population of gas victims in the city and they have to be protected against the deadly virus. The health survey among gas victims must continue and cover all the victims in the “high risk” zone. Lavaniya said that “fever clinics” should be made more effective and at the same time, unnecessary sampling and testing should be avoided. Only where the test is required that sample should be taken, he said. He further asked officials to strictly adhere to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol in the treatment of Coronavirus patients. Lavaniya also emphasized the need to further tighten security in “containment areas” of the city, so that people don’t go into the containment area nor do come out of the “containment area”. If it could be ensured, the spread of the virus from affected areas could be checked, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/avinash-lavaniya-takes-over-as-bhopal-district-collector/articleshow/76472410.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 20, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation claims salary arrears cleared, but some doctors differ||NEW DELHI: Even as North Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed to have disbursed salary for two months on Friday, doctors of some hospitals claimed not to have received it till evening. Friday was the last date fixed by Delhi high court for paying a month’s salary to doctors employed with the north corporation, while the remaining salary is to be paid by June 24. “As per court order, we issued salary for junior residents, senior residents, DNB and PG doctors for the month of March and April on June 17 and 18 respectively. The salary for April will reach accounts maximum by Friday evening,” said a statement issued by the north corporation. “Salary was released from the amount received from Delhi government as well as from some property tax collection,” said a corporation official. The civic agency said it has started receiving funds from the government and thus, will release the salary pending for three months to other departments in a phased manner. Doctors’ associations, meanwhile, claimed that they did not receive salary on Friday and will wait till June 24 before taking any decision. On June 12, the high court had directed the north corporation to pay the salary for March to the resident doctors in its six hospitals, including Kasturba Gandhi and Hindu Rao, by June 19 and for April by June 24. “None of us in the hospital has received salary for March or April. But we will wait for another four-five days before taking any decision on mass resignation,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Prasad, president of Residents Doctors Association, Kasturba Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-claims-salary-arrears-cleared-but-some-doctors-differ/articleshow/76473467.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Staffer +ve, Khamano DSP office sealed||Khamano (Fatehgarh Sahib): The office of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) here has been shut down for a few days after one of the staffers, a computer operator, tested positive for Covid on Thursday night. The infected staffer, a woman constable, has been shifted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar hospital in Banur. Samples of three close contacts of the constable, including reader to DSP, his gunman and a woman employee, have been taken. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/staffer-ve-khamano-dsp-office-sealed/articleshow/76474323.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: No surprises in Rajya Sabha polls, Congress wins 2 seats & BJP 1||JAIPUR: Despite the week-long resort drama and allegations of poaching, the Rajya Sabha elections in Rajasthan sprang no surprises on Friday, with the Congress winning two seats and the BJP one. Congress candidates K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, and BJP's Rajendra Gehlot were declared winners by returning officer and assembly secretary P K Mathur after the votes were counted. Congress candidate and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal was elected to the Upper House with 64 votes, while the other candidate, Neeraj Dangi, received 59 votes in his favour. The total number of votes polled in favour of the Congress party was 123, which included 106 out of its 107 (excluding minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal who is sick and did not vote), 13 independents, two MLAs of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and one of Bharatiya Lok Dal (BLD). The CPM, which had two MLAs in the assembly, extended support to the party. But only one of its MLAs could vote as the other CPM MLA, Girdhari Lal, is sick and did not vote. The BJPs winning candidate Rajendra Gehlot received 54 votes while the second candidate Onkar Singh Lekhawat could garner only 20 votes. One vote was declared invalid. The BJP had the support of 75 MLAs, including three of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP). The run-up to the polls was marred by allegations of horse trading by the BJP after it forced an election by putting up a second candidate. As a pre-emptive measure, the Congress had shifted its MLAs and those of supporting parties to a resort from June 10 till the election on Friday. The election was prompted after the three seats were vacated by three BJP MPs --Narayan Lal Panchariya, Ram Narain Dudi and Vijay Goel -- when their terms ended on April 9, 2020. The elections were initially scheduled for March 26, but were postponed due to the nationwide lockdown announced to slow the spread of coronavirus. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot congratulated the party candidates on their victory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-surprises-in-rs-polls-cong-wins-2-seats-bjp-1/articleshow/76474316.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi writes to PM on Ladakh||HYDERABAD: After AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi was not invited to the all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Indo-China faceoff, he wrote a letter to Modi, blaming him for the current situation in Ladakh. He also expressed his dissatisfaction for not being invited. “The crisis has precipitated for a month, 20 soldiers have been killed by Chinese forces. The blame of the crisis lies solely with political strategic and military leadership headed by you. It’s unfortunate that you failed in dealing with Chinese designs,” wrote Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-writes-to-pm-on-ladakh/articleshow/76473477.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Delhi||‘House of cards’ for Covid-19 patients in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After being extensively used in Mumbai, prefabricated cardboard beds will now be used in Delhi to boost its Covid-19 infrastructure. To begin with, the Radha Soami Satsang Beas Ashram Centre in Chhatarpur will use around 10,000 such beds in its Covid-19 facility, an official said. Recognising the need to use beds that can be easily assembled at quarantine centres, a city-based corrugated board and box manufacturer has agreed to supply the beds at a no-profit basis. The city is likely to require 80,000 Covid-19 care beds by July 31 when the number of cases is projected to reach 5.5 lakh. Sakshi Khanna, a representative of Dhawan Box Sheet Containers Pvt Ltd located in Paschim Vihar, said they had been working in the corrugation industry for the past two generations and produced corrugated rolls and sheets used to make boxes and packaging materials. The requirement of makeshift beds during the pandemic has prompted the company to “use the material to make cardboard beds, which are lightweight, reusable and eco-friendly to dispose of”, she added. The company has already supplied such beds to municipal corporations in Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. “Just before the Covid-19 crisis, smaller furniture like stools were being made and the current situation has pushed it further. We are also making hand-sanitiser dispensers out of cardboard,” official said. The 6x3-foot beds can take a load of up to 300kg each, said another partner. “We produce various panels that can be assembled quickly. Eight parts are required for one bed, including five base legs,” Khanna said. Novel coronavirus may stay active on plastic and metallic surfaces for a long time, but in case of cardboards, the maximum duration is 24 hours, she claimed. Khanna said a cardboard bed cost one fifth of a normal metallic bed. These beds are coated with waterproof material and can be easily disinfected. “We have started manufacturing the parts and will send the first set of beds to the ashram by Monday,” a company official said. Vikas Sethi, the ashram secretary, said these were special beds and samples had been tested. “We will use these special beds to set up the world’s biggest Covid-19 care facility. The first batch will arrive at the site in one-two days,” he added. Watch Cardboard beds to be used at Delhi’s Covid-19 care centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-of-cards-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76474320.cms||Paras Singh
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nod for varsity exams challenged||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court is seeking the junking of the state education department’s decision permitting universities to conduct physical examination for final and intermediate semester students. Former IPS officer-turned lawyer, Rahul Sharma, has challenged the state government’s decision of May 24 to hold university exams, terming it a violation of the Disaster Management Act, under which the Centre has prohibited all educational institutes from functioning except for performing their administrative work. This decision was taken under the Disaster Management Act, and therefore the decision to hold in-person exams during the Covid-19 pandemic is in violation of the law. Sharma also raised serious concerns for the health of all stakeholders including students and teachers. He also contended that hostels may not be available for many students and their study material, which they were forced to leave behind in a hurry after the lockdown, may not be accessible to them. He also cited guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of evaluation of students and insisted that universities should be asked to follow them instead of risking the lives of many by holding in-person examinations. The HC is likely to hear this PIL on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nod-for-varsity-exams-challenged/articleshow/76473463.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Rs 46 crore Basilica beautification to start in four months: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government has set a target of around four months to start Rs46 crore development and beautification of ‘Basilica of Bom Jesus’ under the pilgrimage rejuvenation and spiritual augmentation drive (PRASAD) scheme. After Sawant met with tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and other government officials, he told reporters, “The state government will develop and take up beautification work at Basilica of Bom Jesus under the tourism circuit. The detailed project report was submitted to the Union government under the PRASAD scheme.” Sawant said that during the meeting he instructed all departments and the office of the archbishop to give no objection certificate (NOC) to the tourism department so that they can take up work. “Once the detailed project report is sanctioned, within a short span of time we should start the work,” he said. Ajgaonkar said, “The in-principle approval for the project has been received from Union government. We are waiting for the final approval and want to take all into confidence on the project.” The tourism minister also said that the department wants to have facilities of an international level at Old Goa. “We have planned in such a way, that maximum tourists visit the place,” Ajgaonkar said, adding that due to the current coronavirus pandemic, the state is facing a financial crunch and the government has “to take maximum benefits for tourism development under central government schemes”. The central government’s scheme covers development of facilities including beautification, public conveniences, security and surveillance systems, illumination, etc. at the site. The Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) sub-committee had nominated the ‘Basilica of Bom Jesus’ under the PRASAD scheme of the Union ministry of tourism. A parking facility, as well as a tourism-information plus interpretation centre has been proposed. An official said that under the project, illumination of the entire area, including street lights, will be covered. Other provisions such as drinking water facilities, signages and public conveniences will also be set-up. A traffic plan will also be executed. The proposed facilities which may come up in regulated areas will be carried out in compliance with heritage by-laws and development control regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-46cr-basilica-beautification-to-start-in-4-months-sawant/articleshow/76474331.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Medical students to manage ICU wards in Delhi||NEW DELHI: To better manage the ICU wards in its Covid-19 hospitals, Delhi government has decided to deploy within four days final-year postgraduate and undergraduate nursing students in these wards for six months. All final-year postgraduate doctors studying in Delhi’s PG medical institutions will also be deployed in the state government’s Covid hospitals for the same period. The decisions were taken in a meeting deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia held on Friday with senior health department officials to discuss the augmentation of the ICU beds in the capital. Currently, over 850 Covid-19 patients are admitted to ICU. The government has also decided to connect all existing beds in its Covid hospitals with oxygen supply in the next 10 days. As most of the PG medical institutions in Delhi are affiliated with Guru Govind Singh Indraprastha University, Mahesh Verma, its vice-chancellor, has been appointed for the recruitment and deployment of the required number of final-year MD/MS/DNB and nursing students. “Verma is also authorised to recommend necessary stipend payable to the recruits,” stated the order issued by Sisodia, who is in charge of the health department in the absence of health minister Satyendra Jain. All recruitments will be completed in four days. The number of Covid-19 cases has surged past 50,000 in the capital, increasing the demand for ICU beds in government hospitals. “Hence, it was decided to ramp up the ICU infrastructure at the earliest,” an official said. The biggest problem, as reported in the meeting, is the shortage of the manpower to run ICU beds, he added. “Most of the existing beds currently have oxygen supply and in the next 10 days, the rest will have the facility,” said Sisodia. “If any hospital is in urgent need of any kind, the government will fully support it. The medical chiefs of all hospitals have been directed to increase their bed capacity and all other requirements because the coronavirus cases are rising in the city,” he added. Beds with oxygen supply will also be installed at the newly constructed Ambedkar Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/medical-students-to-man-icu-wards/articleshow/76473512.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Unlocked: East-West Metro work starts below Bowbazar||Kolkata: East-West Metro’s tunnelling at Bowbazar resumed on Friday after three months. The tunnelling had stopped for maintenance of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) on March 19 after which the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. The project, hit by a tunnelling fiasco that led to largescale subsidence in the area last year, had resumed on February 18 on Calcutta High Court’s orders. Friday’s work started not far from the epicentre of the cave-in, Durga Pithuri Lane, off Bowbazar, where the TBM digging the west-bound tunnel had hit an aquifer on August 31, last year. Several dilapidated buildings fell like a pack of cards as water gushed into the giant borer and work was stalled for 170 days. The TBM, nicknamed Chundee, is now lying defunct 14m below Durga Pithuri Lane. Its twin, Urvi, building the east-bound tunnel, will dig around 800m to reach Sealdah station, from where it must take U-turn to complete Chundee’s unfinished job — building the rest of the west-bound tunnel. The two TBMs, commissioned for the last leg of 2.45km of underground tunnelling between Esplanade and Sealdah, will be pulled out of this spot when Urvi completes the tunnelling in about a year from now. When it stopped for maintenance in March, Urvi had made 1,224 rings and covered around 230m from the curve at Nirmal Chunder Street, through the serpentine lanes of Gour De Lane and Shykrapara Lane before reaching Durga Pithuri Lane, where the tunnelling fiasco took place. Urvi resumed operations from here, at the junction of Durga Pithuri Lane and Shykrapara Lane. The TBM must cover around 70m to reach the main road, BB Ganguly Street, from where it turns right towards Sealdah station. The place from where it started digging on Friday is now an open area — 27 houses, which fell or were partially damaged when Chundee hit the aquifer in the area had to be razed. The Covid-induced lockdown has pushed commissioning of the entire 16km Howrah Maidan-Sector V link further even as a truncated 5km section along the elevated Sector V-Salt Lake stadium stretch was inaugurated on February 13. When the lockdown ends, the operations are likely to be extended till the underground Phoolbagan station as the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) gave the mandatory safety nod on Wednesday. Even as the Centre gave a go-ahead to infrastructure projects on May 14, the beleaguered East-West Metro wasn’t one of them because the Bowbazar area was a Red Zone. Several local residents evacuated for the tunnelling were still put up in various hotels. Among them were 45 slum dwellers who had to be shifted on March 13 as cracks surfaced on the walls of their homes at 3 Gour De Lane. As the lockdown eased, the evacuees were sent back home and Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the Metro link, started making preparations to restart Urvi all over again. KMRC and ITD Cementation, the construction company executing the project, have had to mobilize some workers even amid the lockdown to maintain the TBM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlocked-east-west-work-starts-below-bowbazar/articleshow/76473487.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 8 caught gambling in MLA quarters||HYDERABAD: Eight persons were caught gambling on Thursday night by Saifabad police in a MLA quarters, which was allocated to late minister Mukesh Goud, at Adarsh Nagar. Police seized Rs 1.12 lakh cash, 52 playing cards and two empty liquor bottles from the scene. The raid was conducted based on a tip-off. Kiran Kumar, a retired government employee, businessman Satish Kumar, G Gopal Rao, businessman C Pradeep, businessman P Murali, businessman S Rammohan Rao and gym trainer Raj Kumar were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-caught-gambling-in-mla-quarters/articleshow/76473497.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Vande Bharat Mission flight from Qatar lands at Mangaluru||MANGALURU: The first Vande Bharat Mission flight from Hamad International Airport, Qatar, carrying 185 passengers on board, landed at Mangaluru International Airport, at 6.50pm on Friday. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur, who is in charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said that the flight reached on time, and passengers comprised senior citizens, pregnant women, children, the ailing and those on visit visas. All the passengers underwent health screening, after which they were sent for institutional quarantine for seven days. Their throat swabs will be collected and tested for Covid-19 after five days. The Mangaluru International Airport has handled many repatriation flights this week. As many as 248 stranded passengers from Kuwait and Muscat arrived in two separate flights, which landed at the airport on Wednesday. On June 16, a chartered flight from Sharjah, UAE, arranged by Praveen Shetty, chairman of Fortune Group of Hotels, UAE, and president of Karnataka Non-Resident Indian Forum, landed with 174 passengers on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vande-bharat-mission-flight-from-qatar-lands-at-mluru/articleshow/76472427.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Patient dies in Rajasthan hospital as kin unplugs ventilator to power cooler||KOTA: In a bizarre incident, a 40-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient allegedly died in the isolation ward of city's MBS Hospital after one of his family members disconnected the ventilator to plug an air cooler to provide relief from intense heat. Later, the deceased man’s test reports revealed that he was not suffering from the deadly infection. MBS Hospital superintendent Dr Navin Saxena confirmed that the incident occurred late night on June 15. Hospital authorities have formed a three-member committee to probe into the incident and the report is likely to be presented on Saturday. The family had brought the air cooler into the ward to give some respite to the patient from the intense heat in the isolation ward, sources said. The suspected Covid patient was admitted following a respiratory complication and was on ventilator at the medical intensive care unit (MICU) of the hospital from Saturday last week. Later, on Monday (June 15) this week, he was shifted to the isolation ward as a safety measure since another patient tested positive for Covid at MICU. On June 15 evening, his family bought a new cooler and allegedly unplugged the ventilator to plug in the cooler after they failed to find an electric socket. For 30 minutes, the ventilator worked using power from the battery. But after it ran out of power, the condition of the patient allegedly started deteriorating. The staff noticed it and immediately called the doctor. The medical staff rushed to the patient and found the ventilator unplugged and the cooler plugged in. Though the staff immediately administered CPR to the patient, the attempt to save his life failed and he died. “We have formed a three-member committee, comprising deputy superintendent, nursing superintendent and chief medical officer (CMO) on duty at the isolation ward, to probe the matter. The committee is likely to submit its report on Saturday or Monday,” said Dr Naveen Saxena. The probe committee has recorded statements of medical staff at the isolation ward. But the family members of the deceased patient have not responded to the committee, he said. "It's a serious issue of carelessness, whether committed by the patient’s family members or the medical staff in the ward, and appropriate action would be taken against whoever is found responsible in the probe report," he added. “The probe is underway and the committee is likely to submit its report on Saturday,” confirmed Dr Sameer Tandon, deputy superintendent, MBS Hospital, and one of the three members of the probe committee. Watch Bizzare! Patient dies in hospital as kin unplugs ventilator to power cooler||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patient-dies-in-rajasthan-hospital-as-kin-unplugs-ventilator-to-power-cooler/articleshow/76474326.cms||Rajiv Saxena
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plea for tocilizumab supply||Ahmedabad: A petition was filed in the Gujarat high court on Friday seeking directions to authorities for keeping adequate stock of tocilizumab injections. It is considered a life-saving drug for critical Covid-19 patients. Advocate Rushang Mehta urged the HC to allow him to join the proceedings of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19. He claimed that there is either short supply or scarcity of tocilizumab injections. The health department recently declared that Covid patients would get these injections free of cost in government hospitals. The lawyer has sought HC directions to authorities to declare that there is adequate stock of injections in various warehouses across the state. There should be a proper mechanism to ensure its sufficient supply to government and private hospitals. The petitioner also sought directions to the Centre and the state government for appropriate guidelines for manufacturers and sellers of tocilizumab injections and to see that they charge reasonably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plea-for-tocilizumab-supply/articleshow/76473476.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government caps Covid-19 test, facility rates at private hospitals & labs||JAIPUR: In a major relief, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has put a price cap on Covid-19-related treatment at private hospitals and labs in the state on Friday. From now on, private labs cannot charge more than Rs 2,200 for a Covid test. Similarly, private hospitals cannot charge more than Rs 2,000 for a general bed from a coronavirus patient per day. “The charges for ICU with ventilator at a private hospital shouldn’t cost more than Rs 4,000 per day,” said the official statement released by the state government. The decision was taken during a Covid review meeting held at CM's residence via video conferencing with various departments. The move will come as a relief for Covid patients as private hospitals have been fleecing them due to the absence of any regulation. “Departments concerned should issue orders under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinances, 2020. and ensure its strict implementation,” said Gehlot. Also, if any private lab or hospital is found to be overcharging patients, they will be punished as per rules. Private hospitals have been charging Rs 4,500 for the Covid test alone, and the final bill would come to anywhere between Rs 6,000 and Rs 15,000 after they add several taxes and consultation fees for the same. As for a general bed, the rates begin from Rs 4,000 per day. Similarly, charges for ICU with a ventilator comes to Rs 15,000 per day, say sources. The move will encourage patients to go test at private labs and hospitals and reduce the burden on government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-capscovid-19-testfacility-rates-atpvt-hosps-labs/articleshow/76474332.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain's condition worsens, plasma therapy likely||NEW DELHI: State health minister Satyendar Jain, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital for Covid-19 treatment two days ago, was shifted to a private healthcare facility as his condition deteriorated on Friday. In his CT scan, doctors found that lung infection and pneumonia had increased. Jain had been feeling very tired and giddy since the morning, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday while commenting about the 55-year-old’s condition. Sources said he would be undergoing plasma therapy at Max Smart, Saket, where he is currently admitted. He has been kept in the ICU and is not able to maintain oxygen saturation despite full oxygen support. “His condition isn’t critical, but he needs continuous monitoring. Also, we feel plasma therapy may help him recover faster,” said a source. Max Healthcare didn’t issue any official statement on the minister’s condition or treatment plan. However, sources confirmed that plasma therapy was planned to be administered on Friday night itself. “The hospital will use plasma stored in the blood bank,” said a source. Covid-19 is known to damage lung function in severe cases. Oxygen support is necessitated when a patient is not able to breathe on his or her own. In rare cases, ventilator support is also needed. If the patient’s lung function deteriorates further, it has a cascading effect on other organs and sometimes leads to death. Plasma therapy, many doctors believe, helps reduce the severity of the disease, thus saving lives. As people fight the novel coronavirus infection, they produce antibodies that attack the virus. These antibodies are secreted by immune cells known as B lymphocytes, which is found in plasma or liquid part of the blood and helps in clotting when needed, and supports immunity. A person who recovers from the infection develops antibodies that stay in the blood waiting to fight the virus should it return. The concept behind administering plasma therapy is that the antibodies present in the blood of a patient who has recovered from the disease may help those fighting it. One person’s donation of plasma can help two people. “Plasma therapy isn’t new. It was used on an experimental basis even during the devastating 1918 flu, apart from treating measles in the 1930s. More recently, plasma therapy has been used to treat victims of Ebola, SARS and H1N1 influenza,” said a doctor. This year, an early review of five critically ill Covid-19 patients in China found that they appeared to improve after receiving convalescent plasma. Many medical institutions across India are also conducting trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jains-condition-worsens-plasma-therapy-likely/articleshow/76473526.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Crocodile kills 12-year-old in Por||Vadodara: In the first incident of crocodile attack in Por village near the city, a 12-year-old boy was shockingly dragged away by a crocodile in Dhadhar River on Friday afternoon. Fire brigade personnel fished out Rohit Tadvi’s body after a search of more than two hours in the croc-infested river. Locals said that the victim, a resident of Warasia, had come to his grandfather’s home in Por on Friday and was playing near the river bank with his friends. He had climbed a tree on the banks of the river, slipped and fell down in the waters at about 1pm. “A crocodile immediately pounced on the boy and dragged him away. His friend, who was playing nearby, saw the incident and raised alarm,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO). Locals rushed to the spot and tried in vain to search for the missing boy. Forest officials reached the spot and fire brigade too was informed. “We began searching for Rohit in the river but our team had to take lot of precautions to avoid getting attacked by crocodiles. We found his body from the river after nearly half-an-hour’s search,” said Om Jadeja, fire officer. The body had bite marks on the chest and stomach, said officials. Forest officials said, “We have warned the locals to stay away from the Dhadhar River which is connected with Vishwamitri River and has hundreds of crocodiles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocodile-kills-12-year-old-in-por/articleshow/76471660.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Crocodile drags away 12-year-old boy in Dhadhar River||VADODARA: In the first incident of crocodile attack in Por village, a 12-year-old boy was shockingly dragged away by a crocodile in Dhadhar River on Friday afternoon. Fire brigade personnel fished out Rohit Tadvi’s body after a search of more than two hours in the croc-infested river. Locals said that the victim, a resident of Warasia, had come to his grandfather’s home in Por on Friday and was playing near the river bank with his friends. He had climbed a tree on the banks of the river, slipped and fell down in the waters at about 1pm. “A crocodile immediately pounced on the boy and dragged him away. His friend, who was playing nearby, saw the incident and raised alarm,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO). Locals rushed to the spot and tried in vain to search for the missing boy. Forest officials reached the spot and fire brigade too was informed. “We began searching for Rohit in the river but our team had to take lot of precautions to avoid getting attacked by crocodiles. We found his body from the river after nearly half-an-hour’s search,” said Om Jadeja, fire officer. The body had bite marks on the chest and stomach, said officials. Forest officials said, “We have warned the locals to stay away from the Dhadhar River which is connected with Vishwamitri River and has hundreds of crocodiles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/croc-drags-away-12-year-old-boy-in-dhadhar-river/articleshow/76471619.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Price beats feelings in ‘boycott China goods’ rage||Rajkot: While resentment against China and its products are pouring out across the country, a few truths cannot be blurred by the overflowing sentiments — like Indian industry’s dependence on Chinese machinery and raw materials. Reason: Cheap price and quality. India’s two major sectors in Saurashtra — Morbi’s ceramic industry and Rajkot’s engineering industry — are prime examples in this regard with a bulk of their machineries coming from the dragon land without any feasible option for alternative sources. While Morbi’s ceramic industry’s import of Chinese machines alone goes up to the tune of nearly Rs 500 crore annually, the import figures for Rajkot’s engineering sector, which is vastly varied in nature and aiming for automation now, can easily be multiplied into several hundreds more, said sources in the industry.Explaining to TOI why Morbi is extremely dependant on Chinese machineries, ceramic manufacturer K G Kundariya said, “About 70 percent of our machinery like leasing line roller, pressing and printing and polishing, comes from China. The main reason is the huge price difference between Italy and Chinese machines. What we get from Italy at Rs 3 crore can be bought for Rs 20-25 lakh from China. Again, Chinese companies have opened their offices in Morbi to help manufacturers with technical help in installation, after sales support and upgrading. On any given day, around 200 Chinese technicians are available in Morbi.” President of Morbi Ceramic Association, Nilesh Jetparia said, “It’s mainly about the price. If government wants to reduce our dependency on Chinese machinery, then they should encourage joint venture with Italy and Japanese companies in India so that we get technical expertise of these countries and also comparatively cheaper price.” However, the general consensus in the industry is that there is no alternative to Chinese machineries or its products. “We can’t beat China in price because we can’t create production and tax structure like China,” said Aashish Joshi secretary of Gandhidham Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI).Vice president of Rajkot Engineering Association (REA), Brijesh Dudhagara said that it will be cheaper to import a machinery from China than purchase one made locally even at Ahmedabad! “Foundry chemicals, and bearing products besides many other machineries that are required for automation in the engineering sector are imported from China. In the last five years nobody has raised any quality issue about the machines and so, that too may have been solved,” Dudhagara added. Parth Ganatra, vice president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) said that while products like mobile handsets, batteries or fire crackers can be boycotted, there can be no alternative for Chinese machineries — “king of mass production”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/price-beats-feelings-in-boycott-china-goods-rage/articleshow/76472534.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 20, 2020||Surat||Surat nCov tally nears 3,000-mark||Surat: At least 74 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 2,997 in the city. According to officials, of the new cases 21 were worker of diamond polishing units. Till date, about 280 people linked to diamond workers and their families have been infected with the coronavirus. Two Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus on Friday which included a 85-year-old man from Begampura and a 65-year-old man from Udhana. With this the death toll in Surat touched 121. About 34 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Surat city hospitals on Friday. Meanwhile, Surat rural areas recorded 21 fresh cases taking the tally to 289 even as 72-year-old woman from Kamrej succumbed to the virus. Bharuch district has been witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases with 14 fresh cases, mainly from Jambusar taluka, on Friday. The district’s case tally now stands at 128. Health officials said that Jambusar taluka has turned out to be the hotspot with the surge in cases since last one week. In the past week alone, 35 people have been found infected in Jambusar taluka. Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) told TOI, “The health department has started rigorous door-to-door survey in the hotspots to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-ncov-tally-nears-3000-mark/articleshow/76472131.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Home isolation picks up, 34% Covid beds empty in Mumbai||MUMBAI: For the first time in the past couple of months, some of the major hospitals treating critical Covid-19 patients in the city are left with vacant beds. A few others have a reduced waiting time. As there has been no decline in new infections, civic officials say the change is the result of an increasing number of Covid-19 patients opting for home isolation. Till 2.30pm on Friday, the city had 27,634 active cases, but only 12,303 of 18,380 hospital beds were occupied, which means 55% of the patients were undergoing treatment at home. Another indicator of a marginal decline in admissions in critical cases has been the decrease in occupancy of ICU beds. The occupancy rate, which was 99% through April and May, has come down to 93%. On Friday evening, 95 of the 1,278 ICU beds in the city were vacant. At KEM Hospital, which has a 490-bed Covid-19 facility for critical patients, daily admissions have dropped to 35 to 40 in the past week from 70 to 80. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said they had at least 14 vacant beds to spare on Friday. Not long ago, in April and May, social media used to be flooded with images of patients being administered treatment while sitting on the floor or a wheelchair. “We don't know the reason for the decline in admissions. It’s possible that with the activation of ward-level war rooms, patients are distributed better,” Deshmukh said. A similar trend has been seen in Nair Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, where daily admissions have come down to 50 to 60. “It used to go up to 90 till about 10 days ago,” Nair dean Dr Mohan Joshi said. Doctors said the trend was visible at some private hospitals too. “Beds have been available at Breach Candy and Bhatia hospitals for the past four to five days. We believe with the panic on the wane and doctors gaining more confidence to treat patients at home, beds have started to open up. While positive cases continue to be there, physicians feel there has been a shift in virulence with fewer people becoming critical [in the past fortnight],” Dr Hemant Thacker, who consults at south Mumbai hospitals, said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said more patients were opting for home care. “Increasing number of people in the high-rises are opting to stay at home and take treatment. The rush to get admitted has definitely reduced,” he said. Kakani said doctors from the ward-level war rooms followed up with patients who were under home isolation. Many of the patients also consult their own doctors. The city currently has 961 critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-isolation-picks-up-34-covid-beds-empty/articleshow/76474340.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Fresh debate over maid entry at housing societies in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Housing societies in the city are now grappling with fresh challenges of filtering entry of outsiders as micro containment clusters keep shifting almost every day keeping the functionaries on their toes. Some residents, especially the elderly, though, are inconvenienced by quick-changing rules. At Saptaparni Co-operative Housing Society, a section of residents has been writing against the board of directors’ decision of allegedly denying entry to domestic helps coming from Peyarabagan and Garcha First Lane clusters indefinitely fearing spread of Covid 19 infection. TimesViewThere is no one-size-fits-all formula here. The response to the virus’s spread will have to evolve as micro-clusters shift and good zones become bad and bad zones become better. There needs to be a balanced, consensual approach to solving problems.“Several people from this complex are dependent on maids and this sudden ban on their entry, without even a formal resolution of the board, does cause a lot of trouble for us,” said Anupam Dasgupta, a former IAS officer and a resident of the Ballygunge complex. Senior board members of the complex said they have been doing only what’s the best for the majority of residents. In fact, since Unlock 1, several housing societies have formed a team whose job is to tabulate the government released containment zone datasheet everyday and make a list, marking the areas from where maids and drivers come to the complex and barring entry of those who fall in the containment zones. “We are maintaining multilevel checks. Apart from ensuring no maid comes from containment zones, we are asking for medical certificate from a maid at the time of joining,” said Debjani Mukherjee, senior vice president of Urbana residential project. At Manikala apartment on EM Bypass near Bengal Chemicals, the residents have banned entry of maids from Ultadanga slum after a few persons were reported Covid positive from the area. Some complexes, however, have realized that there is little they can do to prevent the entry of outsiders and are no longer regulating maids, even from containment zones. “With everything open, there is little we can do now. We are only following the basic safety measures like temperature check and hand washing protocols and are no longer keeping any special restriction on maids. It’s up to the residents,” said Ashok Baid, a senior member of Silver Spring Housing Society off EM Bypass. Baid added even as the complex had remained free of contamination during the lockdown, four residents have been infected since the start of Unlock 1. “Maids of all the four households were also tested and thankfully, their reports came negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-debate-over-maid-entry-at-housing-societies/articleshow/76473531.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Students to celebrate Yoga Day at home with DD||BHOPAL: Encouraging students to practice yoga to stay fit, the school education department this year is organising the Yoga Day programme on Doordarshan at 7 am on June 21 as any large group activity can’t take place due to coronavirus pandemic. "Unlike the last 5 years, we will not be able to organise a mass-yoga for students in their schools. But this is the time when we need more strength to fight the virus, so we have asked students to practice yoga asanas along with their family members from 7 am to 7:45 am on World Yoga Day," said commissioner, directorate of public instruction, Jaishree Kiyawat"They can watch the programme being telecast on Doordarshan by the state education department. The 45-minute programme will showcase some simple asanas, including surya namaskar, which students can perform along with their family members at home," she added. The school education department has also informed the parents about this celebration of health on messaging applications. "Around 19 lakh parents of students and 2 lakh teachers from government schools across all the districts have been informed about the Yoga day celebrations and we have urged the parents to encourage their children to practice Yoga as it will help them stay fit and active," Kiyawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/students-to-celebrate-yoga-day-at-home-with-dd/articleshow/76472451.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Goa pollution board: Campal legacy waste can affect environment||PANAJI: Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has issued show-cause notice to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) as to why ‘polluter pays penalty’ principle should not be applied against it and made to pay Rs 18 lakh as penalty for storage of legacy waste at the Parade Ground, Campal. The board also said that legacy waste at Campal can cause environmental pollution at the site and the vicinity. The GSPCB has given the CCP 15 days to reply the notice. During the inspection, the board found 7,500m3 of legacy waste and that around 90% of the remediation work has been completed and all the inert and compost have already been disposed of through PWD. It was also observed that approximately 2,500m3 of refuse derived fuel (RDF) that has been generated from the process of remediation of the legacy waste dump is lying at the site under cover of tarpaulin, while 700m3 of the legacy waste is still dumped at the site. “On considering the observations, the board is of the opinion that such storage of legacy waste, unsegregated free waste, construction and debris waste and inert waste from desilting of drains and RDF that has been generated from the process of remediation of the legacy waste dump at the Parade Ground, Campal, can cause potential environmental pollution at the site and the surrounding vicinity,” GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar stated. The board has directed the CCP to commence the shifting and transportation of the legacy waste and all other waste dumped at the site immediately to an alternate site for remediation and compete the same within 30 days with due approval from the board. “Immediately ensure secure covering of the RDF stored at the site at Campal with tarpaulin and ensure continuous transportation and disposal of the same,” the directive stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-campal-legacy-waste-can-affect-environment/articleshow/76474335.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC notice to government on pension ordinance||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday issued a notice to the state government, asking it to explain its stand in three weeks to a petition filed by retired forest officer G Raman Goud. He was challenging the recent ordinance of the government, imposing cuts in retired employees’ pension. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked the government to file its counter in three weeks. Appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy told the court that the government’s action is without the sanction of law. The judges, however, sought to know from Satyam as to how the action of the state was unlawful when Article 213 of the Constitution allows a state government and governor to promulgate such an ordinance when the legislative assemblies are not in session. “As the ordinance violates the fundamental rights of individuals, it cannot be termed lawful,” Satyam said. To this, the bench said that during a pandemic period, there would be a clash between the larger public good and individual rights and ultimately it is the former that takes precedence over the latter. The senior counsel insisted that the government could use such powers only during emergencies and not when no such emergency was declared by the government. Advocate general BS Prasad sought eight weeks’ time to file the counter. But, the bench gave three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-govt-on-pension-ordinance/articleshow/76474337.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie hotels to remain shut till June 30||Mussoorie: City hoteliers have decided to not open hotels in the Queen of Hills till June 30. They claim that the hill town will not witness much tourist footfall till the end of the month as the state government has made it mandatory for tourists to undergo quarantine upon arrival in hill resorts. In a meeting held on Friday, Mussoorie Hotels Association (MHA) issued an advisory to all members advising them not to open the hotels till June 30. “We have issued an advisory to hoteliers to keep their establishments closed till June 30. Any further decision would be taken after a review,” told MHA secretary Sanjay Aggarwal while adding that June used to be the peak tourist season. He, however, added that this advisory does not restrict any hotelier from opening their establishment provided they follow the Covid-19 norms laid down by the government. Meanwhile, local traders say that with hotels remaining shut and lack of tourists, there is bound to be very little business for traders during this period. “Tourism activity during June will dip as the hotels are shut,” remarked Jageet Kukreja, secretary of Mussoorie Traders Association. He informed that even after opening shops, the traders have suffered huge losses in revenue. “The worst affected are garment shops, gift shops, footwear stores, and other shops selling non-essential items,” Kukreja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-hotels-to-remain-shut-till-june-30/articleshow/76471403.cms||Anmol Jain
June 20, 2020||Mysuru||Rangayana to document its plays staged over 3 decades||Mysuru: Rangayana, the premier theatre repertory which was closed for the past two months due to lockdown, will restart its activities by documenting over 100 plays it has performed/ produced in the last 31 years. The theatre repertory came into existence in 1989, thanks to the efforts of doyen of Kannada theatre, B V Karanth. The repertory, which has seen C Basavalingaiah, Prasanna, Chidambara Rao Jambe, B Jayashree and others noted theatre personalities as its directors, has performed hundreds of plays and also encouraged youngsters to take up theatre. As the lockdown has now been lifted, the authorities have started to document all its plays staged by senior theatre artistes, amateur groups and touring theatre artistes. Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa told TOI that all the plays will be documented. “Rangayana will showcase a 50ft tall painting titled ‘Sambhavami Yuge Yuge’ by senior artist-designers Dwarakananth and Ranganatha to spread awareness on coronavirus on June 17. The unique painting draws corona warriors killing corona parallel to Lord Krishna killing Kalinga,” he said. Cariappa said that they will also felicitate five corona warriors from various departments, including police, health, ASHA workers, civic department, to appreciate and acknowledge their work. Green venue, short-term courses “Karanth had set up Vanaranga to stage plays outdoors and amidst greenery. Taking it further, we will develop greenery in the entire premises under ‘Vanaranga Kadu’, a concept akin to Gurukula. Hundreds of saplings will be planted in the premises to make it a mini forest,” he said. Rangayana will start a three-month course for amateur artistes in 18-30 age group, and a six-month course for children, for which the classes will be conducted on Saturdays and Sundays. “The two courses will be offered from August, and as per the government directions on coronavirus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rangayana-to-document-its-plays-staged-over-3-decades/articleshow/76469632.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Burrabazar child death: Initial autopsy rules out accident||KOLKATA: The initial forensic report in the Burrabazar murder case, where a one-and-a-half-year-old was allegedly murdered by his neighbour, has been verbally shared with the police on Friday. Sources said the report was the final evidence that has ruled out any possibility of an accident, stating that the child and his seven-year-old relative could not have fallen unless they had been thrown forcefully from the fourth floor of the building. Cops said that based on the statements of witnesses, they would file the chargesheet on time, which would prove that accused Shiv Kumar Gupta was solely responsible for the murder. “The younger boy was thrown from a height of 58-feet. He was picked up by Gupta and literally flung downwards. Since the child weighed much less (around 8kg), he could be easily lifted. The trajectory of the fall has been mapped. The other boy was heavier, so Gupta had difficulty in lifting him high. He lifted the boy and managed to hang him behind the balcony railing in the open air before pushing him down. This was how the boy had managed to survive the fall,” sources said. Cops said they were expecting a full report on the direction of the fall, trajectory and timing of the incident from forensic experts soon. Meanwhile, the detective department has taken over the probe from the Burrabazar police as they have the experience to handle such cases. They may question a few relatives of the accused to establish his motive behind the crime, said the police. “No child can accidentally fall from the balcony because of its 3.5-feet height. The spot from where the deceased child was recovered after the incident shows that he had been thrown forcefully. Our findings establish both the points,”said a forensic expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-child-death-autopsy-rules-out-accident/articleshow/76473547.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 20, 2020||Madurai||HC issues notice on missing fishermen, one body found||Madurai: Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a habeas corpus petition seeking to rescue three Rameswaram fishermen who went missing after their boat capsized. However, later in the day, the body of one of the fishermen was recovered. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi ordered the notice on a petition filed by Sahaya Denis Reejan, joint coordinator of Tamil Nadu Meenavar Urimai Padukappu Iyakkam. The petitioner stated that several fishermen had ventured into sea on nearly 800 mechanised boats on June 13 after the lockdown was eased. Four fishermen - Reshin Baskar, Malarvannan, Austin Sujinder and Cheshu — went missing. Cheshu who was rescued on June 16 informed that after their boat capsized he held on to the wreckage. He said the other three would be alive and their lives could be saved if immediate rescue steps are taken. Though a representation to the central and state government authorities was submitted to conduct a search operation no steps were taken so far. Meanwhile, the decomposed body of Reshin Baskar was retrieved in the sea about 26 nautical miles (48 kms) from the coast of Tanjore district on Friday. Activist Kalidas in Rameswaram said that a team of of 60 fishermen which set off on seven boats spotted the body around 9 am and recovered it. Autopsy was performed on the shore and the body sent to Rameswaram with relatives of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-issues-notice-on-missing-fishermen-one-body-found/articleshow/76474570.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court asks railways to run trains with few bogies for migrants||HYDERABAD: Exhorting Indian Railways to think in terms of safety and welfare of people and not revenue during the current pandemic period, the Telangana high court on Friday sought to know from its South Central Railway (SCR) whether it would run shorter daily trains with five or six bogies taking 300 to 400 migrant labourers to states like Bihar, UP and West Bengal. The bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing PILs filed by social activist Professor Rama S Melkote and S Jeevan Kumar of Human Rights Forum (HRF), who were seeking arrangements to safely shift the stranded migrants. Petitioners’ counsel Vasudha Nagaraj told the court that daily, up to 300 migrants come to Secunderabad railway station without any means to travel and they have to go to far off places like Patna, Lucknow and Kolkata. “SCR is willing to run Shramik trains which will have 24 bogies. But there is no such daily downpour of migrants. SCR is not willing to add two or three bogies to its existing trains to accommodate migrants,” Nagaraj said. SCR counsel Pushpender Kaur said that she has to take instructions from their officials to run trains daily exclusively for migrants with five or six bogies. “As reservations in all the existing trains were filled upto the end of October, they cannot disturb the existing trains,” Kaur said, ruling out earmarking bogies for migrants. “We can run Shramik trains,” she added. “You can run them with less number of bogies and collect charges from the state on pro rata basis,” the bench said. Responding to the problem of insufficient shelters near the railway station for migrants, the bench asked AG BS Prasad to provide an alternative shelter for migrants by duly attending to their food and medicine needs, particularly the old citizens, children and pregnant women among them. “Don’t leave them in subhuman conditions. Look after them well in tune with the order of the Supreme Court which has put the responsibility on both the state and the railways, the bench said. It also sought to know as to what happened to its earlier direction to the state to provide mobile toilets to the stranded migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-asks-railways-to-run-trains-with-few-bogies-for-migrants/articleshow/76474346.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Sanitise all examination centres twice before board exams: HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday directed the authorities to ensure that all the schools where the state board exams are scheduled to be held are sanitised on Friday and on the day before the exams as well. The direction from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani came while hearing an urgent application in connection with a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) arguing that holding exams in the schools which were used as quarantine centres may pose a risk to the health of students in times of pandemic outbreak. “We direct the authority concerned to sanitise these centres today (June 19) as well as on the day prior to the examination. The sanitisation would not mean mere sanitisation of the room but also the sanitisation of desks, chairs, toilets, and the entire premises. This shall apply to all examination centres,” read the court order. The court also directed the state government to make sure that the order is circulated in each district and tehsil for proper implementation. “Let a copy of this order be supplied today (June 19) itself free of cost to the learned Advocate General so that the copy of this order is circulated in each district and Tehsil for proper implementation,” the order read. The state board exams in the state are scheduled to be held from June 23 to June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sanitise-all-examination-centres-twice-before-board-exams-hc/articleshow/76471421.cms||Prashant Jha
June 20, 2020||Goa||Class X paper fiasco: Goa board finds setters ‘prima facie’ at fault||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education’s executive council on Friday prima facie found the question paper setters at fault in the Class X English paper goof matter. The board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that the independent four-member committee set up to inquire in to the matter has sought another 8 to 10 days for further investigations. Samant said that the committee, made up of Goa Board members (mainly school headmasters), examined the contents of the question paper and presented its report on Thursday. On Friday, the board’s executive council discussed the report. “The submitted report is an interim report. The EC has decided to give more time to the four-member committee, around 8 to 10 days to submit its final report after carrying out further investigations. The EC has found that there is some relevance prima facie in the complaints about the controversial content in the English paper. The EC will then meet again to examine the final report,” Samant told reporters. Board officials said that the board will then decide on appropriate action that needs to be taken against those involved in the question paper setting process based on provisions of the Goa Board regulations. The board chairman said that besides this, the report will also be submitted to the directorate of education to take any action as per its own rules. He said that the board’s four member committee had questioned all the paper setters involved including the head of the paper setting panel for the subject as part of the inquiry. On May 23, the Class X English subject paper exam was held, which was answered by over 19,000 students. One grammar-related question from the question paper went viral, where a conversation between two friends seems to suggest that opting for Portuguese citizenship is a good choice as it is difficult to lend a job in Goa without bribery or use if influence. This content was widely criticised by citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-x-paper-fiasco-goa-board-finds-setters-prima-facie-at-fault/articleshow/76474344.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Thinning population in border villages post 1962 war has hit intel, major security concern||NAINITAL: As tensions between India and China flare up and Nepal introduces a new map claiming Indian territories, the declining population in border villages of Uttarakhand –within 5 km aerial distance from the international border – has become a security concern. Security experts said that it is in the country’s interests that the population in these border villages does not go down since they are integral to the security forces for information about incursions and early alerts. Speaking with TOI, locals as well as historians said that the migration from these border villages started after the 1962 war as the trade dating back to the 6th century was completely stopped and the dependence on agriculture became unsustainable. The situation has become so dire that in most of the villages barely a few young men are left. “Our village had around 300-400 people but now just around 40 are left. Even among them only five or six people are below 30 years. Most young people have migrated to cities such as Dehradun, Delhi or even towns like Joshimath and Srinagar for want of a better life,” said Ashish Rana, former gram pradhan of Niti village in the Chamoli district. Bampa village in Chamoli district shares the same story. Manoj Pal, one of the villagers, said that over the years, as the literacy rate increased and dependence on agriculture became unsustainable, people were left with no choice but to migrate. “The village had several dozen families but now just a handful of old and retired people live here. Most of the young people have either started their business, joined government jobs and are living in Dehradun, Delhi or other major cities,” Pal said. Official records of 2018 of the state migration department now suggest that at least 16 border villages in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Champawat districts have no families left while the population in four others has declined by half. Security experts emphasise that the trend of declining population in the border villages should be reversed. “These villagers as well as nomads in the upper reaches are invaluable assets for the security forces with respect to surveillance of unmanned areas and early warning therefore it is necessary that their migration is stopped,” said Lieutenant General (retired) Syed Ata Hasnain. When asked what spurred the migration of locals from these border villages, Ajay Singh Rawat, former professor of history in Kumaun University said that the economy of all these border villages depended on the trade with Tibet. The India side would bring cereal, sugar and clothing while the Tibetans, also known as Chhayonapa, would bring borax, salt and wool. “The trading relations between the two regions date back to the 6th century. In fact, the goods exchanged at the border through posts such as Niti, Maana, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura reached places like Kolkata, Amritsar and even Lahore,” Rawat said. He added that most of the western-Tibet depended on trade with India while even the trade markets in places such as Gauchar, Bageshwar and Jauljibi areas of Uttarakhand depended on the exchange of goods which supported the local economy. After the 1962 war, however, the trade routes were closed. “As the economy collapsed people turned to the government for help which notified the locals as Scheduled Tribes after which the young started joining government jobs. Though some of them have returned after retirement but most are still living elsewhere,” Rawat said, adding that though the trade through Lipulekh was started in 1991 but a lot still needs to be done. Rana said that the locals who are settled across the state want to return to their village but the focus should be on reviving the local economy so that people see opportunities. “We have temples, local products as well as picturesque locations which can be developed for tourism and when people start to earn a decent income, locals settled across the state will return,” he said. Meanwhile, the migration commission of the state said that they are working to develop tourism opportunities and taking many other approaches so that the trend of reverse migration can be spurred. “We understand the strategic importance of these border villages therefore we are working on reviving these local economies so that the trend of reverse migration can be spurred,” Negi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thinning-population-in-border-villages-post-62-war-has-hit-intel-major-security-concern/articleshow/76471460.cms||Prashant Jha
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||2 cops arrested for accepting bribe in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has arrested two police head constables for demanding and accepting bribe from a man. The accused duo were caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 on Thursday. According to the police, the complainant was caught with two liquor bottles in Chhota Udepur. The accused Gemal Singh Rathwa and Mahesh Dulabhai, both posted in Kawant police station at Chhota Udepur, sought a bribe of Rs 21,000 from the complainant for not booking him under the Prohibition Act. The complainant negotiated with the accused, who later settled for Rs 10,000. The complainant then approached the Narmada ACB sleuths who decided to set a trap for the two cops. On Thursday, the complainant called the accused to an open ground behind his house in Kawant. When the accused accepted the bribe, ACB sleuths arrested them from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-cops-arrested-for-accepting-bribe-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/76471745.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||History-sheeter who opened fire at two arrested||Rajkot: All seven accused, including history-sheeter Imtiyaz Rauma, who was absconding after allegedly opening fire at two persons with an intention to kill and later vandalized eight vehicles in Manharpara locality in Rajkot early on Thursday morning were nabbed. They were arrested from their hideout in Gujarat Housing Board quarters on Doodhsagar Road in Rajkot, said cops. The arrested were identified as Imtiyaz Rauma, Saddam Bhuvar, Faruq Main, Irfan Rauma, Javid Daudani, Shabir Abbasi and Imran Kandia. Accused Imtiyaaz had allegedly opened fire at one Mohsin Qureshi and his friend Taufiq Sandhar bearing a grudge over a petty tiff that took place earlier. “The attack was the fallout of a tiff between Qureshi’s friend Jilani Rauma and Imtiyaz’s cousin Musa Rauma on Monday. Imtiyaz objected to Qureshi and Sandhar’s interference in the fight and thus attacked the duo. While the attempt failed, the gang of goons later vandalized the vehicles in the area out of frsutration,” said an official from Thorala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-who-opened-fire-at-two-arrested/articleshow/76472694.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Locked-down children talk depression after actor death||KOLKATA: What are anti-depressants? What is an overdose? These are some of the questions that middle school children are asking each other on WhatsApp groups, which they have formed among themselves to facilitate sharing of online study material,after the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Most of the questions are circulating on unofficial groups that the kids have formed keeping both teachers and parents out, because the official groups are monitored. Some teachers, who are also parents of middle school and high school children, flagged this with school authorities. Parents are being called and alerted and most schools are taking up mind health as a topic for immediate online sessions by school counsellors. Mental health experts in the city say there has been a 40% rise in the number of children registering for help in OPDs during the lockdown and call it alarming. They say that the recent death of the actor has become a household rhetoric with seniors likening the situation often to real life cases in front of children, who are often unable to process most of the information and take it to their friends on chat. Most kids have shared how lockdown triggered job losses, pay cuts, business collapses, marital discords etc are constantly playing out at home, suffocating them. “All this while we would say that children of working parents are lonely. Now during the lockdown, parents are home but they are discussing only problems in front of kids. We are trying to help through counsellors who are trying to encourage kids to speak up rather than keeping them aside for discussion among friends,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School for Boys. At the Heritage School, the students’ council has approached the principal for permission to hold regular sessions on virtual meeting apps and an Instagram page so that students can meet, discuss and post mental health issues in presence of counsellors. “Earlier we found relief in school, which is a problem now. Many issues cannot be discussed with parents,” said school captain Bandhuli Maity. Students at DPS Howrah came up with a no holds barred discussion with principal Sunita Arora on how the death of the actor reflects the palpable depression all around. Advisories are going out to parents at DPS Ruby Park to start conversing more with kids in which both share their failures with each other and still try to smile while bonding over cooking, gardening etc, said vice principal, Indrani Chattopadhyay. South City International is addressing the issue on June 26, Anti Drugs Day, through a webinar, said principal John Bagul. Children are bound to share insecurities with friends when they stop relating to parents, feels secretary of La Martiniere schools, Supriyo Dhar. Counsellor at Sri Sri Academy, Gitushree Bishayee feels that both parents and kids are feeling isolated despite being in physical proximity. But unguided conversations with friends can lead to trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locked-down-children-talk-depression-after-actor-death/articleshow/76473602.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 3 senior IPS officers test positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Three senior IPS officers in Telangana tested positive for coronavirus in the past three days. This is the first time IPS officers in the state have been affected by the virus. All three are asymptomatic, and have been recommended to be in home quarantine. Two officers, who in fact attended their duties on Friday, came to know that they are affected with virus after their test results in the evening. Sources said that on Wednesday, an IPS officer first tested positive. Previously, few policemen who work under him, had tested positive. The other IPS officers, who were in touch with him as part of their duties, also tested positive. In the past, all these IPS officers constantly moved to different corona hotspots in the past three months, while performing their duties. “All these officers will be in home quarantine,” an officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-senior-ips-officers-test-ve-for-virus/articleshow/76474353.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Since Nov 2019, Goa police awaits posting of new chief||Panaji: It’s been more than seven months that the Goa police force is functioning without a head. The post of the director general of police (DGP) has been lying vacant since the death of former DGP Pranab Nanda on November 15, 2019. Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh has been leading the force in the absence of a full-time DGP. A senior government officer said that it is for the first time in Goa’s history that the state’s police force is functioning without a DGP for such a prolonged period. Nanda had died of a cardiac arrest at his residence in Delhi. He had taken over as Goa’s DGP in March 2019. The official said that in other states, the chief ministers have powers to appoint the DGP as they have their own police cadre, but in case of Goa, which is a part of the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territories (AGMUT) cadre, the authority to appoint the DGP is the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). Another senior official said the process for appointing a DGP and other Indian Police Service (IPS) officers for the state is in the domain of MHA’s Joint Cadre Authority (JCA). There have been strong indications in the past that JCA will appoint a new DGP for the state, but the decision is yet to be taken. “Until and unless they meet and finalise the name of the DGP, the post will continue to remain vacant,” the officer said. The selection of a DGP is based on the IPS seniority list, which is maintained by MHA. The home ministry needs to hold a meeting of the JCA to finalise the name. A senior police officer said that in other states, when the incumbent DGP expires, the government appoints a new officer even before the last rites are performed. Since the DGP’s post has been vacant, the police have not been able to take any major decision. The DGP gives direction to the force to formulate crime prevention strategies and also allocates cases to superintendents of police (SP) for investigation, if required, another officer said. A DGP is essential as he ensures perspective planning for the force.Panaji: It has been more than six months that Goa police force in functioning without a head. The post of the director general of police (DGP) has been lying vacant since the death of DGP Pranab Nanda on November 15, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/since-nov-2019-goa-police-awaits-posting-of-new-chief/articleshow/76474359.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||40 bus passengers under quarantine||Madurai: Forty people, who were proceeding from Tiruvallur district to Virudhunagar on a bus with fake e-passes, were placed under quarantine on Thursday. The bus was stopped at the Kottampatti checkpost in Madurai district. On inquiry, officials found out that those travelling in the bus were brick kiln workers working in Tiruvallur district. They were traveling along with their family members back to their native places in Virudhunagar district. A revenue official said that during inquiry, they found that they were travelling using a fake e-pass. Since all were natives of Virudhunagar district, they were escorted to Virudhunagar district border where they were placed under quarantine. After the spread of Covid-19 became severe at Chennai and its neighbouring districts, the Madurai district administration officials deputed teams comprising revenue, health and police officials at Kottampatti, which is the entry point to the southern districts. The teams have been monitoring the movement of vehicles round-the-clock and permitting them only with valid e-pass, currently being issued for medical emergencies and funerals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/40-bus-passengers-under-quarantine/articleshow/76474571.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Residents of U'khand border villages decry Nepal’s new political map||Pithoragarh: After the Treaty of Sugauli, seven of the nine villages of the Vyas valley went to India and two Tinkar and Chhangu – came under Nepal’s jurisdiction. All nine villages shared a close bond and over the years their relations have remained strong. After the approval of the new political map by Nepal, the residents of Vyas valley launched a scathing attack saying that the neighbouring country was playing into the hands of China. “We had lands on both sides of the Kali river. When Nepal pressed for nationality, our forefathers left their land on the other side of the Kali river and retained their Indian nationality,” said Salu Datal, a resident of a village in Dharchula of Pithoragarh district. Echoing similar sentiments, Gopal Singh Kutiyal, a resident of Kuti village in Dharchula, said that the communist government of Nepal is playing into the hands of China. “Before this, we never heard that Limpiyadhura is not a part of our country. But now, with the new map, Nepal is proving that it is dancing to the tunes of China,” he said, adding that this will affect the strong bond that people in the border areas share. Suraj Gunjiyal, a gram pradhan, said, “Even though our forefathers crossed the Kali river and went to Nepal to work in the fields, we never claimed the land. To maintain peace and to retain our Indian nationality, we left the land for our neighbours and friends across the border.” He added that in the past two decades, Kathmandu has made several efforts to stake claim over Kalapani but "we, the villagers, believe India is our homeland".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-of-ukhand-border-villages-decry-nepals-new-political-map/articleshow/76471497.cms||Prem Punetha
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab approves over Rs 1,037 crore incentives for industries||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has approved over Rs 1,037 crore fiscal incentives till now under its industrial business and development policy-2017. Industries minister Sunder Sham Arora said the state government has also extended over Rs 3,522 crore worth of power subsidy to industrial units. He said the state had notified the industrial business and development policy on October 17, 2017, and detailed guidelines notified on August 7, 2018. He added that till date, 53 micro, small and medium enterprises and large industrial units with an investment of over Rs 5,776 crore were granted fiscal incentives in the state from 2017. Out of these, 23 units were granted 100% electricity duty exemption, which is above Rs 1,023 crore, eight units were granted stamp duty exemption to the tune of Rs 3.69 crore, six units were granted change of land use or external development charges exemption of Rs 2.45 crore and three units were granted benefit of VAT and state GST market fees, credit guarantee fund trust for micro and small enterprises of Rs 7.86 crore. Under the fiscal incentives for industrial promotion policy-2013, 11 industrial units with investment of over Rs 446 crore in the state were granted eligibility certificate to avail fiscal incentives. Arora also said that during the period from 2017 to 2020, under the old policies of 1989, 1992, 1996 and 2003, 168 units were given incentives of over Rs 26 crore. The minister said that 2017 onwards, over Rs 1,516 crore was given as an incentive to 232 eligible industrial units under various policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-approves-over-rs-1037cr-incentives-for-industries/articleshow/76473645.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||No Aavin milk for Lankan forces: Min||Madurai: Milk and dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji has said that the state government had rejected the proposal to send Aavin milk to Sri Lankan military, but there was a move to send milk to areas where Tamils live in the island nation. He told reporters at Sivakasi on Friday that the high quality of Aavin milk had ensured its export to countries like Hong Kong and Singapore even during the lockdown. “The government rejected a proposal to supply Aavin milk to Sri Lankan military but we are ready to supply milk to areas such as Jaffna and Batticaloa where Tamils live. A proposal to supply one lakh litres of milk to the people is under consideration,” he said. Since private procurement centres have been shut, the government has been procuring milk from producers who supply milk to these private centres. This has increased the milk procurement to 42lakh litres per day. Slamming DMK president M K Stalin for politicising issues, Bhalaji said Stalin should have instead met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and given good suggestions to overcome the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-aavin-milk-for-lankan-forces-min/articleshow/76474575.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 patients lose crucial time due to delays in admission, red tape||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of Covid-19 patients, similar to the BSNL employee’s wife, are losing crucial time, as procedural delays and a rule to admit serious patients at Gandhi Hospital, after securing a positive certificate from other state-run hospitals is hindering prompt treatment. Earlier, most patients were directed to the Gandhi Hospital, which was completely dedicated to the Covid-19 treatment. But after Gandhi Hospital began taking only severe symptomatic and critical patients, authorities are sending back patients or asking them to get a certificate first, before admission. Many patients are also queuing up to just inform whether they want to get admitted or are willing to stay in home quarantine. Now, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) after checking a patient, is sending him/her to either King Koti Hospital or Fever Hospital. If the patients are willing to go home, then they will be sent home with prescription and other set of guidelines to follow. “These days most asymptotic patients do not wish to go hospitals, it takes time before other patients are sent to different treating hospitals,” said an official. After the details of all positive patients are entered, the higher officials are monitoring the treatment facilities to be allotted to the patients. At Chest, Fever, Government Nature Cure and Ayurveda hospitals, after the patients are analysed, the critical ones are sent to Gandhi Hospital. “No patient directly goes to Gandhi unless in rare cases. This is consuming time and we will look into it,” said a health department source. Currently, Gandhi Hospital has 1,500 bed capacity, with 500 being Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds. By Friday afternoon, 512 symptomatic patients were in the hospital wards, 220 in ICU, 60 of them on ventilator. When contacted, Gandhi Hospital’s RMO Dr Prabhakar Reddy said that ward allotment for the patients was indeed taking a little time. “But ideally it should not be more than half an hour. We are looking into the scenario,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-patients-lose-crucial-time-due-to-delays-in-admission-red-tape/articleshow/76474367.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||One side of Jaipur's Chandpole Road to remain closed for 70 days||JAIPUR: One side of Chandpole Road will be closed for 70 days to complete the work on smart road starting from June 22. The decision was taken on Thursday after the Jaipur Smart City Ltd. (JSCL) authorities reached an agreement with the Chandpole Market Association. According to the Smart City project, all the 11 roads in Walled City will be converted into smart roads with footpaths, street lighting and parking space. At present, only Kishanpole Road’s work is completed. JSCL has already completed work on one side of Chandpole Road i.e. right side, from Choti Chaupar to Chandpole gate. Now, authorities have moved to the other side. Subhash Goyal, president of Chandpole Market Association, said, “After long delay authorities completed one side of the road. Due to lockdown work on the other side was delayed, but now it will be resumed. For the next 70 days, traffic on road will be closed, but shops will remain open. JSCL has assured that work of laying down ducts was completed. Now they have to build the footpath and parking area. It will take 60 days maximum. Authorities have promised that the work would be completed before the given time.” Business will be affected by the closure, but traders said after lockdown the market is not in a good shape as people are scared to come out of their houses. They are expecting the work to be completed while customers are not coming to the market. JSCL has also promised to start work on verandas of Chandpole Market that need renovation, within 10 days. Verandas in many parts of the market are in a dilapidated condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-side-of-chandpole-road-to-remain-closed-for-70-days/articleshow/76473647.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Applications reach 3-year high at AGDC||LUCKNOW: Avadh Girls’ Degree College (AGDC) has received the highest number of admission applications this year for its various courses since 2017. The number of admission forms received by the college has crossed 500, which was 373 in 2019, 321 in 2018 and 400 in 2017. “In the wake of the pandemic, the college administration has not set any last date for submitting applications yet. We have received over 500 forms so far and the applications process is still on so the numbers are likely to go up further,” said AGDC principal Upma Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/applications-reach-3-year-high-at-agdc/articleshow/76474360.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC reserves ruling on fee charged by private schools||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court reserved its judgment on Friday on the issue of fee collection by private un-aided schools in Punjab amid Covid-19 outbreak. All the parties involved — private schools, parents’ association and the state government — had already concluded their arguments. The hearing in the case resumed on Friday before the bench headed by Justice Nirmaljit Kaur. The court had earlier on May 22 allowed private un-aided schools to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021 and admission fee in two half-yearly instalments. However, parents had been protesting across the state stating that they should not be forced to pay fee for the period when their children are at home. On the other hand, the schools had submitted that if they do not charge fee they would not be able to pay salaries to the teachers. The schools had also agreed to consider waiver or deferment of fee from parents in genuine distress. As directed by the court earlier, Punjab’s school education secretary Krishan Kumar submitted an affidavit on Friday clarifying that other than the ‘tuition fee’, private schools cannot charge ‘other charges or fee’ for the period they were closed. He submitted that as per state government’s order issued on May 14, “Schools would be permitted to charge these ‘other charges/fee’ from the parents at a pro rata basis once schools open for the remaining months only.” The school education secretary explained in case the schools remain physically shut till August 1, the annual charges or other charges would be waived off only for the period of April to August which comes to 33.3 percent. Schools can approach education dept: SecyThe school education secretary also submitted that if any school on account of charging tuition fee, as directed by the state government, is unable to meet its cost towards salaries then such school is at liberty to approach the district education officer or the department of education under the ‘Education Code’. Such school can make its case before the government authorities who would pass an appropriate order. Since the Covid-19 pandemic still poses wide community level threat and the number of cases continue to increase at an alarming rate throughout the country, it is impossible to give a definitive date of physical re-opening of the schools and it has to be decided by the central government. It was also clarified to the court by the school education secretary that as per the state government’s May 14 order, no restriction has been imposed on the schools to collect tuition fee for the online education being provided by them. “It is only those schools which are in fact not providing such online classes who may not charge such fee,” he said. ‘Mala fide intention of some private schools’Citing examples of some private schools changing the fee structure so as to charge more amount under the ‘tuition fee’ head, the school education secretary submitted in the affidavit that this shows the “mala fide and unclean hands” with which they have approached the court. He added that there is one such school in Muktsar that was charging Rs 6,750 as annual fee and Rs 4,965 as tuition fee for three months in the year 2019-20. “A perusal of the new fee structure being charged by this school for the academic year 2020-21 shows that the head of ‘annual fee’ is no longer a part of the fee structure as per the fee receipt of the schools and it is now charging Rs 2,734 per month as tuition fee,” reads the affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-reserves-ruling-on-fee-charged-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/76473629.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta issues notices to govt on labour scam||Panaji: The state Lokayukta on Friday issued notices to the state government on the alleged labour scam, and asked the labour commissioner to provide all files pertaining to the scheme and the disbursal of funds to beneficiaries. Officials said the Lokayukta, justice (retd) P K Mishra, found sufficient grounds to initiate the probe into the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare scheme scam, in which funds landed in the bank accounts of some BJP karyakartas. Goa Forward Party (GFP) had filed a complaint stating that over Rs 13 crore has been disbursed to 15,490 individuals who were supposed to be construction workers and labourers, but some have turned out to be BJP workers and panchayat functionaries. The state government had announced that it would provide financial support of Rs 6,000 each to around 15,000 construction workers and another Rs 4,000 each to 4,000 other labourers. On June 3, GFP, an NDA ally, alleged that a majority of the beneficiaries are from Sanquelim and Bicholim. The party claimed that most beneficiaries were neither workers nor labourers, and in some instances, were local governing body members. “On going through the material on record, it is found that there are sufficient and reasonable grounds to hold an investigation,” the Lokayukta said. The Lokayukta held the first hearing on Thursday, and subsequently issued notices to chief secretary Parimal Rai, the labour secretary and labour commissioner to produce documents and files pertaining to the funds. “It is felt necessary to implead the labour commissioner for furnishing details of the schemes, and names and designations of officials on duty regarding the scheme,” the order stated. Mishra also called for a report from the labour secretary, who has been asked to submit all the relevant files and documents relating to the scheme. “We demand that investigation must be carried in detail, the culprits have to be booked and money has to come back to the state treasury,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. “Just because the money has been returned does not mean that they should go scot-free.” GFP held a press conference on Friday, where Kamat shared the application form of a panch of Bastora panchayat, a woman who claimed to be a labourer. “I challenge the chief minister to come on record and specify which party these sarpanchs and panchas belong to,” he said. “The chief minister should tell Goa who these sarpanchs and panchs are. We don’t speak without evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-issues-notices-to-govt-on-labour-scam/articleshow/76474361.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Locals clash with cops over 10-year-old’s death||KOLKATA: Following the death of a 10-year-old boy whose body was found on the terrace of a four-storey building on Dhakuria Road on Wednesday, locals from the Gobindapur and Panchanantala Colonies clashed with the police on Thursday night. Before the clash, they had staged a protest and blocked the road from 8pm to 11.30pm, demanding that cops probe the alleged murder of Sunny Mondal. While cops claimed that the death was a case of suicide, the boy’s parents lodged a murder complaint. “The post-mortem report mentioned it as ante-mortem hanging that was suicidal in nature. However, we are still probing all angles,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Cops at Lalbazar said on Friday that 14 people had been arrested so far in connection with the clash. “We have taken all of them into police remand for 14 days,” said a senior officer. Locals, who had blocked the road on Thursday night after the boy’s body was handed over to his parents, alleged that cops were protecting those, in whose residence the victim used to live. After local cops failed to remove the sit-in, a larger force was deployed. The protesters alleged cops had resorted to lathicharge to remove the blockade. But the police claimed that the locals had been involved in brick batting, which had left a couple of cops injured. On Friday, some people allegedly tried to attack the house where the child lived. It was claimed that there was damage to the house, though cops refused to confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-clash-with-cops-over-10-yr-olds-death/articleshow/76473625.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Archaeologists unearth child’s skeleton from Konthagai site||Madurai: Archaeologists at the Konthagai excavation site near Keeladi have stumbled upon a skeleton measuring, 75cm in height, on Friday. It was found between two urns and is believed to be that of a child belonging to the bygone era.Konthagai, about four km away from Keeladi in Sivaganga district, was believed to be the burial site of that civilisation. It was taken up for excavation in the ongoing sixth phase at the Keeladi site. This is the first time that archaeologists from the Tamil Nadu state archaeology department are working in Konthagai, and so far, they have excavated three urns. Deputy director of archaeology R Sivanandam said one of the urns they found was intact with a lid. It was sent for laboratory testing. “The second and third urns had skeletons in them, while one contained a single skeleton, another contained two, which could be a husband and wife. However, scientists will have to determine the sex,” he said.The latest skeleton was found at a depth of 1.5ft. Four feet of surface soil was removed from the spot before archaeologists started working on it. Different types of burial practices - pit burial, urn burial, and surface burial - were noticed at ancient burial sites since the megalithic period dating back to 1500 BC. Earlier to that, they may have burnt or disposed of the bodies.Stating that use of burial urns varies, he said, “Some contain ashes, which would have been the result of the person dying elsewhere and brought to the burial site, for rituals to be performed.”“In the case of skeletons in seated positions, people might have been lowered into the urns when they were alive at their final stage as placing a dead body into an urn in a seated position could be difficult,” Sivanandam added.While urn burials were easier to excavate as the skeleton was intact inside, pit burials posed a challenge. One such pit burial was identified in Konthagai. Working on such a burial needed a lot of patience and skill, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/archaeologists-unearth-childs-skeleton-from-konthagai-site/articleshow/76474585.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested in multi-crore GST scam||Fatehgarh Sahib: The state GST department has arrested two persons in the multi-crore fake GST invoice scam. Sunita Batra, assistant commissioner (state tax) in Fatehgarh Sahib, said Abhishek Modgil and Sahil Sharma from Mandi Gobindgarh were involved in issuing fake invoices. During earlier investigation, the department had established that a network of firms was engaged in issuing fake invoices and passing bogus input tax credit worth Rs 45 crore to various firms. Batra said while Modgil is a proprietor of four firms named M/s AM Enterprises Mandi Gobindgarh, MPS Enterprises Mandi Gobindgarh, M/s Mahadev Metals, Chandigarh, and M/s ManiMahesh Alloys, Panchkula, Sharma is proprietor of M/s Sahil Enterprises and a partner in M/s A S Enterprises. The officer said the department was working to trace all the beneficiaries who received these fake invoices and more tax recoveries could be made. The investigators had also detained 14 vehicles loaded with iron scrap without invoices and e-way bills on Thursday, while 10 more vehicles were detained on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-arrested-in-multi-crore-gst-scam/articleshow/76473658.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Lakhawat factor gives Gehlot ammo to gherao BJP||Jaipur: A former Rajya Sabha MP of BJP Onkar Singh Lakhawat was the fourth candidate in the race with three slots. Lakhawat’s candidature, which was announced at the eleventh hour by the BJP on March 15, came as a shocker to many senior party leaders and the Congress. Lakhawat kept a low profile and chose not to give any statement related to the polls other than calling himself a disciplined party worker. Earlier, talking to TOI, he said he is a party worker and whatever role or task his party gives him will become his duty. Even his party was relying on the ‘Antar Atma’ (inner voice) of MLAs of smaller parties and independents who aren’t happy with the state to vote for them. On expected lines, none from outside BJP’s camp voted for their candidates. Lakhawat did receive the support of 20 MLAs, which is four votes less than his party’s 24 votes for him while the winning candidate Rajendra Gehlot got 54 votes. One vote was declared invalid. The BJP has been taking his candidature as recognizing the hard work of a party leader when asked about the shortage of votes. While for the Congress, the fourth candidate gave an opportunity to CM Ashok Gehlot to use it as a threat for the government on how BJP toppled governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. The ‘Lakhawat’ factor helped Gehlot take the bold step of lodging his party MLAs in a hotel almost 10 days before the polls, thereby taking high command in confidence. Lakhawat was an RS member from 1997 to 2000 (byelection). He also served the party as the state vice-president, but he is known much for election management. This will be added as a defeat in his political biodata, but his charm as a poll manager will remain untarnished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lakhawat-factor-gives-gehlot-ammo-to-gherao-bjp/articleshow/76474370.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Wanted in 8 states, Delhi ex-cop arrested in Haryana's Nuh||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Police on Friday arrested a wanted criminal, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, from Nuh district. The accused is a former employee of Delhi Police and wanted by the police in Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Hyderabad (Telangana), Kolkata (West Bengal), Gujarat, Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Odisha in several criminal cases. A Haryana Police spokesperson said the arrested accused was identified as Aslup, a resident of Shikarpur village. The accused who was involved in about two dozen criminal cases pertaining to organized ATM loot, attempt to murder and assault had been absconding for a long time. Nuh police had announced a bounty of Rs 50,000 on his arrest. The spokesperson said a CIA team got a tip-off on the wanted criminal who was spotted near KMP road Rewason on Delhi-Alwar Highway. Police party immediately swung into action and arrested Aslup in the raid. During preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed about his involvement in about two dozen cases of ATM loot, attempt to murder and hurt in Nuh as well as in several other states. He was sacked by the Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wanted-in-8-states-delhi-ex-cop-arrested-in-nuh/articleshow/76473672.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Cops get tough on noisy bikes, remove modified ‘silencers’||Nagpur: Nagpur city traffic police have just got tougher on two-wheeler riders who modify their vehicles to create deafening sounds and trigger noise pollution. Instead of merely fining them, a measure that was not having much effect, the police removed the modified silencers and got them replaced with original ones at the cost of the rider. “Until recently, the traffic police used to just fine the bikers Rs1,000 for making loud noise. The police undertook a special drive and got the modified silencers removed from two-wheelers with the help of mechanics,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vikram Sali. Any modification to a vehicle without the approval from the road traffic authority amounts to an offence. As per the Central Motor Vehicles Rules and Motor Vehicle Act, modifying silencer to create blast-like noise too is an offence, said the DCP. Traffic police said many riders created a firecracker like sound by switching the engine off and on when motorcycles are running at a high speed. Such bikes were a nuisance for fellow motorists and senior citizens, he added. On Thursday, the first day of the drive, all 10 traffic zones detained 46 such motorcycles. The highest number — 22 — was seized by Sitabuldi zone led by senior PI Parag Potey. Sadar zone detained seven such bikes, followed by Lakadganj zone (6), Cotton Market and Kamptee zones (5 each), while Sakkardara zone seized one. On Friday, traffic police seized 87 bullets with modified silencers. The police also recovered Rs1,000 fine from each of the violators. Every zone has been asked not to release detained vehicles without ensuring the modified silencers are removed, the DCP said. “We are also planning to hold a meeting with the dealers and automobile spare parts owners to tell them not to modify the silencers,” said the DCP. Traffic Zones — June 18 — June 19 Ajni — 0 — 2 Cotton Market — 5 — 14 Indora — 0 — 13 Kamptee — 5— 5 Lakadganj—6— 5 Sadar—7— 13 Sakkardara—1— 5 Sitabuldi—22— 28 Sonegaon— 0— 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-get-tough-on-noisy-bikes-remove-modified-silencers/articleshow/76473669.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Many sectors flooded, trees uprooted in 30 mins of rain||Chandigarh: Although the rain on Friday morning lasted for only around 30 minutes, it left many city sectors flooded. Trees were uprooted and cables broken in many areas as the city recorded 23.2 mm rainfall in 30 minutes, the met department said. However, department officials said these are not pre-monsoon showers. Pre-monsoon showers are expected to reach the city early next week, followed by monsoon showers. In 2019, the city received its first monsoon rainfall of 22.4mm on July 6. This year, monsoon is expected to reach Chandigarh around June 25, said Chandigarh met director Surender Paul. The Indian Meteorological Centre stated in its forecast on Friday that conditions are likely to become favourable for further advance of the southwest monsoon into the entire Western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Punjab, remaining parts of Arabian Sea, Gujarat state, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Rajasthan during the subsequent 72 hours. According to weather officials, pre-monsoon showers are recorded three days before the arrival of the monsoon. This year, they said, intensity of rainfall during pre-monsoon and monsoon is expected to be high. The city is expected to receive more rainfall this June as compared to previous years. “On Friday, the city witnessed thundershowers but pre-monsoon showers are expected to arrive by early next week, followed by monsoon showers,” Paul said. Weather officials expect light rainfall and thundershowers over the weekend as well. The rain brought maximum temperature down to 37.8 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, it was recorded at 40.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. Minimum temperature was recorded at 30.1 degrees Celsius. On Thursday night, it was recorded at 29.6 degrees Celsius. The wind speed was 55 Km/hour. For Saturday, weathermen have predicted generally cloudy sky with likelihood of thunder and light rain. BOX | Trees bear the brunt High velocity winds caused uprooting of trees in various sectors while branches of trees broke in a few sectors. Trees in sectors 27, 30, 35, 11, 10 and 19 were affected. Environmentalists said more trees are expected to fall this monsoon because of untimely pruning. “This is killing trees in City Beautiful. Authorities in Chandigarh need to be more thoughtful when it comes to timely and correct pruning of trees to ensure longer life of trees,” said Rahul Mahajan, an environmentalist known for transplanting trees. BOX | Monsoon arrival dates 2019 | July 6 2018 | June 28 2017 | July 2 2016 | July 2 2015 | June 25 2014 | July 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/many-sectors-flooded-trees-uprooted-in-30-mins-of-rain/articleshow/76472586.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Ajay flays INLD, Abhay||Chandigarh: Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) patron Ajay Singh Chautala on Friday flayed his younger brother and INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala over his claim about the Baroda assembly byelection. While interacting with mediapersons after inaugurating the main office of JJP’s frontal organisation Indian National Students Organization (INSO) Ajay attacked Abhay and INLD, saying, “Those who have joined INLD from BSP are the one who are even discarded by their parties.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ajay-flays-inld-abhay/articleshow/76473700.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Nonagenarian from Mangor is Goa’s oldest Covid-19 patient||PANAJI: After successfully treating its youngest patient — a four-month-old infant who was discharged last week — the Covid-19 hospital in Margao is now playing host to its oldest patient so far — a 91-year-old woman brought in from Mangor Hill. The woman was admitted on Thursday and is stable. She is being looked after by the caregiver who she lives with who has also tested positive Doctors are also treating 13 children in the hospital’s paediatric ward. Some cases are local while others tested positive for the virus after they travelled to Goa from neighbouring states. The children either have their mothers or caregivers tending to their needs at the hospital. The hospital has a dedicated floor for children, complete with a 25-bedded paediatric ward and a dedicated six-bedded PICU. In some cases, children have been admitted along with their families, with the paediatric ward hosting several children together with their siblings. All children admitted till date have been stable with none requiring to be admitted to the ICU or to be put on ventilator. “We have found that children have been doing well and don’t seem to be getting very sick. The world over, Covid-19 positive children are unlikely to get admitted to the ICU,” a doctor said. The first children to test positive and be admitted to the Covid hospital were all road and rail travellers who were detected with the virus when they were tested at the border and at railway stations in May. A one-year-old baby girl who travelled with her family by road to Goa in May was the first child to have tested positive and be admitted to the Covid-19 hospital. She was followed by a mother and her three sons aged 3, 6 and 11 who travelled by train and who were all found to be positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nonagenarian-from-mangor-is-goas-oldest-covid-patient/articleshow/76474373.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court seeks child abuse info from women’s commission||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Friday asked the state women’s commission for information regarding cases of domestic violence during lockdown which has led to child abuse. The HC asked state advocate-general Kishore Dutta to get the details from the commission on Tuesday. The HC will hear the matter on Thursday. Commission chairperson Leena Gangopadhyay said they have come across one or two instances when children have been severely traumatised to see their mothers being assaulted at home during the lockdown. The commission has also started a helpline number — 9836300300 — where a call can be made. For further details on an incident, text messages and WhatsApp can be sent on two other numbers 9830056006 and 9836078780. The HC observed that in 2019 about 176 cases and in 2020 about 199 cases regarding infringement of child rights are pending for adjudication by the state labour department. “Even during the lockdown cases of infringement have been detected,” a division bench of justices Soumen Sen and Harish Tandon said in its order. The HC also expressed its unhappiness on the details shared by the state home department on instances of child rights violation during lockdown. The AG assured the court that the state home secretary will file a detailed report on it on June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-court-seeks-child-abuse-info-from-womens-commission/articleshow/76473695.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Non-NFSA persons to be registered on spot for free ration||As many poor people had to return without getting ration at the fair price shops despite registering themselves, the food and civil supplies department has now issued an order to register the non-NFSA (National Food Security Act) persons, both migrants and those from 37 special categories, who have not been registered during government survey, on-the-spot (at the shop) through Aadhaar or Jan Aadhaar cards for distribution of ration (wheat & chana). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/non-nfsa-persons-to-be-registered-on-spot-for-free-ration/articleshow/76473683.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haldi shots to shore up immunity against Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: In a leg up in the battle against the Covid-19, a team of experts from Punjab has developed completely dissolvable turmeric -- known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties -- to boost immunity against the deadly virus. Turmeric, which has scientifically-proven health benefits, does not dissolve completely in liquids, tastes bitter and its bio-availability to the human body is low. The formulation, developed using nano technology and a unique combination of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) compliant components, has addressed all the three issues. The team has filed a patent for the formulation. Developed by Dr Mini Singh, associate professor in the department of biotechnology, Punjabi University, Patiala, and KS Pannu, commissioner, food and drug Administration (FDA), it has been used to make two products -- Haldi Shots and Haldi Milk. Unlike pharmaceutical formulations, which are being developed throughout the world by using only curcumin -- a component of turmeric -- the edible lipid-based nano-formulation retains the traditional values of turmeric and is non-pungent. The experts claim that drinking this nano technology-based formulation, either raw or having it with milk or water, will prove highly beneficial to Covid-19 patients as the turmeric has the potential to improve the bio-immunity. In addition to being aqueous dispersible, the nutraceutical has a smooth consistency and texture which is important for Covid-19 positive patients having respiratory problems as they cannot consume conventional form of haldi tea/haldi milk due to presence of fine suspended particles in it. Punjabi University, Patiala, has conducted extensive trials before commercializing the technology and the product will become available in the market shortly, said Dr Minni Singh, who has a PhD in bio-technology and post doctorate in bio-instrumentation from prestigious Indian Institute of Science, Banglore. Dr Minni Singh said that formulation will help in complementary supportive therapy for enhancing immune-competence of Covid-19 patients besides other ailments. KS Pannu said that traditionally turmeric is in use to cure diseases, but the two major limiting factors for the commercial non-viability for such products have been its pungent taste and coarse texture. "We have managed to make it smooth and non pungent," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haldi-shots-to-shore-up-immunity-against-covid-19/articleshow/76474368.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Kurukshetra curfew to stop eclipse crowd||KURUKSHETRA: The Kurukshetra district administration has imposed a three-day curfew from the night of June 19 to 6 pm on June 21 to prevent any congregation and gathering of people on the occasion of solar eclipse on June 21. To avoid any mass assembly in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, police will be manning the sacred ponds and sarovars including Brahamsarovar, Sannihit Sarovar, Saraswati Tirtha in Pehowa and others. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said, “A large number of people gather at religious shrines of Kurukshetra district on the occasion of solar eclipse to take a holy dip. Therefore, to prevent the gathering, a curfew has been imposed. The administration is not organising any event on this occasion and the message is being spread widely through media and other modes of communication, asking people not to come to Kurukshetra on the occasion of the solar eclipse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kurukshetra-curfew-to-stop-eclipse-crowd/articleshow/76474377.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Plans for SC, ST: Raj to frame law||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday announced that the state government will bring in a new law for effective implementation of various plans meant for the development of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the state, allocation of funds and their expenditure.“Our government is committed to the development of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. According to the 2011 Census, of the total population in the state, SC comprised 17.83% and ST population was 13.48%,” Gehlot tweeted.“For the overall and effective development of these sections, separate budget provisions are being made in demand numbers 51 and 30 respectively in proportion to their population under SC sub-plan and tribal sub-plan,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plans-for-sc-st-raj-to-frame-law/articleshow/76474375.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Two vets attacked by bear while releasing it||Tirunelveli: Two veterinarians were badly injured when they were attacked by a captured sloth bear when it was released from a cage in Papanasam in Tirunelveli range on Wednesday. Forest department personnel said that a veterinarian was bitten by the bear and the other suffered fractures when he fell from the vehicle during the attack. The duo is reportedly out of danger but is still in the hospital. The incident came to light on Friday when the video recorded by one of the victims was circulated on social media. The little more than five minute long video shows the eight-year-old aggressive female bear released from a cage that was loaded on a tractor. The video was recorded by personnel standing atop the cage of a second vehicle. It shows the bear leaving the cage after three minutes and charging at the vehicle from which it was released. It runs back and forth between the two vehicles before it charges and climbs the second vehicle. The camera then falls down along with the victims. The agitated noise of the animal before it is chased by others is followed by the groans of an injured person in pain. “We did not expect it to jump on top of the vehicle,” said a forest department officer who was at the scene.The animal bit veterinarian Manoharan on his leg. He also needed stitches on his legs. Veterinarian Muthukrishnan suffered a fracture on his wrist as he fell from the vehicle and suffered other bodily injuries. They are under treatment at a private hospital in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-vets-attacked-by-bear-while-releasing-it/articleshow/76474589.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha election: Voting puts an end to 12-day-old political ‘drama’ in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The voting for three seats in Rajya Sabha in Rajasthan concluded on Friday with 198 MLAs voted out of 200 seats in the assembly has put an end to the political drama lasted from the last 12 days. It was not difficult even for the commoner to predict the fate of four candidates—Congress national general secretary K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi and BJP’s two candidates—Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat from the day their candidature was announced by their respective parties. Two MLAs—Girdhari Lal Mahiya of CPI (M) and cabinet minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal—didn’t turn up due to their ill-health. The only major controversy erupted from the ground zero involving the Congress MLA from Nagar Wajib Ali who had returned from Australia last night. BJP accused him of flouted the COVID 19 protocol but couldn’t stop him casting his vote. The MLA in a PPE kit voted 30 minutes before the polling ended. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot was among the first leader to cast his vote at 9:20 am at the assembly. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje received warm greetings from both the Congress and BJP MLAs. The time when she entered the Vidhan Sabha, a queue of Congress lawmakers collecting markers showed respect by greeting her altogether and allowed her to collect the markers before them. During the three to four hours of the tense day, chief whip Mahesh Joshi and deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore were holding the fort at the Vidhan Sabha. Joshi was seen holding papers coordinating with each and every MLA coming in different buses and reminding them of their vote in order of preference. While Rathore keeping a watch on each and every activity inside the assembly, receiving senior party lawmakers and keeping a check on the votes polled by his party MLAs. The MLAs of both the parties left their respective hotels in a phased manner to avoid large gathering also to coordinate in a better manner. The contingent of 124 Congress MLAs was brought from the hotel in six buses while the 75 BJP including three from its ally RLP ferried in five buses in different phases. State Congress president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has congratulated candidates in advance after casting his vote and called out on forces who tried to derail the democratic process. “Our party candidates will get the votes more than our party strength. Our candidates who were picked by the Congress leader Sonia Gandhi will win and will show to those who made all efforts to create a political stir in the state,” said Pilot. The election commission of India has enforced different standard operating procedures for the polling. It includes separate waiting areas for the two major parties – the BJP and Congress. The former was allotted Na Paksh lobby while the latter was given Ha Paksh lobby for waiting. A paramedic team was kept at the entry of the state assembly building who were providing hand gloves and face mask to every voter while sanitizing their hands and checking their temperature thermally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-election-voting-puts-an-end-to-12-day-old-political-drama-in-raj/articleshow/76474374.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Amritsar||Bihar police in Amritsar to quiz Navjot Singh Sidhu||AMRITSAR: A police team from Bihar has reached Amritsar to ‘question’ cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu regarding a case registered against him in 2019. Sub inspector Janardan Ram said on Friday that a case was registered against Sidhu in Barsoi police station on April 16, 2019. He said they went to Sidhu’s house on Thursday but were told to come on Friday. “Even today, the security personnel did not allow us to meet him,” he said. Sidhu had allegedly made a controversial appeal to Muslims to vote en bloc and oust Narendra Modi during the election campaign. He had reportedly raised objectionable slogans during azaan at Kishanganj election rally, following which Chattisgarh Sikh Sangathan head Amarjeet Singh Chhabra had lodged a complaint with the Akal Takht and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief, demanding action against Sidhu. He had alleged that Sidhu had violated the maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct). Sidhu couldn’t be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bihar-police-in-amritsar-to-quiz-navjot-sidhu/articleshow/76473686.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Shimla||India-Nepal dispute spells labour uncertainties for HP farmers||SHIMLA: Increasing tension between India and Nepal owing to boundary dispute has left the farmers in Himachal Pradesh worried as they fear it might cast shadow on the arrival of labourers from Nepal who are mostly engaged in the fields and apple orchards of the state. Right from toiling in the fields to carrying the produce to markets, labourers from Nepal help the farmers in a big way. Yuvraj Bhardwaj from Kullu said they are totally dependent on Nepalese labourers for the apple season. He said labourers from Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and other states do not work in apple orchard. “We need Nepalese workers, especially to carry apples from remote orchards till the roads,” he said, adding that they are expert in this job and can carry heavy weight on any terrain. “Unfortunately, most labourers have already left for home while there are low chances that they will come during this season,” he added. Roshan Sharma from Manali said small-scale fruit growers can manage with locally available labourers, but it’s impossible for big orchardists. He said some growers who do harvest in intervals with small time gap will share labour with others. He said labour shortage is the biggest nightmare a fruit grower can ever have. “Growers like me bring personal labour from Nepal only for the fruit season. I am clueless about future possibilities. If labourers are not allowed to come from Nepal, finding an alternative will be very difficult,” he added. Ratan Katoch from Lahaul valley of Lahaul-Spiti district said they have completed nearly 50% of the agricultural works without labourers. After relaxation in lockdown, some farmers have brought labourers for weeding, fertilization, harvesting and other works but not all are getting help due to limited number of expert workers. Peas and potato are the main crops here. “If labourers are not available, we shall have to work at our own,” he added. Himachal Pradesh Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association president Harish Chauhan said during apple season, around 4-5 lakh labourers are engaged of which 75% are from Nepal. “If the movement of labourers is not allowed, then it will severely affect the apple season,” he added. Vivekanand Negi, a farmer from Ribba village of Kinnaur, said workers from Nepal have yet to return to due to Covid-19 pandemic and now ongoing dispute has further put a question mark on their arrival. He said Nepali workers not only work in fields and orchards, but are also expert in grading, packaging, loading and unloading. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said he has already taken up the issue of Nepali labourers with the Union external affairs minister. He said the state government has made adequate arrangement of marketing of fruits amid the Covid-19 pandemic so that farmers do not face any inconvenience. He said apple growers would definitely get better prices as exported apple would not be available this year. The matter of providing alternative market for marketing of apple at Azadpur area in New Delhi has also been taken up with the Prime Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/india-nepal-dispute-spells-labour-uncertainties-for-hp-farmers/articleshow/76474372.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||19 BSF jawans test positive in two weeks in Barmer dist||Jaisalmer: Eight BSF jawans were tested positive for Covid-19 in Barmer on Friday. In the last two weeks, a total of 19 BSF jawans have tested positive in Barmer. According to the information from administrative sources, a large number of jawans of BSF’s 59th battalion who returned from leave have been kept in quarantine at a government school in Kelnore area in Chauhatan sub-division of Barmer district. Four jawans were found positive on Thursday night, while eight jawans tested positive in Friday morning. All the 12 jawans have been kept at Kasturba Gandhi Hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19-bsf-jawans-test-positive-in-two-weeks-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/76474379.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab man booked for rape||MOHALI: Police have booked a Phillaur resident for allegedly raping and sodomising a 22-year-old woman from Ambala. The accused has been identified as Rahul Parashar. Police said the accused has been allegedly raping and sodomising the woman in Zirakpur for the past two years on the pretext of marrying her. Station house officer, Zirakpur, inspector Gurwant Singh said, “No arrests have been made so far. The victim submitted a complaint at the SSP office in October, 2019. Investigations are on and the medical examination of the victim will be conducted.” Police said the woman lodged a complaint against Rahul in October and he agreed to marry her in December but later didn’t. Thereafter, she moved court. A case has been registered under Section 376 (Punishment for rape) and 377 (Unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code at the Zirakpur police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-man-booked-for-rape/articleshow/76472609.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Amritsar||Indians stranded in Pak to return in 3 batches||Amritsar: Pakistan government has agreed to repatriate more than 700 Indian nationals, stranded in the country in view of coronavirus lockdown, in three batches. According to highly-placed sources, Pakistan’s interior ministry has directed the director general (DG) of Pakistan Rangers to repatriate the stranded Indians on June 25, 26 and 27 via Attari international border. Earlier, the Indian high commission in Islamabad had asked the Pakistan government to repatriate nearly 700 Indians on June 23 via Attari border. Quoting a letter of the ministry of interior to Pakistan Rangers DG, the intelligence sources here said a total of 748 Indians would be sent back by Pakistan. Each batch will comprise approximately 250 Indians. Besides students from Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of Indians who are stranded in Pakistan are those who had either gone to meet their relatives or visit religious places. Many standard Indians had uploaded their videos on the social media, urging Pakistan government to send them back home since they had not only run out of money but required urgent medical assistance. Pakistan government has also released a list of 748 standard Indians who would be sent home in three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/indians-stranded-in-pak-to-return-in-3-batches/articleshow/76474378.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents alert GHMC, flag mask norm violations||HYDERABAD: Several residents from Gachibowli, Sri Ram Nagar (Kondapur), MLA Colony and Banjara Green Colony (both located in Banjara Hills Road No. 12) and Moosapet circle have reached out to civic officials to report violations pertaining to masks. This, after many Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas. When TOI visited these places, it found that the complaints weren’t baseless. While many were spotted without a mask, many others were seen wearing it wrong — either loosely tied around the neck or pulled down to the chin. There were, of course, those who did abide by the norms as well. “Three people tested positive for Covid-19 in our housing society, but I still see people in my locality wearing the mask on their chin. I urged the authorities to crack down on such people who can turn into carriers of the virus,” said a resident of My Home Vihanga, Gachibowli speaking for many others who are worried about increased community transmission. PGS Ram, a resident of MLA Colony urged GHMC for stricter enforcement of the mask rule. “Four cases have been reported in our area. Still, people are moving around without masks. I urge authorities to penalise the offenders, restrict public movement in our locality,” he said. Similar violations were spotted at the bus stop near Inorbit Mall where people with handkerchiefs around their neck ignored distancing. Security guards of grade ‘A’ IT parks were seen with masks pulled to their chin, chatting with other guards. GHMC officials said they are attending to all complaints. “GHMC and police are penalising offenders. We are yet to consolidate the data, circle wise. The onus also lies on people to cooperate with government,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-alert-ghmc-flag-mask-norm-violations/articleshow/76474405.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Online exams at Chisti University||LUCKNOW: Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University is planning to hold online examination of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses for over 1,500 students once Covid-19 pandemic subsides. Vice-chancellor of the university Prof Mahrukh Mirza said, “We don’t want the word “promoted” due to Covid-19 mentioned on our students’ marksheet as it will affect their career prospects. We want to hold examinations and chalking out a plan for it.” “We are considering online examination in which students will not have to come to the university. We have already conducted all our session exams online hence we can adopt the same method with final examination,” he said. The university is also looking into the possibility of holding examination in various shifts so that only a few students take the examination at a time. “Limited strength of students will ensure social distancing during the examination process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-exams-at-chisti-university/articleshow/76474376.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||Mahuva town to remain closed today||Rajkot: Mahuva town of Bhavnagar will observe a complete bandh to protest the assault on Ram Kathakar and spiritual preacher Morari Bapu by former BJP MLA Pabubha Manek in Dwarka town. Talgarda town, adjoining Mahuva is the hometown of Morari Bapu, observed a complete bandh on Friday. President of Mahuva Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “All the trade and industrial associations and community leaders met and took a unanimous decision to keep the town closed on Saturday. Our demand is that government should take action against Pabubha Manek and he apologizes for his act.” Mahuva, with a population of five lakh, has large number of onion dehydration plants and ginning mills. Kanha Vichar Manch, which had demanded an apology from Morari Bapu for his alleged controversial remarks about Lord Krishna, are now demanding an FIR against Manek. Pal Ambaliya, leader of the organization, said, “Once he offered his apology to Lord Krishna in Dwarka, our demand was met and thereafter there were no ill feelings. But we can’t tolerate his insult that happened in presence of police. We demand that government should order police to register an FIR against the ex- MLA.” Morari Bapu had gone to Dwarkadhish temple on Thursday to ‘apologize’ for this comments. As he was talking with media persons at VIP guest house, Manek tried to assault him and hurled expletives. This incident that was recorded in mobile phones spread like wild fire on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mahuva-town-to-remain-closed-today/articleshow/76472759.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Burglars decamp with gold, silver jewellery, cash, phones||Chandigarh: Police registered three separate cases of theft and burglary on Thursday after miscreants broke into two houses and stole jewellery, cash and mobile phones. Yad Ram, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, reported that unknown persons broke into his house and stole a gold chain, mangalsutra, gold ring, gold mang tikka, gold earrings, three silver coins and Rs 23,000 between March 19 to June 15. A case was registered and further investigations are on. Another resident Sachin Kumar of Maulijagran village reported that unknown persons stole three gold rings, one gold chain, one gold mangalsutra, two pairs of silver anklets and other documents from his residence during the intervening night of June 13 and 14. On the statement of complainant, Mauliajgarn police registered a case of theft and started a probe. Arpan, a resident of Manimajra, Chandigarh reported that an unknown person stole an I-phone-6 from his shop in Manimajra on Thursday. Manimajra police recorded his statement and registered a case against the unidentified person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/burglars-decamp-with-gold-silver-jewellery-cash-phones/articleshow/76472646.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||On board with Swadeshi pitch, Lucknow businessman gearing up to dump Dragon||LUCKNOW: Traders in Lucknow appear keen on quitting ‘Made in China’ products over the India-China border standoff, but are concerned about their dependence on the Red Dragon for everything cheap. It’s an over Rs 6,000 crore a year market after all, ranging from bargain cosmetics to high-end electronics, garments, mobile phones and healthcare products. They feel that things might change if they get a viable alternative though. As per estimates of various traders’ associations in Lucknow, 50% of the products including mobile phones, LED TVs, toys, perfumes, handbags, cosmetics, laptops, garments, refrigerators, air-conditioners, drugs and medical implants sold in Lucknow are made in China. Customers for these are from Lucknow as well as other districts. “While cheap non-branded items are purely Chinese, many multinational brands from countries like Germany, US, France, Russia and South Korea have set up their factories of footwear, garments, electronic items and mobile phones in China because of cheap labour that reduces cost,” said Lucknow Vyapar Mandal president Pawan Manocha. Wholesale dealer of cosmetics in Aminabad Neelesh Agarwal said that annual sales of cosmetics is around Rs 2,500 crore, of which ‘Made in China’ account for around Rs 1,000 crore. “Customers prefer cosmetics from China because they are cheap,” he said. Naka Hindola Vyapar Mandal president Satpal Singh said, “Of around 10,000 TVs being sold from city shops per month, over 4,000 are manufactured by companies based in China. Nearly 90% of the toys being sold are imported from China. Made in China decoration items like lamps, fountains and furniture are also high on demand.” Manocha said that traders want to stop selling Chinese products, but an alternative should be provided. “If government helps, we can replace Chinese products with those made in India,” he said. According to Lucknow Chemist Association, of all healthcare products sold in the city in a year, made in China ones account for around Rs 800 crore. Chemists’ association president Giriraj Rastogi said, “Around 60% of the raw materials used to make medicines, thermometer, intramedullary rods, oxygen masks, ultrasound diagnostic and orthopedic equipment is imported from China.” “We are dependent on China a lot comes to medical products. However, our government is making all efforts to increase their manufacturing within the country and we will see some results in the coming months,” he said. UP Adarsh Vyapar Mandal president Sanjay Gupta said that traders support banning sale of Chinese products. However, he added that showrooms and godowns at present had an estimated Rs 1,500 crore worth inventory of such products. “Once this stock exhausts, we can stop importing further, but manufacturing in India needs to be increased through government support,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/on-board-with-swadeshi-pitch-city-bizmen-gearing-up-to-dump-dragon/articleshow/76474390.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 75 new Covid cases||Dehradun: With 75 new Covid 19 cases reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, the state’s tally reached 2,177. With 47 patients getting discharged, the number of recoveries reached 1,433, almost 60%. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health) said that highest, 28 fresh cases were reported from Tehri on Friday. With this the total cases in Tehri are now 346, highest among all hill districts. “Almora also reported 14 new cases on Friday, followed by eight each in Nainital and Haridwar districts. Seven new cases were reported from Bageshwar, four each from Dehradun and Pithoragarh and two from Pauri,” said Pant. Also, with 253 total cases, Haridwar district has 52 containment zones which is highest in the state, followed by 22 in Dehradun. Meanwhile, 4,463 reports of Covid-19 samples were pending till 3 pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-75-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76471553.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ajmer||Three die, 299 test +ve for coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Three persons died while 299 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday. With this the tally of positive cases rises to 14,156. Ajmer, Jaipur and Karauli reported one each case taking the toll in the state to 333. It was 13th casualty of Ajmer, while one more death in Jaipur took its toll to 144 and Karauli reported its fourth Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new Covid-19 cases are Bharatpur (55), Jodhpur (38), Jaipur (33), Bikaner (26), Pali (24), Nagaur (16), Bhilwara (14), Jhunjhunu (14), Alwar (14), Churu (13), Barmer (12), Sriganganagar (8), Tonk (6), Dholpur (6), Ajmer (4), Hanumangarh (3), Jhalawar (2), Rajsamand (2), Chittorgarh (1), Dungarpur (1), Udaipur (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and three from other states. Besides, 255 have been cured of Covid-19 and took the tally of such people, who have been cured in the state to 10,997. In Jaipur, 22 different places reported 33 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Bas Badanpura (7), Shastri Nagar (4), Kotputli (2), Niwaru (2), and one case each was reported from Dhani Rawaton Wali, Kotputli, Sanganer, Chaura Rasta, Chitrakoot, Hotel Raddisson, Chandpole and other areas..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/three-die-299-test-ve-for-coronavirus-in-state/articleshow/76479711.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Land dispute turns violent as 3 fire at colony caretaker||Times News Network Ludhiana: The caretaker of an under-construction colony was injured after three men opened fire following a verbal spat in Bhattian village on Friday afternoon. Police said the trio, residents of Bahadur Ke village, reached the colony as soon as the construction work started and claimed they owned a part of the land. Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Bhattian village, has received a bullet injury on leg. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “The land earlier belonged to Tarn Taran residents Jaswant Singh and Harbans Singh. A few days ago, they sold the land to Jaswinder Singh, also a resident of Tarn Taran district. Jaswinder hired his namesake to look after the land.” On Friday, construction work started at the colony. “Soon thereafter, three men reached there and claimed that they had purchased 1.5 kanal from Jaswant Singh and Harbans Singh. The trio and caretaker Jaswinder exchanged heated arguments. As tempers frayed, one of the three men took out a pistol and fired at the caretaker,” the SHO added. After the incident, the trio took the injured to Christian Medical College and Hospital and fled. “We are yet to record the statement of the injured man and identify the accused,” the cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/land-dispute-turns-violent-as-3-fire-at-colony-caretaker/articleshow/76474381.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Three in SOG net for cheating Jaipur businessman of Rs 3 crore||JAIPUR: The Special Operations Group (SOG) wing of the Rajasthan police has busted a gang of conmen involved in cheating nearly Rs 3 crore to a local businessman on the pretext of selling him herbal oil seeds. Three persons have been arrested. Anil Paliwal, additional director general (ADG) of SOG and ATS said that one Mohan Toshniwal, a businessman in the city, approached the official and complained that a woman contacted her through email and promised to approve some oil seeds sachet. SOG took the help of cyber experts and also went into electronic surveillance to crack the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-in-sog-net-for-cheating-jaipur-businessman-of-rs-3cr/articleshow/76474386.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Iskcon plans virtual Ratha Yatra for 25,000 homes||KOLKATA: So what if you won’t be able to tug the rope of Lord Jagannath’s Ratha this time? The chariot itself will come to your home, albeit virtually. Because of the Covid pandemic, Iskcon has been forced to cancel its 49-year-old rathayatra in the city and also the 6-kilometre-long yatra at Mayapur from the Jagannath Temple at Rajapur. Iskcon this year is taking a unique initiative to virtually bring the chariot home to the devotees. The project, called Mercy on Wheels is a completely digital initiative that will see 108 virtual rathas rolling out to devotees’ homes in so many cities worldwide. A digital platform has been created and links have been provided for devotees to register themselves as yajmans. Once the registration is completed, a unique code/number will be provided, against which the devotee will be informed when to expect the ratha to roll into his house on June 23-24. The entire programme is digitally coded, so every yajman logs in and waits for instructions. At the appointed hour, the household will see the ratha roll in on the screen with audio-visual simulations for added effect.  One has to log on at the appointed time, which, as of now is 8am, and follow on-screen instructions step by step. “The ratha, through virtual simulation, can be pulled inside the house and the entire household can complete aarti, offer prasad/bhog within the specified time limit and then bid adieu to the Lord as the chariot gets ready to visit the next devotee’s house. This will all be synchronised from Mayapur as the 108 chariots roll in from one devotee’s house to the other,” said Subrata Das, spokesperson of Iskcon, Mayapur.  However, the unique codes will be provided to the yajmans on a first-come-first-served basis, Iskcon Mayapur officials said. A massive digital meeting room will be created for this so that devotees can participate and follow the ratha from one home to another. “We are aiming to take the 108 rathas to at least 25,000 homes worldwide. We are working to create a massive digital space for this,” Das added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iskcon-plans-virtual-ratha-yatra-for-25k-homes/articleshow/76473759.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Kunal Choudhary casts vote in PPE; WHO norms flouted, says BJP||BHOPAL: BJP has taken a serious objection to granting of permission to Congress MLA from Kalapipal assembly Kunal Chaudhary, a Covid positive patient, to cast his vote for the Rajya Sabha elections wearing a PPE kit. BJP said it was a violation of WHO and health ministry norms as guidelines. The Congress has dubbed the allegations as cheap politics. Congress MLA Chaudhary has recently been tested Covid positive and hospitalised. On Thursday, the Election Commission granted him permission to cast his vote during Rajya Sabha elections in the Vidhan Sabha Central Hall wearing a PPE kit. Chaudhary reached the polling centre along with a team of doctors after all the members had cast their votes and exercised his right. BJP leaders though took strong objection saying there could be other means to help Chaudhary exercise his mandate instead of allowing him to move in public wearing a PPE kit.’  “The PPE kit is meant for corona warriors who protect themselves and their patients from being infected and infecting others. Patients need to be isolated and cannot misuse the kit for going out. The WHO and health ministry has prepared guidelines for the same,” said former BJP state media in-charge, Dr Hitesh Vajpayee. Vajpayee, who himself is a doctor, said that he was not against voting rights of any individual, but there are norms to be followed during a pandemic like Covid-19. “If a voter is allowed to cast his mandate wearing a PPE kit then the government will have to allow all the voters during elections. The Election Commission should have taken other steps like postal ballot or voting through an online facility instead of taking the patient to the polling centre,” he said. The Congress has though reacted sharply to the objections saying the BJP is politicising every issue. “One cannot debar anyone from exercising his voting right. But BJP has a tendency of playing cheap politics during crucial matters,” said Congress state spokesperson, K K Mishra. Meanwhile, officials said that before and after Kunal Chaudhary cast his vote, the Vidhan Sabha premises and polling centre was sanitised and the polling staff maintained physical distance. “We had referred the request by the Congress party to allow Kunal Chaudhary exercise his mandate, to the Election Commission and after due permission we have allowed the MLA to cast his vote wearing a PPE kit,” said returning officer and principal secretary of Vidhan Sabha, AP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/choudhary-casts-vote-in-ppe-who-norms-flouted-says-bjp/articleshow/76472673.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Three die, 299 test +ve for coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Three persons died while 299 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday. With this the tally of positive cases rises to 14,156. Ajmer, Jaipur and Karauli reported one each case taking the toll in the state to 333. It was 13th casualty of Ajmer, while one more death in Jaipur took its toll to 144 and Karauli reported its fourth Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new Covid-19 cases are Bharatpur (55), Jodhpur (38), Jaipur (33), Bikaner (26), Pali (24), Nagaur (16), Bhilwara (14), Jhunjhunu (14), Alwar (14), Churu (13), Barmer (12), Sriganganagar (8), Tonk (6), Dholpur (6), Ajmer (4), Hanumangarh (3), Jhalawar (2), Rajsamand (2), Chittorgarh (1), Dungarpur (1), Udaipur (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and three from other states. Besides, 255 have been cured of Covid-19 and took the tally of such people, who have been cured in the state to 10,997. In Jaipur, 22 different places reported 33 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Bas Badanpura (7), Shastri Nagar (4), Kotputli (2), Niwaru (2), and one case each was reported from Dhani Rawaton Wali, Kotputli, Sanganer, Chaura Rasta, Chitrakoot, Hotel Raddisson, Chandpole and other areas..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-die-299-test-ve-for-coronavirus-in-state/articleshow/76474380.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Cattle theft accused seeks action against vigilantes for assault||Mangaluru: Mahammad Hanif, who has been accused of cattle theft and violating Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, has sought justice and stringent action against cattle vigilantes who have assaulted him recently. Hanif, 34, was booked under IPC Section 370 for cattle theft and for cruelty to animals by Urwa police on June 14. Acting on a tip-off from Bajrang Dal activists, Urwa police intercepted a pick-up van at Kottara Cross and arrested Hanif in this connection. Police had rescued four she-buffaloes and seized the vehicle used to transport the cattle. Meanwhile, police also booked another case against six persons for assaulting Hanif, giving him life threat and tying him to the vehicle. Preetham Shetty, Bhavith Shetty, Shrinivas, Jayaprashanth, Ashith and Sachin are those arrested in connection with the case. Hanif, a resident of Jokatte, told reporters here on Friday that he was transporting the cattle with documents, but failed to show them to police as he was, by then, assaulted by the vigilantes. “I had bought 10 she-buffaloes from Ranebennur by obtaining required documents from a government veterinarian. However, I was waylaid by a group of 10-15 men who verbally abused me and also assaulted me brutally. They not only robbed Rs 7,800 from my pocket, but also assaulted again by tying me to the vehicle. However, police has not booked them under law,” Hanif said. Police had booked the six accused under Section 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (causing damage) and 149 (unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cattle-theft-accused-seeks-action-against-vigilantes-for-assault/articleshow/76469719.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Sixteen new municipalities formed in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The department of local self government on Friday announced the formation of 16 new municipalities in Rajasthan. The districts where new municipalities have been created are - Jaipur, Alwar, Dausa, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Bharatpur, Karauli, Kota, Sriganganagar, Baran and Dholpur. In Jaipur district, the Bassi Gram Panchayat in Bassi municipality area, the Pavta and Shiv Nagar Gram Panchayats in Pavta municipality and the Pragpur Gram Panchayat have been converted into new municipalities. Implementing the budget announcement made by CM Ashok Gehlot, orders were issued taking the count of total municipalities in Rajasthan to 212. “To expedite the development work in public interest and for speedy disposal of issues, these new municipalities were announced by Ashok Gehlot in the state budget,” said Shanti Dhariwal, urban development and housing (UDH) minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sixteen-new-municipalities-formed-in-raj/articleshow/76474874.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Online mushaira, Instagram live for Pride Month||LUCKNOW: In Pride Month this year, you might not see rainbow flags on streets or attend events celebrating the community, but you can be a part of the celebration virtually through online sessions and ‘mushairas’ hosted by Awadh Queer Pride Committee. Due to coronavirus pandemic, the committee members have decided to mark the month and celebrate the diversity, history and resilience of their community with a series of online events. Beginning from Saturday, the committee will host an Instagram live session on ‘Depiction of Gender Minorities in Hindi Cinema’ with assistant professor at Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University Ruchita Sujai Chowdhary on their official Instagram page. “The idea is to discuss the portrayal of our community in films, specifically from 1996-2016, and what impact it has had among youngsters and the current generation,” said Lovepreet Singh, founder of Rehbar Trust who will be hosting the session. Pride Month, which usually sees several events, offers the chance to hundreds of members within the community and allies to celebrate being out and proud. On June 27, the members will host a ‘mushaira’ via video conferencing. “The event is open to every member of the community across the country. They can submit their poetry to us linked to the community. We will select 15 entries which will be performed during the meet. A Facebook live will also be done,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-mushaira-insta-live-for-pride-month/articleshow/76474399.cms||Aditi Singh
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops not to challan residents with expired driving licence||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police has decided to slacken the rules when it comes to expired driving licences, vehicle pollution certificate and vehicle insurance due to Covid-19 outbreak. Ludhiana police commissioner (CP) Rakesh Agarwal on his Facebook live session on Friday evening said people will not be challaned for these. The top cop also said soon they are roping in 300 people, from different NGOs and localities, for creating awareness in the markets and localities. They will be called ‘ambassadors’. The market associations and residential associations will be awarded according to their performance. CP Agrawal also said the police will issue challans for not wearing masks to the violators, but will also give them a free mask to wear, so that they will realise the importance of the masks. During the live session, the residents also asked the top cop for issuing on the spot challans to the violators, so that the violators will not stand in queues in regional transport office to pay the fine. CP also said as some of the people have not renewed their driving licence, pollution certificates and insurance of their vehicles amid lockdown, they will be given some time to do the same. On a query of a resident, that if people have to visit police stations to give compliants, Agarwal said residents should prefer sending online complaints on cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in in emergency cases, they can visit police stations too. He added that the police have made a system and such complaints will be processed the same day of receiving. The complainant will receive information on the progress on his complaint via email or text message. Agrawal also appealed the people to download Cova Punjab app in their phones and to join Mission Fateh warrior drive and get rewarded by the government by making people aware about social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-not-to-challan-residents-with-expired-driving-licence/articleshow/76474396.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Seafarers at MPT test negative||Panaji: The first stranded seafarers to arrive at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) on Thursday tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday. Health officials said the reports of all 1,450 seafarers whose swab samples were taken on the docks at MPT came back negative. Only a group of 400 seafarers were permitted to leave on Friday. They were taken in buses to various pick-up points at Chicalim, Margao, Panaji and Mapusa. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-at-mpt-test-negative/articleshow/76473772.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Six injured after row over Covid victim’s cremation||KOLKATA: The chaos over cremation of Covid-19 victims continued on the northern fringes of the city. After Ariadaha, Sodepur, Khardah and Barrackpore, in a fresh trouble late on Thursday night, at least six persons, including four women, were injured after cops had to allegedly resort to lathicharge to disperse the panic-stricken locals, who tried to stop the civic team from performing the last rites of a 65-year-old Covid-19 victim at a crematorium in Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas. According to sources, the victim, Aniruddha Prasad Shaw, a resident of Atchala Bagan Road of Jagaddal, died of coronavirus in Barasat’s Kadambagachi Covid-19 hospital on Thursday night. “As the team from Bhatpara Municipality escorted by cops reached the Muktarpur crematorium with the body, nearly 150 locals surrounded them. They gheraoed the police and launched an agitation demanding immediate removal of the body. Though the civic members tried to convince the agitators, the mob tried to attack them,” an official of Bhatpara civic administration said. Later, a huge contingent of police, including RAF and Combat Force, led by the senior officers of Barrackpore commissionerate rushed to the spot. They reportedly resorted to a lathicharge. “Police had to take action to disperse the mob,” said Manoj Kumar Verma, CP, Barrackpore. Later, the body was cremated after adequate number of cops were deployed near the crematorium ground adjacent to the Hooghly. Tapan Saha, CMOH, North 24 Parganas, said: “Though officials followed all safety protocols, locals didn’t listen to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-injured-after-row-over-covid-victims-cremation/articleshow/76473769.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Sixteen new municipalities formed in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The department of local self government on Friday announced the formation of 16 new municipalities in Rajasthan. The districts where new municipalities have been created are - Jaipur, Alwar, Dausa, Jodhpur, Sirohi, Bharatpur, Karauli, Kota, Sriganganagar, Baran and Dholpur. In Jaipur district, the Bassi Gram Panchayat in Bassi municipality area, the Pavta and Shiv Nagar Gram Panchayats in Pavta municipality and the Pragpur Gram Panchayat have been converted into new municipalities. Implementing the budget announcement made by CM Ashok Gehlot, orders were issued taking the count of total municipalities in Rajasthan to 212. “To expedite the development work in public interest and for speedy disposal of issues, these new municipalities were announced by Ashok Gehlot in the state budget,” said Shanti Dhariwal, urban development and housing (UDH) minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sixteen-new-municipalities-formed-in-raj/articleshow/76474397.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||CII: States need to spend 10% GSDP to revive growth||Jaipur: States like Rajasthan need to infuse 10% of its gross state domestic product (GSDP) to revive the economy and should go for disinvestment given the fact that tax revenues have been hit due to the lockdown, CII said on Friday. The industry body said the stimulus should be a mix of grants and loans, so that burden on the exchequer is less. Addressing reporters, CII-Northern region chairman Nikhil Sawhney said states need to look at discoms and other assets for disinvestment and raising resources. “The current situation is an opportune time for states to get out of businesses they should not be in. Monetisation of the assets is important for states and they can draw both domestic and foreign capital,” said Sawhney. He said it is possible that the states can still achieve their strategic objectives by disinvestments. Giving an example, he said that by monetising assets like discoms is possible while not compromising the greater objective of the government in terms of bringing in competition and offering fair price to its citizens. He said this can happen through regulatory mechanisms, but in states there are no regulators in certain areas. “It cannot happen overnight, but it is a question of mindset,” Sawhney said. He said if states can spend 10% of their GSDP or less than that for reviving the economy, we have to have logic, which is there. “This cannot be entirely in terms of grants, but loans to their state constituents. We have to assess what would be the outcome of this, while ensuring that it does not become a burden on the state exchequer,” Sawhney said. With regard to enhancing competitiveness of the domestic industry, he said that India has the advantage of a large talent pool and bigger market for consumption. “But policy certainly needs to be there for people investing money. Chinese industry enjoys lot of state support, including up to 20% subsidies for exports. That’s why they are more competitive,” Sawhney added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cii-states-need-to-spend-10-gsdp-to-revive-growth/articleshow/76474403.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Barnala man, 33, is youngest to succumb to Covid-19||Barnala man, 33, is youngestto succumb to Covid-19Second Casualty: Moga Man Who Came To City Hosp Dies Hrs After DischargeLudhiana: A 33-year-old man from Barnala succumbed to Covid-19 at Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Charitable Hospital, Model Town, on Friday. With him, the district’s death count has reached 25, including 12 from outside.Dr Ramesh Bhagat, district epidemiologist, said, “The patient didn’t have any comorbidity. He was the youngest patient who succumbed in Ludhiana.”The other casualty is a 55-year-old man from Moga who died at his place hours after he was discharged from a private hospital here. Dr Geeti Puri, nodal officer of Mohandai Oswal Hospital, said, “He came to us on June 17 and prior to that he was taking treatment in Jalandhar. The 55-year-old was a patient of liver cancer and a chronic alcoholic for the past 20 years. He came with complaints of abscess formation in stomach. When we admitted him to ICU, he was asymptomatic. His sample was sent to a Delhi lab on June 17, but the next day his condition deteriorated and he was put on oxygen support. Later, his relatives asked for leave against medical advice (LAMA). On June 18 afternoon, they took him and report came around 10.15pm, saying he was positive. The family was immediately informed.”He was sent for a follow-up treatment to civil hospital, Moga, where he succumbed at 11pm.39 test positive Thirty-nine patients tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday. At present, 228 patients from Ludhiana and 44 from outside are admitted to city hospitals as active cases. Besides, a resident of Ludhiana has tested positive at Pathankot. The day saw six patients getting discharged in the city.13 from containment zonesThirteen cases were reported from containment zones. Two women and a man from Habib Ganj took the tally of the containment zone to 58 and 10 cases were reported from Prem Nagar, which has 29 cases now. Pregnant woman positive Out of the 10 pending reports from Khanna civil hospital, a 21-year-old pregnant woman tested positive. A rapid response team shifted the patient to the civil hospital isolation ward and quarantined her close contacts, who will be tested on Saturday.Eight from private hospitalsEight patients from private hospitals have tested positive. They include five from CMCH, 10 from DMCH and one from Mohandai Oswal Hospital who is 65-year-old wife of a Basti Jodhewal man who had succumbed to Covid-19 two days ago.8 contactsBesides, eight contacts of positive patients have contracted the virus. They include: a 28-year-old man of Kulhar village; a 65-year-old woman of Raikot; manager, 56, of J&K Bank;Punjab Police commando, 24, from Sahnewal; Moga woman, 24; Patiala man, 38; Delhi resident, 44; Moga woman, 29.CMCH doctor After a CMCH plastic surgeon tested positive for Covid-19, as many as 11 healthcare workers were quarantined.Containment zones Chawni Mohalla: 42Prem Nagar: 29Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj, Sensi Mohalla: 58Micro containment zonesNew Model Town: 6New Janta Nagar: 10Bhamia Road: 9High priority areas 1. Chandar Nagar2. Madhopuri3. Doraha4. Khanna5. Samrala6. Bopur village7. Ishwer Nagar8. SAS Nagar9. Model Town Extension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/barnala-man-33-is-youngest-to-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/76472718.cms||Mehak Jain
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman booked for abetment to suicide after husband kills self||Mohali: Police booked a woman on charges of abetment to suicide after her 42-year-old husband, Pradeep, commited suicide in Nayagaon on Friday morning. The accused has been identified as Seema. “Seema’s husband committed suicide at his residence on Friday by hanging himself from the ceiling fan when he was alone. Pradeep’s mother has submitted a written complaint following which a case was registered,” said station house officer, Nayagaon, sub-inspector Ashok Kumar. Kumar said they have booked Seema under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of the statement of Satya Rani, resident of Dashmesh Nagar and Pardeep’s mother. “We came to know that the victim went live on Facebook before commiting suicide and we are investigating it. He was a typist at the district court in Sector 43, Chandigarh,” said ASI Nirmal Singh, investigating officer of the case. The SHO said Satya Rani stated in her complaint that Pradeep took the extreme step because of harassment by Seema. “They got married in 2007 and Seema also used to beat him up,” a police official said. “No arrest has been made so far. The postmortem of the deceased has been conducted,” police said. In another case, a 57-year-old man committed suicide by jumping before the Jan Shatabdi train on Friday morning at the Jagatpura railway line. The deceased has been identified as Raju, a resident of Faidan who hails from Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh and was working as a Security guard. Satwinder, the GRP official said, “He was crushed under the train. We found an Aadhar card from his pocket and have informed his family who are on their way from Himachal.” Satwinder further added that the incident took place at around 7:30 AM and the reason behind the suicide was depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-after-husband-kills-self/articleshow/76472696.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Flier movement down to 30% at Ahmedabad airport||AHMEDABAD: Though the city airport has resumed operations, there is barely any passenger movement, thanks to the limited number of flights. People’s apprehensions about travelling is another factor. Ever since flight operations resumed from May 25 at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad, only about one-third of scheduled flights have been in service. Sources said that passenger movement is 30% or less of a normal day’s figure. Sources said that most flights are operating with 50% passenger load. “Several flights are getting cancelled due to inadequate passenger loads,” said an airline’s ground staff member. “Only those attending to emergencies are taking flights.” On Friday, three flights — to Chandigarh, Hyderabad, and Delhi — were cancelled, confirmed sources. Travel agents have been hit. “The tourism industry is already in the doldrums. Leisure travel has completely stopped,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat chapter. “Even corporates have imposed major travel restrictions due to which business travel has also come to a standstill.” States’ diverse lockdown norms have complicated travel. “Recently, the Tamil Nadu government announced a lockdown in select districts,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators and Travel Agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG). “This confused people who are already apprehensive about travelling.” Moreover, airlines are not providing refunds on tickets and instead are giving credit notes for future travel, Pathak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/flier-movement-down-to-30/articleshow/76473768.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Govt gives emergency use approval to Covid -19 drug||MUMBAI: India’s drug regulator on Friday approved ‘restricted emergency use’ of antiviral drug Favipiravir, making it one of the first such oral treatments for Covid-19 in the country. The approval paves the way for Mumbai-based Glenmark to launch Favipiravir (FabiFlu) for treatment of mild-to- moderate Covid-19 patients. Sources say, the drug is expected to be priced around Rs 100 per tablet, with the average cost of therapy around Rs 3000 per patient, depending on the viral load. Favipiravir has shown positive results globally in Japan and China, and has been approved in Russia for Covid-19 therapy. This is the second drug recently to get emergency use authorisation, after US-based Gilead Sciences’ approval for injectable remdesivir in India, for severe Covid-19 infection. Under ‘restricted use’, the patient will have to give informed consent before treatment is started. The approval was given based on “good intermediate results” from clinical trials being conducted on around 60 patients, official sources told TOI. In May, Glenmark filed for approval with India’s Drugs Controller General, and is conducting clinical trials on 150 mild-to-moderate patients across 10 hospitals. It became the first company in India to develop Faviparir—a move first reported in TOI on April 23. It is learnt that several companies like Cipla, BDR Pharma and Strides Pharma are also in the process of getting regulatory approvals. A company official said the approval has been granted based on evaluation of data and in consultation with the subject expert committee, as part of an accelerated approval process, considering the emergency situation and unmet medical need of Covid-19 outbreak. The treatment could help in lowering hospitalisation for patients, and lessening the transmission rate. Says Dr Shashank Joshi, endocrinologist and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, “Favipiravir is an early-use antiviral, which has promising results from Japan and China. It’s a drug with promise for mild and asymptomatic, high-risk patients. The only drawback is a high-pill burden, and a 14-day therapy’’. Japanese company, Fujifilm sells the drug, Faviparir under the brand, Avigan, which has been approved in Japan since 2014 to treat influenza, and other viral strains that don’t respond to other therapies. The drug which was earlier used to treat Ebola, became off-patent last year, which implies generic versions can possibly be launched anywhere in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-gives-emergency-use-approval-to-covid-19-drug/articleshow/76473791.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Plan to frame business rival by planting guns goes bust||LUCKNOW: Losing out to competition in the neighbourhood, a sweet shop owner in Gomtinagar Extension bristling after a dramatic dip in sales decided to frame his business rival by planting countrymade weapons and cannabis in his shop. But his plan went bust after the man he hired to pin down his rival was nabbed by police along with three aides on Friday. The sweet shop owner is now on the run. SHO Gomtinagar Extension, Brijesh Singh, raided the sweet shop in Laxmi Market and recovered three country-made weapons and 720gm cannabis, acting on the tipoff of the hired goon, Ranjeet Kashyap. However, the shop owner claimed he was being framed and requested police to probe further. Later, CCTV footage showed none other than the whistleblower, Ranjeet, flinging a bag inside the shop that carried weapons and drugs. After Kashyap was arrested, he confessed to having been paid Rs 50,000 to frame the shopkeeper by Ashok Yadav, who also runs a sweet shop in the vicinity for over a decade. “Yadav’s business began sinking after a new shop came up in the neighbourhood two years ago. After the lockdown was eased, many existing customers began visiting his rival’s shop and he suffered more losses. And, he decided to snuff out competition,” said Singh. Ranjeet, who was hired to plant drugs and guns in the rival’s shop, had a dual motive. Besides receiving big money from Yadav, he thought by getting the sweet shop owner arrested, he would move into his premises and open a ‘chaat corner’. Not just Ranjeet, his three associates who helped procure weapons and cannabis have also been arrested. However, Yadav bolted and fled immediately after he heard about the arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plan-to-frame-biz-rival-by-planting-guns-goes-bust/articleshow/76474408.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Sensi Mohalla residents stop health dept from taking away corona +ve patients||Ludhiana: High drama was witnessed at containment zone Sensi Mohalla of old city on Friday when a team of health department reached there to take corona positive patients along to get them admitted in the hospital. The area residents came out and blocked the road stating that they will not allow health department to take anyone away. When police reached there, the residents also allegedly misbehaved with the police personnel and also broke the barricades. The police had to use force to manage the situation. Finally, the health department managed to take three, out of eight, corona positive patients along. Assistant commissioner of police, central (ACP) Waryam Singh said, “Eight residents of Sensi Mohalla, which is a containment zone, have tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday evening, a team of health department reached there to take the positive patients along. However, the area residents came out on road. The residents, especially women, blocked the road and started agitating by saying that nobody had symptoms and they should be allowed to stay at home.” ACP added more security has been deployed to maintain law and order in the area. The official said the police are registering a case against the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sensi-mohalla-residents-stop-health-dept-from-taking-away-corona-ve-patients/articleshow/76474402.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 reports delayed, causing inconvenience to those tested; IDSP labs blame lack of staff||Ludhiana: People who are undergoing Covid-19 tests allege that they are not getting reports on time. This is particularly tough on foreign returnees who are isolated at hotels, as it increases the financial burden on them. People also allege that they face harassment whenever they visit IDSP Lab to collect it. It was learnt that a lot of people visit the lab to seek reports, but they return empty handed. However, officials at lab blame the higher authorities for not sending them reports. A resident of Ludhiana west, whose father needs to undergo heart surgery, for instance, is made to run from pillar to post at the civil hospital. When she visited the lab, it was revealed that the sample, which was taken on June 14, was not received by IDSP lab even after five days . Sharing her ordeal, she said, “My father Hardeep Singh has to undergo operation at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research and we have to carry the report with us. It’s been five days that I have not received the report. This operation is very important and without a report, he cannot undergo surgery. This is sheer harassment for public.” A resident of Partap Nagar, Sukhjeet Singh said, “I am here to collect reports of six to seven relatives who have been quarantined by the health department. Their samples were taken on June 14 and its been five days that we have not received reports. There is tension among the family members, as it is not clear to us that whether they have been tested positive or negative.” More than 300 people throng flu corner of civil hospital to seek reports between 8am and 2pm, said a compute operator who is deployed at flu corner. The situation is worse for those who have been quarantined in hotels. “When the reports are not received, it adds to the burden of the people who are paying for their stay in hotels,” said Jajpreet Singh from Samvedna Trust, an NGO who was there to collect 46-year-old Sukwinder Singh who had returned on June 12 from Canada. He has been quarantined at a hotel. “ He is staying in the hotel from June 12 and after three days, on June 15, his sample was taken. The reports are awaited and till the time his reports come, he will be isolated at the hotel. He is almost spending Rs 5,000 on a daily basis.” Meanwhile, a doctor, who is also a nodal officer of the lab, said, “It is all so chaotic, we are not receiving the reports in excel but in in PDF format. This format takes a lot of time in segregating the report. If the IDSP lab will receive the report excel file, then it is easy for us to incorporate the detail.” The issue was raised with the IDSP labs at Faridkot, Patiala and Chandigarh, where the samples are being sent and tested. The officials from the lab said it is easy to manipulate reports in excel sheets. Maintaining the hierarchy of the system, the IDSP lab at Faridkot, Patiala and Chandigarh send the reports to state health department in Chandigarh, who forward them to civil surgeons of the respective districts. The officers from IDSP lab said, “At our IDSP lab, there are four computer operators deployed to upload the information. We are short of manpower.” Dr Geeta Kataria, senior medical officer of civil hospital, said, “ It is a separate department and it is operated by civil surgeon and district epidemiologists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-reports-delayed-causing-inconvenience-to-those-tested-idsp-labs-blame-lack-of-staff/articleshow/76474400.cms||Mehak Jain
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||2 agri varsities ink MoU to share know-how||Udaipur: An MoU has been inked between Udaipur’s Maharana Pratap University for Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) and Rajasthan University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (RAJUVAS), Bikaner, for joint collaboration in the field of organic farming, animal husbandry and good farming practices for five years. On Friday, MPUAT vice chancellor Narendra Singh Rathore and RAJUVAS V-C Vishnu Sharma signed the MoU. It will involve joint collaboration and networking in teaching, research and extension. Major works include exploring the facilities of infrastructure to be shared mutually in the field of agriculture and animal husbandry, collaborative research programme, sharing of lab work, library facilities, technical inputs and student research projects. Technology-driven research system would be strengthened in both the universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-agri-varsities-ink-mou-to-share-know-how/articleshow/76474406.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Post-lockdown they lost jobs and turned robbers||LUDHIANA: Unemployment and cash crunch amid the lockdown turned three debt-ridden men into robbers. With their arrest on Friday, Ludhiana commissionerate Crime Investigation Agency-2 claimed to have solved six robberies that were executed in the past three months. Pavittar Singh, 29, of Bahadur Ke village, Roop Lal, 32, of Bhattian and Mahinder Singh, 33, of Jeevanpur village were nabbed at a checkpost near Hawas village. Earlier, Pavittar worked as a security guard at a factory, where Roop Lal and Mahinder were workers. Following the lockdown, they lost their jobs. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “In the past few months, employees of filling stations and liquor vends in Koomkalan and Meharban were robbed by miscreants who posed as customers. In some of the cases, CCTVs installed at the spots had captured the masked accused and their bikes, which were without a registration number plate.” The gang has confessed to have executed these six loots in the city during the lockdown, he added. CIA-2 in-charge inspector Parveen Randev said, “The accused do not have a criminal background. All three said they had taken loans, but could not repay them as they lost their jobs. Left without money, they decided to form a gang to commit robberies.” The police have recovered a toy pistol from their possession. On June 5, the gang had robbed an employee of a filling station in Chaunta village of Rs 23,000. On May 20, they robbed an employee of another filling station in Meharban of Rs 15,000 and a cellphone. Ten days later, they robbed Rs 8,840 from a worker of a liquor vend in Meharban. In April, they looted Rs 2,900 and liquor bottles from a liquor vend worker in Baunkar village. In May, they robbed Rs 3,500 and liquor bottles from Shalu Bahini village. And a fortnight ago, they made off with Rs 700 and a carton of liquor from Hadiwal village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/post-lockdown-they-lost-jobs-and-turned-robbers/articleshow/76472705.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan University students can submit forms online||JAIPUR: Due to the outbreak of coronavirus and safety of students, the Rajasthan University has decided to accept exam forms online. Last week, the university had uploaded exam forms online with the direction that the hard copy needed to be submitted in the university. This was opposed by students who said it was not possible for them to travel back to Jaipur in public transport. Santosh Meena, a second year history student said, “Most of the students are in their home towns since the lockdown. When we got the information that we have to submit the hard copy in the university, we wrote to the administration. I am in Kotputli right now and it is not possible for me to travel to Jaipur. Moreover, it is not safe to travel in public transport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-students-can-submit-forms-online/articleshow/76474401.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||18 aides of Papla Gujjar detained from village in Haryana||Alwar: In a massive hunt to nab Papla Gujjar — the fugitive who had escaped under fire from Behror — a joint team of Bhiwadi and Jhunjhunu police raided Kharoli village of Haryana on Friday evening. Police have detained at least 18 persons, including father of Papla Gujjar from the village. Police claimed that these persons are close aides of Gujjar. The team was also looking into the involvement of Papla Gujjar gang in the murder that took place on June 15 at Khetri town of Jhunjhunu. Thus, a joint team was constituted. “Our team raided the village and detained 18 persons including the father of Papla Gujjar. He, though was not found. However, we have named those who facilitated him in fleeing,” said a senior officer of Alwar police, talking to TOI from Haryana. Additional SP, Neemrana, Siddhant Sharma who led the operation said that the team raided the village based on a specific input on Papla Gujjar. “We have detained 18 persons and are bringing them to Rajasthan to interrogate them on the whereabouts of the notorious gangster,” he added. On September 6, 2019 Papla had escaped from the lock-up at Behror police station after firing at the police with AK-47. Since then, he has been chased by various units of the Rajasthan police, including the Special Operations Group (SOG).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/18-aides-of-papla-gujjar-detained-from-village-in-haryana/articleshow/76473776.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||How bureaucrats with MBBSare writing Covid prescription||CHENNAI: They may not wear a white robe or sling a stethoscope around their necks but doctors-turned-bureaucrats are doing their bit, on the field or inside war rooms, evolving strategies in the state’s fight against Covid-19. With MBBS degrees, they offer their expertise and advice -- from micro-management to state-wide containment plans. There are nearly 20 IAS officers in the Tamil Nadu cadre, who are qualified medical professionals, and half of them have been brought in from other departments for Covid management. Nine IPS officers too hold MBBS degrees. Senior IAS officers K Gopal and B Chandra Mohan, members of the epidemic monitoring committee, interact with experts at national and international levels, analyse data and suggest interventions. They have contributed to district wise analysis of trends, helped set up fever clinics and expanding testing capacities. Their suggestions have ranged from testing and discharge protocols, sero-surveillance, protocols for home quarantine to exit strategies for lockdown. “Since we have a broad understanding about the field, we can anticipate the problems, understand the bottlenecks,” said Gopal, secretary of the animal husbandry and dairy development department. The committee has been asked to give inputs to design IEC (Information, Education, Communication) materials. The state government has picked up these officials, who have an edge in administration as well as domain knowledge, and posted them in field support teams, control rooms and procurement of medical equipment and coordination teams for epidemic monitoring and health infrastructure. In Greater Chennai Corporation, five IAS officers with MBBS degrees have been posted in field support teams. They include K P Karthikeyan, A Arun Thamburaj, S Vineeth, S Aneesh Sekhar and the latest being T Prabhushankar, among the many medical professionals from other departments supporting the teams. Chief secretary K Shanmugam said officials with medical degrees are being identified and used in Covid management. “With a medical degree, they have an advantage,” he said. Arun Thamburaj visits Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar zone, a Covid hotspot, early in the morning with a battery of conservancy inspectors, sanitary officers and assistant engineers, evolving strategies, including protecting vulnerable groups. Within a month, the project director of Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project brought Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar down to the sixth slot from being a zone with the highest number Covid cases. “Being a doctor helps. We can quickly rationalise the health-related issues, instead of following instructions blindly,” said Thamburaj, a medical doctor, who later quit IPS service to join IAS. Chandra Mohan said the management of the pandemic required insights from epidemiology to be translated into public health interventions. “As a doctor, I find it easy to leverage insights from experts in the field. As an administrator I can convert these technical insights into administrative decisions that are conceptually grounded and contextually relevant,” said the officer. Medical professional-turned-IPS officer and Tirupattur SP P Vijayakumar offers inputs on how to scale up capacity building. Vijayakumar deputes a policeman each to monitor all 669 villages in Tirupattur. “Being a medical man is an added advantage for a police chief in the district,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-bureaucrats-with-mbbsare-writing-covid-prescription/articleshow/76473785.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 20, 2020||Goa||TCP extends realty nods by 9 months||Panaji: The town and country planning (TCP) department has extended the validity of technical clearance permissions and zoning certificates for an additional period of nine months. The extension has been granted considering the “force majeure” nature of the pandemic, the department said. The extension, which will benefit the real estate sector, comes after the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs directed the states to extend the validity of statutory permissions granted to developers. “Considering the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic as ‘Force Majeure’, government of Goa has considered extension of validity and time limit of permissions, clearances and certificates,” chief town planner James Mathew said. “Technical clearances issued by the TCP department and development permissions issued by the planning and development authorities whose validity expires on or after March 25 till December 31, shall be extended automatically without having to make separate application for a further period of nine months from date of expiry of such clearance or permission,” Mathew said in a notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-extends-realty-nods-by-9-months/articleshow/76473787.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||One killed in road accident in Jhalawar dist||Kota: A 25-year-old youth was killed on the spot while his friend sustained injuries after their car veered off the road into an agriculture field while negotiating a turn around 2am on Friday night. The accident occured near Jaitkhedi village on Anta-Suwasara link road under Gangdhar police station of Jhalawar district. Police handed over the body of Jitendra Meena to family members after postmortem on Friday morning. While, his friend Jitendra Solanki is undergoing treatment at CHC, Chomela. The two friends, both residents of Ratlam, were returning to their home town from Gandhi Sagar dam along with another friend, whom they dropped at Jhalrapatan late on Thursday night, Gangdhar SHO Kalyan Singh said. The driver of the vehicle was allegedly drunk, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-killed-in-road-accident-in-jhalawar-dist/articleshow/76474409.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||It’s testing time for pregnant women, elderly at flu corner||Ludhiana: The elderly and pregnant women have to go through an ordeal to give samples for Covid-19 test at the civil hospital. While the health department officials collect samples of the contacts of positive patients from high-risk areas themselves, they ask residents of other areas to go to the flu corner to give their samples. After the son of a 63-year-old woman tested Covid-19 positive about five days ago, a team of the health department reached their house to take him for institutional quarantine and told her that they would come for her sampling. However, five days later, she received a call and an ambulance was sent to take her to the civil hospital around 11.30am on Friday. After being asked to wait in the ambulance for about 20 minutes, she stood for her turn to give sample for another 45 minutes. “In the meanwhile, I saw around three pregnant women standing in a queue to give samples at the flu corner. They were apparently four to five months pregnant and asked to get a Covid-19 test done prior to an ultrasound. They told me that they had been waiting there for around 45 minutes to give their samples. After they gave their samples, they kept waiting for the reports as nobody had told them that those would come after a day or two,” said the elderly woman. She added that due to the hot weather, it was not easy for anyone, especially elderly and pregnant women, to wait for such long durations. An eyewitness said long queues of people waiting to give their samples was a routine affair at the civil hospital. He said most of those standing were the contacts of the positive patients and along with them were pregnant women, who could catch the virus from any of them. Besides, patients with co-morbidities were also seen waiting for their turn, he said. “The government should quicken the process, especially for those whose family members have tested positive, as they are already in a state of shock,” he added. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have adequate staff for sampling at the flu corner and the samples of contacts were taken after five days, by when symptoms appear. “Be it young or elderly, if they are not from a high-risk area, they will have to come to the civil hospital to give their samples as it was easy to collect them at one place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/its-testing-time-for-pregnant-women-elderly-at-flu-corner/articleshow/76472731.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP Covid-19 mortality rate falls to 1.2%||VISAKHAPATNAM: It has been over a month since the state touched the 50 Covid-19-related death mark on May 17 and a case load of 2,380. Since then, 5,581 more cases have been added, taking the state tally to 7,961. The death toll, however, has been limited to 96 as of Friday, reflecting a dramatic fall in mortality rate. Even though timely detection and appropriate clinical management have been crucial in curbing mortality, other factors such as adding oxygen lines to more beds, providing pulse oximeters to every Covid hospital, priority testing for high-risk categories, treating vulnerable people only at the state-level hospitals, identifying the suspected cases through door-to-door survey and shifting patients only in life support ambulances have contributed to the turnaround. Chief among maintaining the mortality rate at about 1.2% against the national average of 3.3% has been treating elderly patients, severe cases and persons with comorbidities only at the five state-level dedicated Covid hospitals. Patients are transferred in advanced life support ambulances from one treating facility to abother only after they are stabilised. A few weeks into the outbreak, hypoxia has also emerged as a focus area in Covid-19 treatment. According to medical experts, some patients do not exhibit any breathlessness despite exceedingly low blood oxygen saturation levels, termed silent hypoxia or happy hypoxia. The state government supplied pulse oximetres to every hospital and increased oxygen lines to address this condition. Comprehensive door-to-door surveys, held over five rounds, identified nearly 32,700 suspected cases. All suspected cases were tested. Auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) have been tasked with visiting and collecting the vitals of all persons with comorbidities and those above the age of 60 at least once every three days. Medications for underlying comorbid conditions will also be supplied at the doorstep for these persons, free of cost, to avoid the risk of virus exposure Speaking to TOI, additional chief secretary to chief minister and physician Dr PV Ramesh, said credit for the decrease in mortality rate goes to government machinery in the state, from the chief minister and high-level officials to field-level staff. “Everybody has been putting in their best efforts in Covid-19 management,” said Dr Ramesh. Special chief secretary, health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, asked people above 40 and suffering from medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, asthma and other medical complications, to exercise additional care. “As many as 26 people in the 40-59 age group succumbed to Covid-19. If these people develop any Covid-related symptoms such as cough, cold and fever or are feeling short of breath, they should immediately contact the nearest PHC and inform Asha workers or ward/village volunteer. They can contact 104 toll free number or YSR Telemedicine at 14410,” said Jawahar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-covid-19-mortality-rate-falls-to-1-2/articleshow/76473783.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||Samajwadi Party MLA votes for BJP, suspended||BHOPAL: Lone Samajwadi Party MLA in Madhya Pradesh Rajesh Shukla was suspended for ‘anti-party activities’ from the party after he voted for BJP in the Rajya Sabha elections on Friday. Shukla was elected from Bijawar constituency in Chhatarpur district. A tweet from the handle of Samajwadi Party said: “MLA from Bijawar in Madhya Pradesh Rajesh Shukla is suspended for anti-party activities.” However, Shukla said that the party had not issued any whip or directive before the elections adding that he would explain his position to the party. Like BSP MLAs and Independents, Shukla too maintained that he voted for BJP keeping in mind the interest of his constituency. “Bijawar has been an extremely backward area, and the BJP government will carry out development works in the region, which is why I voted for the party,” he told TOI, adding that he would not join BJP and explain his position to the SP leadership. “The ideology of my party and that of BJP doesn’t match. There is no question of joining the party” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sp-mla-votes-for-bjp-suspended/articleshow/76472740.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Woman alleges rape by landlord, others in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A woman has lodged a case of rape against her landlord, landlady and others. She lodged the case through postal complaint at Amber police station on Friday. Preliminary investigation suggests foul play, police said. According to police, the woman alleged that her landlord, landlady and others took her to a court in Amber on December 24, 2019 and thereafter raped her. “She also alleged that she was being kept hostage in the rented house,” said police. Prima facie, the case appears to be doubtful, police said. “In rape cases, either the woman turns up at police station or gets the case registered through Istegasa complaint (legal complaint). It is strange that the woman in this case did not come to police station and has sent a letter narrating her plight. We are investigating the case,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-alleges-rape-by-landlord-others-in-city/articleshow/76473781.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||To avoid queues, lawyers to get tokens for filing cases in dist courts||Ludhiana: To ensure social distancing is maintained at the counter designated for filing of cases under Negotiable Instrument Act, the district and sessions judge has ordered token system for advocates to file cases. The Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 came into being to define and amend the law relating to promissory notes, bill of exchange and cheques. An order issued by the district and sessions judge said, “As norms with regards to social distancing are not being followed by advocate while filing of cases at counter designated for filing of cases under section 138 of negotiable Instrument Act 1881; In compliance of the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, Chandigarh and to avoid overcrowding so as to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is hereby ordered that from tomorrow onwards filing of the cases under the section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument act will be allowed only against the token issued between 2 pm to 4 pm starting for today, for filing of the cases as per the schedule”. The schedule mentioned indicates that for token 1 to 10 the timing for filing of cases is 11am to 11.30am, for token 11 to 20 the timing is 11.30am to 12pm, for tokens 21 to 30 the timing is 12pm to 12.30pm, for 31 to 40 the timing is 12.30pm to 1pm and for token number 41 to 50 the timing is 1.30pm to 2pm. The order added “It is made clear that token should be taken only for the filing of cases related to police stations allowed in the duty roaster for that day. Token obtained for other police stations shall be invalid.” Secretary, District Bar Association (DBA), Sham Sundar Ahuja said instead of making advocates to stand in lines twice, once for getting token and then to file case, they should have given responsibility to DBA. He added that they would have made a team of advocates who would have collected the files from colleagues and given to them and then they could have communicated objection if any to the advocate concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/to-avoid-queues-lawyers-to-get-tokens-for-filing-cases-in-dist-courts/articleshow/76474410.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Online yoga for PGI staff, students||Times News Network Chandigarh: Online activities are being organised in PGI ahead of 6th International Day of Yoga for faculty, staff and students. The demonstration of the common yoga protocol will be done in line with the guidelines of the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India after the Prime Minister’s speech. Due to the Covid 19 pandemic, International Yoga Day will be observed at home. No mass gathering will be held this year. There will be talks by experts including Dr David Frawley from the US who is an expert in integrative medicine. The online session will be inaugurated by director PGI, Prof Jagat Ram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-yoga-for-pgi-staff-students/articleshow/76472727.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||45-year-old beaten to death in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||KOTA: A 45-year-old man, who worked at a roadside dhaba on Jhalawar-Baran mega highway under Khanpur police station of Jhalawar, was beaten to death in front of his dhaba on Thursday night. Around 8-10 persons reached the spot with sticks and sharp weapons in a van and motorcycle and attacked the victim who sustained fatal injuries. Within 12 hours of the crime, police arrested two accused. They handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Jankilal (45), a resident of Suket town of Kota district. “The deceased Jankilal (45) and key accused Ramlal Gurjar (35), a resident of Khanpur town, had a scuffle on a trivial issue of serving food at the dhaba around 7-8 days ago,” said Kamalchand Meena, SHO, Khanpur police station. “For taking revenge, Gurjar along with 5-6 other persons reached the dhaba on Thursday night. They attacked Jankilal killing him on the spot,” he said, adding that a few other people who tried to intervene sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-yr-old-beaten-to-death-in-jhalawar/articleshow/76474413.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Why shut meat shops, ask traders, consumers||CHENNAI: The sudden announcement of closing all meat shops and slaughterhouses in city limits has taken vendors and consumers by shock. The move has become a point of heated discussion with people asking — ‘why such an illogical decision was taken?’ “We heard about the move only last night. When we tried asking authorities the reason behind this, they had no answers,” said R Kareem, general secretary of the South Chennai Mutton Traders Association. He pointed out that during the previous lockdown, the local authorities had regulated timings but allowed them to open meat stalls for business. “They should have at least informed us a few days in advance... Our livelihoods will be severely affected.” Kareem said the traders and sellers will have to incur huge losses as maintaining the livestock costs thousands of rupees a day. “Without income, how will we manage?” “Sales that dipped during the previous lockdowns was picking up, but this move will further losses,” said S Salauddin, president, Chennai Mutton Merchant (retailers) Association. Sellers also complained cold storage facility wasn’t available in the city, “With no place to store the meat nor means to sell it, tonnes will be going to waste,” said Abdul Mohammad, a mutton seller. Even egg sale in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur districts, where the 12-day lockdown has been imposed, will be affected, A Singaraj, president of Tamil Nadu Poultry Farmers Association. “But the exact market status will be known only after two days,” said. The districts consume 50 lakh eggs daily, Chennai the most, and added the cost of eggs may drop if stocks go up in farms. This government’s decision to stop online sales of meat is also being widely debated on social media. A few have asked authorities to explain the logic behind implementing this move while regulating timings for other stores selling vegetables and groceries. On March 23, the ministry of animal husbandry, dairy, and fisheries wrote to chief secretaries of all states asking them to include chicken, eggs, and meat in the list of essential commodities. “Meat is an essential item for us. How can the state stop it? The authorities must regulate these stores like the rest,” said T Usha, a consumer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-shut-meat-shops-ask-traders-consumers/articleshow/76473796.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Excise and cops to get boats to patrol Sutlej to crack down on illicit liquor||Ludhiana: To give further fillip to the attempt to keep the district illicit liquor free, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma has directed the excise and police personnel to use boats to patrol the Sutlej. Sources said illicit liquor is brewed in some of the islands there. A meeting in this regard was held in the office of DC on Thursday evening, where Sharma categorically mentioned that no person will be allowed to run the illegal business in the district. During this meeting, the excise and police officials brought to his knowledge the problem in patrolling the area near banks of Sutlej river where maximum numbers of cases of manufacturing of lahan (country-made liquor) come up. DC then assured them they would be provided boats soon. Deputy excise and taxation commissioner of Ludhiana, Pawan Garg said, “The entire area near the Sutlej is notorious for illicit manufacturing of lahan. This area is most preferred by several gangs who are into manufacturing of illicit liquor, as patrolling is very difficult here. In recent times, we have seized and destroyed more than 3,00,000 lakh litre lahan in this area. Even yesterday, we carried out an operation here and destroyed 3,000 litre lahan. But in order to completely uproot this illicit trade from the area, we need boats for easy and constant vigil and DC has kindly consented to provide us with the same at the earliest.” Meanwhile, giving more information about the illegal sale of liquor in the city, DC said, “Some liquor contractors hide actual record related to sale and purchase of liquor that not only causes loss to the public exchequer, but even the numbers related to actual consumption are not known. From now on, the excise inspectors will personally visit all liquor vends and will check their records on daily basis. In addition to this, I have been receiving complaints that lahan is manufactured in some areas along the Sutlej in Ludhiana, which should be stopped immediately. I have also directed the excise officials to prepare a list of habitual offenders and hand it over to the police department so that they can keep a close watch on the activities of such persons.” During the meeting, the DC also directed the police department to act on the directions of the Punjab government and put such persons behind bars. He also said if the excise department fails to perform this duty properly, then he might hand over this checking duty to some other department. He directed the department officials to submit daily report mentioning sale and purchase of liquor to him without fail so that he is able to keep a tab on it himself. This meeting was also attended by ADC Jaspal Singh Gill, ADCP Deepak Pareek, besides several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/excise-and-cops-to-get-boats-to-patrol-sutlej-to-crack-down-on-illicit-liquor/articleshow/76474407.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Not many care for distancing, masks in city’s containment zones||Ludhiana: Even as the authorities have been creating containment zones in the city in a bid to rein in Covid-19 numbers, they have apparently failed in fully enforcing social distancing and wearing of masks by the people in these zones.The administration has already declared Chawni Mohalla, Prem Nagar, and Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj and Sensi Mohalla as three separate containment zones. But, by June 17, Chawni Mohalla saw cases touching 42, Prem Nagar 19, and Habib Ganj, Islam Ganj and Sensi Mohalla had 55 cases.Although the health department officials said that they have been issuing challans to those violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks, the ground reality in these areas suggests otherwise.During a reality check by TOI in Islam Ganj area, it looked business as usual, as people could be seen moving around freely there. At some shops, including a medical shop, four to five persons were standing and were least bothered about social distancing.Similarly, in Chawni Mohalla, which was the first containment of the city, a group of six persons were seen chit-chatting, while young boys gave two hoots to putting on face masks. In the same area, a woman, along with two other women, was roaming around without mask.Police officials, however, claimed they are not only preventing the entry and exit of people from these areas, but also ensuring that the residents follow social distancing norms and wear masks.On the TOI findings, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have been trying hard to generate awareness about the benefits of social distancing, wearing masks properly and not spitting in public places, but some violators undo their efforts. He said they have already imposed fines to the tune of lakhs of rupees on violators and would continue to do so in the days ahead.The civil surgeon, however, said it is the police, who have to ensure that social distancing is adhered to in the containment zones.A senior police officer said, “There can be isolated examples of violation of social distancing norms and not wearing masks by a few, as largely people are following these,” he added.A social activist Narinder Singh wondered if the authorities are not able to enforce social distancing norms and wearing of masks by people in containment zones, how can they do it in non-containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/not-many-care-for-distancing-masks-in-citys-containment-zones/articleshow/76472741.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 20, 2020||Goa||54 swab samples drawn from area||The Urban Health Centre on Friday collected 54 swab samples from the micro containment zone at Sada. Ward councillor Damodar Kaskar said five entry points in this area has been restricted - near Sai Baba temple, government high school, government quarters and two other locations. On Wednesday, locals were summoned at Rose Circle Hall in the ward for testing. Meanwhile, ward 9 at Kattem Baina is yet to undergo testing for Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/54-swab-samples-drawn-from-area/articleshow/76473779.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Surat||Surat builders to boycott Chinese building materials||SURAT: With the tension between India and China flaring up with the killing of the 20 Indian soldiers, the call for boycotting Chinese goods has become stronger. Surat builders too have decided to join the bandwagon. Over 800 realtors affiliated with CREDAI-Surat have unanimously decided to boycott building material from China including kitchenware, bathroom fittings, furniture and window fittings etc. The CREDAI-Surat is set to pass a resolution to this effect in a day or two. The import of Chinese building materials by these builders is pegged at Rs 5,000 crore per annum. CREDAI-Gujarat president Ashish Patel also said that they have decided to boycott Chinese material. In fact, CREDAI has appealed its members pan India not to depend on Chinese manufactured goods. “We appeal to 20,000 developer members at CREDAI to not depend on Chinese goods and adopt ‘Swadeshi’ or ‘Made in India’ way of life and business,” said Jaxay Shah, chairman, CREDAI-National The national body of real estate developers has also requested all the 250 allied industries which are linked to the real estate sector to manufacture these products locally, especially the ones which are currently being imported from China and support the economy at large. Spokesperson of CREDAI-Surat, Naresh Agarwal told TOI, “This is a way to show our solidarity with the family of soldiers killed by the Chinese army on the border.” Agarwal added, “We have decided to pass a resolution on boycott of Chinese products and all our members have supported the decision.” President of Surat-CREDAI, Ravji Patel told TOI, “The existing material will be used, but the builders will not import new material from China for their projects.” Realtors preferred Chinese building products as they are cheap compared to the Indian products. However, boycotting these products will mean increase in property cost by about 15%. Surat builders are using 100% Chinese building materials. If suppose, the Chinese fittings in a flat costed Rs 5 lakh, it will be increased to Rs 7 lakh with the Indian fittings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-builders-to-boycott-chinese-building-materials/articleshow/76472219.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
June 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Meteorite-like object falls in Jalore, to be examined||JODHPUR/JAISALMER: A round metallic object triggered panic among the locals in Sanchore on Friday morning. The object was was hot and had reportedly fallen from the sky. It is believed to be a meteorite and was recovered from a 5-6 inch-deep pit in the ground. It has been preserved in a glass jar for examination by experts from the Geological Survey of India (GSI). Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta, confirming the incident, said that a metal piece had fallen in the area adjoining New Gayatri College near the bypass bridge in Sanchore town around 6.15am on Friday. “It is a metal piece in bomb-like shape. An expert team was called which after investigation said it could be a piece of a meteorite. It was taken to the Sanchore police station,” Gupta said. SHO (Sanchore) Arvind Purohit said he received information on Friday morning that some sparkling object has fallen from the sky near Gayatri College and lay buried 5-6 inches under the ground. “We reached the spot and found a black metal piece in the soil. This round-shaped metal piece had fallen on the ground with such force that 5 to 6-inch-deep crater was made in ground,” said Purohit. Police secured the spot and informed the administrative officials to observe the object. Purohit said that the metal piece was warm to touch. “We waited for it to cool down and then preserved it in a glass jar. Before preserving, we weighed it. It weighed 2.788 kg,” said the officer. SDM (Sanchore) Bhupendra Kumar Yadav said that a factual report has been submitted to the district magistrate and he would decide handing over the meteorite to the GSI as per the procedure. The geology department of Jai Narayan Vyas University of Jodhpur has expressed interest in examination and study of the ‘meteorite’. HOD (Geology) Suresh Chandra Mathur said that usually, such objects are handed over to the GSI from where it would end up in Kolkata and we would not know what exactly happened there. “I have requested the Jalore administration to provide us an opportunity to conduct a study on it,” said Mathur. “We have done work on meteorites and even if a small shred of this ‘meteorite’ is made available to us, we would be able to do our study in just 3-4 days with the help of the equipment and knowledge we have,” said Mathur. He further said that this piece appeared to be a stony iron meteorite due to iron-nickel crust seen on it and the study on such an object would give muscle to the local research activities. According to him about half a dozen meteorites have fallen in the Thar desert in the past one decade, which was quite an interesting aspect for study. Meteorite is a piece of rock or metal that has fallen to the earth’s surface from outer space as a meteor. Over 90% of meteorites are of rock while the remainder consist wholly or partly of iron and nickel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/meteorite-like-object-falls-in-jalore-to-be-examined/articleshow/76479662.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Meteorite-like object falls in Jalore, to be examined||JODHPUR/JAISALMER: A round metallic object triggered panic among the locals in Sanchore on Friday morning. The object was was hot and had reportedly fallen from the sky. It is believed to be a meteorite and was recovered from a 5-6 inch-deep pit in the ground. It has been preserved in a glass jar for examination by experts from the Geological Survey of India (GSI). Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta, confirming the incident, said that a metal piece had fallen in the area adjoining New Gayatri College near the bypass bridge in Sanchore town around 6.15am on Friday. “It is a metal piece in bomb-like shape. An expert team was called which after investigation said it could be a piece of a meteorite. It was taken to the Sanchore police station,” Gupta said. SHO (Sanchore) Arvind Purohit said he received information on Friday morning that some sparkling object has fallen from the sky near Gayatri College and lay buried 5-6 inches under the ground. “We reached the spot and found a black metal piece in the soil. This round-shaped metal piece had fallen on the ground with such force that 5 to 6-inch-deep crater was made in ground,” said Purohit. Police secured the spot and informed the administrative officials to observe the object. Purohit said that the metal piece was warm to touch. “We waited for it to cool down and then preserved it in a glass jar. Before preserving, we weighed it. It weighed 2.788 kg,” said the officer. SDM (Sanchore) Bhupendra Kumar Yadav said that a factual report has been submitted to the district magistrate and he would decide handing over the meteorite to the GSI as per the procedure. The geology department of Jai Narayan Vyas University of Jodhpur has expressed interest in examination and study of the ‘meteorite’. HOD (Geology) Suresh Chandra Mathur said that usually, such objects are handed over to the GSI from where it would end up in Kolkata and we would not know what exactly happened there. “I have requested the Jalore administration to provide us an opportunity to conduct a study on it,” said Mathur. “We have done work on meteorites and even if a small shred of this ‘meteorite’ is made available to us, we would be able to do our study in just 3-4 days with the help of the equipment and knowledge we have,” said Mathur. He further said that this piece appeared to be a stony iron meteorite due to iron-nickel crust seen on it and the study on such an object would give muscle to the local research activities. According to him about half a dozen meteorites have fallen in the Thar desert in the past one decade, which was quite an interesting aspect for study. Meteorite is a piece of rock or metal that has fallen to the earth’s surface from outer space as a meteor. Over 90% of meteorites are of rock while the remainder consist wholly or partly of iron and nickel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meteorite-like-object-falls-in-jalore-to-be-examined/articleshow/76474422.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur university to make action plan on locusts||UDAIPUR: Acting on the instruction of the joint secretary, agriculture department, regarding collaboration in different activities related to control and management of desert locusts in Rajasthan, the scientists at Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT), Udaipur, have begun preparing an action plan. In a recent meeting of the university officials held by the V-C N S Rathore, the roadmap for the effective management on locust control was discussed. “The university will set up a locust management cell and control room for effective monitoring, reporting and surveillance of locust and effective coordination with state government and line departments. Locust Management Cell will coordinate the activities at university level and will function to guide the activities of Locust Control Room which would be set up at the Department of Entomology of the Agriculture College” Rathore told TOI. The university will also prepare literature on locust life cycle & its management for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-univ-to-make-action-plan-on-locusts/articleshow/76474416.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University to assess if situation normal to conduct exams||NAGPUR: With Maharashtra government on Friday ending impasse over final year/semester university examinations, the Nagpur University would be reviewing whether the situation is normal for holding exams amid surge in Covid-19 cases in Nagpur, Gondia, Bhandara and Wardha districts. “We need to conduct the exams even if fewer students are appearing. The government has given them an option to either accept average marks or appear in exams to be conducted by the university as per its own convenience. We will take final decision in this regard in Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) meeting,” exam director Prafulla Sable told TOI. “Students who hadn’t performed well in past semesters would be keen to improve their performance while those who had decent scores may skip the exam. Only solace for the universities would be reduced number of students which would help them to maintain Covid distancing norms,” he said. Earlier, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant told TOI that a government resolution (GR) was issued, giving students options whether to appear in exam or not. Chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s PRO told TOI that he would issue a statement in this regard after reading the GR. Chancellor would take final decision being the top authority in university matters. NU management council member Vishnu Changde, who has been opposing the government decision since long, stated that exams couldn’t be cancelled merely citing the Disaster Management Act. “The decision is nothing more than a shocker. How can the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, be superseded? We will look for an option to move the court against the government's decision,” he told TOI, adding that the government has encroached on autonomy of universities. Even organizations like ABVP, which had accused the government of playing with future of students by cancelling the exams, flayed decision of making it optional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-assess-if-situation-normal-to-conduct-exams/articleshow/76473525.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Cops halt baraat as groom, father found Covid +ve in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Police stopped a baraat just before it was to reach the bride’s place after the groom and his father tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district on Friday evening. Health officials put off the wedding citing threat of mass spread of infection. According to police, the baraat of the 30-year-old youth had left the Kamrauli village and was heading to the bride’s village Haidergarh, in Barabanki district. The cavalcade of five vehicles, all decked up with flowers and playing music, however, came to a screeching halt when a police team intercepted the family near Inhauna Road, on way to Haidergarh. The shocked family was then informed by the police team that the groom and his father have tested positive. Later, cops called a health team which took the groom and his father to the hospital for admission in the isolation unit while 10 other members of the family were quarantined. The family had come from Delhi — where it has a cloth business — to Amethi on June 15 for the wedding. “Since they had come from Delhi, their samples were taken the next day along with other family members,” said CMO Rajesh Mohan Singh. Singh said that their reports came on Friday night which showed only the groom and his father to be positive while other members of his family, including mother and two other brothers, were found to be negative. Watch Cops halt baraat as groom, father found Covid positive in Uttar Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-halt-baraat-as-groom-father-found-covid-ve/articleshow/76474421.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Gondia police station in-charge, sub-inspector in ACB net||NAGPUR: Assistant police inspector (API) Pradeep Atulkar, in-charge of Gondia (rural) police station, along with sub-inspector Umesh Gutal, on Friday landed in Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) net for accepting a bribe of Rs 35,000 from a head constable. The trap was laid at the police station premises. It is learnt there was a case of simple assault, a non-cognizable offence, registered at Gondia (rural) against the head constable for manhandling a minor from his neighbourhood on May 30 this year. The head constable, posted at Deori police station, is attached to the office of the superintendent of police. Atulkar had apparently demanded Rs 35,000 from the head constable to avoid being booked under Juvenile Justice Act for cruelty on the child. He had told the head constable to pay up to settle the matter. The head constable approached ACB for laying a trap. The amount was received by Gutal on behalf of Atulkar from the head constable. The action was led by DySP Ramakant Kokate, Addl SP Rajesh Duddalwar and SP Rashmi Nandedkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gondia-police-station-in-charge-sub-inspector-in-acb-net/articleshow/76473551.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Paying without staying is a burden, say students in PGs||BENGALURU: Students staying in paying guest (PG) accommodations in the city are being forced to shell out almost the entire rent amount even though they have been away in their hometowns for the last two months. This may not have been a problem but for the pandemic that is taking a financial toll on their families. Arvind, 22, a student at a city university, said he left his PG on April 14 and has since paid Rs 7,000 for the months of April and May. “For June, the owner agreed to reduce the rent to Rs 6,000 after repeated requests. But that is still a lot considering we are neither living there nor using any amenities like water, electricity or WiFi,” Arvind, who is from Kerala, said. His mother has taken a 50% salary cut and his father is earning 30% less than usual owing to the health crisis. “I have been pursuing my education on a loan, which only covers my tuition fees. My mother had to take an additional loan to pay for the PG accommodation,” he lamented. Arvind says the PG owner even threatened the students saying he’d shift all their stuff into one room and not give anything back till they paid rent. “We don’t even know when the university will reopen and when we will return,” he said. Another student, Kapil, 21, who is also in his hometown in Kerala, thinks PG owners need to be more empathetic. “The owner says if this was a vacation, we would pay rent. We were told to vacate the rooms if payment was concern. They don’t understand that this is an uncertain situation. If our universities and colleges decided to reopen on short notice, it’d be a nightmare to hunt for another accommodation,” he said. Sandhya, 21, says shifting PGs at such times won’t be easy either for owners or for tenants. “While we will have to run around in search of a new place, owners will be left with no income. Reducing rent for a few months would help everyone,” she added.  “We understand that they have expenses too. Still, our owner is earning Rs 80,000 just from our PG. He has six such facilities. Giving us a discount may not make much difference to him but it’ll make a huge difference to us,” Arvind added. Ramakrishnappa, a PG owner, said he has heard many such complaints and gave a discount to students living in his PG. I have never forced anyone to vacate the PG, but the pandemic has hit us all. Even I have a family to look after,” he said. (Names of students changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/paying-without-staying-is-a-burden-say-students-in-pgs/articleshow/76473348.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Rajkot||KDCC Bank scam: Bail plea of 26 accused rejected||Rajkot: Bhuj sessions court on Friday rejected the regular bail applications of 26 accused in the multi-crore rupees scam of Kutch District Central Cooperative (KDCC) Bank. The accused had formed eight cooperative societies namely Bhavesh Seva Sahkari Mandali, Chiyasar Seva Sahkari Mandali, Bhumika Seva Sahkari Mandali, Eyeshree Sonal Seva Sahkari Mandali, Sambhalai Seva Sahkari Mandali, Bhojay Seva Sahkari Mandali, Kokaliya Seva Sahkari Mandali and Dedhia Seva Sahkari Mandali, to execute the fraud. “Through these cooperative societies, the accused had created bogus members, and in connivance with the then KDCC Bank’s officials had allegedly siphoned off Rs 18.50 crore in 2014-2015 by taking loans in the names of the bogus members of the cooperative societies,” said an official from the state CID crime which had formed eight teams and had arrested the accused from different places in Kutch district. It was revealed during investigation that many persons on whose behalf the loans had been taken had died, while some of them, whose signatures were there on the loan papers, were illiterate and had used thumb prints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kdcc-bank-scam-bail-plea-of-26-accused-rejected/articleshow/76472771.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe misused powers as Smart City CEO: Mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi in a letter written to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has alleged that the latter has misused powers of chief executive officer (CEO) of Smart City special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). He also alleged Mundhe took some decisions only to disrupt Smart City project sanctioned by the central government. TOI has a copy of the letter written by Joshi to Mundhe on Friday. Joshi’s letter said, “CEO of NSSCDCL Ramnath Sonawane was transferred on February 10. As per norms, board of directors was supposed to appoint new CEO. But the board did not meet and approve your appointment as CEO. Still, you are using powers of CEO for last four months. This was not expected from you, who is known as a disciplined official following norms.” Mundhe has refused to comment on Joshi’s letter. However, he told TOI, “Municipal commissioner is ex officio director of NSSCDCL. Therefore, there is no issue over me being director. After resignation of Sonawane, chairman had appointed me as CEO. I have taken all decisions within framework of the law.” Joshi told TOI, “This is a major violation by Mundhe. As CEO, he took many decisions and all are against Smart City project. He intentionally did this to disrupt Smart City project. I have sent copies of my letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and officials of central and state governments. I will soon write another letter to CM and governments seeking action against Mundhe.” In the letter, Joshi said, “You (Mundhe) reversed few decisions taken by board of directors at your level. Garbage transfer stations project was approved by the board of directors. You cancelled tender and diverted the funds for bio-mining. By which authority did you take this decision?” Mundhe told TOI, “Some policy decisions, like cancellation of tender for garbage transfer stations, were taken in consultation with the chairman.” Joshi has asked similar questions regarding Mundhe’s decision to stop compensation to project-affected-persons of Smart City Project, not approving maternity leave of an female official, giving additional charge to an officer, removal of few employees from NSSCDCL etc. “Calling a female employee to work even though she was quarantined was also a violation of norms,” Joshi said. Joshi is director of NSSCDCL. He, along with four more directors, got this information from NSSCDCL office a couple of days ago. He also wrote to NSSCDCL company secretary asking whether Mundhe working and taking decisions as CEO was legal. The company secretary replied that Mundhe’s appointment was not made by the board of directors, so it was not legal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-misused-powers-as-smart-city-ceo-mayor/articleshow/76473537.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||465 new Covid-19 infections & 3 deaths in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh recorded a new high in daily Covid-19 cases with 465 new infections on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,961, while three more persons succumbed to the pandemic. The death toll rose to 96 with one person succumbing to the virus in Krishna district, while one each in Srikakulam and Prakasam districts. As many as 133 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various Covid hospitals on Friday. There are currently 3,960 active cases with 3,905 cumulative recoveries and 96 deaths. The recovery rate has now decreased to below 50 per cent. Kurnool district crossed the 1,600 case mark on Friday with a total caseload of 1,630, including the 405 cases of people, who came from outside the district. The outbreak, which predominantly affected Kurnool and Nandyal divisions in the district, has been fast spreading to Adoni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/465-new-infections-3-deaths-in-ap/articleshow/76473798.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara is safest when it comes to earthquakes||Vadodara: The two recent earthquakes that had rattled all other parts of Gujarat amid the anxiety of Covid-19 pandemic have spread panic in Vadodara as well. However, the apprehensions of many Barodians may be wrongly placed thanks to the city’s strategic location, which makes it much safer compared to other cities of the state when it comes to earthquakes. Vadodara has stood stable even during the 2001 earthquake, when buildings in Ahmedabad and Surat had collapsed. Geologists say Vadodara is standing stable due to its geophysical location that falls on the shoulders of the Gulf of Cambay rift and also the fact that it is not near to any fault line. “We don’t have any seismogenic fault around Vadodara,” says professor L S Chamyal from M S University’s Department of Geology. A seismogenic fault means a fault that is capable of generating earthquake. “As far as local seismicity is concerned, Vadodara is totally safe because there is no major fault line that is passing near to Vadodara,” says Dr Sumer Chopra, director of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). “We have been monitoring and studying seismicity since the last 20 years and you can say it is almost negligible when it comes to Vadodara,” he says. “Also, Vadodara is situated on the east of the Cambay rift. So, whatever waves come during an earthquake, Cambay rift acts as a barrier. This is the reason why Barodians would feel tremors but there is no damage as the Cambay rift attenuates the waves,” he explains. Large earthquakes require large fault lines. “All large fault lines are located in Kutch only. So, it is only in Kutch that large earthquakes occur,” he says. In the case of Ahmedabad, it is inside the Cambay rift with almost 400 metres thick sediments below its surface. “These thick sediments amplify the waves. When there is a large earthquake in Kutch, the energy coming to Ahmedabad is rich in low frequency. If there are loose sediments and high energy, the waves get de-amplified. But if there is a low frequency/ energy, it will get amplified more. The thick sediments, which are below Ahmedabad (04 km from surface), amplify the waves which increase the damage caused to buildings,” he says Dr Chopra, adding that same is the case of Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-is-safest-when-it-comes-to-earthquakes/articleshow/76471694.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||2 more judges suggested home quarentine for 14 days as accused test +ve||Ludhiana: Three days after 15 from the district courts, including two judges were quarantined, two more judges, an advocate and 17 judicial staff members were sent on quarantine on Friday. Some accused produced in the court had tested positive recently. The order by district and sessions judge on Friday suggested that a judge had intimated on Wednesday that an accused Surinder Kumar, who had been produced in his court on Monday, has been tested positive for Covid-19. The order suggested that as a precautionary measure, the judge and the staff members/police officials in his court are to go for home quarantine for 14 days. Another district and sessions judge on Friday suggested that on Thursday a judge had intimated that accused Bikram who had been produced in her court on June 12 has been tested positive for Covid-19. Again, as a precautionary measure, the judge and the staff members/police officials in her court are to go for home quarantine for 14 days. On June 16, two judges, an additional public prosecutor, an advocate and 11 other judicial staff members were quarantined after two accused who were produced in the court of one of the judges a day before had tested positive. Those quarantined included a judge couple and four judicial staff members including two couples. On April 9, a judicial magistrate was advised to go for self quarantine after an alleged thief produced in her court had tested positive for Covid-19. An advocate at the district courts said since judicial officers maintain a proper distance so there are very less chances of them testing positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-more-judges-suggested-home-quarentine-for-14-days-as-accused-test-ve/articleshow/76474414.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors demand more corona tests, laboratories||Ahmedabad: Doctors in Gujarat have been opposing restrictions on Covid testing and their associations asserted before the Gujarat high court on Friday that the number of tests done in the state must be increased, in line with the Centre’s insistence on increased testing in Delhi. The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) and Indian Medical Association’s Gujarat chapter questioned the Gujarat government’s restrictions on Covid testing and demanded that prior permission from the government authority should not be mandatory to test asymptomatic doctors and health workers. The government has been removing one restriction after another, but a prescription by an MD is still required to get approval for testing of asymptomatic persons. The associations’ advocate, Mitul Shelat, submitted that the Supreme Court has also said that any person is entitled to this test and the government should remove all obstacles. He claimed that many government dispensaries in rural areas do not have MDs and in such a scenario, the case has to be referred to the district headquarters where an MD is available. While emphasizing the need to increase testing, the lawyer cited the Centre’s insistence that Delhi should test three times more than it is doing. “After the instructions, the daily number of tests in Delhi went up from 6,000 to 18,000. Looking at the population of Gujarat, present testing is not enough and there should be at least 40,000 tests per day,” he submitted. The lawyer also told the HC that there are 19 laboratories approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid testing, but five private laboratories and two government ones have been waiting for the state government’s nod to start testing for the last month. He argued that laboratory facilities should also be augmented, and each district should have a laboratory for Covid testing. The state government’s stand that restrictions on Covid testing are “reasonable” and “in public interest” was vehemently opposed by senior counsel Anshin Desai as well. For ICMR, assistant solicitor general Devang Vyas submitted that a prescription from any physician is the only requirement for Covid testing. To this, Shelat argued that when the ICMR is not placing any bar, the Gujarat government is unnecessarily insisting that only MDs can prescribe the test and not MBBS degree holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-demand-more-corona-tests-laboratories/articleshow/76473794.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||ICSE/ISC students divided over taking pending exams||Bengaluru: While the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has given its class 10 and 12 candidates the choice to either take the pending exams or opt for pre-board or internal assessment (IA) marks, students in Bengaluru are a divided lot. Some schools said a large number of their students would still like to take the pending exams. “Majority of our students are of the opinion that they want to write the remaining exams. They have prepared well during the break and are sure that they’d outperform their pre-boards,” said Gayethri Devi, principal, Little Flower Public School. Brigade School Malleswaram too has a majority of its students wanting to write the test. “Many students feel safe to write the exams as Bengaluru is not as badly hit by Covid-19 as other metros. During our meeting with parents and students, there were concerns raised about social distancing and the areas from where invigilators would come,” said Anuradha Benegal, principal. At Bethany High, 32% students have responded, and 24% are opting for the exam. “Some students feel that schools are not lenient in giving marks for pre-boards. So they prepare more thoroughly for the mains,” said Robert Khin, principal. Vidyashilp Academy says the class is exactly split into two on this topic. “Seventy-eight per cent of the students responded. Of this, half want the exams and the other half doesn’t. The others are still weighing the options,” said school head Kalai Selvi. “Parents continue to be in a dilemma. Some students who did well in prep exams and do not want to go through the drill again will opt for the IA marks. But, there are others who want to write the exams. Since the Council has extended the last date to June 24, we have given them plenty of time to decide,” said Christy Glory Shanthi, principal of Cathedral Composite PU College and High School. Plea in Bombay HC The Council had made the proposal in front of Bombay high court in response to a petition filed by a parent seeking cancellation of the exam in view of the growing number of Covid-19 cases across the country. It had initially set June 22 as the date for schools to revert with their decision. The same has now been extended by four days. Many parents are hoping the Council will announce the methodology for grading, as sought by the HC on June 17, which will help them make an informed choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/icse/isc-students-divided-over-taking-pending-exams/articleshow/76473396.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Another Sattari village seeks ban on picnickers||Valpoi: Four days after villagers of Saleli submitted a memorandum to the Sattari deputy collector seeking that picnickers be prohibited from entering their village, locals of Brahmakarmali followed suit. In a memorandum submitted to Sattari deputy collector Mangaldas Gaonkar on Friday, the villagers urged him to prohibit entry of visitors to the waterfall in their village. They have also requested him to direct police, forest and excise officials to maintain strict vigil at the spot. “Covid-19 cases are on the rise and we fear that the picnickers and trekkers might bring the virus into our village,” Brahmakarmali local Shivaji Desai, said. Parag Khadilkar, a member of the Nagargao panchayat, said villagers have also been irked by rampant littering in the forest area. Gaonkar assured the villagers that he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-sattari-village-seeks-ban-on-picnickers/articleshow/76473802.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Land dispute turns violent as 3 fire at colony caretaker||Times News Network Ludhiana: The caretaker of an under-construction colony was injured after three men opened fire following a verbal spat in Bhattian village on Friday afternoon. Police said the trio, residents of Bahadur Ke village, reached the colony as soon as the construction work started and claimed they owned a part of the land.Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Bhattian village, has received a bullet injury on leg.Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “The land earlier belonged to Tarn Taran residents Jaswant Singh and Harbans Singh. A few days ago, they sold the land to Jaswinder Singh, also a resident of Tarn Taran district. Jaswinder hired his namesake to look after the land.”On Friday, construction work started at the colony. “Soon thereafter, three men reached there and claimed that they had purchased 1.5 kanal from Jaswant Singh and Harbans Singh. The trio and caretaker Jaswinder exchanged heated arguments. As tempers frayed, one of the three men took out a pistol and fired at the caretaker,” the SHO added.After the incident, the trio took the injured to Christian Medical College and Hospital and fled. “We are yet to record the statement of the injured man and identify the accused,” the cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/land-dispute-turns-violent-as-3-fire-at-colony-caretaker/articleshow/76472754.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC launches logistics business||HYDERABAD: The TSRTC has launched its own logistics business by introducing Parcel, Courier and Cargo (PCC) services on Friday. The move is aimed at bailing itself out of the existing losses and augmenting its revenue. While the corporation started utilising around 50 buses for cargo services before the official launch to transport food and beverages to anganwadi centers during the lockdown, it is now planning on expanding its fleet to 104 buses in the first phase. Cargo vehicles will be used to transport government goods such as books, question papers and answer sheets for educational institutions, liquor supplies from the depots, medicinal supplies to hospitals and all other goods being supplied by the government. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said, “During the pandemic, the revenues of TSRTC fell sharply. We plan to overcome these losses by generating additional revenue. In the last three months, TSRTC generated an income of Rs 4 crore per day as against the sum of Rs 12 crore which used to be generated before the lockdown.” “Through PCC, TSRTC is expecting a revenue of Rs 180 to Rs 200 crore,” officials said. TSRTC will be expanding services in parcel bookings by contacting government departments, NGOs and firms. Most of the business transactions currently are operated through e-commerce. Officials also informed that the corporation will soon launch a mobile application for customers to book parcel and courier services. Cargo vehicles will be used to transport government goods such as books, question papers and answer sheets, liquor supplies, medicinal supplies to hospitals and other places||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-launches-logistics-business/articleshow/76473816.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Doctors-turned-netas want to join battle, govt not keen||CHENNAI: Even as there is a shortage of doctors and nurses in the state and the government is trying to bridge the gap by recruiting new doctors and recalling retired people, it is reluctant to engage many others who are ready to chip in. Five MPs and six MLAs, who are doctors, have expressed their willingness to treat Covid-19 patients, but the hurdle is that the government is not responding. Across the globe, many doctors who have turned politicians, sportspersons and models, have gone back to medical practice. Many states in India have engaged doctor-turned-politicians to treat Covid-19 patients. For instance, in Bihar, West Champaran BJP MP, Sanjay Jaiswal, who is also the state chief of the party, is devoting a few hours daily for medical practice. Dr Kalanidhi Veerasamy, MP of North Chennai, which has become the epicentre of the pandemic in Chennai, rues that the government has not even consulted him on the work that needs to be done in his constituency. “Not even once did the state government consult me as an MP of the Lok Sabha constituency or as a doctor on how to prevent the spread of the virus. I have been meeting Chennai Corporation commissioner out of my own interest to know about the situation in the constituency,” Veerasamy, a dermatologist, told TOI. He said the Centre had sought the suggestions of all doctors among the MPs before the pandemic started spreading in the country. “On the last day of the Parliament’s budget session, we were asked to give our suggestions. Almost all of us gave,” said Veerasamy. If Veerasamy is from the opposition camp, the government has not taken into confidence doctors-turned-MLAs in the ruling party too. “I was expecting to be inducted into the medical experts’ committee. But till now, neither have they sought my service nor have they asked for any suggestion,” said AIADMK’s former IT minister and Ramanathapuram MLA Dr M Manikandan, a surgeon. He said he was ready to treat people wherever the government wanted him to work. Dharmapuri MP Dr Senthilkumar, a radiologist, said several times, through media, he had expressed his wish to treat patients. “I am ready to work in any district. At least three times, I have told the government too. But there is no response,” he said. The government has a different take on the issue. A senior bureaucrat said, “We can bank on only those doctors who have not taken a break from their practice. A degree or theoretical knowledge is not enough to treat patients. Regular practice is a must.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/docs-turned-netas-want-to-join-battle-govt-not-keen/articleshow/76473804.cms||B Sivakumar
June 20, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRCP betters Rajya Sabha numbers, bags all four seats from Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: YSRCP is set to play a key role in national politics after winning all four Rajya Sabha seats from Andhra Pradesh for which elections were held on Friday. The party, which had just two seats in the upper house, has now improved its representation to six. With 28 MPs including 22 in the Lok Sabha, YSRCP is likely to have a considerable say in Delhi. Incidentally, YSRCP is the only major political party, which is not part of the NDA, supporting the Modi government at the Centre on all major issues including passage of crucial Bills. Those elected to Rajya Sabha from AP are industrialist Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, ministers Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana and Parimal Nathwani, senior group president of Reliance Industries. Friday’s polls also saw the rooting out of Congress representation in the house from Andhra Pradesh for the first time since Independence. The strength of the main opposition, Telugu Desam, is now reduced to just one, as three of its members defected to the BJP. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which got one Rajya Sabha seat in AP during the bifurcation of the state in 2014, has also lost its representation from the state. The candidature of Nathwani, a two-time outgoing MP from Jharkhand, was cleared reportedly on the request of Reliance Group chief Mukesh Ambani. Polling for the four seats that fell vacant in AP was necessitated as there were five candidates in the fray. While YSRCP fielded four candidates, including Nathwani, TDP nominated former police officer Varla Ramaiah. The BJP, soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had offered Lok Sabha deputy speaker’s post to YSRCP as it had won 22 seats. However, YSRCP turned down the offer. Now that its strength in the upper house has increased, the party is set to play a crucial role in bailing out BJP, political analysts say. Two ministers M Venkata Ramana and P Subhash Chandra Bose, who are members of the legislative council in AP, were also nominated to the RS to compensate them for the likely abolition of the council. With their election to the RS, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is likely to expand the state cabinet as both ministers hail from backward classes. Though TDP has 23 legislators in the state assembly, party nominee Ramaiah could get only 17 votes. Four votes of TDP legislators were declared invalid and two could not vote. From YSRCP, all its 151 MLAs participated in voting. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy was the first to cast his vote in the assembly hall in the morning followed by ministers and others. Three of the TDP legislators, who differed with the party leadership, gave a tough time to the leaders as they did not turn up for voting till the last minute. However, 15 minutes before the closure of the voting, the rebel legislators, Karanam Balaramakrishna Murty, Maddali Giridhar and Vallabhaneni Vamsi Mohan turned up and voted. It is believed that these rebel MLAs had cast invalid votes, though it was cast for Ramaiah, following the party whip. Another TDP MLA, a first timer, Adireddy Bhavani’s vote too was invalid as she gave a tick mark in the ballot paper instead of giving her preference. Two of the TDP MLAs, former minister K Atchannaidu and A Satyaprasad, could not participate in the voting as the former was in judicial remand, while the latter was in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrcp-betters-rs-numbers-bags-all-four-seats-from-ap/articleshow/76474455.cms||Gopi Dara
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai returnees not welcome in rest of Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: City residents making an exodus to their hometowns across Tamil Nadu are greeted with suspicion of being ‘super-spreaders’ of Covid-19. The Chennai returnees are not just closely monitored by the district administrations but also by neighbours who are quick to report them. In some villages in southern parts of the state, new visitors are directed to undergo Covid-19 test. Parts of southern TN such as Madurai, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have been seeing more Covid-19 cases, primarily due to those returning from Chennai. A sizeable number of people from the city are making their way into rest of Tamil Nadu illegally without e-passes. The district control room in Coimbatore is recording a rise in complaints about people from Chennai. In the past three days, it received 60 calls, largely pertaining to movement of people from Chennai and other places, who have entered Coimbatore. However, officials concerned were quick to add that they have not come across any instance of returnees being discriminated or harassed. Extremely vigilant citizens in some districts in central TN alert officials almost immediately they come across a returnee. Kumar* (*name changed) had a taste of it within hours of reaching his hometown, Thanjavur, with his family on a valid e-pass early on Sunday. “Within three hours of us reaching there, health officials from Thanjavur Municipal Corporation knocked on our doors and asked us to undergo Covid-19 test. The official told us that neighbours had alerted the authorities about our visit,” he said. District collectors T G Vinay (Madurai), Shilpa Prabhakar Satish (Tirunelveli), Sandeep Nanduri (Tuticorin) and Prashant M Wadnere (Kanyakumari) told TOI that vigilance by villagers at the grass root level was a key factor helping them identify those who sneaked past check posts without e-passes. Thambi Bhagyakumar of Vilavancode, which is close to the inter-state border in Kanyakumari district, said they were doubly cautious. “Villagers also inform the local body member or health official if those who returned from Chennai, who are supposed to be under quarantine for 14 days, leave the house or entertain visitors,” he added. (With inputs from M K Ananth from Madurai and A Subburaj from Coimbatore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-returnees-not-welcome-in-rest-of-tn/articleshow/76473821.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||ARIES to live telecast solar eclipse on social media||Nainital: City-based Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) has decided to live telecast the annular solar eclipse, to take place on June 21, on social media platforms like YouTube, Zoom and Facebook. Shashi Bhushan Pandey, a scientist at ARIES, said that the institute has decided to telecast the eclipse on social media in an effort to excite the young people about the astronomical phenomenon. “The solar eclipse will start at 10:25 am. The eclipse will reach its peak at 12:08 pm and end at 1:54 pm. As looking directly at the sun during an eclipse can damage the retina, we have decided to telecast it on social media platforms,” Pandey said. The scientist explained that there are three different types of solar eclipses, including the annular one during which the moon is farthest from the earth. “The solar eclipse is a phenomenon when the moon, the sun and earth are aligned. The sun is eclipsed by the moon and thus, its light doesn’t reach the earth. There are three kinds of solar eclipses — total solar eclipse, partial solar eclipse, and the annular eclipse. The eclipse on Sunday will be the annular solar eclipse. In this type of eclipse, the moon does not block the entire sun, so the outer edge of the sun remains visible as a ‘ring of fire’ or annulus. During the annular eclipse, the moon is near its farthest point from Earth, called apogee,” added Pandey. The annular solar eclipse to take place on Sunday will be visible in most parts of north India, Africa, and some parts of Europe. Scientists say India will witness the next similar solar eclipse after at least a decade. “The next annular solar eclipse will be witnessed in India on May 21, 2031. Therefore, the upcoming eclipse is a rare event and it should be witnessed by a larger audience,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aries-to-live-telecast-solar-eclipse-on-social-media/articleshow/76471665.cms||Prashant Jha
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 claims its first middle-aged victim in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The spurt in Covid-19 deaths in the city this month continued with a 45-year-old laundryman, who came back from Delhi recently, succumbing to novel coronavirus infection at his home in Raheemabad, taking the toll to 12. The last eight casualties occurred at a gap of every 36 hours. The patient had died on Wednesday but the casualty was confirmed by authorities on Friday. This was the first case of a middle-aged person with no serious ailment falling prey to the disease. So far, elderly people with comorbid conditions had been succumbing to the disease. It was also the first death reported from rural parts of the state capital. Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “The man had been living in Delhi for 10 years and returned to Lucknow about four days ago with his wife and two sons. He had been suffering from fever since arrival but did not seek medical help and died on Wednesday.” The family informed local sub-divisional-magistrate who arranged for collection of samples for Covid-19 test and gave PPE kits to people who performed the last rites. The test report on Thursday night confirmed coronavirus infection. At least 32 people who had come in contact with the patients are being tested. Of total deaths reported so far, the first took place in April followed by three in May. Eight persons have died between June 5 and June 17. The 11 deaths reported earlier were of patients in the age group of 60-81 years. All had serious health issues which got aggravated due to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-claims-its-first-middle-aged-victim/articleshow/76474431.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||With no caregivers, Covid mother reunited with baby||Margao: The Covid positive mother and her baby have been reunited at the Covid hospital as no coronavirus negative relatives were found who could care for the baby who is Covid negative. The mother has since been breast feeding the baby in the hospital using full PPE. “The baby is getting antibodies from her mother’s breast milk and is unlikely to become Covid positive. The breast milk acts like a vaccine. The mother also wears an N95 mask while breast feeding her,” a doctor said. The baby’s photo-therapy treatment for jaundice that began at GMC has continued at the Covid hospital. The baby was separated from the mother at birth and placed under the care of the paediatric ward at GMC to prevent her from contracting Covid from her mother. But after all relatives and potential caregivers in the containment zone of Mangor Hill — which has more than 300 cases — began testing positive, doctors had no option but to reunite the mother and the baby. “All the family’s relatives are Covid positive. A caregiver suggested by the family was tested and has been admitted to the Covid hospital after she tested positive,” a doctor said, adding the decision to reunite the two was the best solution under the current circumstances. Although not a Covid patient, the baby girl who is a week-old is the hospital’s youngest inmate. She tested negative twice, once at birth and 48 hours later. Her mother who admitted to the Covid hospital in the afternoon of June 12 gave birth in the evening. Doctors performed the C-section at the Covid hospital using full PPE and with hepa filters in the operation theatre to filter out the virus and reduce the viral load. The youngest to test positive and be admitted to the Covid hospital till date is a four-month-old baby whose mother tested negative. The mother and baby had travelled by train to Goa from Delhi last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-caregivers-covid-mother-reunited-with-baby/articleshow/76473819.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Youth killed over affair in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||KOTA: A 26-year-old man was abducted and brutally murdered allegedly by the family members of the girl he was having an affair with under Ratlai police station area of Jhalawar. The half-naked body with multiple injuries was recovered from a forest area near Raghunathpura village under Ratlai police station on Friday morning. Cracking the murder mystery within hours, the police arrested the father and uncle of the girl and lodged a case of murder and abduction against eight people, six of whom are absconding. “The deceased was identified as Rakesh Kumar Teli, a resident of Ratlai town. The body was found in forest area near Raghunathputra village on Friday morning,” said DSP Vijayshankar Sharma. Preliminary investigation revealed that Rakesh worked as a driver in the girl’s house. He was having an affair with her. Both were spotted together on Thursday, he said. Following this clue, the police team started investigation. They found that most of the members of the girl’s family were missing from their home in Raghunathpura village. They found out that Rakesh had been called by the girl’s family for a commercial trip with passengers on Thursday noon, the DSP said. The family members murdered Rakesh. To hide his identity, the accused changed his clothes, mobile, other belongings and threw his body in the forest away from the village, he added. “Two accused, identified as Radulal Lodha (60), the father of the girl, and Badrilal Lodha (58), her uncle were arrested while efforts were underway to nab other accused identified as Jagdish Lodha, Bade Singh alias Vijay Singh Lodha and four others,” said the officer. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Friday noon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-murdered-for-affair-with-girl-in-jhalawar-2-arrested/articleshow/76474429.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Three tonnes of fish goes waste at Chennai market||CHENNAI: Nearly three tonnes of fish brought to a private market in Villivakkam has been dumped after officials refused permission to sell it after first agreeing to the sale. P Ashok Kumar, who owns AK Fish Market, said Greater Chennai Corporation officials told vendors a few days ago that the shops could remain open on Saturday. He then placed orders trucks brought fish from Rameswaram, Tuticorin and Arambakkam in Tiruvallur district on Thursday and Friday. But, when vendors wanted to keep shops open on Friday and Saturday, officials distributed handbills saying no shops will be allowed to be open. “Now the entire quantity of fish has gone waste. We had already cleaned the fish and put it in coolers. The 11 shops in the market have incurred a loss of more than Rs 10lakh,” he said. South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association president K Bharathi said about a dozen fibre boats fitted with double engines had put out to sea. They will stay on the high seas for more than a week and are expected to reach the shore on June 30, when the intense lockdown is scheduled to end, he said. South Chennai Mutton Sellers Association member R Kareem said the members, on hearing the intense lockdown declared by the government, had decided not to open the stalls during this weekend. Most of the mutton stall operators in the city have avoided buying goat or sheep, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-tonnes-of-fish-goes-waste-at-city-market/articleshow/76473805.cms||P Oppili
June 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Tirupur waits for its guest workers||CHENNAI: Often called the country’s leading readymade and knitwear cluster, the textile industry in Tirupur is limping back to normalcy engaging around 60% of the total workforce after lockdown restrictions were lifted. The industry is hoping for the return of guest workers ahead of the peak season beginning September to regain full momentum. Around 6 lakh workers are employed in the sector, which records an annual business of around Rs 60,000 crore. Guest workers, particularly from Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar, comprise around 40% of the total workforce. The lockdown hit the industry hard and forced thousands of guest workers to flee Tirupur since the first week of May. “The industries are running with 60% of the total workforce at present. Since it is a lean period, the industry is managing with the available workers. But it will lose business in the global market if the guest workers do not come back by the end of August,” said Raja M Shanmugam of Tirupur Exporters’ Association. “We managed to retain around 10% guest workers,” he said. A guest worker from Odisha said she and 300 women workers returned home after their parents and families feared for their lives following the outbreak of Covid-19. But now she wants to return. “We were paid a decent salary and given proper accommodation and food,” said the woman. The industry said it will extend quarantine facilities along with proper medical care for the returning workers. “Until recently, the units were dependent on contractors who would bring workers on contract basis whenever there was a requirement. Now that the contractors have gone back to their states, both the workers and units are suffering without a reachout mechanism,” said Kumar Duraisamy, an exporter. Duraisamy said the pandemic and the fear of contracting the disease have taken a toll on the business. “Though the enquiries come, most of them have not turned into business opportunities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-waits-for-its-guest-workers/articleshow/76473823.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Driver vandalizes high-end car over salary dispute in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A driver was booked on Thursday for allegedly vandalizing his employer’s high-end car after he ran into a dispute with him over salary. Police said the accused, identified as Kishan Bharwad (51), allegedly made scratches on the car belonging to his employer Sujal Rawal (38). Bharwad dented the car and also smashed its sidelights on Wednesday. Rawal, a resident of Ellisbridge locality, filed a complaint with Vadaj police station, in which he alleged that Bharwad, whom he had hired as a driver and whom he had relieved from the job after paying all his due salaries in March, created a ruckus after he was denied three months salary that he had demanded. Rawal had hired Bharwad for a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 around seven months ago. When Rawal’s accountant at his office refused to pay Bharwad, he allegedly began abusing his staff members. Rawal tried to reason with Bharwad that he could not be paid extra money as he had already left the job in March before the lockdown was imposed. However, this infuriated Bharwad who left the office and gave a vent to his ire at Rawal’s car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/driver-vandalizes-high-end-car-over-salary-dispute/articleshow/76473824.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Even with 600+ cases, Covid-19 hospital a little over half-full||PANAJI: Although the state has over 600 active positive cases, its sole Covid-19 hospital is not filled to capacity. A little more than half of the 220-bed hospital in Margao is occupied. There are around 130 patients admitted to the hospital while the rest — asymptomatic patients — have all been accommodated at Covid care centres at Shiroda, Colva, MPT and Calangute. The centres have helped the state focus its clinical efforts to treat symptomatic and high-risk patients. “The hospital is not meant for asymptomatic positives. It is not a Covid-19 care centre. It is designed to treat sick patients who are symptomatic,” a doctor said. Patients are taken directly to Covid care centres when found asymptomatic. “They are not taken from the Covid-19 hospital to the care centres. They are assessed from where they are picked up and taken straight to the care centres if found asymptomatic,” the doctor added. Those with fever, cough and other symptoms are admitted in the Covid-19 hospital. Several asymptomatic patients admitted to the hospital before the care centres were announced continue to be under treatment there, and will directly be discharged from the hospital after they test negative. “Only around 15 percent of the patients in the hospital are symptomatic,” the doctor said. Prior to the announcement and establishment of Covid-19 care centres, the hospital separated symptomatic and asymptomatic patients on separate floors of the hospital in Margao. A total of 118 Covid-19 patients have recovered till date, states the health bulletin, while 1018 people are presently quarantined in various residencies and hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-with-600-cases-covid-hospital-a-little-over-half-full/articleshow/76473825.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 20, 2020||Madurai||MP hails move to increase daily Covid-19 tests to 2.5K||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan had lauded the move by the district administration and health department to increase the number of tests to 2,500 per day from 500 per day.In a press statement, he said that a lot of people have been coming from other districts and states to Madurai in the last three weeks and that he has been demanding that tests for Covid-19 be increased in the districts.DMK and its allies led by the MP had staged a demonstration demanding the tests to be increased to 3,000 per day. He has said that this was a step towards better control over the spread of the disease in the district.Though the accurate details on the number of tests in Madurai was not revealed till recently, Venkatesan said that it was much lesser than the number of tests being done in districts like Theni and Kanyakumari which had tested three times than Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-hails-move-to-increase-daily-covid-19-tests-to-2-5k/articleshow/76474596.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||File report on rescue flights for stranded Tamils: Madras high court to Centre||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday directed the Centre to inform the court as to when all the stranded Indians who wanted to return to Tamil Nadu will be evacuated and the plan for providing more ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ flights. A division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy issued the interim directions on a plea moved by the DMK and another seeking direction to the Centre and the state government to take immediate steps to rescue Indians stranded in other countries due to the Covid-19 lockdown. When the pleas came up for hearing, P Wilson, senior counsel for the DMK, submitted that many Tamils were stranded abroad for want of consent from the Tamil Nadu government for landing ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ flights operated by the Centre. Tickets on the flights are cheaper and affordable to those stranded to return to Tamil Nadu, he said. Citing a status report filed by the Centre, Wilson said: “So far, 40,433 repatriation requests from people to be evacuated to Tamil Nadu have been received by embassies in various countries. While 14,065 have been rescued, 26,368 are left.” He further pointed out that the Centre had not complied with the two directions passed by the court on June 12 – to provide the number of airlines operated to Tamil Nadu during Covid-19 and details of plans of the government to provide more such flights, and details of financial relief provided in the form of ticket costs, food, stay, etc,., to people stranded abroad. Responding to the plea, additional advocate-general of Tamil Nadu S R Rajagopal submitted that the state had no objection to operate any number of Vande Bharat Mission flights to the state. Recording the submission, the bench passed the interim order and adjourned the plea to June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/file-report-on-rescue-flights-for-stranded-tamils-hc-to-centre/articleshow/76473835.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Auroville and Puducherry thank Covid warriors with something sweet||PUDUCHERRY: A conversation between two people has sparked a citizen’s initiative in Puducherry and Auroville that is baking cakes for frontline workers battling Covid-19. “The Fair Trade gratitude cakes project began in Auroville,” said Uma Prajapati, steering committee member of the Fair Trade Towns movement. “One of the nurses in Auroville Frontiers, while working among Covid frontline workers, told me ‘I just wish there were some cakes and a cup of coffee’. So, when I got back home, I thought about it: all the frontline workers were putting their lives on the line to help us stay safe and maybe we could do a little something for them.” Acts of kindness can be infectious and so it happened with this initiative. Launched in Auroville with 400 cakes, it gained momentum in Puducherry with 5,000 cakes being baked over a week. Anjali Schiavina, who leads the Fair Trade towns movement in India said they wanted to recognize farmers as essential workers in times of Covid-19. “They work very hard to bring food to our tables. We chose to add Fairtrade cocoa in these cakes. And then we focused on making it a citizens’ movement with a lot of help from local business and bakeries.” The gratitude cakes have as the key ingredient Pascati Cocoa, Fairtrade India-certified cocoa grown by farmers in Kerala and available at Puducherry store Grinde. Local restaurants and bakeries like Baker’s Street, iPondy, Palais de Mahe, Villa Shanti, Smackalicious, and Meraki have decided to join the initiative. Children in the twin towns also make handmade ‘Thank You’ cards to express gratitude to frontline workers. The cakes have reached doctors and nurses at eight primary health centres (PHCs) and hospitals, two municipalities, Swachh Bharat workers and policemen. People interested in joining the initiative can visit Fair Trade twin towns’ social media platforms and send a message. They can also find the recipe to bake the cakes along with the list of ingredients on social media platforms. “It has been inspiring to see the initiative grow so spontaneously and rapidly. The initiative, which is becoming a grassroot citizens’ movement, channels the community spirit and shows how interconnected we are. Recognizing farmers as essential workers, who provide us with our daily sustenance at one end and the medical, police, sanitation and administration workers at the other end as being critical to our safety and social functioning,” said project CEO Abhishek Jani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/auroville-and-pondy-thank-covid-warriors-with-something-sweet/articleshow/76473830.cms||Bosco Dominique
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Covid fear draws more applicants to Lucknow University PG courses||LUCKNOW: More candidates have registered for admission to postgraduate courses at Lucknow University this year as compared to the last year as candidate don’t want to leave the city or state due to pandemic. Though 10 days are left for the closure of LU application window, the total registrations for PG courses have exceeded that of last year when around 10,600 candidates had applied. This year around 17,000 candidates have registered for admissiono far. “The maximum applications have been received for PG law courses. Due to the pandemic, candidates do not want to leave the city or state and LU, being one of the oldest and reputed state universities, is the first choice of the local candidates,” said admission coordinator Anil Mishra. He said parents are reluctant to send their wards to other cities and want to freeze the best option available in the city for higher education. Hence the number of applications is more. The maximum students have registered for LLB (3 years), followed next by LLM, MSc (botany), chemistry and mathematics. Going by this year’s trend in the university admissions, lesser candidates have opted for language courses. Only in English language, the number of applicants is good, whereas language courses in Persian, Arabic, Sanskrit have received low number of applications. “After graduation, we explore other universities for admission but due to the pandemic I want stick to the best option available in my city. Therefore, LU is on the top of my list,” said a candidate Ankita Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-fear-draws-more-applicants-to-lu-pg-courses/articleshow/76474432.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||BJP leaders to do yoga at homes on int’l yoga day, asked to share videos on social media||Dehradun: BJP leaders across Uttarakhand, including CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, all five MPs and MLAs in the state will do "ghar pe yog" on international yoga day on Sunday. In the one-hour-long session, they will be doing three different sets of pranayam and yoga after which they will also have to share the videos of the act on social media. Devendra Bhasin, media coordinator of BJP told TOI that ahead of 6th International Day of Yoga, the PM Narendra Modi has urged people to perform yoga at their homes due to the Covid pandemic. "This year, the theme of yoga day is ‘Yoga at home’ and everybody will perform yoga between 6 am and 7 am on Sunday. We will do 15 minutes of Sandhi Yog and Pranayam, and then meditate for 12 minutes and chant matra for three minutes. The leaders and all the workers have been asked to post their videos or pictures," Bhasin said, adding that the party is also motivating NCC cadets, school and college students to take part on the day to send out a message globally that India never stops even during a when pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-leaders-to-do-yoga-at-homes-on-intl-yoga-day-asked-to-share-videos-on-social-media/articleshow/76471703.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 20, 2020||Puducherry||Auroville and Puducherry thank Covid warriors with something sweet||PUDUCHERRY: A conversation between two people has sparked a citizen’s initiative in Puducherry and Auroville that is baking cakes for frontline workers battling Covid-19. “The Fair Trade gratitude cakes project began in Auroville,” said Uma Prajapati, steering committee member of the Fair Trade Towns movement. “One of the nurses in Auroville Frontiers, while working among Covid frontline workers, told me ‘I just wish there were some cakes and a cup of coffee’. So, when I got back home, I thought about it: all the frontline workers were putting their lives on the line to help us stay safe and maybe we could do a little something for them.” Acts of kindness can be infectious and so it happened with this initiative. Launched in Auroville with 400 cakes, it gained momentum in Puducherry with 5,000 cakes being baked over a week. Anjali Schiavina, who leads the Fair Trade towns movement in India said they wanted to recognize farmers as essential workers in times of Covid-19. “They work very hard to bring food to our tables. We chose to add Fairtrade cocoa in these cakes. And then we focused on making it a citizens’ movement with a lot of help from local business and bakeries.” The gratitude cakes have as the key ingredient Pascati Cocoa, Fairtrade India-certified cocoa grown by farmers in Kerala and available at Puducherry store Grinde. Local restaurants and bakeries like Baker’s Street, iPondy, Palais de Mahe, Villa Shanti, Smackalicious, and Meraki have decided to join the initiative. Children in the twin towns also make handmade ‘Thank You’ cards to express gratitude to frontline workers. The cakes have reached doctors and nurses at eight primary health centres (PHCs) and hospitals, two municipalities, Swachh Bharat workers and policemen. People interested in joining the initiative can visit Fair Trade twin towns’ social media platforms and send a message. They can also find the recipe to bake the cakes along with the list of ingredients on social media platforms. “It has been inspiring to see the initiative grow so spontaneously and rapidly. The initiative, which is becoming a grassroot citizens’ movement, channels the community spirit and shows how interconnected we are. Recognizing farmers as essential workers, who provide us with our daily sustenance at one end and the medical, police, sanitation and administration workers at the other end as being critical to our safety and social functioning,” said project CEO Abhishek Jani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/auroville-and-pondy-thank-covid-warriors-with-something-sweet/articleshow/76479944.cms||Bosco Dominique
June 20, 2020||Goa||Ward 4 in Sada declared as micro containment zone||Panaji/Vasco The state administration has declared Mormugao municipal council’s ward IV in Sada , Vasco as a micro containment zone. The order was issued by the South Goa district collector late Thursday night. As of Friday, 30 cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the area which witnessed a spike after Mangor hill and Baina in Vasco began reporting cases earlier this month. An extensive swab collection was undertaken in ward four, and one person was found positive, while tests reports of swabs taken on Friday will likely be received on Saturday, a health official said. Ward four of Sada is the fourth containment zone in the state after Mangor Hill, a part of Baina and Ghodemal ward of Morlem village panchayat in Sattari taluka. A doctor based in Vasco said that the ward four is socio-economically similar to Baina and Mangor Hill. “It is also a closely packed area and I’m not surprised that cases have been rising in Sada,” he said. While authorities a week ago admitted local transmission in Mangor Hill, they are yet to clearly explain the rise of cases either in Baina or Sada. Baina has reported 30 cases while New Vaddem, which is another part of Vasco, has reported 13 cases as of Friday. He said the new cases could either be a spillover from Mangor Hill or people who tested positive in the two areas picked up the infection from elsewhere and has further spread to others. From Mangor Hill, 313 cases have been reported so far, while a tally of linked cases to this area stood at 181. Out of the total 607 active cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Friday, 495 have been contributed by Mangor hill and other linked areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ward-4-in-sada-declared-as-micro-containment-zone/articleshow/76473845.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks Telangana counter on Congress’ plea||HYDERABAD: Justice T Vinod Kumar of Telangana HC on Friday sought to know from government its response to a plea filed by Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy and 11 others who complained that government is obstructing them from reaching reservoirs and other irrigation projects. Their counsel Rachna Reddy said preventive arrests and detentions had become the norm of the day. “They are prevented even from distributing essentials,” she said. The Congress leaders urged HC to accord permission to take up their planned activities scheduled from June 20 to July 3. Advocate general BS Prasad said their activities that run counter to the Covid-19 norms are not being allowed. The judge posted the case to June 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-t-counter-on-congress-plea/articleshow/76473828.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||CM K Chandrashekhar Rao condoles BPR Vithal’s death||HYDERABAD: Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has expressed sorrow over the death of veteran bureaucrat and well-known economist BPR Vithal. The chief minister recalled the services rendered by BPR Vithal as the longest serving Finance and planning secretary, Vice-Chairman AP Planning and Development Board in the united Andhra Pradesh, Advisor IMF and Member of the Tenth Finance Commission. The CM conveyed his heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-condoles-bpr-vithals-death/articleshow/76473840.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dean gets show cause notice for asking Covid patient to buy medicines||MUMBAI: Director of Medical Education and Research T P Lahane on Friday issued a show cause notice to Latur government medical college dean Girish Thakur for asking a Covid-19 patient to buy medicine from the market. When it was brought to the notice of medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, who is also the guardian minister of Latur, he asked Lahane to take note of the serious lapse. Lahane confirmed to TOI that a show cause notice has been served on Thakur for dereliction of duty and blatant violation of government directives. “We have issued instructions to heads of all government hospitals and medical colleges that all medicines to Covid-19 patients should be provided by the government and if it is not available, then funds should be made available for the procurement of the medicines,” Lahane said. Thakur has to reply to the notice within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dean-gets-showcause-notice-for-asking-covid-patient-to-buy-meds/articleshow/76473827.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 20, 2020||World||'Why not a Black woman?' Consensus grows around Biden's VP||WASHINGTON: Joe Biden is facing growing calls to select a Black woman as his running mate as an acknowledgement of their critical role in the Democratic Party and a response to the nationwide protests against racism and inequality. The shifting dynamics were clear late Thursday when Amy Klobuchar took herself out of contention for the vice presidency. The Minnesota senator, who is white, told MSNBC that “this is a moment to put a woman of color on that ticket.” Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, has already pledged to select a woman as his vice president to energize the party's base with the prospect of making history. But following the outrage over the police killing of George Floyd last month, many Democratic strategists say there's growing consensus that the pick should be a Black woman. “Like it or not, I think the question is starting to become, 'Well, why not a Black woman?'” said Karen Finney, a spokesperson for Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign. Finney, who was one of 200 Black women who signed a letter to Biden encouraging him to select a Black woman for his ticket, warned that the former vice president could face a backlash if he chose a white woman. “That puts a lot of pressure on Biden. It puts a lot of pressure on who he selects, no question," she said. "The country is recognizing the gravity of this moment, the significance of this moment.” Biden's team has been vetting potential candidates for weeks and has begun whittling down their list of choices. Several of the potential contenders are Black, including California Sen. Kamala Harris, Florida Rep. Val Demings, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms and Susan Rice, who served as President Barack Obama's national security adviser. New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Latina, is also in the mix. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who is white, is also leading contender. Another possibility who is white, Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, said last month that she had opening conversations with Biden's team about potentially serving as vice president. In a Thursday interview, she said, “Beyond that, there's just not much new to report.” Antjuan Seawright, a veteran Democratic strategist, said the current moment calls for someone who understands the challenges faced by Black Americans. “There's a renewed sense of urgency around the need to have someone who can speak to the experiences of today and advocate for the promises of tomorrow when it comes to populations of constituencies in this country who've been left out for a very long time," he said. Klobuchar's decision was in part a reflection of the fact that her own chances at getting the VP nod diminished after Floyd's killing. She was a prosecutor years ago in the county that includes Minneapolis, and during that period, more than two dozen people — mostly people of color — died during encounters with police. Floyd's death last month set off days of protests across the country and criticism that as the county's top prosecutor, Klobuchar didn't charge any of the officers involved in citizen deaths. Officer Derek Chauvin, who was charged with Floyd's murder, was involved in a fatal October 2006 shooting of a man accused of stabbing people and aiming a shotgun at police. Klobuchar's successor as prosecutor, Mike Freeman, sent Chauvin's case to a grand jury, which was customary practice for the office at the time, and the grand jury in 2008 declined to prosecute. Freeman has said Klobuchar, who won election to the Senate in November 2006 and took office in January 2007, had no involvement in the Chauvin case. But her decision this week to endorse a woman of color is certain to complicate the pitches of other white contenders. In conversations with a half-dozen Democrats, none would rule out Warren, who's been actively engaging with Black activists and leaders since exiting the Democratic presidential race and won plaudits from some former skeptics for her outreach. But privately, many acknowledged that her chances have dimmed following Klobuchar's remarks. “I think Elizabeth, if she wants the job, has got to make the case for not only why she would be the best vice president of the people he's considering, but why she would be the best person to put on the ticket electorally,” said Heidi Heitkamp, a former Democratic senator from North Dakota who served with Warren. “If she can make that persuasive argument, you can't rule her out. Heitkamp said she's long believed Biden should choose a Black woman, in part because of the current political climate, but also because Black women are some of the Democratic Party's most loyal voters. And she suggested Klobuchar's comments Thursday night reflected the views of many of those within the party. “I think it was incredibly generous of her to bow out and to say what I think a lot of us are thinking, which is that the time has come to recognize the contributions and the capabilities of a lot of women who may otherwise get passed over,” she said. The debate among Democrats about Biden's vice presidential pick has divided among competing and sometimes contradictory views within the party about the best path to victory in November. Those who believe Biden must take into consideration geographic concerns advocate choosing a candidate from a swing state. Those who believe Biden should focus on winning over and turning out young and liberal voters suggest he should choose a progressive. And those who believe demographics are key argue in favor of a woman of color. Warren was long the favorite of those who felt strongest that Biden needed to win over skeptical progressives. But Seawright argued that Klobuchar's comments helped refocus the conversation. “I think that when Klobuchar and others use intentional commentary like she did, I think it helps push back on some of these conversations being had about geographics, the flavor within the party, progressive versus moderate, etc.,” he said. “When intentional conversations like she had last n||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/why-not-a-black-woman-consensus-grows-around-bidens-vp/articleshow/76474742.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt initiates tranfers, postings of SP-level IPS officers||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has initiated another round of transfers and postings of SP-level IPS officers. R Nishanthini, who returned after a sabbatical break has been posted as the SP, Railways, while Divya V Gopinath will be the new DCP, Thiruvananthapuram.Both the charges of SP, Railways and DCP, Thiruvananthapuram were held by R Karuppasamy who has been posted as the SP, Idukki. Nishanthini will also hold the charge of commandant of women battalion. Incumbent SP Idukki P K Madhu has been posted as SP crimes, Idukki. J Jayanath, who is currently SP (internal security) has been posted as commandant of Kerala armed police battalion-3. He will also hold the charge of commandant of KAP-5. Incumbent commandant of KAP-4 Navneet Sharma has been transferred and posted as commandant of India Reserve battalion. He will also hold the additional charge of commandant, rapid response and rescue force. Incumbent commandant of KAP-3 battalion Arvind Sukumar has been transferred and posted as SP, information and communication technology. He will also hold the additional charge of SP (telecom).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-initiates-tranfers-postings-of-sp-level-ips-officers/articleshow/76471721.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: E-pass agency under pressure||CHENNAI: The 12-day lockdown imposed in Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet districts from Friday is giving the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency a tough time. Problems for the agency, which is working with one-third staff, have multiplied as companies and individuals have made multiple requests for passes. “Each organization is supposed to make only one application. In that they can include names of even 5,000 people, if those many are permitted to work. Instead, several companies are submitting multiple applications, even hundreds in a few cases, and that has choked the whole system,” a senior official with the agency told TOI. If one company has made 135 applications, in the case of another the company’s president and its security guard have applied separately. “Some of them have done this out of anxiety, while some others deliberately to get more employees to work,” the official said. A company had submitted seven applications, giving the total number of employees differently in each application. This way it had planned to get more than 10% employees to work in the districts, where lockdown is imposed. “Companies also submit registration number of vans but show them as cars. This way, they get to transport more people using that e-pass. Initially when lockdown was announced, we cleared all request for passes in two days and issued even 14,000 passes in one day. We trusted people and the job was easy. But with people now choking the system with multiple applications and concealing facts, verification is taking time. This has also put requests from genuine applicants in jeopardy,” the official pointed out. An overburdened system and delay in issuing e-passes resulted in chaos in the companies too. “Lockdown was announced on Monday evening, but the system to apply fresh e-passes was made available on Thursday evening. As a result, some companies were forced to shut down operations on Friday. Further, the agency need not have cancelled all the old e-passes and could have alerted about the one organization, one application policy - on the website itself,” an industry source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-pass-agency-under-pressure/articleshow/76473839.cms||D Govardan
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Man sleeping beside road among two run over by trucks in Chennai||CHENNAI: Two people were run over by trucks in separate road accidents reported at Madhavaram and Manali on Thursday. In an accident reported at Red Hills, a tanker truck ran over Mani, 44, a resident of Alamathi, when he stopped his two-wheeler at a traffic signal on Thursday. Mani fell off his bike when the truck hit him, coming directly under its wheels. He was killed on the spot. The Madhavaram traffic investigation wing police have registered a case and arrested truck driver Ruben Raj, 28, under Section 304 (A) (death caused due to negligent driving) of the Indian Penal Code. In another accident, Roshan Kumar, 19, a native of Bihar, died after a truck ran over him when he was sleeping beside a container weigh bridge at Andar Kuppam near Manali on Thursday. Roshan Kumar worked as a coolie and stayed at a rented house in Manali. The Manali police registered a case and arrested the truck driver, Murugan, 38, for negligent driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-sleeping-beside-road-among-2-run-over-by-trucks/articleshow/76473854.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||4 Madurai city women cops among five test +ve||Madurai: Five police personnel, including four women tested positive for Covid-19 in the southern districts on Friday. All four women are attached to the Madurai city police. A 31-year-old woman police constable attached to the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS), became the fifth police personnel in the city and sixth in Madurai district, to test positive. Following this, samples of 20 policemen, across ranks, attached to the unit were sent for testing the same day. Extensive disinfection measures were carried out at the BDDS building located in the Old City police commissioner’s office in South Avana Moola Street. The three others are a constable from the Town all-women police station and one each from the Subramaniapuram law and order and crime police stations. The stations were disinfected by corporation health workers and all their close contacts were isolated and tested for Covid-19. In Tuticorin district, a special sub-inspector (SSI) attached to the Eral police station tested positive for Covid-19. He is the sixth police personnel at the station to test positive. Tuticorin district superintendent of police (SP) Arun Balagopalan said the SSI who tested positive on Friday had tested negative earlier. Balagopalan added that the inspector of the station had tested positive Covid-19 on June 6 after contracting the infection from an acquaintance. Tests were conducted for his kin and other police personnel at the station, of whom his wife and three police personnel tested positive. “The inspector and three others were discharged. One more police personnel tested positive subsequently and is under treatment,” the SP said. “The SSI started developing symptoms and a subsequent test revealed that he tested positive,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-madurai-city-women-cops-among-five-test-ve/articleshow/76474597.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||TOI webinar answers queries of students on Delhi University online admission||LUCKNOW: If you are dreaming to study in Delhi University but are worried about travelling to the national capital amid the pandemic situation for admission formalities, do not worry. The university is adopting a contact-less admission process which will be online. Earlier, candidates were required to visit the university for document verification but this time, it would not be necessary. The online registration process for undergraduate courses will begin on Saturday, said DU’s associate professor and member of admission branch Prof Suman Kumar. He was speaking at ‘Mission Admission Webinar’ on ‘Delhi University Admissions - Way forward in Covid Times’. The webinar was live on TOI’s Facebook page on Friday. “As this is an extremely extraordinary time due to the pandemic, the university has decided to go for completely contact-less admission process. No student needs to come to the institution for admission. They need to visit only once classes begin. The window for the process will open from 10am on Saturday,” said Prof Kumar. After online registration, students will be required to upload documents. Since class XII results are still not out, candidates have to upload class X mark sheet, he added. For admission under extra-curricular activity (ECA) quota or sports quota, the university earlier held trials. However, the candidate will now not need to come but have to upload sports certificates if they have played international, national-level, state-level and district-level sport. Similarly, for music, candidates have to upload videos of his/her music instead of coming to the university. Kumar said the criteria and conditions for admission are the same as in previous years. DU has two types of admission process at undergraduate level: entrance test-based and merit-based. There are a few courses for which entrance test is held and it is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). This year, too, entrance test will be conducted by NTA but when and how is yet to be decided, he added. In case of merit basis, the university is planning to have five cut-off lists instead of six-seven like last year. “Thereafter, we will have a special drive only for candidates who were left out for one or the other reason and could not take admission in all five cut-off lists,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-webinar-answers-queries-of-students-on-du-online-admission/articleshow/76474436.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Speak responsibly in future, Madras high court tells DMK’s organising secretary R S Bharathi||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has said DMK’s organising secretary R S Bharathi should make responsible statements befitting his position. The court made the observation while reserving orders on a petition to cancel the bail granted by a subordinate court to the Rajya Sabha member, in a case registered for his alleged remarks against oppressed communities and judicial officers hailing from them. “Being in a responsible position, he should make responsible statements. Kindly advise your client not to make any derogatory remarks against any group of people in the future,” Justice N Sathish Kumar said to senior counsel R Shanmugasundaram on Friday. The judge also reserved his order on the plea moved by CCB challenging bail granted by a sessions court after Bharathi was arrested in connection with the case under the SC/ST Act. Earlier, challenging the bail granted by the sessions court, advocate V Raghavachari, who represented the defacto complainant Kalyana Sundaram of Adi Tamizhar Makkal Katchi, submitted that Bharathi was habitually making such derogatory statements. “Earlier it was against brahmins who constitute 5% of the population and now it is against members of SC/ST community who form 26% of the population,” Raghavachari argued. He is not a layman, he is a member of the Rajya Sabha and a practising lawyer and he is duty-bound to perform the fundamental duties of every citizen as enshrined under the Constitution. Noting that SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is a special legislation, he said the rule that bail is a right, and jail is an exception would not apply to offences under the Act. The power of investigating officer to arrest cannot be interdicted by a court of law, he asserted. Representing the CCB, additional public prosecutor K Prabakar said when people are granted bail in a causal manner without even giving opportunity to the complainant, it would set a wrong precedent. Recording the submission, Justice Sathish Kumar reserved the orders without mentioning any date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/speak-responsibly-in-future-court-tells-r-s-bharathi/articleshow/76473846.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Plan to hike health registration fees scrapped||Panaji: The health department has shelved its plan to double the registration fees at government-run hospitals and other centres such as primary and community health centres. It was proposed to hike registration fees to fund its ambitious comprehensive information data project worth Rs 85 crore to be unfolded in a phased manner spread over five years. The annual cost to the government on account to this project was estimated at Rs 17-18 crore, but health services could manage only Rs 5 crore annually. To match the shortfall, it was decided to hike registration fees. But with the government now deciding not to go ahead with increased registration fees, a health official said the project has been put on the backburner. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday tweeted that the order issued by under secretary (health) was kept in abeyance due to an error. The order will not be implemented. If the order was implemented, registration fees at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim and district and sub district hospitals would have gone up from Rs 100 to Rs 200. For primary and community health centres, it was proposed to hike it from Rs 20 to Rs 75. For foreign nationals, it was proposed to be hiked from Rs 200 to Rs 750. The revoked order had also stated that the registration fee shall be hiked annually at the rate of 10%. The health officer said the charges taken as registration fees from patients is minimal and hike was planned as it would have brought in much needed revenue for the department required for funding the project. “You cannot provide everything free to people. There are a lot of foreigners who stay in Goa for a long duration and they visit government hospitals for treatment. Many of them even visit the dental hospital for treatment,” he said. The comprehensive information data project, he said, if implemented will be very useful as it has a provision to issue cards to patients containing their whole medical history. Patients with that card can visit any government hospital and doctors there will be able to access their medical history. “As of now, I do not see the project taking off,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plan-to-hike-health-registration-fees-scrapped/articleshow/76473861.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two boys drown in farm well in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Two students drowned in an agricultural well while playing in Mancherial on Thursday . The deceased were cousins. Tandur SI K Sekhar Reddy said villagers searched in the 10-ft deep water and found the bodies late on Thursday night. The cousins had gone to the agricultural fields to safeguard the lambs when elders took the sheep out for grazing. When they did not return, the family grew suspicious and went in search of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-boys-drown-in-farm-well/articleshow/76473858.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tasmac looks to weed out MRP violations with stricter checks||CHENNAI: State-run Tasmac has intensified inspections in its outlets after reports of customers being overcharged by employees. The corporation has fixed targets for its inspection squads in a renewed attempt to curtail maximum retail price (MRP) violations. However, employees unions have questioned the rationale behind cracking down further while bar owners and a section of Tasmac officials were at to blame, besides unresolved administrative issues. Overcharging is a major grievance among tipplers, who shell out between Rs 10 and Rs 40 a bottle above the MRP. In a recent circular, Tasmac managing director R Kirlosh Kumar said each district manager must inspect 70 outlets a month, including 40 located in other districts. While special flying squad in each region must check 240 shops in their respective zones every month, senior regional managers should inspect 40 outlets and initiate action against those involved in selling liquor for rates above the MRP. Action against erring employees will be stringent, varying from transfers, penalty to suspension depending the value of the MRP violations. This is the seventh circular about the fraud issued by Tasmac in the past three years, though tipplers continue to complain about being fleeced. According to official sources, about 2,000 Tasmac employees were transferred in 2019 and fine of more than Rs 4 crore was collected. Some workers were also suspended for fleecing customers. “Now, district managers and officials will go to other districts for inspection,” a Tasmac official said. But employees unions wondered how successful such measures can be, since they had little impact in the past. N Periyasamy, president Tasmac Employees Union affiliated to AITUC, said employees need to bear the expenses of maintenance of shops and face adversaries from bar owners and some Tasmac officials, who pester workers to sell liquor for above-MRP rates. “If such grievances are redressed, MRP violations will end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tasmac-looks-to-weed-out-mrp-violations-with-stricter-checks/articleshow/76473875.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Cancer protection drive for 200 girls||Vadodara/ Anand: The medical fraternity and non-voluntary organisation are coming together to protect girls from cervical cancer in Anand. Nearly 200 girl students of Kasturba Kanya Vidyalaya will undergo vaccination under a mega drive that will be organised on Saturday. For this Sanjivani Trust, Anand, Charotar Education Society, Pramukshwami Medical College, Karamsad and more than 25 private practitioners of Anand have joined hands. “Human papilloma virus (HPV) is the main cause of cervical cancer. There are two vaccines that can help protect young girls against HPV. Although paediatricians have now started spreading awareness regarding the vaccines, many parents are still not aware that such a vaccine which is safe and effective, exists,” said surgical oncologist Dr Shailesh Shah, president of the trust, who is leading the drive that will continue till December. “WHO guidelines already recommend HPV vaccine to prevent infection with the virus which is responsible for most cases of cervical cancer,” he said. Doctors of Anand and the trust will bear 50% cost of the vaccine while the rest 50 % will be borne by parents. Shah said, such a mega vaccination drive is happening for the second time in Gujarat and first time in Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cancer-protection-drive-for-200-girls/articleshow/76471764.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Yogi Adityanath has freed west UP of criminals, cleared cane dues’||LUCKNOW: Sugarcane farmers from western Uttar Pradesh have thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for clearing the cane arrears and freeing the region of criminals. During an interaction with the CM at his official residence on Friday, farmers said his regime has put a check on anomalies in weighing of sugarcane and saved them from revenue losses. They also appreciated the launch of sugarcane app. Showering praise on Yogi, Arvind Malik, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, said, “Criminals have been dealt with sternly under your rule. Take care of your health, this country needs you for a long time.” He added: “For the first time, sugar mills did record cane purchases and for the first time in 40 years, the yield of sugarcane has increased by 20%. Paperless slips are available to the farmers with complete transparency through sugarcane app.” Thanking the CM, Vinod Saini, a farmer from Meerut, said even when all industrial units were shut during the lockdown, sugar mills in the state did not stop operations. “Besides, the sugarcane department has imparted training on new technology to cane farmers during the lockdown,” he said, adding that the way sugarcane price has been set for farmers, same should be done for vegetables too. Sudhir Tyagi, a farmer from Sambhal, said Yogi government has ensured timely crushing of sugarcane. “Farmers are the backbone of the country and you are our backbone,” he told the CM. Sikh farmers from Lakhimpur Kheri said the government has ensured delivery of cane slips at their doorstep and cane was also reaching the mills on time. Cane farmers of Ambedkarnagar, Pilibhit, Gorakhpur, Gonda, Kushinagar also praised the system of e-slip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-has-freed-west-up-of-criminals-cleared-cane-dues/articleshow/76474448.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||City bus services resume with hiked fares||Dehradun: A day after the state cabinet approved a hike in the fare, city buses resumed operations on Friday after staying off the roads for over two months. On the day, a total of eight city buses operated on different routes — including Dehradun to Doiwala, Parade Ground to Prem Nagar, among others — but none of the buses received more than a few passengers. Bus operators, reeling under losses, said that they will observe the situation for another week and hoped that the business gets back on track. They say that it was important to start operations as the commuters were being charged more than Rs 200 for short distances by other transport services. Speaking to TOI, Vijay Vardhan, president of Dehradun Mahanagar City Bus Sewa Mahasangh, said “We operated a few buses on selected routes on Friday so that people get to know that we have resumed services. We expect less passengers as college students and daily wagers are not travelling these days. However, our services will facilitate low cost intra-city movement for people.” The city bus operators informed that during the lockdown many of their staff members had started selling vegetables and doing other odd jobs. “Some of our staff members left their jobs to find other sources of livelihood. Now, we are trying to get them back but they say that they would return only when we start making profits,” added Vijay Vardhan. Meanwhile, the transport department will also start processing applications related to vehicle permit, submission of fine against challans, issuing of fitness certificates to commercial vehicles from Monday. The officials said that 20 applications will be processed in a day. For availing the services, an appointment can be taken at the help desk number — 0135-2743432.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/city-bus-services-resume-with-hiked-fares/articleshow/76471736.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nedumangad block panchayat wins Deen dayal Upadhyaya national award||Thiruvananthapuram: Nedumangad block panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district has been selected for Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar 2020 instituted by ministry of panchayati raj. The block panchayat has been receiving the award for last three years. The award carries a cash prize of Rs 25 lakh and citation. Mukhathala in Kollam is also selected for the award under block panchayat category and Sasthamkotta in Kollam has been selected for the award in grama panchayat category. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP) is presented to the best performing panchayat across the country in recognition of the good work that is done for improving delivery of services and public goods. Nedumangad block panchayat president B Biju said the innovative projects of the panchayat to improve the lives of people earned them the award. “We are happy that our efforts are being recognised again. Our achievements show that even block panchayats have a role to play in development. Our major initiative is to promote organic farming. The cleaning drive at Killiyar also was noted for the award. Our focus has been to improve the lives of people with innovative projects by conserving the environment. We were also able to earn profit from the incubation centre and organic farming which was returned to the block panchayat,” said Biju. The panchayat runs an agriculture incubation centre for value-added products from agriculture produce. A project ‘Athijeevanam’, a residential training centre, has been proposed in the panchayat. Around 65 people can stay at the facility and learn vocational courses. “After Covid crisis, we need to have a plan to create livelihood for people. So we started the Athijeevanam project related to agriculture and other vocational courses. Sustainable Agricultural Management and Rural Development Initiative for self-sufficiency in all sectors is also being taken up by the block panchayat,” added Biju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nedumangad-block-panchayat-wins-deen-dayal-upadhyaya-national-award/articleshow/76472833.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||South Goa reports 15 new cases, contact-tracing gathers steam||Margao: Fifteen fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in South Goa on Friday, deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida, said. Among those who tested positive for the virus are five from Ambelim, three each from Curtorim and Navelim, two from Shiroda but working in Curtorim, and one from Fatorda. A person who entered Goa from across the state borders is also among those who tested positive on Friday. Of the 56 people from Curtorim whose swab samples were tested as part of a contact-tracing exercise on Thursday, three turned positive. A priest from Curtorim, besides two people employed with the Curtorim-based doctor who had earlier tested positive, were found to be infected with the virus on Friday. As per the health department’s bulletin, the total number of cases in Curtorim has gone up to 12. Sources in the health department said the priest had visited the Curtorim health centre complaining of high fever, prompting health officials to take his swab sample for testing. “His report has returned positive. However, as he is now asymptomatic he has been admitted to the Covid care centre in Shiroda,” a health department official said. Contact-tracing of people who may have come in contact with the priest is under way. In neighbouring Raia, swab samples of all the people from Manora drawn on Thursday tested negative, though contact-tracing and random testing of people suspected to have been exposed to the virus is under way in the village, sources in the health department said. Sources said that the five people who tested positive in Manora are from the same family consisting of a large number of members residing in the same house. Though the rest of the members have tested negative, health officials are keeping a close watch on their health condition. On Friday, a team of health officials visited the house and educated the occupants about personal hygiene and other precautions they need to take to prevent infection. Health department personnel cautioned against lowering the guard against the virus in Raia after most of the samples tested negative. “Negative results sometimes drive people into a false sense of security. Precautions like wearing masks and social distancing should be religiously followed even if one tests negative, as there’s every possibility of anybody getting infected any time,” a health official said. The official, however, urged people not to panic and to see a doctor only if one develops symptoms. In most cases, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients get rid of the virus without any treatment and, oftentimes, even without their own knowledge, the official said. In Chinchinim, five more persons tested positive during a contact-tracing exercise after a priest from Ambelim was found to be infected. A person from Fatorda who was admitted to a private hospital for treatment was also among those who tested positive on Friday, Dr Almeida said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-reports-15-new-cases-contact-tracing-gathers-steam/articleshow/76473883.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||CM approves Rs 11.25 crore to purchase 3 machines for Covid-19 testing||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday approved Rs 11.25 crore for the purchase of three Covid-19 testing machines. The machines would be used to increase testing at Dehradun, Haldwani, and Srinagar Medical College in Pauri Garhwal. Each of these machines will have a capacity to conduct 800 tests per day. Consequently, the state would be able to test 2,400 more samples per day after the machines are bought. At present, around 50-to-100 samples are being sent to Chandigarh for Covid-19 tests. A total of 300 samples from Haridwar, 300 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 100 from Nainital are also being sent to Delhi for lab tests. In Uttarakhand, sample testing is being done at four locations and efforts are underway to bring 11 more Covid-19 testing machines in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-approves-rs-11-25-crore-to-purchase-3-machines-for-covid-19-testing/articleshow/76471751.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Helpdesk for Covid-19 cases in all hospitals||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed setting up of a Covid-19 helpdesk at primary and community health centres. “Through Covid helpdesk, thermal screening will be done after identifying symptoms. Infrared thermometer and pulse oxymeter will also be available at the helpdesk,” said principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad. He said the CM had also directed that available resources of ambulances should be properly utilized. “PPE kit, mask sanitizer etc. should be provided to ambulance staff. The ambulance should reach the location on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/helpdesk-for-covid-cases-in-all-hosps/articleshow/76474450.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Harbour shut in Tuticorin as trader tests positive||Tuticorin: The busy Tuticorin fishing harbour wore a deserted look as it was closed for three days from Friday for disinfection work. The measure was taken after a trader who visited the harbour few days ago, tested positive for Covid-19. A fisheries department official said they were instructed to close the harbour on Friday and Saturday for cleaning purpose and that it will be open as usual from Monday. “Tuticorin Corporation workers carried out disinfection work all over the fishing harbour on Friday morning,” the official said. Boat owners said there are 240 mechanised boats that are the only source of income -- directly and indirectly -- for more than 10,000 people and their families. The harbour had remained closed for more than two months due to lockdown. Later, the fisheries department and boat owners agreed to send 120 boats for fishing on a day. This gave opportunity for each boat to go fishing thrice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/harbour-shut-in-tuticorin-as-trader-tests-positive/articleshow/76474599.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Vijay fans paste posters of ‘future leader’ ahead of actor’s birthday||Madurai: Fans of actor Vijay have covered the walls in the city with the film star’s posters ahead of his birthday falling on June 22. Some of the posters herald him as ‘the future leader’ and the ‘saviour of Tamils’. It is expected that more such posters will crop up in the next few days. Two years ago, the actor’s fans in Madurai had come up with similar posters on his birthday. Some of them had claimed that he would make an important announcement on his birthday. This created a flutter in the political circles, but it was later clarified they were just posters by some overenthusiastic fans. The posters also have images of actors Sivaji Ganeshan and Kamal Haasan in them. Pictures of actor Rajnikanth, though, were conspicuous by their absence. “Rajini is not important to us now,’’ said Kumar, a fan.The fans said that with movie theatres not functioning, these posters were the only way by which they could show their love for their favourite star. ``We hope everything gets back to normal and we are able to watch him on screen soon,’’ they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vijay-fans-paste-posters-of-future-leader-ahead-of-actors-birthday/articleshow/76474600.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man rapes 5-year-old daughter in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old man on Thursday allegedly raped his five-year-old daughter by penetrating a wood piece in her private parts, leaving her bleeding profusely. The incident happened in a slum near Sola. “The girl and her three sisters were at their home with their father. Their mother, a daily wager, had gone out to seek some work to feed her four daughters,” said inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police. “The accused took away his third daughter out of their house to a secluded place where he inserted a wooden piece in her private parts. His second daughter, 9, saw his father taking out her younger sister and brining her back after some time. At that time, she was bleeding,” said Jadeja. The incident took place at around 4.30pm and her mother came back at around 5pm when she saw the survivor crying. The mother then found that the girl was bleeding excessively. Scared with this, she first gave her a bath and then took her to the Civil Hospital in Sola, police said. When the mother asked the accused about the incident, he told her that he had inserted a wood piece into her. Later, a medico-legal case was filed at the Civil Hospital in Sola and the police registered an FIR of rape on Friday. Jadeja said that the accused fled from the home after the incident. The girl is presently admitted in the Civil Hospital and her condition is stable. “According to the woman, her husband ill-treats his other daughters too and even tried to rape them in the past,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-rapes-5-year-old-daughter/articleshow/76473885.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Salaries, pensions, interest payments form 51% of its revenue expenditure||Thiruvananthapuram: An interim report submitted by a committee appointed by government to rationalize revenue expenditure in the state has found that salaries, pensions and interest payments form around 70% of total revenue expenditure of the state. The salaries of government employees alone forms 30% of the expenditure, and these three components together contributed to 51% of the increase in total revenue expenditure of the state in the last 10 years. The report, prepared by the team led by Centre for Development Studies director Sunil Mani, has found that the average salary of a state government employee has almost doubled over the last seven years, from Rs 25, 458 per month in 2011-12 to Rs 49, 657 per month in 2018-19. The salary accruing to teachers at aided colleges, schools and polytechnics account for about a third of the total salary bill of the state, though there has been a significant decline in the growth rate of the salary in this sector, the committee found. The pensions are eating up a significant revenue expenditure too. While the state has only 46% population when compared to Tamil Nadu, which has the highest absolute amount of pension payments among the states, Kerala’s absolute pension figures are 69% of that of Tamil Nadu, the committee observed. Around 65% of public-sector employees are concentrated in education, police and public health, of which the education sector alone forms 46% of the total number of government employees. The committee found that around 25,000 people join the state government service every year, and if the state government consider paying only 75% of the emoluments during the probation period, around Rs 66 crore can be saved. According to the budget figures for 2020-21, the state is estimated to spend Rs 73,845 crore on payment of salaries, pensions, and interest. This is 4% higher than the revised estimate of 2019-20 (Rs 70,903 crore). These committed liabilities eat up 64% of the state’s revenue receipts. The committee also found that a lot of built-up spaces are lying unused under government departments and organisations. An inventory of all properties under with government should be maintained and unutilized spaces can be used optimally across departments and organisations instead of taking new office spaces on lease. The recent decision of the government to occupy a new space in a private building on lease for Rebuild Kerala Initiative had invited staunch criticism. Construction of new office buildings shall be frozen for the next two years, the committee said. The committee also consists of additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh, principal secretary (urban affairs) Biswanath Sinha, secretary (expenditure) Sanjay Kaul and Kerala public expenditure review committee secretary M Chandra Das. The committee was constituted in the wake of widening of the gap between state government’s revenue expenditure and revenue income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/salaries-pensions-interest-payments-form-51-of-its-revenue-expenditure/articleshow/76472847.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Police grapple with pandemic as 868 of them infected so far||Madurai: The death of a police officer in Chennai from Covid-19 and at least 868 personnel testing positive for the disease across the state have shaken field-level personnel and officers alike in the police force. Many have been cured and are back on duty, but officers have been motivating their personnel to be ready to face the unknown enemy.On Friday, four policewomen in Madurai city tested positive, taking the count in the city police to eight. South zone IG K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran said 12 police personnel serving in the 10 southern districts have tested positive so far. They include six from the Eral police station in Tuticorin.“Extensive sensitization helped prevent the spread. They were asked to cultivate the habit of not touching their face even if it is itching as nose, mouth and eyes are the entry points for the virus,” the IG said. Precautionary measures such as aerial surveillance in containment areas (instead of physical checking) and using PPE kits while shifting accused to prisons and courts also helped.Despite handling more than 30,000 migrants – 15,000 from Tirunelveli city to other states and as many returning from Maharashtra and Chennai – Tirunelveli city police have so far managed to maintain zero positive cases. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) A Saravanan said that nearly 40% of the public were not even wearing masks. “We have asked field personnel to maintain social distance during arrest, avoid close contacts with the accused and petitioners and use a van instead of their station four-wheelers for arrests,” he said.Thermal scanners and oximeters have been made available at the city police office and in police stations to screen visitors to ensure safety of the personnel. PPE kits have been provided to personnel on duty at vulnerable spots. In Trichy, the official driver of DCP (crime and traffic) R Vetharathinam tested positive on Friday. Commissioner of police V Varadharaju said the man got infected through his relative from Chennai who stayed in his house. Samples of 24 people of his family and contacts were lifted for testing. A TSP battalion constable in the city tested positive a few days ago through a Chennai contact.Eight police personnel are infected in the eight districts in the central region. “We are advising police personnel to wear mask, maintain social distancing and go for check-up in case of symptoms,” IG of central zone A Amalraj said.(With inputs from V Devanathan and R Gokul)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-grapple-with-pandemic-as-868-of-them-infected-so-far/articleshow/76474601.cms||M K Ananth
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Murder accused flees from GMCH||AURANGABAD: An inmate of the Aurangabad central prison complained of severe chest pain even after a jail doctor gave him some medicine and escaped soon after being brought to the GMCH here on Friday morning. Hiralal Jadhav, superintendent of Aurangabad Central Prison, said that two prison guards deployed at GMCH have been suspended for dereliction of duty. The incident has raised eyebrows as two prisoners, including a murder accused, who had tested positive for Covid-19, escaped from a covid facility on May 7. While one of them has been re-arrested, the murder accused is still at large. In Friday’s incident, Imran Baig (32), an under trial murder accused escaped around 5.45 am from ward number 13 of the GMCH after staging a drama of severe heart pain, said police. According to a complaint lodged by prison guard Rahul Rathod with the Begumpura police station, Baig, a resident of Kabranagar, was behind bars since March 17. He was arrested along with his accomplice in a murder case. Inspector Sachin Sanap said that Baig complained of severe chest pain and breathlessness on Thursday. “Initially, the doctor posted at the prison gave him medication. However, the accused claimed that the pain did not subside, following which he was brought to the GMCH,” he said. The officer said that the guard removed Baig’s handcuffs after he said he wanted to go to the washroom and was locking the handcuffs with a rod of the cot, he complained of severe chest pain and breathlessness. “Fearing that the accused may die of a heart attack, the prison guard rushed to call a doctor. However, by the time he returned with the doctor, the accused had fled with the handcuffs,” added Sanap while citing the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/murder-accused-flees-from-gmch/articleshow/76471782.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Cluster of Covid-19 cases emerge at Appu Ghar||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 45 Covid-19 cases till date, Fishermen’s Colony near Appu Ghar has emerged as a hotspot in Vizag cityOn Thursday night, 18 of the 25 new Covid-19 cases in Vizag were reported from near Appu Ghar, while another 10 cases were reported on Friday evening. The area is also part of the containment zone in MVP Colony under Zone II of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), that was marked off after a tea stall owners and two of his family members tested positive on June 12. Fourteen persons from Appu Ghar had tested positive on Wednesday. Speaking to TOI, chief medical officer of the GVMC, Dr KSLG Sastry said Appu Ghar is a high population density area, with people living in close proximity in congested lanes. “We suspect that Appu Ghar might see more cases in the coming days,” Dr Sastry said. “We have been taking various measures, including door-to-door survey to identifying symptomatic cases and to prevent the possible spread of the virus at Appu Ghar and are also conducting Covid-19 tests to all suspected people to identify virus-infected people at an early stage. On Friday, we have collected over 100 samples from Appu Ghar and will also collect samples on Saturday. Our prime focus is to identify all infected patients at an early stage to shift them hospitals for quick recovery from the virus without any casualties,” Sastry added. MVP Colony police led by Inspector Ch Shanmukha Rao said they have installed barricades to close entry and exit points to the area even as people in neighboring localities have barred the entry of persons from the containment zone. With the rising number of cases, the containment zone which was initially spread over 200 meters has now been extended to 500 meters and action will be initiated against those who violate and open shops and people found wandering on the roads, Rao said. GVMC officials said the fish market and other markets in Appu Ghar have downed their shutters following instructions and people requested to maintain social distancing and wear masks. Officials in the GVMC and health department said Appughar has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city after Dandu Bazaar, which witnessed an outbreak in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/survey-undertaken-in-densely-populated-area/articleshow/76472843.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: MMRDA will advertise for 12,000 jobs as workers left||MUMBAI: MMRDA will start recruiting 12,000 labourers to replace those who were working on infrastructure projects in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) but left. A Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority spokesperson said, “We had 15,000 labourers at camps of projects in April. Over the last month, around 12,000 left, leading to a shortage of skilled and unskilled labour.” MMRDA has decided to advertise, the spokesperson said, adding, “We need around 9,000 skilled labourers, including 3,500 steel bar-benders and 500 welders.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had urged infrastructure agencies to advertise so that ‘bhoomiputra’ (sons of the soil) are aware of employment opportunities in their city and state. The spokesperson said, “People from Maharashtra and outside, willing to work on these projects, can contact MMRDA or the contractor. We hope to get a good response and will be able to resume work in full swing.” MMRDA is executing 10 Metro projects, besides Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) and other roads and flyovers in MMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-will-advertise-for-12k-jobs-as-workers-left/articleshow/76473924.cms||Manthan K Mehta
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Black Friday: 2 brothers, their 4 children found hanging in Ahmedabad flat||AHMEDABAD: In the early hours of Friday, the city police were confronted by a grisly scene in a Hathijan flat: six decomposing bodies, of two men and their four children, hanging from the ceiling. Police said it appeared that the men — Amrish Patel, 43, and his brother Gaurang Patel, 38 — killed their children and then committed suicide. The brothers had two children each.  The deaths occurred at Gaurang Patel’s flat in Prayosh Residency on Hathijan Ring Road. Police have not yet determined the reason for the brothers’ actions. Amrish and Gaurang Patel spared their wives — Jyotsna Amrish Patel, 40, and Hetal Gaurang Patel, 32. Inspector D R Gohil of the Vatva GIDC police station said that if the families were passing through a financial crisis, all members might have been pushed to the brink. “One of Amrish Patel’s dead son was 12 years old and the other was 9,” Gohil said. “Gaurang Patel’s son was also 12 years old and his daughter was 7. The brothers were found hanging in the hall of the one-bedroom flat.” Gohil went on to say: “Two children were found hanging in the kitchen and the other two in the bedroom.” Gohil said investigators have found two junk food containers and four empty paper cups in the flat. “The children might have been sedated before being hanged by their fathers,” Gohil said. “We have sent the bodies for postmortem examinations and have registered a case of accidental deaths.” The examinations will be conducted by a panel of doctors. “After we receive the reports, we may add the section of murder against the two men,” Gohil said. Unfolding of the tragedyAccording to police, Gaurang Patel and his family lived in the Prayosh Residency flat until about three years ago when they moved into a rented house in Hathijan. Gaurang Patel used to work as a fabric checker at a private company and Amrish Patel drove a cab till about a week ago. “Amrish had quit being a cab driver and started working as a fabric checker, just as Gaurang did,” said the men’s sister, Pallavi Patel. “They had told their wives that things would be fine as businesses had resumed operations. Gaurang and Amrish were close to each other and loved their families.” Pallavi Patel said that on the morning of June 17, her brothers told their wives they were taking their children for a long ride. “Amrish took his children in his car and Gaurang took his kids on his scooter,” she said. “They did not return. On the night of June 18, other members of the family went to Prayosh Residency to check.” She said the brothers’ vehicles were parked outside the complex. “The flat’s door had been locked from inside,” she said. “We informed the neighbours and police. Cops broke open the door and discovered the bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/black-friday-6-bodies-found-hanging/articleshow/76473912.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: GB Nagar leads biggest corona surge, tally 16,600||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh recorded 817 novel coronavirus infection positive cases in 24 hours, taking the total to 16,645. This was about 30% more than 630 cases reported on Thursday. The surge is largely attributed to Gautam Budh Nagar where a whopping 151 cases were recorded. With this the total for NCR district reached 1,351. The neighbouring Ghaziabad saw 36 cases which took the total to 774. In fact, the 10 western UP districts account for 41% (340) of the day’s load. Additional Chief Secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “The state recorded 817 new cases in 24 hours, while the number of persons discharged was 358. This leaves the state with 6,092 active cases.” Prasad also stated that while the total number of recovered persons reached 9,995, the Covid death toll had crossed 500-mark. “A total of 507 people have died so far. This includes the 19 deaths reported in 24 hours.” According to the official bulletin, five deaths were reported in Ghaziabad followed by Gautam Budh Nagar where four persons died. Agra and Kanpur, which account for the second and third largest chunk of cases in the state, saw three deaths each. Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ambedkarnagar and Etah saw one death each. The health department attributes the rising number of cases to the state's aggressive policy. “In all, 17,221 tests were conducted in the state since Thursday, while the number of total tests reached 5.32 lakh,” he said. The other districts with double digit entries included: Kanpur (46), Lucknow (31), Hapur (31), Bulandshahr (30), Barabanki (27), Saharanpur (26), Muzaffarnagar (21), Ghazipur (20), Sultanpur (20), Mathura (19), Budaun (18), Varanasi (17), Sambhal (17), Rampur (16), Agra (15), Firozabad (15), Mainpuri (15), Shahjahanpur (14), Etawah (14), Jaunpur (13), Amroha (13), Pilibhit (11), Chitrakoot (10) and Unnao (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gb-nagar-leads-biggest-corona-surge-tally-16-6k/articleshow/76474458.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad registers 122 +ve cases in a day||Aurangabad: As many as 80 men and 42 women tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 3,238. Eight more people have succumbed to the viral infection between Thursday and Friday, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 178 in the district. Kanan Yelikar, dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said that as many as seven people died of Covid-19 in the hospital between 5pm on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday. In addition, a 58-year-old woman from Mukundwadi died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Friday. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said that with the help of thermal guns and pulse oximeters, they have screened 34,323 households in the city and 57,422 people above the age of 50. All the data has been fed into the ‘Majhi Health Majha Haathi’ mobile application. The civic administration has been appealing to people to cooperate with the health teams and furnish the correct information. With the help of the mobile application, those aged 50 years and above are being screened so as to detect the infection at an early stage. The step has been taken to reduce the fatality rate in Aurangabad. The AMC further informed that pharmaceutical company Cipla has offered to conduct 10,000 Covid-19 tests in Aurangabad city for free at Metropolis lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-registers-122-ve-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76471792.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 20, 2020||Pune||Granny’s liver gives life to seven-month-old in Pune||PUNE: A seven-month-old baby boy weighing 5.8kg successfully underwent a living donor liver transplant at a city hospital on May 27, making him perhaps the youngest patient in the city to undergo this procedure. The boy was diagnosed with a rare metabolic disorder called tyrosinemia four months after his birth. “His liver functioning worsened rapidly within 15 days of diagnosis. He slipped into an acute liver failure due to tyrosinemia and suspected hepatocellular carcinoma,” transplant surgeon Gaurav Chaubal told TOI. The complex surgery was carried out after the blood group of the boy matched with that of his grandmother (47). She then donated a portion of her liver (120 grams) to the infant, who had been on a supportive treatment for a month prior to the procedure. The infant showed continued improvement after the transplant and was discharged on June 10. “The liver in a normal six-month-old child is about 3% of his/her body weight, which comes to about 200 grams. We removed the baby’s diseased liver and fitted a liver graft of 120g, almost the size of a chikoo, taken from his healthy grandmother. The baby, who is youngest in the city to undergo this procedure, is doing fine now,” Chaubal said. The complex surgery took over 12 hours and was carried out at the Jupiter Hospital in Baner by a team of transplant surgeons headed by Chaubal. The portion of grandmother’s liver fitted in the baby started secreting the critical enzyme soon after the transplant, he added. The other member of the team were transplant surgeons Aditya Nanavati, Apurva Deshpande, Hunaid Hatimi and Suryabhan Bhalerao.The child was managed medically by paediatric gastroenterologists and hepatologists Vishnu Biradar and Pavan Hanchanale In a living donor liver transplant, a portion of a donor’s liver is removed and used to replace a patient’s diseased liver. After surgery, the donor’s liver regenerates back to full size while the patient’s new liver also grows to normal size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grannys-liver-gives-life-to-7-mth-old/articleshow/76473931.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vattiyoorkavu VHSS to get new building||Thiruvananthapuram: Minister for education C Raveendranath inaugurated foundation stone-laying ceremony via videoconferencing for a new building of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Vattiyoorkavu, on Friday. The building is constructed as part of ‘save general education campaign’ of the government. “Major developments are taking place in general education sector in connection with the save general education campaign. And special focus is given to improve basic infrastructure of the school. Online classes have been started so that the students do not miss academic year,” said Raveendranath. A project worth Rs 3.31 crore has been taken up to improve the infrastructure of the school in association with KIIFB. The two-storey building will be constructed in 1,302 square metres. It will have 12 classrooms, four laboratories and two staff rooms for teachers. MLA V K Prasanth said as the fund will not be sufficient for constructing the building, MLA fund will be utilised to complete the construction. “Nine projects will be started in schools in Vattiyoorkavu. As the road widening work at Vattiyoorkavu, will include a portion of Government LP School, it is proposed to shift the Higher secondary school by improving the infrastructure here,” said Prasanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vattiyoorkavu-vhss-to-get-new-building/articleshow/76472856.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Total lockdown in Ongole from Sunday||Amaravati: Prakasam district collector Pola Bhaskar has declared complete lockdown in Ongole town for 14 days from Sunday. With many areas in Ongole city already declared as containment zones, the district administration felt that there was no way except to go back to lockdown to contain the virus spread. A similar situation is prevailing in many districts where positive cases numbering in double digits have been reported in a day. Chirala town in Prakasam district reported 16 cases in a day prompting the local administration to tighten traffic movement. Tadepalle town in Guntur district too has become a hotspot for Covid-19 cases as it is regularly reporting a high number of cases. District and state administrations have voiced concerns over the rise in cases as it is home to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and senior officials regularly visit the CM’s camp office to attend review meetings. Legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy had wanted the district administration to restrict people travelling to Vijayawada city markets suspecting it was the reason for spike in Covid-19 cases. Tadepalle is one of the areas which had enjoyed green zone status till lockdown-4.0. Sources said the failure of the officials in enforcing quarantine rules on the returnees from other states is resulting in a spike in cases. Although officials are collecting samples from the returnees from other states, they are failing to keep them either in institutional or home quarantine. Unmindful of the consequences if they test positive, people are continuing to move about even after giving samples and becoming super spreaders by the time the test results are out. For instance, an IT professional working in Bengaluru visited his native place near Vinukonda last week. Instead of staying at home, he went to Hyderabad and brought his pregnant sister back home. Both were screened for Covid-19 at the border. He is reported to have met many people before returning to the village. After four days, the IT professional and his sister were tested positive. Now, officials are running from pillar to post to trace their contacts in the village, Vinukonda, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/total-lockdown-in-ongole-from-sunday/articleshow/76472857.cms||Samdani MN
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 31 districts under Centre’s job scheme||LUCKNOW: At least 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh which have received 25,000 or more migrants during lockdown will be included in the Centre’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan scheduled to be launched by PM Narendra Modi on Saturday. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will participate in the programme via video conferencing. According to officials, the scheme aims at providing employment for 125 days in 25 sectors and will be rolled out in 116 districts across the country which have 25,000 or more migrants. The Centre has allocated Rs 50,000 crore for the implementation of the scheme. The districts of Uttar Pradesh where the scheme will be rolled out include Siddharthnagar, Prayagraj, Gonda, Maharajganj, Bahraich, Balrampur, Jaunpur, Hardoi, Azamgarh, Basti, Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Kushinagar, Sant Kabirnagar, Banda, Ambedkarnagar, Sitapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Ayodhya, Deoria, Amethi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Unnao, Shrawasti, Fatehpur, Mirzapur, Jalaun and Kaushambi. At least 30 lakh migrants returned to the state during lockdown. The state government has initiated a major programme to generate employment for migrants after creating a database of their skill sets. It has also signed MoUs with four industry bodies for generation of 11 lakh jobs within a year. On Thursday, chief secretary RK Tiwari issued directions for setting up of helpdesks and starting career counselling sessions in all districts to provide jobs to migrants. The state has already set a record under MNREGA with more than 57 lakh unskilled workers employed in various projects each day this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/31-dists-under-centres-job-scheme/articleshow/76474466.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Covid death toll rises to 24 in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: With seven Covid-19 deaths in the southern districts, including two previous deaths which were officially included in the state medical bulletin, the official death toll in the region rose from 17 to 24 on Friday. The region also saw its highest ever single-day spike of 226 Covid-19 cases, including 15 imported cases, which took its tally to 2,985. The central region count touched 1,522 cases with 63 fresh ones on Friday. The five deaths new deaths were reported from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram. A 70-year-old man from Tirunelveli with coronary atherosclerotic heart disease (CAHD) admitted on June 14 in Thoothukudi MCH died on Thursday. In the other instance, a 63-year-old woman from Tirunelveli with co-morbid conditions died on Wednesday in Tirunelveli MCH. Apart from them, a 39-year-old man from Thoothukudi with coronary artery disease admitted on June 4 in Thoothukudi MCH died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/death-toll-rises-to-24-in-south-tn/articleshow/76474613.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Used masks discarded in open, DMC fines agency Rs 50,000||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the private agency which was outsourced for managing waste treatment in the city. During inspection, the officials had found that used masks and gloves were thrown openly at the transfer station which is against the standard operating procedure. This is the first time when the DMC has fined an outsourced agency so heavily. In addition, a private hospital and a commercial complex situated at the Haridwar bypass road were fined Rs 5,000 each for flouting norms during the anti-dengue drive. Meanwhile, the DMC has also established its disaster and flood control room for attending to complaints during the monsoon season. The officials in the control room will be taking calls from city residents between 7 am and 7 pm. City’s municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey has also picked nodal officers for coordinating the work. The officials, to be deployed in the control room on a rotational basis, have been tasked to extend help at the earliest. The sanitation teams have also been asked to carry out the work of cleaning the drains on priority so that rainwater doesn’t get collected. Besides, the nodal officers have been directed to keep their cell phones switched on round the clock for handling any emergency situation. The DMC has released landline number — 0135-2652571 — and toll free number — 18001804153 — for the residents in need. The ward sanitation supervisors have also been asked to attend to the complaints of the house owners on priority during the monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/used-masks-discarded-in-open-dmc-fines-agency-rs-50000/articleshow/76471810.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||HC upholds law banning animal sacrifice at temples in Kerala||KOCHI: The high court has upheld the constitutional validity of a state legislation that prohibited sacrifice of animals and birds at temples for propitiation of deity. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly upheld the constitutional validity of Kerala Animals and Bird Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968 after considering a PIL by Muraleedharan T of Kuthiravattom in Kozhikode and Vimal CV of Nellikode in Kozhikode. The petitioners had sought to declare the legislation unconstitutional and discriminatory. They had also asked for a court directive to the state government not to interfere with such religious practices. Central government has made an enactment removing the killing of animals for religious purpose from the ambit of offence as per Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, they had contended. In the judgment, the court said the intent of the 1968 state legislation is to prohibit sacrifice of animals and birds whereas the 1960 central legislation is to prevent cruelty to animals. The high court said sacrificing of animals for propitiating the deity was considered by the Supreme Court in many judgments and it was held that such acts are not protected under Article 25 (freedom of religion) unless they are essentials of the religion. The court also noted that though the petitioners had contended that other religions permit sacrifices and that there is discrimination, the counsel submitted that he is not pressing such an argument. Therefore, there is no need to advert the same, the judgment said. Further, the court also noted that no material on record substantiates which community under the Hindu or other religion requires killing an animal, for propitiating, if not personal consumption, in the manner required in the religion. The expression used in section 28 of the central legislation is ‘killing’ and not sacrifice and, therefore, the said provision is intended to protect the manner of killing by a particular community, but not for any religious purpose, the bench said while holding that there is no repugnancy between the central and state legislations. “Bearing in mind all these aspects, we have no hesitation to hold that there is no repugnancy in the two laws. The constitutional validity of the Kerala Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968 is upheld,” the judgment stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-upholds-law-banning-animal-sacrifice-at-temples/articleshow/76472879.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bidding by two Chinese firms for 10 mono rakes shot down||MUMBAI: MMRDA has scrapped the bidding process involving two Chinese firms for procurement of 10 monorail rakes, as they were “seeking changes in tender conditions”. It said the decision was not linked to tension on the border with China. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority decided to float fresh tenders under Make in India initiative. In March 2018, China’s CRRC Corporation Ltd and BYD had submit bids to supply train sets. In January, MMRDA decided to float fresh bids as a bidder was unresponsive. MMRDA said, “For the present bid, responses were received from two companies, both Chinese. They were continuously seeking revision in terms and conditions, and eligibility criteria, even after uploading of documents.” Metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said MMRDA did not want a Scomi-like situation, when it had to depend on foreign manufacturers even for spare parts of monorail coaches. “As the companies are dictating changes in tender conditions, MMRDA decided to search for technology partners in India and develop them in India. As we do not require large quantities, Indian companies can manufacture and supply them in less time,” he said. MMRDA had appointed Larsen & Toubro and Scomi Engineering (LTSE) consortium as contractors for monorail project in 2008. On December 14, 2018, MMRDA terminated the contractor LTSE “for failure to perform and fulfil contractual obligations”. Malaysian firm Scomi Engineering had failed to supply adequate rakes, hampering the project. In the current economic situation, due to Covid-19 and in line with Government of India polices to encourage Make in India schemes, it was decided to look for an Indian technology partner for development and long-term support. An MMRDA spokesperson said, “Considering this, we decided to cancel the tender and restart the process immediately, with revised eligibility criteria, such as manufacturing facilities should have been in India for 10 years on similar projects to enable participation of Indian companies.” MMRDA also decided to initiate dialogue with Indian manufactures like BHEL and BEML. It had floated bids on June 16, with the cost of each rake estimated at Rs 40 crore. MMRDA operates monorail services with five rakes at a 20-minute frequency between Chembur-Jacob Circle. Services were suspended since lockdown was announced on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bidding-by-two-chinese-firms-for-10-mono-rakes-shot-down/articleshow/76474039.cms||Manthank Mehta
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune police crack eight burglary cases following arrest of trio||PUNE: The Hadapsar police claimed to have solved eight burglaries and two vehicle theft cases following the arrest of three men with past criminal records and detention of their 17-year-old aide on Tuesday. The police have recovered stolen property, collectively worth Rs6.1 lakh, from them.Senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of Hadapsar police said the questioning of those arrested and their minor aide helped in detecting 10 cases. Seven cases were registered with the Hadapsar police, two with Mundhwa police and one case was with he Chinchwad police. The trio — Sunny Singh Dudhani (19), Akshay Soni (38), Birju Singh Dudhani (35) — were arrested in Phursungi by a team led by assistant inspector Sanjay Chavan. The minor, who also has a past criminal record, was detained the same day. Police said the two of the arrested were wanted in 20 to 25 criminal cases registered with Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune rural and Dhule police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-crack-eight-burglary-cases-following-arrest-of-trio/articleshow/76473952.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||NGOs distribute over 10 lakh rotis among migrants leaving on trains in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: After a long and anxious wait to get home, food may be the last thing on the mind of migrants boarding Shramik Special trains. A group of good Samaritans, however, is ensuring the workers don’t leave the city on an empty stomach by handing them packets of rotis, chikkis and dates, along with good wishes. The distribution drive is part of the Million Rotis initiative started on May 3 by Mercy Mission, a group of over 20 NGOs. Till date, they have served more than 10 lakh rotis to thousands of migrants taking Shramik Specials. They have tied up with railway authorities. The Million Rotis initiative is among several movements started by Mercy Mission to serve people during the pandemic. From providing rations to conducting the last rites of people who died during the lockdown, they have helped in many ways. Mohammed Ismail, a volunteer with Mercy Mission, said: “We hand over rotis, along with pickle and snacks, to migrant workers travelling by special trains. We also give them essentials like water bottles, sanitary pads and toothpaste to make sure their journey back home is comfortable,” Ismail told TOI. Volunteers get details of the trains and number of passengers by 7 or 8pm. The details are then passed on to their kitchens in Padmanabhanagar, Koramangala and Electronics City. “Our vendors make the rotis and they are taken to our packing facility in Basavanagudi, where they are packed in a hygienic and systematic way and transported to various railway stations,” explained Ismail, adding that 60 to 70 volunteers then hand out the packets. Sarah Ummer, another volunteer, said the initiative has seen contribution from many apartment complexes and individuals. “Many apartment residents would make extra rotis or send across theplas and other snacks,” she added. The movement also aimed to empower women who had lost their jobs for various reasons. “The women empowerment team of NGO Project Smile provided employment opportunities to women (cooking),” she said. Ismail said nothing beats the joy that’s visible on the migrants’ faces when they receive the roti packets. “These are the people who’ve contributed to building our city,” he added. Sarah said it is difficult to balance her family life and volunteer work, but it’s the least she can do for fellow humans during a crisis. “When God asks me what I did for humanity, I want to say I fulfilled my responsibility and didn’t sit back thinking someone else would do it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngos-distribute-over-10l-rotis-among-migrants-leaving-on-trains/articleshow/76473334.cms||Farheen Hussain
June 20, 2020||Surat||CCTV network keeps watch on Bharuch||Surat: Next time flouting traffic rules in Bharuch town will not be easy for the commuters. Like Surat, Bharuch police has launched the e-challan system to fine the traffic violators from June 16. The e-challan would be sent through SMSs. About 358 high resolution CCTV cameras alongwith automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) camera have been fitted at the strategic locations in Bharuch town to keep a hawk’s eye on the streets. According to the Bharuch police, the CCTV project has been launched and funded by the state government under the Vishwas (Video Integration and State Wide Advanced Security) scheme. Talking with TOI, superintendent of Bharuch, Rajendrasinh Chudasama said, “We have tried and covered all the strategic locations in the town under the CCTV network. It will also help the police in detecting serious crimes within the city limits.” A central control room has been set up at the Bharuch police headquarters, where a dedicated team will ascertain the type of violations. The superior cameras provides high definition footage, allowing the police to zoom-in and capture pictures of the registration number plates of the offender’s vehicles. The e-challan will be sent via SMS to the violator’s cellphone and a hard copy will be delivered through post to his or her’s registered address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cctv-network-keeps-watch-on-bharuch/articleshow/76472234.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Over 100 RTI appeals heard online in three days||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Chief Information Commissioner (MSIC) heard more than 100 cases online in the last three days. Meanwhile, the remaining benches are also gearing up to hear pending Right to Information (RTI) cases online. State chief information commissioner Sumit Mullick heard 109 cases in three days and passed over 50 orders. “Since Monday, we have been hearing cases online and it has been going on smoothly. All other benches too will do the same till further notice,” Mullick told TOI. With nearly 60,000 appeals and complaints pending with various benches, the online hearing process commenced after sustained pressure from RTI activists. While the headquarter in Mumbai is functioning under Mullick, the recruitment process to appoint commissioners for Pune, Nashik and Nagpur was stalled due to the pandemic. Presently, four commissioners are hearing cases for Pune, Greater Mumbai, Konkan, Amravati, Nagpur and Aurangabad. The information commissions will initially give preference to hearing appeals and complaints from non-essential services departments. “Most departments and staff are involved in the fight against coronavirus. So, we will gradually take up all departments,” added an official from the commission. However, the condition will not apply for urgent cases related to the Covid 19 which will be heard expeditiously. Appellants, who may not have access to the facility for online hearing, have been asked to approach the collector’s office with the notice so that the officials can make relevant arrangements. Former central information commissioner Shailesh Gandhi said that the number of hearings can increase on a daily basis. “This initiative will save time and money for appellants and PIOs since they would save a trip to the commission. This is a good opportunity to get the files scanned so that they could be accessed anywhere. This would also be a step towards paperless working,” Gandhi stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-100-rti-appeals-heard-online-in-three-days/articleshow/76473968.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 20, 2020||India||Jharkand moves SC to stop coal block auction||NEW DELHI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the auction process of coal blocks for commercial mining with the aim of achieving self-sufficiency in energy and boosting industrial development, the Jharkhand government moved the Supreme Court challenging it on the ground that the pandemic situation would not fetch market price and tribals would be devastated by commercial exploitation of coal mines. In a writ petition filed through advocate Tapesh Kumar Singh, the state government said the auction decision was illegal as there was no law to guide mining activities because of the legal vacuum created by lapse of the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Act, 2020, on May 14. The state said before taking a decision to open the auction process, the Union government failed to do a fair assessment of adverse social and environmental impact on the huge tribal population and vast tracts of forest land in the state as well as its residents. The state said, “The negative global investment climate prevailing due to Covid-19 is unlikely to fetch reasonable returns proportionate to the value of the scarce natural resource through the impugned auctions for commercial coal mining”. The Centre’s decision to start the process for auctioning 41 coal blocks for commercial mining is open for domestic as well as global firms under the 100% FDI route and is aimed at making India self-reliant in the energy sector. “If India is the fourth largest coal producer in the world, then why can’t we become the largest exporter,” PM Modi asked on Thursday and termed the decision a win-win situation for all. Jharkhand said before taking a decision to open the auction process, the Union government failed to do a fair assessment of adverse social and environmental impact on the huge tribal population and vast tracts of forest land||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jharkand-moves-sc-to-stop-coal-block-auction/articleshow/76474753.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 20, 2020||Pune||Mother held for leaving baby||Pune: The Kothrud police on Friday arrested a woman suffering from post-partum depression for abandoning her four-month-old baby girl near Chandni Chowk on Thursday evening. The woman, a resident of Ambegaon, has been charged under section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) of the Indian Penal Code. She was produced before the court on Friday and has been remanded to judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mother-held-for-leaving-baby/articleshow/76473983.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Sahjan’ a magic wand to snuff out malnutrition||LUCKNOW: 'Sahjan’ (Moringa oleifera), a common tree variety whose fruit is used as vegetable, would be planted in every rural household this year. During a review meeting, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked forest officials to let malnourished women and children benefit from the ‘sahjan’ fruit. He had said that the tree should be planted in rural areas close to households. Last year, the tree was planted in Dalit ‘bastis’ and economically backward localities. “This year, it would be planted on the premises of every rural household,” said sources. Sahjan is also called ‘miracle’ tree for its immense nutritional and medicinal properties. State nurseries have raised 1.2cr saplings of ‘sahjan’ this year. Microplans, made for every gram panchayat and urban local body has assessed the demand for over 55 lakh trees. A literature circulated by forest department said 283gm of sahjan fruits may have calcium equivalent to four glasses of milk; vitamin C equivalent to seven oranges; potassium equal to what is found in three bananas and iron three times more of spinach. Though ‘sahjan' clocked in less demand than timber yielding varieties of teak, eucalyptus and sheesham, it would be planted extensively. This year, 44 crore saplings of different tree varieties have been raised to meet the plantation target of 25 crore. Many people in rural areas cannot afford to eat veggies which are a rich source of nutrients. Sahjan’s leaves, fruits and flowers can all be cooked as veggies. The tree has an extensive use in Ayurveda. It can help cure liver disorders and has anti can prevent cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sahjan-a-magic-wand-to-snuff-out-malnutrition/articleshow/76474470.cms||Neha Shukla
June 20, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard cat found dead in Roorkee||Roorkee: A leopard cat kitten was found dead at Piran Kaliyar near Roorkee on Friday. The forest officials said an unidentified vehicle might have hit the wild cat while it was crossing the road. The officials said this the second case of wild animal death on road due to traffic movement after the imposition of lockdown. The forest officials have now sent the carcass of the wild cat for autopsy. According to officials, at 12.30 pm, some villagers informed them about the death of the leopard cat kitten. “As we reached the spot near Hakimpur Turra village, we found a 12-month-old leopard cat cub dead on Dhanauri-Bhagwanpur road. Prima facie, the cause of death seems to be a road accident. However, we have sent the carcass for the autopsy to confirm the exact cause of death,” Mayank Garg, ranger of Haridwar division, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-cat-found-dead-in-roorkee/articleshow/76471830.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Record one-day spike in Telangana as 499 test positive; three more die, toll 198||HYDERABAD: The rapid rise in Covid-19 cases continued in Telangana, on Friday with the state reporting 499 new positive cases and three deaths. The highest single-day spike took the total number of Covid-19 cases to 6,526. Telangana’s death toll now stands at 198. In another alarming development, neighbouring Rangareddy district recorded 129 cases — biggest 24-hour jump in a district other than the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits — on Friday. After a woman health worker at the Rangareddy District Health Office (DMHO) tested positive, the office was closed for two days and disinfection taken up. As many as 33 staff from the Kondapur area hospital too (also under RR district) tested positive along with some family members. A total of 95 samples were tested on Friday and results of another 15 samples are awaited. Across the state, 2,477 new samples were tested through the day even as 51 people were sent home. The total number of people discharged so far is 3,352. The GHMC area continued to report maximum cases — 329 of the 499 cases — prompting the medical health department to allow 18 private labs from Hyderabad to conduct Covid-19 tests. The fee for each test has been capped at Rs 2,200. But if samples are collected from the residence of a person, labs will charge Rs 2,800, a circular issued on this stated. Further, the Director of Medical Education ( DME) issued instructions to eight heads of departments at the Osmania General Hospital to attach their PG doctors to general medicine, the wing that takes care of Covid-19 treatment. Among those who tested positive for Covid-19 from Hyderabad was a woman IAS officer working in the GHMC circle. She is now in home isolation. So are the eight sanitation staff of GHMC (Kapra circle) who tested positive on Friday. In the BRK Bhavan, 12 people were found infected, with more people in the medical and health department. The list includes two woman officers. It is believed that a Tollywood producer too has tested positive for the coronavirus. Stressing that the state was prepared to deal with the spiralling numbers, director of health, Dr Srinivasa Rao, said that Telangana has identified 34 hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. “A total of 17,081 beds have been earmarked for Covid- 19 treatment of which 976 beds have been occupied. As many as 10,970 beds are available for ventilator support,” he said Meanwhile, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy wrote to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requesting him to send the Covid-19 patients among railway employees to the railway hospital at Lalapet and not to Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/record-1-day-spike-in-t-as-499-test-ve-3-more-die-toll-198/articleshow/76474465.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Police prevent child marriage in Nipani||Aurangabad: Timely action by Chikalthana police on Friday morning helped prevent a child marriage in Nipani village. A 13-year-old girl was rescued by police, while preventive action has been initiated against her aunt who played a key role in arranging the marriage with an 18-year-old youth. “Had the marriage been solemnized, an offence would have been registered against the minor and the boy’s parents along with all the guests who attended the wedding,” a police officer said. Assistant inspector Mahesh Andhale said, “We received information from our sources that a minor girl was being married in Nipani. Following this we rushed to the spot and brought everyone, including the minor, to the police station.” “The girl is a student of class VIII and hails from Ramnagar area in Mukundwadi and her parents are involved in picking garbage. Taking advantage of their poor financial condition, the girl’s aunt took her to the village and arranged the marriage,” he added. After being brought to the police station, women activists were roped in for counselling the parents and the marriage was called off. The girl has been sent to a hostel for minors where she will continue with her education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-prevent-child-marriage-in-nipani/articleshow/76471818.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: PPE the new attire for back-to-work residents||VISAKHAPATNAM: As offices, shops and showrooms gradually open up in the state, residents are getting used to a new kind of workplace attire. The dowdy PPE (personal protection equipment), meant for healthcare workers and those working at the frontline, has suddenly became the uniform for workers in other sectors. From barbers at salons to the concierge at luxury hotels, from sales executives at retail units to customer care officials at private service providers— PPE kits have become mandatory in sectors where customers and service providers come into close contact with each other. “We want to ensure that our staff and customers are safe. As it is we always used to keep a strict watch on hygiene and we wanted to enhance the hygienic environment within our premises. Now PPE kits are a must for all employees,” said N Harinya, owner of a well-known salon in Vizag city. In Andhra Pradesh, the use of PPE kits for workers other than those in the health sector was first introduced by the CISF and immigration officials at Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada airports when Air India started its repatriation flights. The use of PPE kits spread among employees of other sectors as lockdown restrictions eased and business resumed operations. However, people using these kits claimed that it would take some time to get used to the new attire. “It seems that the heat and humidity level around me is shooting up. It is really uncomfortable. Since we are not accustomed to such heavy attire, it takes more time to complete our tasks after donning the attire” said S Laxmi Devi, employee at a luxury hotel in Vijayawada. Cashing in on this opportunity, new PPE manufacturing units have sprung up in the state. With this, the price of PPE kits has also come within the reach of the common man. “In the pre-Covid-19 era only a few manufacturing units across the country used to produce PPEs. It cost between Rs 900 to Rs 4,000 depending on the quality. Now, you can get a locally produced PPE for Rs 150 to Rs 400. You can use it three to four times maximum. So, low price PPE kits were bound to appear in the market,” Adnan Sabuwala, a PPE manufacturer and distributor in Visakhapatnam told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ppe-the-new-attire-for-back-to-work-residents/articleshow/76472888.cms||Arpit Basu
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Distribution of free books in a limbo||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has not devised any strategy to distribute free textbooks to students from containment zones. The department does not have any data of such students nor any action plan to deliver books. According to PCMC’s administrative officer, Jyotsna Shinde, there is no way that the civic body can distribute textbooks to students from containment zones, neither have they devised any strategy so far. Such students would mostly be dependent on online learning if their parents have smartphones, and if they don’t, there's nothing that the civic body can do, she said. "There are over 1.60 lakh textbooks, which will be distributed for the 2020-21 academic year to the beneficiaries in corporation-run schools and aided schools. We have asked parents of such wards to collect textbooks from respective schools. The schools have already been provided with textbooks," she said. According to the PCMC’s education department, over 6,000 students would receive online learning. The rest would be provided with offline study material. There are around 40,000 students enrolled in 105 corporation schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-distribution-of-free-books-in-a-limbo/articleshow/76473998.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Shooting allowed in Satara||Kolhapur: Satara district administration has decided to allow shooting of television serials and films with certain conditions and have also warned of strict action in case of any violations. For the same, the administration has started one-window system for granting permission. They have also laid some ground rules for shooting teams such as wearing face masks on the sets, maintaining social distancing, avoiding scenes involving many people, using disposable items and sanitising all equipment used for shooting. In addition, the rules also state that people aged 65 and above will not be allowed on the sets. Satara district has been a favourite destination for shootings as it provides several spots for the purpose. Wai, Jawli, Mahabaleshwar and Patan are some of the preferred shooting locations in the district. Meanwhile, the influx of people from Mumbai and other places continues to give tough time to the local administration. The district has registered three coronavirus-related deaths in the past few days with all of them having travel history to Mumbai. A 61-year-old man died at his Wakalwadi residence in Phaltan tehsil on Sunday. The man had returned from Mumbai on June 14 and was asked for remain in home quarantine. After his death, local authorities conducted a swab test which later turned out positive. In another case from Shindewadi in Jawli case, a 40-year-old man died while being carried to a hospital in Karad. He showed Covid-like symptoms and was, therefore, being referred to the hospital. Local authorities also traced 18 high-risk contacts of the man and their swabs have been sent for testing, the reports of which are awaited. The third case involves a man from Hawlewadi of Patan tehsil with a travel history to Mumbai. He died while being in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shooting-allowed-in-satara/articleshow/76474023.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Caste, religious factors delay Calicut University VC pick||KOZHIKODE: The delay in appointing the new Calicut University vice-chancellor has brought to fore the spectacle of various caste and religious organisations coming out in the open in support of the different shortlisted candidates. Governor and chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan is yet to make a final decision even 26 days after the three-member search committee submitted two separate lists to him. The university has recently seen protests by the Campus Front and Fraternity Movement, saying the ‘varsity doesn’t want a Sangh Parivar VC’. Meanwhile, the state committee of the All India Confederation of SC/ST Organisations has petitioned the governor demanding the appointment of C A Jayaprakash, principal scientist at the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram. Jayaprakash belongs to the SC community and tops the list submitted by search committee member and Jawaharlal Nehru University vice chancellor M Jagadeesh Kumar. The Kerala Pulaya Maha Sabha also came out in support of Jayaprakash. This was after the state government and UGC representative in the search committee backed two different candidates in the lists submitted to the governor on May 18. The state government had backed Prof K M Seethi of the School of International Relations and Politics at the Mahatma Gandhi University who was preferred by two search committee members –– planning board vice chairman V K Ramachandran and the then chief secretary, Tom Jose. Higher education minister K T Jaleel, too, had conveyed to the governor the state government's preference for Seethi. However, Seethi retired from service on May 28 after turning 60, the age limit for being selected as VC. It is learnt that the state government has conveyed to the governor that Seethi is eligible since he was below 60 years of age at the time of submitting application. Meanwhile, the BJP and RSS had been lobbying for Jayaprakash, leaving the governor to make a choice between the two. “It is unfortunate that the selection to the top academic post in a varsity is being dragged to the streets on the basis of extraneous considerations like religion, caste and politics,” said syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/caste-religious-factors-delay-vc-pick/articleshow/76472914.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Preliminary report gives clean chit to train driver||AURANGABAD: The preliminary report of the high-level inquiry carried out by the railways in the Aurangabad train tragedy has given a clean chit to the loco-pilot of the goods train under which 16 migrant workers were crushed to death early morning on May 8. Highly-placed authorities in the railways confirmed that the internal inquiry has reached the conclusion that the loco-pilot had followed all the rules laid in the rulebook, including driving the train within the permissible speed limit, applying breaks and making efforts to prevent loss of life, and honking from a distance to alert the people on the tracks. When contacted, South Central Railway’s chief PRO Chilaka Rakesh said, “We have received the preliminary inquiry report, which will be sent to the division. Appropriate remarks will be recorded before it is received by the zone office for further action.” Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade said that the inquiry report had been submitted to the state government. Inspector of Karmad police in Aurangabad rural, where a case of accidental death had been registered, Santosh Khetmalas, said, “I have given three reminder notices asking technical details, including speed and other related facts of the train engine. We are still awaiting a reply.” Sources said that there were less chances of the case converting from an accidental death into a criminal offence. On May 7, the workers, employed with a steel plant, had started from Jalna to reach Bhusawal to board a train leaving for their hometown in Madhya Pradesh. They walked on the railway tracks to evade police. After covering a distance of about 40km, they were exhausted and decided to take rest before resuming their journey. 16 of the 20 migrant workers were killed in their sleep on the railway tracks after a goods train ran over them at Satana village, which falls in the jurisdiction of Karmad police station in Aurangabad rural. Four of them managed to escape with bruises as they were either sleeping outside the track or woke up following the commotion and managed to jump out of the tracks on time. Follwing the incident, the railways, the district administrations of Jalna and Aurangabad and the police carried out independent inquiries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/preliminary-report-gives-clean-chit-to-train-driver/articleshow/76471842.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 20, 2020||Pune||Deshmukh visits home of Sangvi murder victim||State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday visited Sangvi murder victim Viraj Jagtap’s house and assured his parents of stringent action against the suspects. He also handed over a cheque of Rs4.5 lakh as compensation to Jagtap’s relatives on behalf of the state government. Meanwhile, a woman was arrested from Mumbai on Friday for posting clips related to the murder on social media. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deshmukh-visits-home-of-sangvi-murder-victim/articleshow/76474013.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Crematorium staff work longer hours amid mounting bodies, fewer PPE kits||MUMBAI: At the end of his 48 hour work shift at the Oshiwara crematorium, Mahesh Chavan crashes inside a bus which takes another two hours to drive him to his Nalasopara home. He douses himself with water and flings his work things in a bucket before he can see his two kids. One of the three death register clerks (DRC) at the crematorium, Chavan used to work 24 hour shifts followed by two days of rest, until one of his colleagues took ill and has since been unreachable. "Work has increased multiple fold and we have less hands. From an average of 10 bodies being brought daily for cremation in pre-Covid days, the number has shot up to 25," says Chavan, as he scrutinises death certificates and makes entries in a register. The situation is no better at many other crematoriums in the city as deaths continue to mount. Compounded with hundreds of mourners who make social distancing a challenge and the unhygienic sanitation facilities at crematoriums, it is nothing short of a nightmare for these unsung frontline workers. At the Chandanwadi crematorium in Kalbadevi, workers hit the panic button when one of their colleagues tested positive for Covid-19. "But the rest of us were neither tested nor given a chance to isolate ourselves as we are short on manpower," said one of the staffers. At the two electric furnaces employing 12 workers in Chandanwadi, the number of bodies brought for cremation have gone up from 5 per day to 18. The staff is supposed to work for eight hours a day but end up staying back longer. "Many of us live in far flung suburbs and can't make it to work on time. The others have to fill in. Extended hours at the crematorium means standing near the hot furnace for even longer," said the employee who lives in a single room apartment with his old mother, wife and two children. The biggest grouse is insufficient number of PPE suits. At Chandanwadi, workers said they have none which is putting them at risk, while at Sion crematorium the suits are not in proportion to the bodies being brought. "PPE suits aren't mandatory at crematoriums as bodies of Covid-19 patients come from hospitals wrapped in plastic and have to be placed in the electric or gas pyre in the same condition. Our guidelines say a plastic apron, masks and gloves is sufficient, along with frequent hand washing," said deputy executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. But not every Covid case has been coming from a hospital. At the Dharavi crematorium, where Covid cases are refused as there is no electric furnace, there have been a large number of 'suspected Covid ' cases coming in. "We have been cremating suspected Covid cases on wood pyres without donning PPE suits, but there is really no saying what the cause of death of the patient could have been. Some of the death certificates produced before us raise questions. They are signed by doctors based out of Govandi or Mankhurd and one wonders how the doctor could have travelled so far to Dharavi to verify a person's death in the dead of night," said a DRC. Besides the 49 civic run crematoriums, Mumbai also has 20 run by private organisations. The fear of contracting Covid-19 is palpable among workers. Matunga resident Shankar Iyer, who had gone to the Sion crematorium for his brother's cremation, noticed that the electric furnace operator had fled. "All Covid cases had to be diverted to wood pyres which increased our waiting time even further," said Iyer whose brother passed away of a heart attack. Sion crematorium has been getting an average of 15 cases per day. The washrooms here, used by staff and visitors alike, are choked. "There were about a 100 mourners with one of the patient's bodies, saddling the crematorium staff with the extra responsibility of turning them away. The staff had bare minimum protection with the DRC wearing a kerchief on his face, instead of a mask. It was pathetic,'' said Iyer. Some crematoriums have reported instances of relatives vanishing after completing paperwork, leaving bodies behind for the crematorium staff to handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crematorium-workers-do-their-job-amid-mounting-bodies-lack-of-ppes/articleshow/76474475.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra stops testing bodies, says will ease painful delays for kin||MUMBAI: In a move aimed at easing procedures for the bereaved, dead bodies will no longer be tested for Covid-19 in Mumbai or other parts of Maharashtra, said a state government directive issued on Friday evening. The practice so far was to collect samples of all patients, including those who died in hospital before their swabs could be taken for testing. This was aimed at classification of every death as Covid-positive or -negative. However, there were complaints from relatives of the dead about delays in getting possession of bodies due to lengthy testing protocols. Also, the Centre earlier in the week had said that bodies of Covid suspects should be handed over to family members immediately. These factors prompted the state to expedite the procedure. A civic official said the clarification will reduce delays in handing over bodies to relatives for the last rites, relieve mortuaries, and lessen the testing load. State public health secretary Pradeep Vyas issued the directive saying no testing of the dead would be required henceforth. He said the reason that the public health department sought a test result was to trace the person’s contacts. Covid test on a body may yield wrong result: CentreHowever, Vyas’s letter said no testing of a dead body was required in such circumstances as contact tracing and testing of high risk contacts of a dead person suspected of being infected by Covid-19 is anyway done, it said. The Centre has said there is no scientific evidence as to how long the virus can survive in the dead body. “Hence the test may still lead to erroneous results,’’ said an official. “It is being done only for medico-legal requirements.” “Earlier, the rule was if a person died with Covid-like symptoms, their swab had to be collected for testing. This was for further processes in case it was positive. The new rule say all processes will remain the same, but swabs do not need to be collected,’’ said the official, underlining the impact it would have in reducing the time taken in completing procedures. On May 27, TOI reported how a security guard’s family waited for four days to be given his body. The guard, who had fever, died on a footpath while walking towards a hospital. The civic-run hospital refused to hand over the body, citing his pending report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-stops-testing-bodies-says-will-ease-painful-delays-for-kin/articleshow/76474747.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Less than 2% test positive for Covid in random sampling across 75 districts||LUCKNOW: A random sample surveillance exercise undertaken by the Uttar Pradesh government across vulnerable pockets of all 75 districts last week indicated that 1.8 % persons had active infection. A similar Indian Council of Medical Research survey released last week pegged that about 0.7% persons in 85 districts of India (including nine from UP) covered in the survey were exposed to Covid-19. “As many as 3,475 persons were tested of whom 65 or 1.87% were found to be positive to the pandemic infection,” said principal secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. He further said that no infection was found in 58 districts of the state. “The persons found positive belonged to 17 districts,” he stated. “The cases have been found from slum areas and districts have been asked to intensify containment activities,” he said. To note, the ICMR survey also revealed that covid-19 risk was higher in urban areas, particularly slums. Prasad said that in the wake of the cases in vulnerable pockets, including slums, old-age homes and protection homes for women and children, district officials have been asked to intensify the IEC, contact tracing and preventive activities in the listed areas. Aimed to see if Covid-19 was spreading to areas other than the containment zones, the exercise began on June 12 across all districts divided into three categories. While 100 samples each have been collected from 16 high-burden districts (total 1,600), 50 samples each are to be collected from mid-level burden 40 districts (total 2000) and 20 samples each in the remaining 19 districts. Public health expert Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “This is a welcome step and demonstrates the government’s commitment to proactively identify cases and take containment measures.” He expressed concern at the high percentage of positive cases from high burden districts. “The fact that 65 positive cases were identified through RT-PCR testing from just 1650 random samples in these districts indicate that 4% people have active infection there. This is alarming and calls for very strong containment measures in these districts.” He added that in low burden districts, the sample size is too small to assess the true burden. Therefore, we cannot draw any conclusions and more intensive testing is needed. The findings trigger another questions: Whether the positive cases are symptomatic? “If the cases were asymptomatic, the government will have to think about mass screening or testing like Delhi but if they had some symptoms, the awareness paradigm must work on encouraging self-reporting by people,” said Kumar, suggesting the cues given be used to improvise overall strategy for covid control to stay ahead of the impending risk. This is the second exercise undertaken by the UP government to assess covid-19 situation in areas outside the containment zones. The first one focused on 72 migrant dominated villages in 18 districts and found zero positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/less-than-2-test-positive-for-covid-in-random-sampling-across-75-dists/articleshow/76474480.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 20, 2020||Chennai||No OBC quota for medical seats in Tamil Nadu institutes, Centre tells Madras high court||CHENNAI: The Centre is unlikely to admit Other Backward Community (OBC) students under All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats in all government institutions unless the Supreme Court comprehensively settles the pending issue, the Centre has told Madras high court. Since 1986, OBC medical aspirants were being accommodated in AIQ seats in central institutions only, and not in all state government colleges, it said. Taking a dig at political parties before the court, the Centre said: “The method has been followed even when most of the petitioners (political parties) were in power through their alliance in the past.” A submission to this effect was made by the Centre, in response to a batch of PILs filed by major political parties, including the DMK, AIADMK and PMK. Pointing out that AIQ pool seats comprise 15% of all MBBS seats and 50% of PG medical seats surrendered by state governments to the Centre, these parties have been demanding 50% reservation for OBC students, as per the 69% reservation followed in TN. Assuming only the central rule will be followed for AIQ seat allotments, at least 27% of seats should be reserved for OBC candidates, they argue. Responding to the PILs, the Centre said it has been allotting AIQ seats for OBC beneficiaries only in central govt institutions, but added that in respect of SC/ST students, it has been extending the quota in all medical institutions. An affidavit to this effect was filed by the Centre before the Supreme Court, which is already seized of a batch of writ petitions seeking reservation benefits for OBCs. The case is slated to come up, again, for hearing on July 8, it said. To avail themselves of similar reservation benefits, these parties should be directed to get themselves impleaded in the pleas pending before the Supreme Court, the Centre said. As for the interim prayers of these parties to stall the ongoing admissions for PG medical courses, the Centre cautioned the high court against intervening in the process, saying it would adversely affect covid-19 treatment situation across the country. The director-general of health services conducted the selection for admission to PG medical courses for the year 2020-21 and declared the results on April 11 as per the scheme in force and in strict compliance of the directions of the apex court, the Centre said, adding: “Results for second round of counselling were declared on June 16 and candidates are in the process of reporting to the allotted institutions. Any interim order at this stage would affect the hospitals to which the selected candidates were allotted more particularly when there is shortage of medical staff due to Covid-19 pandemic. This apart, seats to medical courses should be filled within the time frame fixed by the apex court. Any interim order restraining the authorities from filling up the seats would affect compliance of the Supreme Court directive,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-obc-quota-for-med-seats-in-state-institutes-centre-tells-hc/articleshow/76474053.cms||Sureshkumar
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University gets new registrar in-charge||MADURAI: V S Vasantha, professor and head, department of natural products chemistry, MKU School of Chemistry, was appointed on Friday as registrar (in-charge) of the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU). She succeeds Sankar Natesan, who resigned recently. “Vasantha has been appointed only as registrar (in-charge),” vice-chancellor of MKU, Krishnan said. He also said that applications were already being invited for the post of full-time registrar with the last date for submission being July 3. An interview will be planned later.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-gets-new-registrar-in-charge/articleshow/76474616.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vijayawada||465 cases: Highest single-day spike in AP||Visakhapatnam: AP recorded a new high in daily Covid-19 cases with 465 new infections on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,961. Four more persons succumbed to the pandemic, two in Krishna district and one each in Srikakulam and Prakasam districts, raising the Covid-19 toll to 96. As many as 133 patients were discharged from Covid-19 hospitals. There are currently 3,960 active cases, with 3,905 cumulative recoveries. As many as 308 foreign returnees and 1,423 people from other states are among the 7,961 cases detected so far in the state. With positive cases on the rise, the recovery rate has decreased to below 50 per cent. Kurnool district crossed the 1,600 case mark on Friday with a total caseload of 1,630, including 405 cases who came from outside the district. The outbreak, which predominantly affected Kurnool and Nandyal divisions in the district, has been fast spreading to Adoni. Nearly 200 persons have been diagnosed with the virus from Adoni town. Meanwhile, Srikakulam officials said they would soon deploy labs-on-wheels on the state border to screen people arriving from other states. Three patients from a private hospital in Madhavapatnam of East Godavari tested positive for the virus. Visakhapatnam district reported 29 new cases, taking the district’s total to 382. A fisherman acquired the virus in the hitherto Covid-untouched Bheemili. The number of new infections have been increasing in Krishna, Guntur and East Godavari districts with each passing day. Srikakulam district, which took nearly 40 days to register its first case after the outbreak started in AP, has also turned into major hotspot by crossing the 400-case mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/465-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-ap/articleshow/76472922.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolhapur||CPR driver held for promising jobs in return of bribe||KOLHAPUR: The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested two state government employees in Kolhapur in two separate cases for taking bribe. In a press statement, the ACB said Rahul Pralhad Battewar (40), a driver attached with the Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Rugnalay (CPR)—the designated nodal hospital in Kolhapur for treating Covid-19 patients—promised to give jobs to two brothers as ward boys in the Covid cell of CPR. He sought a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the brothers. As per the complaint lodged with ACB, Battewar told the brothers that they would first be hired on contractual basis and later made permanent employees. The brothers, however, became suspicious of his motives and approached ACB. ACB sleuths laid a trap on Friday and caught Battewar red-handed when he was accepting a bribe of Rs 25,000 in the premises of the hospital. Police have also seized some documents of the hospital from Battewar. In another incident, Kallappa Sherhane, a clerk of Hupri grampanchayat, was caught while accepting a bribe of Rs 2,000. He had sought bribe from the complainant to make an entry of a borewell on a 7/12 extract of a local farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cpr-driver-held-for-promising-jobs-in-return-of-bribe/articleshow/76474050.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Explosives found near landslide site in Kerala||By- Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: Two days after a major landslide occurred on the Gap Road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway, officials recovered huge amounts of explosives under a rock near the site. Around 200 booster explosives (Kelvex-100) and detonators were found in a plastic bag under the rock. According to experts, these explosives could be used alone or in combination with booster sensitive water gel explosives. A large number of detonators along with column charge used for economical blasting were also found, said sources. Idukki district collector H Dineshan will hold a meeting at the collectorate on Saturday to discuss the incident. “Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran and NH officials will attend the meeting. The traffic on the Gap Road will resume soon,” Dineshan said. Meanwhile Rex Felix, assistant executive engineer NHAI at Devikulam, said the explosives found near the site were used for road widening work. “NHAI has been allowed to use the explosives for the road widening works,” he said. “The sensitivity of soil and the unstable formation of the rock with different layers caused the landslides. The report submitted by former Devikulam sub-collector Dr Renuraj was baseless and the official doesn’t know about the road construction,” Felix added. According to sources, use of large numbers of detonators and booster explosive would cause shake in the hills. "Detonators and boosters should be kept in a separate and portable wood magazine as it would explode if lightning strikes," the expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/explosives-foundnear-landslide-site/articleshow/76472954.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bareilly||Alleged al-Qaeda operative was first jailed for idol desecration, left job & became reclusive after that||BAREILLY: Inamul Haq, 28, a suspected al-Qaeda member arrested by UP’s Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), was booked and served a jail term in Uttarakhand for alleged idol desecration in 2014. While his family members continued to live in the hill state’s Pantnagar, Haq returned to his ancestral home in Bareilly and became reclusive. He also took up a job, but left it after a while. On Thursday, Haq was arrested from his house in the Quila area of Bareilly by ATS. He is a Class 12 dropout. His father, who died in 2007, was a lab technician at a university in Uttarakhand and his elder brother later got a job at his place. His mother, elder brother and younger sister still live in a residence allotted to them in the university campus. Haq lived with his younger brother, Muneer, at their family home in Bareilly. Muneer was also detained by ATS for questioning but was later released on Friday. Muneer is a science graduate and works at a private company in Bareilly. Neighbours said that Haq was reclusive and seldom came out of the house. On Friday, ATS was given remand of Haq by a court in Lucknow. Now, the agency is trying to trace people who were in contact with him. Sources say that Haq was in regular contact with several persons from Kerala and Kashmir. Explaining his modus operandi, an official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “He was active for over two years and used to mobilize youths using social media platforms. He used pseudo names, and used to scan the social media accounts of people to identify potential youths who have anger against the government and could be radicalized for al-Qaeda. Thereafter, he used to contact them through direct messages and meet them in person. The shortlisted youths were introduced to other operatives of the organisation.” He further said, “We are scanning his bank and all his social media accounts. His travel history within the country is also checked to identify his links with other al-Qaeda operatives in the country. We had also detained his brother and he was brought to Lucknow but during questioning we found that he didn’t have any information about his brother’s involvement in anti-national activities. He will be sent back to Bareilly by our team.” TOI tried contacting the members of the family but the house in Bareilly was locked. DIG Bareilly Rajesh Pandey told TOI, “ATS operates directly and doesn’t involve police until it is extremely necessary. This action was taken after gathering concrete information and ensuring that the person cannot be de-radicalized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/alleged-al-qaeda-operative-was-first-jailed-for-idol-desecration-left-job-became-reclusive-after-that/articleshow/76471884.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 20, 2020||Agra||Two dead as under-construction flyover collapses in Etah district||AGRA: At least two persons were killed when a section of an under-construction flyover fell on them in Etah district on Friday evening. A concrete beam crashed on a pick-up truck and a crane under on NH-91 at 7:30pm near Chachena village in Malawan area. Police and the medical team rushed at the incident spot and recovered two dead men trapped under concrete debris. Speaking to TOI, SP crime Etah Rahul Kumar said, “The reason behind the concrete beam collapse has to be investigated, but we found no safety measures at the construction site.” “Our teams have extracted the bodies of two men who were ferrying cattle fodder in a pick-up truck,” said SP Kumar. By the time this report was filed, rescue teams were searching for any possible person trapped under the collapsed structure. According to police, at least five men including labourers working at the construction site were injured. NH-91 is a four-lane project which will connect Delhi-Kanpur via Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-dead-as-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-etah-district/articleshow/76471890.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu minister K P Anbazhagan, 4 of his staff test positive for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu higher education minister K P Anbazhagan and four of his staff have tested positive for Covid-19. “I am fine,” Anbazhagan told TOI on Friday confirming that he had tested positive. On Thursday night, he had denied that he was ill, saying he had visited hospital for a check-up. But on Friday afternoon, Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted: “Just got to know that Shri @KPAnbalaganoffl has tested positive for Covid-19! I sincerely wish and pray to the God almighty for his speedy recovery. Hoping he gets healthy and well soon.” The news sent shockwaves among his cabinet colleagues as Anbazhagan is one of the six ministers overseeing coordination and relief work in city corporation limits. He handles Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur zones. Several people, including health minister C Vijayabaskar, who attended a review meeting with him on Wednesday, were tested as a precaution. Their results were negative. The minister complained of body pain on Thursday and felt uneasiness, said a close associate adding, “He does not have any problems now. Everything seems to be fine.” “His CT scan is normal,” said another source. Anbazhagan is the third prominent politician to test positive. AIADMK Sriperumbudur MLA K Palani is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city. DMK MLA J Anbazhagan died of Covid -19 last week. Incidentally, the chief minister’s office too on Thursday reported three more positive cases, including a deputy secretary, driver and an office assistant, all who got contracted the virus from a senior private secretary B J Dhamodaran, who died on Wednesday. “The chief minister had told all the cabinet colleagues to test for virus recently and all have undergone tests and turned negative,” said a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/minister-k-p-anbazhagan-4-of-his-staff-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76474084.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Why you shouldn’t panic even as Covid-19 count in Delhi crosses 50,000||NEW DELHI: The daily count of Covid-19 in Delhi crossed the 3,000 mark on Friday with 3,137 people testing positive for the viral infection. This is the highest single-day tally reported in the national capital. Delhi’s total tally has now reached 53,116, while the death toll has mounted to 2,035, including 65 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, the government data shows. Sources in the health department acknowledged that the infection was spreading at an alarming rate. They, however, added that the increased number of cases could be due to more testing. “Till about a week ago, we were testing only about 5,000 samples daily. It has more than doubled and, therefore, more cases that went undiagnosed earlier are being picked up,” said a senior official. “It is a good thing and shall help in taking actions such as isolation and contact tracing of direct contacts of persons to limit any further spread,” he added. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS, said as testing numbers went up, the surge was likely to get more visible. “The silver lining is that the majority of patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. So far, we haven’t seen a large increase in the need for hospitalisation or deaths due to the disease,” he said. As per the latest data on the availability of Covid beds, 44% of the beds are lying vacant. Of the 601 ventilator beds, 41% are vacant. Among government hospitals, Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospitals have maximum 1,301 and 1,237 vacant beds, respectively. The total Covid beds in these two hospitals are 2,000 and 1,500, meaning 65% and 82% of their beds are still lying vacant. AIIMS Jhajjar has 725 beds, of which 38% are vacant. Among private designated facilities, Batra and Venkateshwar hospitals have maximum 353 and 304 vacant beds, as per the Delhi Corona app on Friday. “Given the speed at which new cases are surging, the crisis may go out of hand if stricter measures aren’t adopted to trace and isolation positive cases,” Dr Vinay Aggarwal, an executive member of Delhi Medical Council, said. WHO director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, while commenting on the prevailing situation globally, said on Friday that the pandemic was in a new and dangerous phase. “People are fed up with isolating, but the spread of the virus is accelerating,” he added. Many health experts in India are calling for lockdown measures in areas affected highly by the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-you-shouldnt-panic-even-as-count-crosses-50k/articleshow/76474085.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 5 lakh street vendors could seek Rs 10,000 loans to resume||MUMBAI: A week after NDA government announced a scheme for street vendors to resume business, affected by lockdown since March 24, urban development department said it expected around five lakh of them to seek a loan of Rs 10,000 each from financial institutions. Principal secretary (urban development) Mahesh Pathak said after the government announced the scheme, his department issued an enabling order for its implementation. “Any vendor, registered or unregistered, can apply for a loan of Rs 10,000 under the scheme. The loan will have a year’s tenure, with interest subsidy at the rate of 7%, provided repayment is punctual,’’ Pathak said. A civic official said while NDA government had set a target of 50 lakh vendors, it was expected that more than five lakh will secure loans. “Street vendors play a significant role in ensuring availability of goods and services at affordable rates at the doorstep of city dwellers. We have proposed to grant benefits to vendors, who had been vending on or before March 24, and till March 2022,’’ he said. “The Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown have adversely impacted the livelihood of street vendors, therefore a scheme was drafted for them,’’ he said. The civic official said those with identity cards issued by civic bodies were eligible. Those whose names are there in the survey, but do not have identity cards, should be given temporary cards or their names must be recommended. Migrants who have shifted to their home states and are planning to return to Maharashtra are also eligible. For monitoring the scheme at state level, an-eight member committee headed by urban development department has been set up, while at the regional level. It will be headed by the municipal commissioner, chief officer or municipal council chief. Nominees of leading banks, nationalized banks and financial institutions will also be on it. Municipal commissioners will have to implement the scheme effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5l-street-vendors-could-seek-rs10k-loans-to-resume/articleshow/76474081.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 20, 2020||Pune||Couple, kids found dead in Pune; note says ‘frustration caused by situation’||PUNE: A young couple and their two children, aged 6 and 3, were found dead in their rented one-room kitchen house at Waghjainagar near Sukhsagarnagar in Bibvewadi. The four were found hanging from separate ropes attached to a single ceiling hook around 11pm on Thursday. “A note scribbled on a wall in the house and signed by the couple, Atul Dattatreya Shinde (33) and Jaya (32), stated nobody should be held responsible for the incident as they were ending their lives out of the frustration caused by the situation,” sub-inspector Mahendra Patil told TOI. Based on the circumstances, the police are suspecting it to be a case of murder-suicide. “The possibility of the couple having strangled the two children, Rugved (6) and Antara (3), to death before ending their own lives cannot be ruled out,” senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI. A preliminary post-mortem finding has stated “death due to hanging” as the cause in all four cases. “It is unlikely that the two children hanged themselves. After further investigations, we will take a call on registering a case of murder against the deceased parents. For now, we have registered a case of accidental death,” said Kuvar. Shinde, a postgraduate in arts, and Jaya had a love marriage in 2013. They were living separately from Shinde’s father, Dattatreya, a retired school teacher, and elder brother, Amol, a private college employee, who reside at Padmavati. Shinde was the youngest of three siblings, including a married sister. Shinde was running a business of printing identity cards for school children and taking orders from private parties for printing pamphlets. He would design cards, pamphlets or such products on a personal computer and get them printed elsewhere. Police are investigating the “situation” referred to in the note to establish what drove the couple to take the drastic step. Police said the probe will cover whether there was financial distress due to loss of business on account of the lockdown over the last three months or whether there was any other reason. Shinde’s mother Jayashree told TOI over the phone, “He had no financial issues as he was running a business in association with Amol. We had given them separate computer sets. We were also giving Atul monthly ration worth Rs3,000-4,000 and an LPG cylinder. My husband even suggested that Atul seek his wife’s help in starting something new as she too was conversant with typing and other skills. He seemed okay to us. On Wednesday, he even took me to a clinic and helped me withdraw cash from an ATM.” However, inspector Kuvar said, “Amol told us that Atul was facing some financial problems and had spoken about this to his father, who suggested that Atul try to do some alternative business or take up a job. We are yet to speak to his father, who is in a state of shock.” For more than two years now, Shinde was staying on the second floor of a ground-plus-two-storey independent house owned by his friend, Shashikant Chivhe. Chivhe’s brother, Devram, stays in a neighbouring block on the same floor. “I was curious about there being no movement in Shinde’s house on Thursday evening and neither of his children being seen around. The lights too were off around 7pm,” said Devram. Devram and Shashikant knocked on the door and called out to Shinde but there was no response. They informed his father and brother, who rushed to the house from Padmavati. “The police who came later broke down the door. All four were found hanging from the ceiling hook. I could barely believe that Shinde and his family, to whom I had spoken in the morning, were no more,” said Devram. “Shinde and his wife were friendly and a well-educated couple. He would keep himself busy with work on his computer. Never throughout the lockdown period since March did he or his wife drop any direct or indirect hint to anyone of us staying around that they were facing any fianncial problems. We would chat every day and they seemed a happy family,” Devram said. Dilip Bhosale, a vegetable vendor who stays in a neighbouring house, said, “Shinde’s son Rugved would play with my granddaughter as they were in same pre-primary school. Last year, Rugved had taken admission to the first standard in another school. Till lunch time on Wednesday, Rugved was cycling with my granddaughter. He did not come out on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-kids-found-dead-note-says-frustration-caused-by-situation/articleshow/76474082.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman dies, husband says five hospitals didn’t admit||HYDERABAD: A BSNL employee has alleged that his wife died three days ago after he failed to get a bed for her despite making rounds of five separate hospitals in the city, including Gandhi Hospital. She was later cremated without being tested. P Srikanth, a resident of Attapur, said his wife developed cough and breathing problems at home on June 17. He immediately sought an opinion from a doctor and took her to two private hospitals while she was gasping for breath and her pulse was going down. The woman was not tested for Covid-19, but the hospitals denied her admission, suspecting she was infected with coronavirus and suggested she be taken to Osmania General Hospital. “At OGH they told me to get her tested and they asked me to go to Koti hospital. But by the time I reached there, it was very late and they suggested I take her to Gandhi Hospital,” said Srikanth. “I was stopped at the entrance and the guards said that unless there is a Covid- 19 positive certificate they cannot let me in,” he said, adding that when he persisted the employees at the Gandhi hospital asked him to fetch his own oxygen but by then his wife had died. “They alleged that my wife is positive but Gandhi employees did not take her in at all. My two children have lost their mother because of negligence,” he said. When contacted Dr Prabhakar Reddy, the RMO at Gandhi Hospital, said that such an incident has not come to their notice. “Gandhi Hospital admits only people who are already tested positive. Any patient of Covid-19 can come to the hospital and depending on their condition and consent their treatment mode will be decided. We will find out what happened in this case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-dies-hubby-says-5-hospitals-didnt-admit/articleshow/76474486.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Warkaries asked not to go to Pandharpur this year||Kolhapur: District guardian minister for Solapur Dattatray Bharane has appealed to the Warkari community in Maharashtra not to congregate in Pandharpur for the annual gathering on Ashadhi Eakadashi, which falls on July 1 this year. Bharne conducted a meeting in Pandharpur on Friday to review the situation in the holy town. So far, seven Covid-19 patients have been identified in Pandharpur and the administration is taking all efforts to prevent the infection from spreading. The local administration has decided to seal the borders of Pandharpur to stop any vehicular movement. While the district border is already sealed, additional force will be deployed to keep tabs on possible vehicular movement. Officials said that nobody would be allowed in Pandharpur. Besides, boundaries of Pandharpur tehsil and Solapur district will be sealed next week. The local administration has already issued notices to more than 400 establishments, where Warkaries check in during the pilgrimage. They have been asked not to allow any outsider to use their property till further instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/warkaries-asked-not-to-go-to-pandharpur-this-year/articleshow/76474083.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Arrest of 4 helps Parbhani cops crack 9 cases||Aurangabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of Parbhani police have solved as many as nine cases registered in various police stations, including a burglary in the house of Gangakhed sub-divisional police officer, at one go after arresting four people, including a woman. Inspector of Parbhani LCB Prvin More said, “Our team arrested the suspects when three of them came to Pokhri phata for selling stolen articles, including a couple of bikes.” The suspects have confessed to have committed robbery, theft, burglary, breaking into farm houses and stealing water motors in the jurisdictions of Daithan, Gangakhed and Parbhani rural police stations. Five others who were involved in the crimes are one the run after learning that their gang members have been arrested.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/arrest-of-4-helps-parbhani-cops-crack-9-cases/articleshow/76471913.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Chellanam: Seawater enters over 100 homes||Kochi: More than a hundred families in Chellanam were affected after seawater entered their homes on Friday. Residents said sea water entered homes in Baazaar, Velankanny and Companypady and the situation was similar to what they experienced during Cyclone Ockhi. “What the state government is doing is cruelty. The project only has a total length of one km and 100 metres. Four years passed by, they couldn’t complete even a single reach. Finally, they chose monsoon season to begin the work,” said Thushar Nirmal Sarathy, president Janakeeya Manushyavakasa Prasthanam. “On Saturday, surge is likely to be even more severe. High tide line was 0.90m on Friday. On Saturday, it would be 1.13m and on Sunday 1.06m,” said Joseph Arackal, convener, Chellanam Janakiyavedi and a resident of Chellanam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-seawater-enters-over-100-homes/articleshow/76472971.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||HC to Maharashtra govt: Frame policy for street vendors||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday told the state government to frame a policy to enable street vendors to earn a livelihood during lockdown. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K K Tated heard via video-conference a PIL by Manoj Oswal that said street vendors selling food items, toys and clothes were without income due to lockdown. Asking if street vendors can maintain hygiene, the court on June 12 had issued notices seeking BMC and Pune Municipal Corporation’s responses. Oswal’s advocate Ashish Verma argued that if hotels and restaurants can be allowed to operate, why not street vendors? The judges said he must not equate them with street vendors. PMC said it framed a policy and will not allow street vendors in containment zones and outside them, but in some areas on specific days, while BMC sought time to reply. When the judges asked about the rest of Maharashtra, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni too sought time to reply. The judges said as courts have physically reopened outside containment zones, the state should frame a policy for street vendors to earn a livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-maha-govt-frame-policy-for-street-vendors/articleshow/76474094.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Elderly patients discharged from Wenlock found stranded||MANGALURU: Four non-Covid-19 patients, who were discharged from Wenlock Hospital, were found near Kankanady Market. The picture of these helpless senior citizens sitting inside a bus shelter went viral. On receiving this information, the Dakshina Kannada district administration sent a team immediately, and made arrangements to shift them to ESI Hospital. Many organisations and politicians have been demanding that the government make alternative arrangements for poor patients, who were depending only on Wenlock Hospital in the city, which has been converted into a designated Covid-19 hospital. All patients undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital were either discharged or shifted to private hospitals, after the 172-year-old hospital was converted into a Covid-19 hospital. These four patients were also undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, before it was converted into a Covid-19 hospital. While many patients were discharged and sent home, the four of them from Uppinangady, Farangipet, Talapady and Puttur were shifted to a private hospital, since they were in need of further treatment. However, on Thursday they were dropped near Kankanady Market in a vehicle by unknown people. Following this, autorickshaw drivers and local residents helped them, by providing them food and bedsheets. Meanwhile, journalists in the city sent their pictures sitting inside a bus shelter to deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. On receiving the information, the DC immediately sent a team of officials to shift them to ESI Hospital. The DC said all the necessary arrangements will be made for their treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/elderly-patients-discharged-from-wenlock-found-stranded/articleshow/76473107.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara records 45 cases in a single day||Vadodara: In the highest number of cases registered in a day so far, Vadodara saw 45 new Covid-19 patients since Thursday evening. The total number of cases now stands at 1,783 in the city and district. The fresh cases were identified from 197 tests conducted in Vadodara. The tests are the highest in the recent past barring the mass testing conducted in the Nagarwada area of the city in April. Details given by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reveal that the south zone registered 13 new cases followed by the north zone that registered 12 cases.  The west zone registered two fresh cases even as nine cases each were reported from the east zone and areas of the district outside VMC limits. The new cases have been reported from the Danteshwar, Hathikhana, Wadi, Warasiya, Fatehpura, Patthargate, Bavamanpura, Panigate, Subhanpura, Raopura, Harni, R V Desai Road, Atladara, Chhani and Ajwa Road areas in the city. Twenty patients were discharged on Friday and 587 remained hospitalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-records-45-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/76471837.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||2 from ‘Gaybya’ gang held for 17 burglaries during lockdown||Aurangabad: The detection branch of Osmanpura police station has arrested two people belonging to the ‘Gaybya’ gang who were allegedly involved in the 17 property offences that were committed during the lockdownInspector at Osmanpura police station Dilip Tare said that Akash alias gaybya Khare (19) from Milind Nagar, Osmanpura, and Manoj Salve (20) from Satara area of the city have been put in police custody. During preliminary probe, the suspects named four other members of the gang, none of whom can be arrested as they are all minors. The accused got the nick name ‘gaybya’ for their ability to disappear after committing property offences. Police have already recovered three bikes that were stolen from different areas of the city. Assistant sub-inspector Kalyan Shelke said that the suspects have confessed to have burgled pharmacy and grocery stores in Osmanpura and Vedantnagar, a liquor shop in Jawahar Nagar, four cloth shops in the limits of Satara area police station and a mobile shop in Kranti Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-from-gaybya-gang-held-for-17-burglaries-during-lockdown/articleshow/76471917.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals explore ways to slash PPE price after govt nudge||KOLKATA: A day after the state prodded private hospitals to rationalize the cost of Covid treatment, the latter have started exploring the possibility of reducing PPE charges by altering the use pattern. At least three of them have launched a PPE ‘consumption review’ to ensure that the minimum number is used. They have also decided to put up boards to display the number of vacant Covid beds soon. While some hospitals have already started offering home-isolation packages as suggested by the government at the meeting between the chief secretary and hospital heads on Thursday, the rest are planning to follow suit within a week. Covid test charges could also slide within a week, said hospitals. AMRI Hospitals has adopted a two-pronged approach to lower the PPE cost burden on patients. It is looking into the possibility of rationalizing use pattern to bring down the number of PPE used and is searching for new sources to bring down the procurement cost. “We have started a PPE consumption review to explore if the usage can be curtailed. Since we charge just Rs 600 for a PPE, price reduction could be difficult. But we are attempting it. We hope to arrive at a reduced PPE charge by next week,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that the hospital has reduced PPE charges twice in the past two months. Peerless Hospital, too, has started exploring the possibility of reducing PPE charges by rationalizing use. It now uses two PPE a day for each Covid patient, apart from four masks. Each PPE costs Rs 800. “Our charges are lower than most hospitals, which makes it difficult to reduce it further. But a marginal reduction is not ruled out,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Medica Superspecialty Hospital uses three PPE for each Covid patient or suspect every day. While a patient is charged Rs 720 per PPE, the hospital procures them at Rs 680 each. “While we are not thinking of making a profit on PPE, we are looking into the possibility of using fewer gear. Each Covid patient has to be looked after by three nurses each day, apart from the doctor. That apart, there are ward attendants, housekeeping staff and food and beverages people who must use PPE. At least 20-25 people use them for every patient per shift. So, every day we use 75 PPE per Covid patient. This is a huge consumption and we can cut it down,” said CEO Alok Roy. Use rationalization has already started at Fortis Hospital with doctors wearing surgical gowns over PPE so the equipment can be reused. PPE is used twice if the same doctor is visiting the same set of patients during rounds on the same day. “I have been reusing my PPE if the patient group is the same. At least three doctors visit every Covid patient each day at Fortis, so there is some scope to bring costs down,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. While all leading private hospitals have started informing the state about the number of Covid beds to upload on the website, some said they were in the process of setting up display boards for the general public too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hospitals-explore-ways-to-slash-ppe-price-after-govt-nudge/articleshow/76472963.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 20, 2020||Surat||Monsoon spurs sowing across state||Surat: Sowing, especially for cotton and groundnut, has picked up in most parts of the state with the timely arrival of monsoon rain. According to data released by the state agriculture department for Kharif season, sowing has been done in 13.94 lakh hectare land across Gujarat till June 15, which accounts for 16.42% of the total cultivable land the state. During corresponding date last year sowing was done in just 2.07 lakh hectare. State has 15.4 lakh hectare under groundnut cultivations while cotton was sown in 26.73 lakh hectare. According to agriculture department, sowing of bajra, jowar, maize, moong, moth, groundnut, sesame, soyabean, cotton, vegetable and fodder has also picked up. Girdhar Vaghela, a farmer from Verad village in Bhanvad taluka of Jamnagar, has completed sowing of groundnut on his 20 bigha land. “This year because of early good rain we started sowing 15 days early. However, we fear that like last season if rains take a longer break, more then four weeks, then it will damage our crop.” Meanwhile, light to moderate rainfall continued in parts of South Gujarat region. In last 36 hours ending Wednesday evening, Kamrej and Olpad recorded 50 mm rain followed by Umarpada (25mm) and Mangrol (25mm). Netrang in Bharuch received 55 mm rainfall . Of state’s 206 dams, Sardar Sarovar dam has filled up to 67% capacity and the rest are filled up to 50%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/monsoon-spurs-sowing-across-state/articleshow/76472277.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nashik||ZP CEO calls for early Covid detection||Nashik: Nashik zilla parishad CEO Leena Bansod on Friday visited Yeola, Manmad, Chandwad and Nandgaon to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and urged the officials not to let their guard down. She instructed the doctors to ensure that Covid-19 patients are brought under treatment immediately and there should not be any deaths owing to lack of treatment. Cases in the rural parts of the district are increasing rapidly. A senior ZP official said that over 400 people had tested positive for Covid-19 and currently around 120 are under treatment at various covid facilities across the rural district. Assistant district health officer Dawal Salve said, “The aim of the visit was to detect the patients at an early stage so that they can be brought under treatment immediately.” “Co-morbid patients should be checked on a regular basis. If need arises, teachers too can be roped in for conducting the survey of such patients on a regular basis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zp-ceo-calls-for-early-covid-detection/articleshow/76471938.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 20, 2020||Kochi||Two men arrested for sharing child porn in Kerala||KOCHI: Central police, on Friday, arrested two persons for posting porn videos involving minors through a WhatsApp group. According to police, Suresh N K, 55, shared the video to the group which was created by Manuel P B alias Kiran, 23. Police said Manuel created the group a year ago as per the direction of Suresh, who is part of several groups in which porn videos are shared. Cops, with the help of Cyberdome and Cybercell, are in search of the remaining group admins and members. In another case, police arrested 37-year-old Haris alias Chalikavattom Haris, the mastermind of a Tamil Nadu-based gang that came to Munambom with a contract to attack a Perumbavoor native. The gang members were arrested on March 6. In yet another case, the rural police arrested 30-year-old Vishnu Prasad who was among the group that demolished a movie set in Kalady.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-men-arrested-for-sharing-child-porn/articleshow/76472983.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bander 80% forest, but report says no clearance needed||Nagpur: Views of wildlife experts and concerns of state forest department have been completely overlooked by the central government while releasing Bander coal blocks near Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) for auction. The coal blocks were studied in 2015 & 2018 by Central Mine Planning & Design Institute Ltd (CMPDIL), a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd (CIL). The 2018 report (copy is with TOI) states that vegetation in Bander coalfield is over 153.86sqkm (42.61%). Out of this, dense forest covers an area of 43.66sqkm (12.09%), open forest 50.86sqkm (14.09%) and scrub forest 59.12sqkm (16.37%). The remaining 0.22sqkm (0.06%) has plantations by social forestry department (SFD). The block has coal reserves of 126.105 metric tonnes. The total mining lease area is 1,643.67 hectare consisting of 1,170.16 hectare of forest land (of which 257ha would be for open cast mine and 913.16ha for underground mining). Even as 80% area of the coal block is forest and 20% non-forest, the block summary report makes no mention of presence of any flora and fauna. It also states that forest, environment and wildlife clearances are not applicable even though the area falls in a tiger dispersal corridor. “This is a common strategy by project proponents to get rid of clearances. The process of environment clearance has to be completed before auction of coal blocks, which unfortunately has not been done,” says environment lawyer Manish Jeswani. According to senior state forest officials, who did not want to be quoted, the Bander coal block falls in the proposed eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) which is also buffer zone of Tadoba. “The threat for Tadoba tigers is not just from mining. The entire road network around the tiger reserve is being widened with cement roads sans any mitigation measures. Despite NGT principle bench’s orders based on TOI report on November 29, 2018, no mitigation steps have been taken even as agreed upon by the PWD,” the forest officials said. When his opinion was sought by the government for an NOC, the then Tadoba field director on August 17, 2011 had said: “The proposal is detrimental to wildlife. The coal blocks fall in the corridor between a tiger habitat and rich biodiversity area of Tadoba and Umred forests as well as other wildlife areas in Nagpur, Bhandara and Gondia districts and Central India.” Former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted TOI’s report of Friday and flayed the BJP government for allowing mining in ecologically fragile areas. In 2010, he had put two mines in Chandrapur district — Bander and Lohara (east & west) — in ‘no go’ zone. On Friday, Ramesh drew attention of Maharashtra environment minister Adityaa Thackeray too. Talking to TOI, Thackeray said, “I thank Jairam Ramesh for helping this cause in 2010. It is crucial to think if this mine is necessary, and what will be its adverse impacts on biodiversity.” Coal mining requires environment clearance under EPA, forest clearance under FCA, and wildlife clearance from NBWL if the proposed mining site is located in ESZ or falling in area connecting tiger reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bander-80-forest-but-report-says-no-clearance-needed/articleshow/76474107.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 1,541 new cases in 4 districts under tight lockdown||CHENNAI: Even as the 12-day intense lockdown began in the four northern districts of Tamil Nadu, they accounted for most of the 2,115 fresh cases on Friday. Chennai had 1,322 cases, Chengalpet 95, Thiruvallur 85 , and Kancheepuram 39. The tally of the four districts at 45,051 cases is nearly 73% of the state’s total of 54,449. The official toll rose to 666 with 41 deaths reported on Friday. This included a 78-year-old man from Sivagangai reported with organophosphorus or pesticide poisoning, a 38-year-old woman from Chennai, who suffered head injuries in a road accident, and a 40-year-old man from Hosur, who was found positive after he died. Thirty-one of the deceased had comorbidities including diabetes, hypertension, cancer, and chronic kidney disease. On Thursday, the toll was 49 dead. A total of 25,902 people were tested for the infection on Friday, which was a marginal increase from 25,719 people on Thursday, of whom a marginally higher 2,141 had tested positive. Forty people who returned to the state tested positive. One arrived from Singapore by flight, two from Maldives and Singapore by sea, 15 from Delhi by flight, and 22 from other states by road or rail. A few other districts too saw an increase in cases. Vellore recorded 103 new cases compared to 55 on Thursday, Madurai reported 58 new cases against nine the day before, Thiruvannamalai reported 37 compared 27, and Dindigul had 22 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1541-new-cases-in-4-dists-under-tight-lockdown/articleshow/76474103.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||HC seeks government reply on Congman’s plea for anticipatory bail||LUCKNOW: Holding UP government’s effort to arrange conveyance for migrants as encouraging in given circumstances and keeping in view the gravity of the pandemic, Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court directed the state government to file its reply on an application moved by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s aide Sandeep Singh, seeking anticipatory bail in a case involving alleged forgery of bus list to ferry migrants home. The next hearing will be on June 29. A bench of Justice Rajesh Singh Chauhan said, “Political parties should not settle scores and no action or initiative should be done as a political propaganda. The efforts of all state heads, bureaucrats and policy makers should be to help migrants and there should not be any effort to create an atmosphere of unrest.” Earlier, Congressman Sandeep Singh’s lawyer, Nadeem Murtaza, argued that Hazratganj police implicated him under various sections of Indian Penal Code. “From the sections slapped in the FIR and material on record, the petitioner cannot be booked under Section 467 IPC, which provides life imprisonment. And in remaining sections, maximum punishment is up to seven years,” said Murtaza. Opposing the plea, additional advocate general V K Sahi said, there was enough evidence against the petitioner and since the probe is still on, he’s not entitled to anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-congmans-plea-for-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/76474490.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 20, 2020||Meerut||Quack stabs man to death in UP market for spitting||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Out on an evening stroll with his wife, a 30-year-old quack took up a fight with a man after he spat on the road and allegedly stabbed him in a fit of rage in Muzaffarnagar’s City Kotwali area. Bleeding profusely, the 43-year-old man died in a hospital in Meerut a few hours later. The accused, Prince Kathuria, was later arrested. The incident took place on Thursday evening when Kathuria got into a heated argument with Satish, 43, who was eating ‘chaat’ with his friends at a roadside stall. While passing by, Kathuria noticed that Satish and his friends were not wearing masks. And when Satish spat on the road, Kathuria confronted him and they started to fight. Satish’s brother Raju later said, “We were eating ‘chaat’ on the road. Suddenly the accused came and said you are standing on the way, you will make everyone ill. He started abusing us and when we asked him to stop, he attacked my brother with a kirpan (knife) multiple times.” Satish was first taken to the district hospital of Muzaffarnagar, where doctors referred him to another hospital in Meerut. He succumbed there. City kotwali station house officer (SHO) Anil Kaparwan said, “An investigation is on and the accused has been booked for murder and arrested.” A case under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against Kathuria on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s brother Raju, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/quack-stabs-man-to-death-in-up-market-for-spitting/articleshow/76471934.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Masks with ads the latest style statement||VISAKHAPATNAM: Masks, which have become ubiquitous following the Covid-19 outbreak, have also become the latest fashion accessory for the youth, protective gear for motorists and a platform for advertisers. Meanwhile, cashing in on the latest trend, some commercial establishments have discovered that masks can function as an advertising platform. Mask manufacturers in Vizag city have started to come up with different brand logos and designs that are meant to capture attention. A mask manufacturer at Dwarakanagar said they are receiving bulk orders with requests to have advertisements promoting a company name or a social message. Most of the orders are placed by real estate firms, schools, colleges, clubs and company-owned petrol bunks, the manufacturer added. “We charge Rs `20 to Rs 30 each mask in bulk orders. The cost includes printing the ad and the fabric. We even get orders from far-off places like Sompeta in Srikakulam. We are expecting orders from Odisha now that inter-state services have resumed,” the manufacturer told TOI. Chief executive officer of a real estate firm Srinivasa Rao said, “I used to distribute pamphlets or leaflets among our targeted customers as part of the promotional activity of our business. Now, we have changed our route to the mask, which can be used for both promotion and awareness,” Srinivasa Rao said. Dr NN Raju from King George Hospital (KGH) said “The mask manufacturers must take care what colours they use and the process of printing ads on maks. There are chances of health problems from wearing masks printed with ads.” Another mask manufacturer TOI spoke to said they follow the process of sublimation printing, which is used by popular brands across the globe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/masks-with-ads-the-latest-style-statement/articleshow/76472974.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Satellite facility starts with 6 patients, more in offing||KOLKATA: A day after the issue of satellite health facilities for mild or asymptomatic Covid patients was discussed in a meeting between the state chief secretary and private hospital heads, at least one hospital has started such a centre while others are exploring its feasibility. The state health department itself has set up two safe houses in Kolkata for patients referred by government hospitals. “As advised by the principal secretary, we have acquired a 52-bed hotel near Medica Hospital to accommodate mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic patients or those who do not have home quarantine facilities,” said nuclear cardiologist Alok Roy, chairman of Medica. The unit has started with six patients on the first day. Doctors from Medica will visit the unit twice a day to check on the patients while nurses will be on duty round the clock. “We are thankful o the government for providing continuous support as we have joined hands to fight Covid,” added Roy. These satellite facilities have been designated as observation wards. They will cater to Covid positive patients who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The hospitals to which such facilities are attached will be responsible for the treatment of patients and charge a reasonable rate that is lower than normal hospital charges. “The demand for Covid beds has seen a sharp rise. The idea of a satellite facility is to free hospital beds and reserve them for patients in serious conditions. Many private hospitals, including Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, have shown an interest while Medica has already started such a unit,” said a senior health department official. While some hospitals have started scouting for suitable buildings, some are assessing the feasibility and requirement. “We are exploring the idea and assessing the feasibility because the building has to be in the hospital’s vicinity for easy access,” said Arafat Faisal, medical superintendent at Fortis Hospital. The government has asked interested hospitals to apply for a licence and has set the terms for charging patients. “We are appreciative of the permission and guidelines issued by the government and are studying the logistics,” said R Venkatesh, regional head (east) of Narayana Health. On a similar concept, the state government has started two safe homes in the city with a total of 250 beds. These homes will house patients referred by the state government and will receive free treatment. “Government doctors, nurses and attendants will monitor the health of patients in these safe houses. If they observe that any patient requires hospital care, their admission will be arranged for. With these two centres, we now have 106 safe houses across the state,” said the state health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/satellite-facility-starts-with-6-patients-more-in-offing/articleshow/76472986.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, alcove for prison inmates aged above 60||MUMBAI: Prison inmates aged over 60 will have a separate alcove to keep them away from younger convicts or undertrials and ‘high-risk’ inmates will be shifted to 36 ‘temporary prisons’, which will double up as quarantine centres, the state said in new draft guidelines. “In all prisons of the state, inmates shall be examined daily with a thermal scanner. If any inmate has a temperature above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit and/or shows symptoms such as cough and breathlessness, he/she should immediately be referred to the nearest, newly designated temporary jail, which is also a ‘Covid care centre’, said new guidelines submitted by state advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni before Bombay high court on Friday. Mihir Desai, counsel for People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), which had petitioned the court for better inmate care during Covid-19 and lockdown, sought time to also give suggestions. The court posted the matter for further hearing next Tuesday. The guidelines said 27 collectors have identified 36 locations for temporary prisons and other districts will declare locations as temporary prisons. The premises are being used to decongest prisons and as quarantine centres and Covid care centres, it said. The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K K Tated had earlier this week asked the AG to address various issues. Those over 60 will be examined medically and those with known cases of hypertension or diabetes will have regular checks. Every ‘high-risk’ inmate will be tested for Covid between the fifth and tenth day, as advised by a doctor. Patients with mild or very mild symtoms will be sent to the temporary jail (Covid care centres). Those clinically assigned as moderate will go to a dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs), and those assigned as severe will be sent to dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs). Districts in the state have designated DCHCs and DCHs, and shifting is to be done by the superintendent in consultation with district collector or municipal commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-alcove-for-prison-inmates-aged-above-60/articleshow/76474121.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Court slaps Rs 10,00 fine on edu trust, junks plea against DM||LUCKNOW: Refusing to admit a petition that Lucknow district magistrate acted in mala-fide manner as he had personal interest in an alleged case of land grab, Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court imposed Rs 10,000 fine on Career Convent Educational and Charitable Trust. A bench of Justices P K Jaiswal and D K Singh said, “An act in discharge of public duty is deemed to have been done in good faith unless shown the action was contrary to requirements of statute or discretion was exercised improperly for ulterior purpose.” Defending the DM’s action, who initiated proceedings against petitioners to vacate encroached land in Ghaila area of the state capital, the bench observed, “Mere assertion or a vague statement, is not sufficient. It must be demonstrated by admitted or proved facts or considerations in a given case.” The bench further said, the writ was not maintainable as petitioners have alternative remedy under UP revenue code. “Instead of approaching the appellate authority, petitioners have rushed to this court under Article 226 of Constitution and made reckless allegations of mala fide intent against the district magistrate for taking action according to law. The court does not find merit in the allegations, nor would it like to interfere in a case where petitioners usurped public utility land and made unauthorized constructions,” the bench stated in its order. The petitioners had challenged the DM’s order of November 30, 2019 and subsequent orders passed by subordinate authorities whereby petitioners were directed to evict encroachments on public utility land and were fined Rs 3.30 lakh. In the petition, the eviction orders were challenged, leveling personal allegations against DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/court-slaps-rs-10k-fine-on-edu-trust-junks-plea-against-dm/articleshow/76474492.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ganja trade resumes on back of relaxations in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: After a brief lull during the lockdown, the smuggling of ganja from Vizag Agency has once again gained momentum. Drug peddlers have also taken to innovative methods to transport the weed to evade checks by enforcement officials. In the biggest seizure in the region in the past three months, officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) led by inspector A Santhosh Kumar on Thursday seized over 800 kgs of dry ganja worth over Rs one crore and nabbed three inter-state drug peddlers when they were transporting the weed in a lorry near Marripalem under Koyyuru mandal in Vizag Agency. The lockdown had temporarily put brakes on ganja smuggling from tribal pockets of Vizag Agency. Since March 23, a couple of days before the lockdown was imposed, smuggling came to a standstill due to lack of transportation and fears that police on Covid-19 duty might apprehend peddlers. Smuggling of small quantities picked up again in the last week of April following some relaxations allowed for transportation. Now, however, officials suspect the presence of some inter-state gangs in Vizag to transport large quantities of the weed to other states. A senior officer with SEB said that some ganja smugglers are modifying the luggage cabins of good carriers by creating a special cabin beneath the main cargo cabin to conceal the ganja and transport it to other states. Vizianagaram police said some youths posing as tourists have also been found transporting ganja in cars from Araku Valley to Vizag city. “We recently caught some youngsters at Boddavara checkpost and seized small amounts of dry ganja, four to six kgs, from them,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ganja-trade-resumes-on-back-of-relaxations/articleshow/76472993.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Almatti dam: Devendra Fadnavis demands agreement with Karnataka||KOLHAPUR: The onset of monsoon has once again brought the issue of Karnataka-based Almatti dam to the fore with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanding to have a permanent arrangement on the release of water. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis has underlined the need for having some agreement with Karnataka on the release of water from Almatti dam. Fadnavis, in the letter, has said that water from several rivers and dams in western Maharashtra goes into Almatti dam. “Backwater of Almatti dam cause flood in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts,” Fadnavis said, adding that increase in the discharge from Almatti dam was the only solution to the problem. Fadnavis added that Karnataka is reluctant to release water from Almatti based on the situation in Maharashtra as release from the dam leads to flood in that state. He also suggested that Maharashtra government should address the issue timely in view of monsoon forecast. Fadnavis has asked the chief minister to hold a joint meeting in order to chalk out a plan to avoid floods in the future. Meanwhile, former member of Wadnere committee criticized the findings of the panel and said it can be used against Maharashtra. Pradip Purandare, who was member of the Wadnere Committee, has raised several objections on the recommendations. The committee was appointed to study last year’s flood related to Almatti dam in western Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/almatti-dam-fadnavis-demands-agreement-with-karnataka/articleshow/76474109.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Police book 4 for harassing surveyor||Aurangabad: The Jinsi police have registered an offence against four people in Qaisar Colony area for obstructing a 48-year old surveyor who was assigned to take note of the people above the age of 50 to know whether they have Covid-19 symptoms or suffer from any other ailment. The incident occurred at 11.30 am on June 13, when the woman was inquiring about people above the age of 50. Equipped with instruments to examine body temperature, oxygen level and pulse rate of people, she visited the Qisar Colony area when four people allegedly belonging to some social media channel approached her, recording her movement on video without her consent. When she objected, they spoke to her in a threatening tone so she left the area. She told the police that she was so disturbed after the incident that she did not lodge a complaint on that day. Accordingly, the Jinsi police booked four people on Thursday evening under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his or her duty) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. Meanwhile,Vijaykumnar Phad, the additional divisional commissioner who has been supervising the civic body’s Covid 19 related work, has urged people to cooperate with the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-book-4-for-harassing-surveyor/articleshow/76474119.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||VHA challenges HI decision to discontinue its membership||Nagpur: The Vidarbha Hockey Association (VHA) has approached Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to challenge Hockey India’s (HI) policy decision to discontinue its membership on the ground that there has to be only one body representing each state.A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor on Friday issued notices to HI administrator asking it to reply by July 26.The petitioner, through counsel Anand Parchure, contended that from May 10, 1959, to March 30, 1962, it was a registered association. Later, the Madhya Pradesh Hockey Association was renamed as VHA with its headquarters at Nagpur. It included Vidarbha, Marathwada and Khandesh, comprising Jalgaon and adjoining districts.The then government of Maharashtra allotted 3.80 acre in Civil Lines and 2.5 acre in Sadar to VHA, where several camps and hockey tournaments were held for boys and girls. Between 1980 and 1985, attempts were made to restrict VHA’s membership, however, due to protests, the policy decision was not implemented.Currently, Maharashtra has three associations — Bombay Hockey Association (BHA), Bombay and Maharashtra Association at Pune, and VHA. All of them are permitted to forward their teams at national level tournaments.The petitioner regularly conducted camps and tournaments to produce hockey players to represent the nation. Although affiliated, it wasn’t granted any financial grant by the apex body.On January 6, it received a communication from the respondent informing that its membership would automatically cease from July 1.The VHA contended that the decision was unilaterally taken and neither any show cause notice was issued, nor any opportunity of being heard was granted.On February 19, VHA submitted a detailed representation requesting HI not to cancel the affiliation. It was under the impression that its request would be considered sympathetically, although queries were raised. It pointed out that the physical fitness of the players was being affected in the absence of tournaments. According to the petitioner, since there was no communication from the respondent, it forwarded annual subscription of Rs200 for 2020-2021 to HI. The HI responded on June 3 to VHA confirming that since its membership ceases to exist with effect from July 1, there is no question of accepting affiliation fee, which was returned.According to VHA, it wouldn’t have any right to participate in tournaments at any level as an independent association, and the practice going on for the last eight decades will be arbitrarily and unilaterally discontinued, if its membership is ceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vha-challenges-hi-decision-to-discontinue-its-membership/articleshow/76474120.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajya Sabha elections in Gujarat: Narhari stages comeback from political wilderness||AHMEDABAD: After a decade outside the political limelight in Gujarat, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Narhari Amin is back in the public glare, emerging victorious in the Rajya Sabha elections held on Friday. The Patidar leader defeated former GPCC president Bharatsinh Solanki, to win the fourth Rajya Sabha seat from Gujarat, giving the saffron party a 3-1 victory. “I am thankful to BJP for giving me this opportunity. I will represent Gujarat at the national level and give my best,” Amin said after his victory. After an illustrious political career with the JD(S) and Congress, when he became the state’s youngest deputy chief minister, Amin’s political career slid to successive defeats in the assembly elections of 2002 and 2007. On being denied a Congress ticket, Amin joined the BJP ahead of the 2012 assembly elections. Although he was appointed vice-chairman of the state planning commission at the time, the 65-year-old Amin’s election to the upper house of Parliament signals his return to mainstream politics after a long stint in the wilderness. Although he had been a top student leader, Amin’s political career began with Janata Dal (G) heavyweight Chimanbhai Patel, who was ousted as CM after the Navnirman agitation. His reward for sticking with Chimanbhai came a good 15 years later, when Patel returned to power in Gujarat in 1990. Amin handled the education and home departments in the Chimanbhai Patel government. Chimanbhai Patel parted ways with the BJP and merged the JD(G) with the Congress in 1992. Although Amin enjoyed clout in the Congress, the JD(G) tag stuck with Amin and others like Chhabildas Mehta, Dinshaw Patel and Balubhai Patel. Amin was deputy chief minister of Gujarat from April 1994 to March 1995. Amin remained the unchallenged head of the Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) for almost 17 years, until Union home minister Amit Shah, who was then a Gujarat MLA, engineered the removal of Amin and his loyalists from cricket administration in 2009. Amin was vice-president of the BCCI for four years and head of its marketing committee for six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/narhari-stages-comeback-from-political-wilderness/articleshow/76474191.cms||Kapil Dave
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: 15 Vande Bharat evacuees test positive for contagion||PUNE: Fifteen Vande Bharat mission evacuees, who recently came to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad after landing in Mumbai, have tested positive for Covid-19. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities on Friday said 12 of the 15 evacuees were from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and had travelled on a flight from Male, the Maldives. The other three came to Pune as part of the repatriation exercise from Chicago (US) and the UK. Officials stated that after the travellers reached Pune and were undergoing the mandatory institutional paid quarantine at some city-based hotels, some of them began reporting flu-like symptoms, such as cough and cold. They were tested and found Covid-19 positive. All the evacuees, after being detected, were shifted to dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities. A Pune district administration official told TOI, “Some of the repatriated Indians from Male undergoing institutional quarantine at a hotel began reporting the flu-like symptoms after a period of five days of their stay. Taking their symptoms into consideration, we took their swabs for testing. The test results came two days ago and all 12 of them were positive.” He added, “We also alerted their co-passengers ((who had travelled in the same flight with them from Male), from other districts in the state about the situation and told them to be cautious. The respective nodal officers in those districts will now keep a check on those passengers.” A PMC official said of the 12 Male-returnees undergoing treatment for the contagion in a Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) facility, around three had begun reporting flu like symptoms during their stay in the hotel. “Once the three were detected positive, nine others, who had accompanied them in their journey and were staying in the same hotel, were tested. They too tested positive,” he said. A senior PCMC health official said the 12 repatriated Indians were in a Covid care centre. “All of them were brought in with mild symptoms, which is why they were kept in the covid care centre. It offers care only to patients who have been clinically assigned as mild, very mild or Covid suspect cases,” he said. A PMC official said the remaining three repatriated Indians detected with Covid-19 have been shifted to dedicated Covid-19 facilities in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-vande-bharat-evacuees-test-positive-for-contagion/articleshow/76474113.cms||Neha Madaan
June 20, 2020||Pune||FIR against man back from UK for refusing quarantine in Pune||PUNE: The district administration on Friday filed a first information report (FIR) against a 31-year-old returnee from the UK who recently reached Mumbai under the Vande Bharat Mission for refusing to undergo the mandatory institutional quarantine. “The man had refused to undergo the mandatory institutional quarantine of seven days,” said Sarang Kodolkar, deputy collector and nodal officer, hotel quarantine section, Pune.The FIR was registered with the Loni Karbhor police under sections 188 and 270 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 11 of the Maharashtra Covid 19 Regulation, 2020, and Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Kodolkar told TOI, “According to the state guidelines dated May 24, it is mandatory for the passengers from abroad to undergo paid institutional quarantine for seven days. If such travellers are unwilling to opt for a paid quarantine, then they have to mandatorily undergo quarantine in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) free-of-cost facility. But the repatriated Indian, who flew from London to Mumbai on June 16, left straight for his home in Handewad.”  The nodal officer concerned from the PMC, Ajit Sanas, visited the man and explained to him the necessity of institutional quarantine in the current situation. “The assistant police inspector concerned also visited the man to convince him. But he repeatedly refused institutional quarantine. An FIR was hence filed for safety reasons, as now we can take coercive action against him for not following the rules,” said Kodolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fir-against-man-back-from-uk-for-refusing-quarantine/articleshow/76474118.cms||Neha Madaan
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parts of Borivli, Kandivli may see total shutdown||MUMBAI: Mounting Covid-19 infections are prompting authorities to enforce a complete lockdown in parts of the city. In North Mumbai, police have already enforced complete lockdown in parts of Malad East. They have proposed to BMC to now shut parts of Borivli, Dahisar and Kandivli. Besides this, in BMC's S ward which comprises areas like Kanjurmarg, the civic body has decided to enforce a localised lockdown in a few areas. This means shops selling non-essentials would be asked to stay shut as well. "For 8 days or so we had a complete lockdown in Appapada and Kokanipada in Malad as infection rate was high. It is expected to be extended for another week," said regional addl CP Dilip Sawant. Some parts of Malwani such as MHB Colony, Rathodi, Shivaji Nagar etc. have been locked down by BMC till June 20. Police have proposed a similar total lockdown at Kajupada in Borivli East, Ketkipada in Dahisar East and Poisar in Kandivli. On Friday, joint commissioner Vinoy Choubey along with other IPS officers jointly conducted a review with the BMC on measures to control the doubling rate in North Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-parts-of-borivli-kandivli-may-see-total-shutdown/articleshow/76474764.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government clears Rs 418 crore cane dues||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred Rs 418 crore to the accounts of cane farmers, clearing over Rs 1 lakh crore dues in three years to set the record of highest payment of arrears by any government. Addressing cane farmers after the transfer of funds, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the government cleared dues worth Rs 1,00,325 crore in the past three years which was more than what any government paid during its tenure. “The Samajwadi Party government was able to make a payment of only Rs 95,215 crore in 5 years. The payment made by our government is also Rs 46,633 crore more than the combined cane price payment of Rs 53,367 crore during 2014-17,” he said. There are 48 lakh sugarcane farmers and 119 sugar mills in UP. Around 25,000-40,000 sugarcane farmers are associated with each mill and each mill employs 8,000-10,000 people. “When BSP was in power, it closed down 19 sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh between 2007 and 2012. Similarly, the Samajwadi Party government closed 10 mills from 2012 to 2017 due to which sugarcane farmers faced a huge crisis. When we came to power, we not only revived closed mills but also started new ones,” the CM said, addressing a video conference organised by the department of sugar industry and cane development. Yogi said there were three sugar mills in Gorakhpur and all of them were closed under previous governments, but after coming to power his government set up a new sugar mill in Pipraich. The CM said not only record payments were made but record production of sugarcane and sugar was also registered. “During lockdown, UP government successfully operated 119 sugar mills. We had taken the pledge that sugar mills would operate as long as a single sugarcane is there in the farmers’ field. We have fulfilled the resolution. All units of khandsari were also operational during lockdown,” the CM said. “Lockdown was a major challenge for farming. Sugarcane and wheat crops were standing in the fields. We also had to keep the interest of farmers in view while preventing infection. We decided that we will procure wheat and sugarcane while following lockdown rules,” he added. An official said though sugar sale was negligible during lockdown, cane price payment of Rs 5,953 crore was made to farmers for the period. “In the current crushing season of 2019-20, 1,116 lakh tons of sugarcane was crushed in the state which led to production of 126.5 lakh tons of sugar. Highest crushing and sugar production has been recorded in the history of the state,” he said. With distilleries closed for the production of alcohol during lockdown, many of them started production of hand sanitizers. The CM said in the first week of March, there was a sudden shortage of sanitizers and a 100ml bottle started selling for Rs 400-500. “Sugarcane farmers decided to manufacture sanitizer. UP currently has sanitizer manufacturing capacity of 5 lakh litres daily. The production is so high that not only did the government distribute free sanitizer to all government departments but also managed to sell it to 28 other states and export it too,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-clears-rs-418cr-cane-dues/articleshow/76474496.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Pace of Samruddhi expressway work slows as workers return home||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: The ‘Mission Begin Again’ of Maharashtra government to kick-start business activities has had a reverse impact on its ambitious Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway project. Nearly 22% of the total workers of the project, also called as the Samruddhi Highway, have left for their hometowns, cutting down the pace of work. The expressway passes through 10 districts of the state. The construction work of the project was carried out even during lockdown with special permission from the Central government. Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRDC), on Friday said 4,000 of the 18,000 workers engaged in the project had left for their respective home towns in neigbouring states. “Despite this, the MSRDC is set to complete at least 500 km stretch of the 701-km expressway by May 2021 and the rest of the project will be functional by December 2021,” he said. Speaking to a select group of newsmen through video conference, Mopalwar said the labourers have been trained on maintaining social distance to ensure their safety. The expressway site is about from 2 to 10 km away from the containment zones across the state, he said. He pointed out that expressway work was divided into 16 packages of which it’s in progress well at 12 places while in rest of the packages only 4 per cent of the work could be carried out due to technical glitches including forest department clearance. Officials from Nashik said that about 50% of their workers had gone home. In Nashik district, the package at Sinnar is progressing well but it has been affected in the Igatpuri and Shahapur sections. The work on the tunneling from both the ends is being carried out. Most workers from Assam, Bihar, Odisha have gone back. Those who returned home were in touch with some workers in Mumbai. “They called up their friends and we arranged for transportation facilities to bring them here from Mumbai. We have about 80% of the workers compared to those hired before Covid-19 outbreak,” a senior officer added. The officer added that the work has not stopped completely but the pace has reduced by about 25%. A large portion of the Samruddhi Expressway runs through Aurangabad district. About 112.30 km stretch of the expressway passes through 62 villages in Aurangabad. Mopalwar also said that natural gas pipelines, solar power projects and optical fibre web will also be installed along the Samruddhi Mahamarg. “Solar energy upto around 250-300 megawatts will be created along the expressway. MSRDC hoped that the natural gas pipelines will promote the gas-based industries along the expressway,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pace-of-samruddhi-exp-work-slows-as-workers-return-home/articleshow/76472008.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Epidemiology research gets civic boost||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will provide data and infrastructure for epidemiological research required to study the coronavirus spread in the city. The civic body has approved a proposal, under which a project will be implemented in association with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) as one of the key coordinators. “The SPPU has contributed to Covid-19 research and is helping the PMC as part of the Pune Knowledge Centre. But we don’t want to confine the epidemiological research only to Covid-19. A permanent centre for this type of study has to be established,” Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU, told TOI. He added that the university was coming up with a centre for molecular diagnostic and research, which would be established on university campus for the study and diagnosis of respiratory diseases. The centre’s service will also be offered to private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/epidemiology-research-gets-civic-boost/articleshow/76474128.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka could have 1 lakh positive cases by August 15||BENGALURU: A state health department’s projection based on current pace of spread indicates that the number of Covid-19 cases in the state will hit the 1-lakh mark by August 15. This projection is based on the doubling rate which took into account the current rate of positive cases, transmission potential and average number of secondary infections produced by a typical Covid-positive case in a population where everyone is susceptible. “In Karnataka, we’re seeing a doubling rate every 15 days. Based on this, our prediction suggests that the state may touch up to 1 lakh cases by August 15,” said Munish Moudgil who is in charge of the Covid-19 War Room. He said the estimation is based on the current trend while cases are rising across the state. If there is any improvement from the present situation, the least they expect is between 50,000 and 60,000 cases. For Karnataka to prove the prediction wrong, every individual must practise hygiene norms of wearing a mask, repeatedly washing hands and maintaining social distancing norms. “This will reduce the progression of the virus by 60% to 70%,” he said. Debunking prediction models, additional chief secretary (health) Jawaid Akthar said the only reliable mechanism of reflecting the ground reality is taking an average of the daily numbers. “While we have conducted two or three studies, including one by our expert committee, these do not give us a fair idea of virus progression rate simply because there are too many variables. In hindsight, we’ve seen that these models are nowhere close to reality,” said Akthar. The health department, he said, used the average rate of positive cases on a week-by-week basis as the premise for predictions and, therefore, preparations. “With that in mind, we do consider prediction models by various groups and experts to map out our strategies,” he said. However, many government officials and experts believe projection rates and prediction models will create only panic among citizens and the government does not want to come up with possible numbers. Watch COVID-19: At current pace, Karnataka may have 1 lakh positive cases by August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-could-have-1-lakh-positive-cases-by-august-15/articleshow/76473036.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Recipe for triple disaster: Ramesh to Javadekar||Nagpur: Former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh in a communication to the current environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday expressed shock at the manner in which coal blocks in areas of very rich biodiversity were put up for auction on Thursday. TOI was first to report on Friday how Bander coal blocks near Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), which fall in the ‘no go’ zone, were among the 41 blocks put up for auction. Earlier, the blocks have been rejected twice for coal mining. In 2009-10, while heading the environment ministry, Ramesh did ‘go’ and ‘no go’ classification of coal blocks by a joint team of ministry of environment and forest and officials Coal India Ltd (CIL). The classification was itself suggested by then Coal India chairman. Ramesh pointed out that nine major coalfields were studied and about 70% of the coal blocks fell in ‘go’ areas that could prima facie be considered for approval and 30% were in ‘no go’ areas. These should under no circumstances be considered for mining. Bander was one of them. The former environment minister reminded Javadekar how he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have spoken eloquently in global forums on India’s commitment to fight global warming. “What sort of commitment is this that coal blocks in very dense forest areas are being opened up for mining,” he asked. Ramesh said, “It is a triple disaster. The mining and transportation of coal will impose a very heavy environmental cost. Secondly, it will mean loss of dense forest cover for which no compensatory afforestation will compensate. It will also mean loss of valuable carbon sink and thirdly, public health will be severely affected.” Ramesh also said that some politically powerful producers have had their eyes on some of these coal blocks — then one dangerously near Tadoba. “Clearly, their influence is very evident in this decision to open up coal mining in such ecologically fragile and sensitive zones,” he added. Ramesh said, “The Prime Minister had compared coal to diamonds on Thursday. This is the language of 1970s and 1980s. Nobody concerned with global warming and climate change now would have made such a statement. At a time when we should be thinking seriously of peaking or plateauing of coal production, PM’s statement shows he does not ‘walk the talk’ as far as what he preaches to the world on climate change concerns.” “I request to take steps to ensure that the coal blocks in ecologically fragile and sensitive areas put up for auction are cancelled immediately,” Ramesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recipe-for-triple-disaster-ramesh-to-javadekar/articleshow/76474132.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Police spread awareness as distancing rule ignored||Nashik: As the social distancing norm goes for a toss in the old city area, the police have started spreading awareness about the same among its citizen and also booked people for not following the norm or not wearing masks. The Bhadrakali police said that in the view of huge rush in the market places in their jurisdiction, they have started making announcements from speakers put up in mosques. Sajan Sonawane, the senior police inspector of the Bhadrakali police station, said, “Over the past few days, we have started making announcements from the speakers in the mosques. This helps in reaching out to approximately 4,000 people at a time. There are quite a few mosques in the Bhadrakali area and we make announcements from at least one or two of them daily. Apart from this, the action is also being taken by the police for not wearing masks. The police said that people are not taking the norms of lockdown relaxation seriously, following which on Wednesday 62 people were booked under section 188 of the IPC. From March 23 till June 17, the police had booked 8,472 people under Section 188 of the IPC. With the rise of Covid-19 cases in the city limits, the police will take stricter action. Senior officials of the Mhasrool police station said that while they were strict about ensuring no one enters the city without a valid pass, medical certificate among others, cases are increasing due to the negligence among citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-spread-awareness-as-distancing-rule-ignored/articleshow/76471992.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Pune-Mumbai train service looks unlikely before August||PUNE: The railway officials claimed that the resumption of Pune-Mumbai train service might be considered only in the “third phase” of unlocking, stressing that restarting the operation between the two cities could trigger a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Shivaji Sutar, the chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, said, “At present, there are no plans to start the train services between Pune and Mumbai.” The first phase of unlocking is in effect at present. “If the railways considers resumption of Pune-Mumbai train service only in the third phase, the operations are unlikely to resume before August.” A railway official said there was a deliberation with the state government over resuming train operations between Mumbai and Pune. “We have told them (state government) that considering the high number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Pune, the resumption of services could lead to the situation spiralling out of control. Each decision on resumption of train services in both the cities will be taken in consultation with the state government,” the official said. Another railway official, requesting anonymity, said, “The local train service was resumed in Mumbai after the state government requested the Central Railway for it. Essential service personnel are only allowed to travel in local trains there. While social distancing is being maintained at the originating stations, the number of people getting into the trains increases gradually and it is a concern.” Another official of the Central Railway said, “Office-goers will be allowed to travel in local trains only after things improve in both the cities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mumbai-train-service-looks-unlikely-before-august/articleshow/76474124.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Autopsy on Covid +ve suicide victim conducted at GRH||MADURAI: A 78-year-old man from Sivaganga who was brought to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Wednesday after attempting suicide by consuming poison, died shortly after also testing positive for Covid-19. Since it was a medico-legal case (MLC), a postmortem examination was conducted on Thursday. “This is the first such case at the GRH. There are guidelines given for dead body management for Covid-19 patients. As per protocol, the body was properly wrapped and brought to the mortuary. All those carrying out the autopsy had to use PPE kits, face shields and N95 masks. Disinfection of body by sodium hypochlorite solution was also carried out twice,” said a senior doctor. The man had suffered organophosporous poisoning and his official cause of death has been given as respiratory failure, OPC poisoning and Covid-19 positive. “The number of mortuary attendants, technicians and doctors for carrying out autopsies of Covid-19 patients is restricted as compared to normal. Further, the team tries to finish the autopsy as soon as possible to avoid risk of prolonged exposure. The team will also not handle any other body after that and only come for work after a day,” the doctor added. At present, autopsies are rarely conducted on Covid-19 patients, and doctors are hoping for better and clearer guidelines to be issued in handling such cases in future if more such medico-legal cases come up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/autopsy-on-covid-ve-suicide-victim-conducted-at-grh/articleshow/76474623.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Activists propose suggestions for Cantt Amendment Bill||Aurangabad: The ministry of defence, Government of India, had sought suggestions, especially from residents of Cantonment areas, for drafting the proposed Cantonment Amendment Bill, 2020, which aims at greater democratisation, modernisation and efficiency in the administration. Cantonment Jan Adhikar Manch (CJAM)— a network of activists and people residing in different Cantonments in India—held a discussion last week in which activists and experts discussed various suggestions that can be proposed to the government for the Cantonment Amendment Bill, 2020. According to CJAM convenor Sunil Maske, the Estimate Committee of Parliament (1956-57) under Balwant Rai Mehta recommended that the local self-government strictly be under the state administration as the subject mainly falls under list II of the Seventh schedule of the Constitution of India. It further suggested that the Army should be given representation or right to have a say on any decision of the local authority. Currently, the local-self government of the Cantonment is under the defence ministry of the Government of India. Savita Jadhav from the CJAM advisory committee said that if Cantonment Board was considered a municipality, it should be administered like one. A suggestion was made to include the state government in the governance of the Cantonments so that schemes of social welfare, public health, hygiene, safety, water supply, sanitation, urban renewal and education can be implemented. “We want the CEO of the Cantonment Board to be accountable for the development of the residents,” said Jadhav adding that the boards should get grants and allocation both from the Centre and the state. The Cantonment Board is presided by a military officer and comprises of nominated members, elected members and district magistrate. Activists have proposed that the president should be an elected member and not an ex-officio member and the tehsildar be made an additional member of the board. This would help better reach of the schemes to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/activists-propose-suggestions-for-cantt-amendment-bill/articleshow/76474127.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||AITUC demands permanent jobs for contractual health workers||Aurangabad: The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), ahead of the mega hiring of 17,000 health workers across the state, has demanded permanent jobs for all contractual health workers working under the National Health Mission for last 10-15 years. An protest rally has also been called on Monday at Aurangabad district collectorate to press for their demand. For the last 8 days, the contractual workers employed at primary health centres in rural Maharashtra have been resorting to strike with the same demand. A meeting was called on Friday after 8 days of strike by health workers at VD Deshpande hall in Cidco N-7 on Friday. According to Abhay Taksal of AITUC affiliated Maharashtra Kamgar Karmachari Sanghatna, the health workers like nurses, data entry operators, pharmacists and counsellors have been working consistently for the last several years at meagre wages. “Now, the state government has decided to undertake mega recruitment to hire 17,000 workers. Ahead of that, we demand that all the contractual workers be absorbed by the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aituc-demands-permanent-jobs-for-contractual-health-workers/articleshow/76474134.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 20, 2020||Nashik||HCG cancer centre conducts 549 surgeries in April-May||Nashik: At a time when most hospitals in the state were reluctant to admit cancer patients let alone conducting surgeries in view of Covid-19 outbreak, Nashik’s HCG Manavata Cancer Centre conducted over 500 surgeries in the last two months.While 30% patients belonged to Nashik, the remaining 70% were from other parts of the country. Director of Manavata Cancer Hospital Raj Nagarkar said that some hospitals were conducting selected cancer surgeries; however, at HCG Manavata Cancer Centre, surgeries related to intestines, stomach, throat, mouth, uterus, etc. were performed.Nagarkar said that a total of 549 surgeries were conducted in the lockdown period (April-May), including 35 robotic surgeries. According to him, the scare of Covid-19 was initially huge. Even cancer hospitals were asked not to take up any surgeries given the low immunity among cancer patients. However, as time passed, the government policies changed and the administration announced relaxations in the rules allowing treatment of cancer patients from April. “Nonetheless, many patients may not have been able visit hospitals due to lockdown. Following the lockdown, a large mumber of cancer patients had to stay home which eventually led to a break in their treatment, resulting in advancement of their illness. Also, in some cases, early detection of cancer also got delayed due to people not being able to visit hospitals. The side-effects of this delay in the treatment would be felt in the coming couple of years,” said Raj Nagarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hcg-cancer-centre-conducts-549-surgeries-in-april-may/articleshow/76472025.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Link Ganga e-way with Varanasi, begin land acquisition: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the officials to consider the possibility of linking the 602-km Ganga expressway with Varanasi in future. He was reviewing the presentation on the Ganga Expressway by the chief executive officer of UPEIDA , Awanish Awasthi, at his official residence. CM also gave directions to start the process of land acquisition for the Ganga Expressway project immediately. Yogi asked for a proposal to be presented to him within a week on the options for appointing a transaction advisor. The CM has also said that land for industrial development and commercial use along the expressway should be identified in advance. Yogi said the design of the new road should minimise the possibility of road accidents. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the cabinet had given an in-principle approval for the project. Its detailed project report has been prepared and the expressway will start from the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and end at the NH-19 bypass in Prayagraj. The expressway will be about 602km long. Awasthi said that Rs 37,350 crore has been sanctioned for the project, while the cost of land acquisition is Rs 9,500 crore. About 7,200 hectare land will be acquired for it. The work will take place in 12 packages. Once completed, it will reduce the travel time between Delhi and Prayagraj from the current 11-12 hours to about 6 hours. The expressway will link Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Baeli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/link-ganga-e-way-with-varanasi-begin-land-acquisition-cm-yogi/articleshow/76474503.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat: Madhavsinh legacy dims, son falls short||AHMEDABAD: In the 1985 assembly election, Congress leader Madhavsinh Solanki rode to power with a sweeping triumph. The Congress won 149 of the 182 assembly seats of Gujarat — a feat no party has been able to replicate. More than three decades since that defining moment in Gujarat’s political history, Madhavsinh’s legacy was shaken on Friday, as his son Bharatsinh Solanki failed to win in the Rajya Sabha election. The defeat was the aftermath of an exodus of Congress MLAs ahead of the poll. Even before the counting of votes was taken up, Bharatsinh Solanki all but conceded defeat. “I am happy with the MLAs who stayed with the party,” Solanki said. “The BJP used threat politics against BTP MLAs. We will accept the result happily.” Although the 66-year-old Solanki’s accomplished political career cannot be written off with this loss in the Rajya Sabha election, it will dent his political fortunes. He led the Congress in the 2017 assembly election but could not reap much benefit. The BJP formed the government even as the Congress improved its tally. In 2018, he was replaced as the Gujarat Congress chief by Amit Chavda. In 2019, Solanki had contested in the Lok Sabha poll only to be defeated. The two-time MP and three-time MLA has been the Union minister of state for power and railways in the UPA government. He has been the president of the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) for two terms — from 2006 to 2008 and from 2015 to 2018. Besides, he was also secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) from 2004 to 2006. After winning the Anand Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and 2009, Solanki lost to Dilip Patel of the BJP in the 2014 general election. Beginning as a secretary of the GPCC in 1992, Solanki won his first assembly election in 1995. He went on to be an MLA for three consecutive terms between 1995 and 2004. He was the deputy leader of the opposition in the Gujarat assembly between 2003 and 2004.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/madhavsinh-legacy-dims-son-falls-short/articleshow/76474185.cms||Kapil Dave
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Circle Inspector tests Covid-19 positive, 10 other cops sent for tests||VISAKHAPATNAM: A circle inspector (CI) (crime wing) and a 65-year-old retired CI, from East Point Colony, in Vizag city have tested positive for Covid-19. Around 10 police personnel from the police station in which the CI works have been asked to go for tests. They will be placed under home quarantine if they test positive. The city police department has a 3,000-strong force, which includes armed reserve forces, home guards and other wings in 23 law and order police stations, seven traffic police stations, marine, women police station, Disha station and CCS. On Friday, the department had conducted Covid-19 tests at Kalyanamandapam in police barracks for all assistant commissioners (ACPs) and staff at the police station where the CI tested positive. Though the police commissionerate has a disinfection tunnel, thermal testing and other facilities, city police commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena asked personnel to take more precautions. The police chief told all personnel to wear masks and keep safety equipment in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ci-tests-ve-10-other-cops-sent-for-tests/articleshow/76473026.cms||Siva G
June 20, 2020||Madurai||Class X: Pvt schools seek ‘pass certificate’ without marks||MADURAI: With many private schools opposing the current assessment of using quarterly and half yearly exam marks and attendance to determine the final marks for Class X exams, school heads are now seeking a ‘pass certificate’ without marks to ensure that there is no disparity. On Friday, though the Tamil Nadu directorate of government examinations had announced that all students will be promoted irrespective of their marks, teachers and students are anxious due to lack of clarity. “The government’s decision to take the quarterly and half yearly marks and attendance for weighted average is unacceptable. Class X exams is a government transcript certifying the knowledge acquired by a child on a standardized testing platform. Different teachers use different techniques to help prepare the children write the exams. So, the quarterly and half yearly marks cannot be used as a yardstick for a standardized test. This will be a gross misrepresentation of the child’s ability and knowledge,” said Siddhartha Jagannathan, joint secretary, Private Schools Correspondents Confederation (PSCC). The PSCC, as an alternative is instead suggesting the government to pass the children irrespective of their past performance without calculating any grades. At present, private schools are also finding it difficult to submit the quarterly and half yearly exam papers. Meanwhile, government school heads said that though this assessment may not seem fair for all, it was the best option. “If marks are not at all declared, then in future, for jobs or higher studies, what would be the basis for comparison between candidates? To make up for any low marks scored, attendance also counts for 20 marks more. There wouldn’t be much of a difference in the abilities of students. Students who study well would have done well in the past too,” said a headmaster of a government higher secondary school. V Jayendran Mani, president, Tirunelveli Matriculation Schools’ Association said there were several institutions that base their admission on a weighted average of Class X and XII exams and also many employment opportunities are based on Class X marks. “Since Tamil Nadu is the one of the few states to cancel the exams they need to issue a GO for the institutions and employers to rework the weighted averages so that the children don’t face any unnecessary disadvantages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-x-pvt-schools-seek-pass-certificate-without-marks/articleshow/76474625.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Jalna man gets death for murder||AURANGABAD: Jalna district and sessions judge Shrinivas Potdar has sentenced a man to death for murdering his mother-in-law, stabbing his pregnant wife, leading to the death of the foetus, and seriously injuring his wife’s aunt almost five years ago. The court also sentenced the convict, Krushna Pawar (30), to life imprisonment for attempting to murder his wife and her aunt and seven years for causing death of unborn child. The sentences will run concurrently. “In each of these sentences, the convict has been slapped with a fine of Rs 1,000 each,” assistant government pleader Varsha Mukim told TOI on Friday, a day after the verdict was delivered. Pawar (30), a resident of Yavla Pimpri village in Ambad taluka, had committed the crime in Ambad town on October 24, 2015. A total of 14 witnesses testified before the court and the testimony of the survivors, including the convict’s wife Lalita and her aunt Alka Pawar played a crucial role in ensuring conviction. According to the prosecution, Krushna had married Lalita in 2011. Lalita, along with her four-year-old son had returned to her parent’s house in Valkhed village of Dudhapuri about three months before the incident because of domestic violence. Hours before the incident, Krushna had been to her in-laws’ place for bringing back his wife. However, his in-laws asked him to bring his parents to sort out differences amicably before she is sent back. It was decided that the two families would meet in Ambad. It was when Krushna’s family did not turn up for the meeting, Lalita, her mother Sumanbai Rathod, brother Akash and aunt Alka Pawar decided to return home. As they were going towards an autorickshaw stand, Akash told them to wait for a while so that he could collect money from his contractor friend. In the meanwhile, Krushna reached the spot and stabbed his wife and attacked her mother and aunt when when they tried to save her. On learning about the incident, Akash rushed back to the spot and saw Krushna holding a sharp-edged weapon. All the three women had suffered multiple stab wounds. Akash immediately took the injured to the civil hospital in Ambad, before they were moved to Jalna for treatment, during which the unborn baby and Sumanbai passed away . Lalita and her aunt Alka survived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-man-gets-death-for-murder/articleshow/76474140.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 20, 2020||Pune||Covid care centres in PCMC increased to 11||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) health department has increased the number of Covid care centres to 11. PCMC’s additional medical officer, health, Pavan Salve, told TOI that the number of centres had to be increased considering the rise in the number of people showing symptoms akin to Covid-19. Some of these centres are at the social justice department hostel, Moshi; D Y Patil Girls Hostel, Akurdi; regional telecom centre, Shahunagar; Indira College Tathawade; Balaji University’s law college and Balewadi hostel, among others. Covid positive patients with mild symptoms are generally transferred to the Covid health centres, while severe cases are transferred to the dedicated Covid hospitals. According to the PCMC officials, all the eight regional zones in the civic limits have reported Covid-19 cases and the number of such cases has risen substantially after the lockdown 4. The health department has estimated that the number of cases may go up to 3,000 by month-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-care-centres-in-pcmc-increased-to-11/articleshow/76474141.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||8 more die, infected tally soars above 14,000 in PMR||PUNE: The Covid-19 case burden in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past 14,000-mark on Friday, with the addition of 431 fresh patients in the last 24 hours. Besides, eight more patients, all above 50 years of age, succumbed to coronavirus in Pune on Friday, taking the death toll to 560 so far. The total cases in PMR climbed to 14,181 on Friday. Of these, 11,554 have been recorded in Pune municipal limits, 1,382 in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas and 1,246 in rural parts and Cantonments in the Pune district. PMC health officials said over 157 patients were discharged on Friday after they were declared cured. Besides, 265 patients were at critical stage, of whom 53 were put on ventilator support, they said. The civic authorities on Friday collected 2,676 swabs of suspected patients and sent them for testing. The active caseload in PMC surged to 3,909, of which 1,095 patients were being treated at private hospitals and remaining were undergoing treatment at the Sassoon and PMC-run Naidu hospitals and Covid centres. The deceased included a 60-year-old woman from the Parvati Darshan area, a 58-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 50-year-old man from the Dandekar bridge area, a 59-year-old woman from Kharadi, a 66-year-old man from the Katraj area, a 56-year-old man from Laxminagar, a 55-year-old man from Bopkhel gaon in the PCMC limits and a 53-year-old man from Solapur. The addition of latest 1,000 cases has taken two days just like the time taken for the tally to increase from 12,000 to 13,000. The government is now focussing on arresting the rising casualties. The civic authorities have also attributed the rising cases to more testing.  For the last few days, more than 2,000 samples have been collected and sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-more-die-infected-tally-soars-above-14k-in-pmr/articleshow/76474138.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s Covid dip trend now seen in Mumbai’s other slums too||MUMBAI: Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, is not the only urban congested sprawl to witness a drastic drop in Covid-19 cases. A similar trend is emerging in the city’s other slum pockets as well. Consider L ward that includes Kurla and has many slum pockets. The slum of Qureshi Nagar, which earlier would report 17-18 new Covid cases daily, has not reported new cases in the last couple of days. New cases, around 40 a day, being reported from L ward are from buildings, including SRA structures. Manish Walunju, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, said 1-2 cases have been reported in other slum pockets of L ward in the past few days. He said this has been possible due to aggressive screening in congested localities. “There were a few days last month when over 100 new Covid-19 cases would be reported daily,” he said. Most of the cases would come from the slum pockets of Qureshi Nagar, Kasaiwada or Ambika Nagar. “We immediately marked out large clusters and said no one could leave their cluster without getting screened,” he said. In Goregaon, corporator Srikala Pillai, whose ward consists of slums such as Bhagat Singh Nagar 1 & 2, Laxmi Nagar and Indira Nagar, said these areas had reported 150 Covid-19 cases so far. “We started screening everyone and isolated suspected cases ,” said Pillai. As community toilets could be a source of transmission, sanitization was carried out in three shifts instead of one. “Since the last few days, we find that more cases in the ward are being reported from buildings instead of slums,” she said. The new cases are occurring among those stepping out for medical reasons, such as dialysis. TOI on June 19 reported about how M-East, which includes the slum clusters of Govandi and Mankhurd, had witnessed a significant drop in cases. The current growth rate is 1.2%, a sharp drop from the 8.4% recorded in the ward on May 14. Civic officials said private practitioners had helped by starting community clinics in containment zones to screen everyone. Appointment of containment leaders from among local residents too helped identify suspected cases. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner for the Dharavi area, said strict enforcement of containment zones definitely helped. “In the slums, sealing of areas was stringent. Highrisk contacts were quarantined as they have limited space at home,” he said. In Dahisar's Ganpat Patil Nagar slum as well, officials said they are not witnessing any sharp spike in cases. One of the steps taken which is likely to have helped here is trying to maintain movement of crowds. In April, the BMC had decided to barricade the south-bound stretch of Link Road where vendors would be allowed to sit at a distance. Overcrowding would occur as hawkers would sit in the narrow lanes of the slums to sell vegetables and fruits. In Andheri's Nehru Nagar slum, too, a dip in cases is evident, said officials. On May 27, the number of cases stood at 60 while as of June 11 were 67. Officials have decided to replicate a similar model in highrises too by screening everyone for symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavis-covid-dip-trend-now-seen-in-mumbais-other-slums-too/articleshow/76474751.cms||Richa Pinto
June 20, 2020||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh’s flagship project falters, dist officers get rap||LUCKNOW: Inordinate delay in completion of Rs 5241-crore Outer Ring Road project in the city has irked Union defence minister and two-time MP from Lucknow, Rajnath Singh. About two days back, he took state authorities to task for the delay and directed them to ensure that the work be completed at the earliest. The project has come to a grinding halt not only because of the lockdown, but also because district authorities have cancelled mining permits of developers carrying out the work. Following Rajnath’s directives, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, convened a meeting of district authorities, including DM Abhishek Prakash on Thursday and instructed them to initiate steps for the speedy completion of the project. Rajnath had rushed his staff to Lucknow to coordinate with agencies engaged in the work. In the previous general elections, the defence minister had promised to gift the Outer Ring Road to Lucknowites by 2020. The 92-km four-lane elevated Outer Ring Road, encircling the state capital, was started with an objective of easing traffic congestion in the city as Shahid Path, connecting Kanpur Road to Faizabad Road, has failed to solve the growing traffic problem of the state capital. The foundation stone of the Outer Ring Road was laid amid much fanfare by Rajnath and Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari in September 2016. Initially, it was planned that barring a small patch the project would be finished in 40 months. Thus, the project should have been completed at the start of 2020 and the patch, where a rail overbridge is to be constructed, would have to be finished by 2023. Talking to TOI, a staff member of Rajnath said, “Almost four years have passed, but not even 50% work has been completed.” The project includes four major bridges, 42 minor and five ROB (railway overbridges) and eight flyovers, but the work in most of the sections is still going on. The lockdown has further compounded problems for the developers. The project has been divided into two sections – an 11-km patch is called Kisan Path and 92-km stretch is known as Outer Ring Road. While the Kisan Path is to be developed by PWD, the remaining stretch is being handled by NHAI. However, due to objections raised by district mining authorities both the developing agencies are not able to carry out the project. The mining authorities have slapped huge fines on contractors bringing the work to a grinding halt. When the matter was brought to the notice of Rajnath he personally spoke to top authorities of the state, drawing their attention towards the hindrances being created by the mining authorities. Meanwhile, project manager, NHAI, Narsing Narain Giri said that the project is not much delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnaths-flagship-project-falters-dist-officers-get-rap/articleshow/76474508.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Social distancing not embraced||Gandhinagar: Social distancing and other precautions to contain the spread of Covid-19 were thrown to the wind during the Rajya Sabha election in the Gujarat assembly on Friday. MLAs and their supporters crowded the polling area in huge numbers, which led to considerable jostling in the area. Leader of the opposition Paresh Dhanani was among those seen without a face mask during the Rajya Sabha election. A number of party supporters who had come to the assembly with MLAs were also seen without masks. At times during the day, there was chaos in the area that led to the polling booth as MLAs and their supporters got cramped in the space. Large groups of supporters were seen in the elevators and lobbies and around the polling booth. Disregarding the protocol that they should maintain isolation after being discharged from hospital, the three BJP MLAs who had tested positive for Covid-19 – Jagdish Panchal, Balram Thawani and Kishor Chauhan – came to vote on Friday and freely mingled with other BJP MLAs. Some BJP MLAs were seen trying to keep their distance from these three MLAs as they could still be carrying some viral load.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/social-distancing-not-embraced/articleshow/76474184.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Meter readers barred entry to some buildings||NASHIK: With the lifting of the lockdown and life slowly returning to normalcy, meter readers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) have been given the responsibility of taking the exact meter readings for energy billing purposes. However, some of the meter readers are facing resistance as citizens fear they might bring Covid-19 infection to the residential premises. “It is not the case everywhere. In some places, the meter readers have been barred from entering the residential premises,” said a senior MSEDCL officer. Meter reading had been stopped for three months on account of the lockdown. Bills were produced based on the average of the units consumed earlier per month. Now, the exact readings are being taken so that people get bills as per their usage. “The meter readers will be taking all the necessary precautions to ensure personal hygiene and safety. They will only touch the meter box which is generally in a secluded area of a residence,” said the officer. “We appeal to people to allow our staff to take the meter readings. We have taken the permission for the process from the local authorities. The meter readers will go in the areas which are out of containment zones,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/meter-readers-barred-entry-to-some-bldgs/articleshow/76472052.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur cops get another Covid scare as accused tests positive||NAGPUR: In all, 32 police personnel from Wathoda police station and another 15 from crime branch had to rush for Covid testing on Friday after one of the accused, held on June 8 during ‘Operation Crackdown’, was found Covid positive. This is the second Covid scare for city police in the last 24 hours after two accused persons in custody and arrested in separate cases have tested positive. A day ago, Hudkeshwar police station’s 11 personnel had to be similarly tested but were relieved after results were negative. Only two constables, both now discharged, have so far been found positive in the city police. The second accused was in Wathoda police station on June 7 and 8. He was nabbed by the crime branch along with nine others while allegedly planning to commit dacoity. The crime branch had later handed over all 10 persons to Wathoda police where the offence was registered and investigation was conducted. City police administration also got the police stations of Wathoda, Nandanvan and Sakkardara sanitized as the 10 accused were kept in the lock up of these places. The Hudkeshwar police station too was sanitized. It is learnt some cops had got themselves tested at a private laboratory while some gave samples at IGGMCH and GMCH. State home minister Anil Deshmukh later announced the entire expenditure of testing for the police force will be borne by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-get-another-covid-scare-as-accused-tests-positive/articleshow/76474146.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra needs finance fillip from Centre, says deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has sought more funds from the Centre to boost the state’s economic revival. Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said on Friday that the Centre had in April released Rs1,611 crore disaster management funds for the state, but it had proved insufficient. “For the cycle of economy to get a push in the state, we need a substantial package from the Centre. Like other states, we too have put forth our demand,” he told TOI. The demanded funds are in addition to the state’s pending share of GST. Further, Pawar said the state will also seek loans as per the central government guidelines and added that a majority of funds received are spent on salaries and pensions. “We have to allocate Rs12,000 crore for salaries and pension. Funds are needed for departments such as health, medical education, public distribution system, home and disaster management, so there is bound to be a shortfall,” he said. “Earlier, we had sought 50,000 crore. But in the current situation, we are not citing any figure. The centre ought to give us a large share,” he added. Pawar further said migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh need to return to jump-start industrial activity in the state. “While job opportunities should go to people from the state, there are certain jobs that were carried out efficiently by these workers,” he said. By the end of the month, he said the state would discuss further relaxation of restrictions with the Centre. “I personally want relaxation in all sectors, so that work can commence slowly and steadily. So, if now a 10% workforce is allowed, we should increase it further by following due diligence of social distancing,” he said, adding that the society must now learn to live with the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-needs-finance-fillip-from-centre-says-dy-cm/articleshow/76474144.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Man arrested for extortion in Nashik||Nashik: The Mhasrool police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old man on the charges of threatening a shopkeeper in the Borgad area and demanding extortion money from him. The incident took place on on Thursday evening. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Jagdish Devasi, a resident of the same area. As per the complaint registered by Devasi, suspect Yurvraj Sonawane came to his shop at around 5 pm and demanded groceries for free. When the complainant objected to the same, Sonawane entered the shop and began assaulting him. The shopkeeper told police that the suspect also ransacked various articles in his shop. As a result, other customers got scared and fled the scene. Police said that Sonawane then threatened the shopkeeper by warning him of dire consequences if he failed to pay Rs 10,000 every month. Following the incident, some neighbouring shopkeepers closed their outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-arrested-for-extortion-in-nashik/articleshow/76472035.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Pune||Exclusive anti-Covid-19 stores selling protective gear spring up across Pune||PUNE: The demand for protective gear and sanitization equipment has prompted a number of exclusive anti-Covid-19 stores in the city. Dealing in everything that may be needed to protect against Covid-19, these stores are also trying to sell only locally-manufactured products. On sale are selling masks, gloves, face shields, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, sanitizers, sprayers, sanitizer stands, pulse oximeters, disinfectants, antiseptic liquids and infrared thermometers. Mariya Harnesswala, who recently opened a store in Pune Camp, said, “Protective and sanitization equipment have become a necessity. We found that people are being charged heavily for these products. Many people are also sceptical about ordering online. So, we got in touch with some people, who are manufacturing these items, and started the store.” Owner of another Covid-19 store at Mukundnagar Sahil Shah said, “We started the store to cater to the manufacturing industry. Once the lockdown started, we got enquiries from households, offices and companies. Over time, the variety in each product has also increased enabling people to make a choice. People are coming to the store or making video calls to see the options before making a purchase.” He added that they are trying to deal only in locally-manufactured items. “Procuring some items, like infrared thermometers, locally is a challenge but we have recently tied up with a company that manufactures these,” Shah stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/exclusive-anti-covid-19-stores-selling-protective-gear-spring-up-across-city/articleshow/76474148.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 20, 2020||Varanasi||Startup group of IIT-BHU develops tool to detect early symptoms of Covid-19||VARANASI: A startup group of IIT-BHU, Mediport, has developed a pre-screening tool which can detect early symptoms of COVID-19 in a no contact, non-invasive way. The developers said anyone can use this tool to get their risk score against Covid-19 while sitting at home. “Users can procure data including body temperature, heart rate and blood oxygen using wearable devices such as a smart band/watch and any free to use mobile app,” said Shubham Jain on of the members of MediPort, adding, “This will help frontline health workers in remote testing and monitoring of patients.” Other members of the group are Manthan Jain, Girish Srinivasan, Suraj Saini, Akul Gupta, Jay Dhanvant and Dr Aman Dev. The pre-screening tool can predict risk to Covid by measuring vital signs better than standard thermal methods, claimed Shubham. He said the tool can prove to be helpful for hospitals, airports, railway stations, malls and other public places, enabling efficient mass screening and minimizing the spread. As per the MediPort team, the platform can be scaled to facilitate wellness-tracking solutions, and help individuals know their bodies better and lead a healthier life. Anyone with a smart watch/band can use this for home screening, the team added. “Moreover, medical records given to patients can be confusing to interpret. Hence, MediPort is working on a platform that transforms data relevant to a patient into simplified information. Doctors and labs can use the AI-based platform to push patient-specific medical ontologies,” said Shubham. “Automated structured reports generated can then be used for educating patients and can be shared with them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/startup-group-of-iit-bhu-develops-tool-to-detect-early-symptoms-of-covid/articleshow/76472048.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Control over online teaching necessary’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday expressed concerns over the condition of kids who are now pursuing their studies online and observed that control over online teaching is necessary. During the hearing of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said that online study can cause damage to the eyes of little children aged between 3 and 12 years. The judges have asked the government to place a report on private schools teaching their students online. “Control over online teaching activity is necessary…The government can impose some controls to see that online teaching activity should not be more than a couple of hours,” the court suggested. The judges also questioned how parents can manage if they have more than one child and the schools insist on online study only. All parents may not have the capacity to fetch gadgets and internet connectivity for all children. The government should also reply on what it is thinking about such cases. The state government has declared that there would be online study for at least two months, for classes with physical attendance are not likely to start before August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/control-over-online-teaching-necessary/articleshow/76474176.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Police turn away mask-less Mysuru MP Pratap Simha from Vidhana Soudha||BENGALURU: In a rare instance of an MP not getting his way with police or government employees, cops and health department officials on duty at Vidhana Soudha on Friday refused to allow Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha to enter the building since he was not wearing a mask. The BJP-administered state government, Simha’s own party, has made it mandatory for everyone to wear a mask while out in public as a safety measure against Covid-19. However, while this is not the first time Simha is flouting the rule, on Friday, police and officials ensured he did not get away with it, turning back the two-time MP at the West gate, sources said. Vigilance has been heightened around the state secretariat after an employee working out of Vikasa Soudha, the adjacent building, tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. Vikasa Soudha was sanitized and all staff told to work from home until further orders. In the wake of this scare, officials at Vidhana Soudha were directed not to allow people to enter without masks, a senior police officer said. When asked for his comments, Simha said, “This was not an incident of forgetting to wear the mask. I had an appointment with minister Byrati Basavaraj and after getting down from my car, I enquired with police and health staff from which gate I should enter to reach room No 337. A constable told me at the gate that I should wear the mask: I said I was enquiring about the gate. I went back to my vehicle, wore the mask and returned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-turn-away-mask-less-mysuru-mp-from-vidhana-soudha/articleshow/76473075.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||BTP abstentions paved way for Narhari Amin’s victory||Gandhinagar: The decision of Bharatiya Tribal Party MLAs Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh Vasava not to vote in the Rajya Sabha election ensured a rather comfortable win for the BJP’s third candidate, Narhari Amin. Had they voted for a Congress candidate, the election would have been a much closer affair. The two BTP MLAs said that they would vote only if they got a written assurance on the welfare of tribals, migrants and Dalits. Even as voting was under way, leaders of both BJP and Congress met the father-son duo, to persuade them to vote in their favour. BTP chief Chhotu Vasava said he and Mahesh had decided not to vote for any party, as both BJP and Congress have failed the tribal people of the state. “Our demands for the welfare of tribals and other downtrodden sections of society have not been met, and I do not think they will ever be. So we decided to abstain from voting,” he said. “Though our votes are important, the people we represent are more important to us,” Mahesh Vasava had said earlier in the day. The Congress’ second candidate, Bharatsinh Solanki, lost to BJP’s Narhari Amin. Solanki secured 31 first-preference votes while Amin got 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/btp-abstentions-paved-way-for-narhari-amins-victory/articleshow/76474183.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Lodge sealed for running prostitution racket||TRICHY: Revenue officials sealed a lodge at Samayapuram in Trichy on Friday after the police recommended for the closure following several incidences of prostitution in the lodge. A team of officials including tahsildar of Mannachanallur taluk S Murugesan and inspector of police, Samayapuram R Madankumar sealed the Velavan lodge near Four Road and the license was cancelled. Inspector Madhan said that the lodge has been embroiled in controversy as owner of the lodge, Jayakumar of Eechampatti had run a prostitution racket there for several years. On June 04, 2020 few women were rescued from the premises and Jayakumar was arrested. Cases against the management were registered in 2015, 2019 and 2020 after the police busted the racket. “Prostitution continued in the lodge despite police registering cases and arresting the offenders. Hence recommendation was made to our higher officials for its closure,” said Madhan. Superintendent of police, Trichy district Zia Ul Haque said that the revenue divisional officer (RDO) passed the order for sealing the lodge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lodge-sealed-for-running-prostitution-racket/articleshow/76474514.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Govt employees can’t catch train from Kasara amid curbs on buses||Nashik: The state government’s ban on interdistrict transport services of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) due to the Covid-19 crisis, bars Nashik-based government employees from taking local train from Kasara to go to work in Mumbai. The Nashik-based government employees working in Mumbai are unable to travel for their job as there is no bus service to get them to Kasara from where they can board the local train. The government has made it compulsory for its employees to be present at least three days in office or face a salary cut for all five daysA woman employee working in a ministry said that the most affected are the women various levels and various departments of the government as they are not able to commute to Mumbai in the absence of public transport.Men working in different government departments sometimes travel in trucks, cars, and two-wheelers at any time of the day and night, but the safety issue arises for women.The railways have started the local train service for government employees as a result of which the local trains are available from Kasara to Mumbai and back. “But the question is how to travel to the station which is 63 km from the city,” the women said.District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “The buses cannot be allowed outside the district because of the existing norm including the ban on interdistrict transport service.” Kasara falls in Thane district and is about 10 km away from the edge of Nashik district. The MSRTC officials said, “We have approached the central office seeking permissions to allow our buses to ply between Nashik and Kasara that will help the government employees, who are residents of Nashik to travel to Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-employees-cant-catch-train-from-kasara-amid-curbs-on-buses/articleshow/76472063.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Dist tops in Vid with 20k tests, positivity rate 5.94 vs Maha’s 17.30||Nagpur: The number of samples tested for Covid-19 in the district has crossed 20,000, which is highest among all 11 districts of Vidarbha. The district’s positivity rate is at 5.94% which is three times less than the state’s 17.30%. Positivity rate indicates the percentage of infections in a set of tested samples. The total number of samples tested in the district increased to over 20,500 till Friday of which 1,203 have tested Covid positive. Akola has registered second highest corona positive patients in Vidarbha after Nagpur. The number of samples tested in Akola till date is 8,100, of which 1,136 have tested positive. The number of samples tested in remaining nine districts are below 3,000 each. Nagpur district had registered its first case on March 11. First 10,000 samples were tested up to May 24. It took 45 days for collection and testing of first 10,000 samples. The latest 10,000 samples were tested in just 26 days. NMC’s additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “The number of Covid tests is higher in the district due to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s mass quarantine model and testing. The NMC’s contact tracing has been very effective leading to more tests.” NMC has continued 14-day institutional quarantine of contacts of positive persons, even after they tested negative. Their samples are again tested on 14th day. A few had tested positive in the second samples. This is another reason for higher number of testing in the district. The NMC, in association with district administration, has readied quarantine facilities to accommodate 12,000 persons which is also highest in Vidarbha. There are five government-run laboratories — IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, Neeri and Mafsu, apart from two private laboratories. Total testing capacity of these seven laboratories is around 1,950 samples per day. Separate teams of NMC, GMCH, AIIMS and IGGMCH involved in sample collection too have a lion’s share in the increased number of testing in the district. Initially, IGGMCH was the only authorized laboratory to test samples for Covid-19 in Vidarbha. It used to take up to 4 days to get the results. At present, reports of samples are available within 24 hours. More and early testing is considered as an advantage for containing spread of Covid-19. It helps in identification of positive person, isolating him/her and also in contact-tracing. It also ensures treatment to infected person from the initial stage which prevents mortality. Due to NMC’s mass quarantine and testing model, The district has registered fewer deaths — 18 — of which 11 are from city and two from rural and five from other districts or states, while its mortality rate is 1.49% as against 4.77% of the state, 3.30% of India and 5.41% of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-tops-in-vid-with-20k-tests-positivity-rate-5-94-vs-mahas-17-30/articleshow/76474152.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Intervene in private school fee issue: Gujarat HC tells govt||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday told the state government to hold meetings with private schools to resolve the present fee issue, as private schools have been asking for first term fees and parents have expressed helplessness due to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown. A PIL has been seeking HC intervention in the issue and it seeks directions to the authorities to impress upon private schools that they should not insist on payment of fees and waive it for a certain period, when educational activity was not possible due to the pandemic situation. When the hearing came up, advocate general immediately said that the state government cannot intervene in this issue. He told the court, “We cannot come out with a fiat for private schools because ultimately fees are an arrangement between two private parties. We cannot control it.” To the law officer’s assertion, Chief Justice Vikram Nath said, “You (state government) can do anything.” The judges asked the government to try to find a balance in the interest of schools, children and parents, “The state government should understand the situation of parents during this period. It should hold meetings with private schools and seek a formula for fee payment, which is not heavy on guardians.” The HC reminded the government, “The State can do anything. Some balancing can be done. We will also observe in our order.” The PIL was filed last month after there were reports that some private schools pressured parents even during the vacation to pay the full term fee. Following the suggestions of the high court, the advocate general submitted that the government would consider the issue and take necessary steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/intervene-in-pvt-school-fee-issue-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/76474175.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Trichy||House surgeon, sonologist at MGMGH test positive||TRICHY: A house surgeon and a sonologist, both women, at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy have tested positive for Covid-19. However, the hospital administration was clueless as to where the doctors got infected from. As a usual protocol for health workers, both of them underwent Covid-19 testing. The results came out on Thursday confirming that they were positive. On Friday, the house 24-year-old house surgeon got admitted to the MGMGH, while the 30-year-old sonologist went to a private hospital in the city. Doctors at the hospital said they might have got infected while treating the antenatal Covid-19 patients. The hospital has been providing hotel quarantine and hostel quarantine to the doctors, nurses and health workers on Covid-19 duty. A hospital worker in MGMGH also tested positive on Wednesday. He developed fever on Monday and he continued with his work till Tuesday. Upon advice from the doctors, he underwent Covid-19 testing on Wednesday. The results came out last evening confirming his infection, following which he got admitted to MGMGH It may be noted that a 37-year-old female staff nurse of the hospital had already tested positive on May 30. She got infected from her husband who was a lab technician at a private hospital in Manapparai. Around 10 contacts of the nurse also turned positive. Hospital sources said that the nurse and others recovered from the disease and kept in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/house-surgeon-sonologist-at-mgmgh-test-positive/articleshow/76474519.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No HC relief in industrialist's plea seeking Covid-19 tests for everyone||MUMBAI: Observing that there has to be a rational use of testing kits, the Bombay high court on Friday declined an interim plea by industrialist Narendra Murkumbi of Shree Renuka Sugars to allow the "public at large" to get tested for Covid-19 without a doctor's prescription. The state, the Centre and the BMC have denounced the sugar baron's plea, saying it is pro-rich. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K K Tated, via video-conference, refused to stay the condition in the Indian Council for Medical Research's March 21 guidelines, whereby testing is to be done on a doctor's prescription and only for those persons who are symptomatic and have come in contact with a positive patient. "We are of the considered prima facie opinion that there has to be a rational use of testing kits and the present situation is not warranting grant of interim relief," the judges said in their order. Murkumbi filed the PIL to quash and set aside the ICMR condition. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni termed the PIL "a luxury petition filed by a rich man for rich men... This cannot be allowed." The AG said the state and ICMR have laid down the guidelines and the poor are required to be tested, taking into account their exposure. He said resources are limited and excess testing capacity is not available. Senior advocate Vikram Nankani for Murkumbi countered that his client is a public-spirited person and the petition is "not a luxury but a necessity" as employees need to be tested even if they have no symptoms, for the safety of everyone and their families. The judges said the petitioner must refer to ICMR's June 14 circular regarding new testing methods. The AG said even a person who does the test today can get infected tomorrow and "so this testing of all is illusory". Additional solicitor general Anil Singh said the country has limited resources, including laboratories, technicians and manpower. "It's like, 'if I have money, I will keep testing every fifteen days'. This will affect the poor who actually require testing," he added. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC also said the resources for testing are limited and "deserving persons should not be left out because some people are able to pay". He said in future, after the pandemic is overcome, there won't be restrictions. Nankani submitted even though there are many laboratories, only 4,000 tests are being conducted daily in Mumbai. The judges referred to a PIL seeking more testing facilities, in which the state informed there are 80 government and private labs in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-hc-relief-in-industrialists-plea-seeking-covid-19-tests-for-everyone/articleshow/76474768.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 20, 2020||Trichy||Police step up vigil after Trichy DCP’s driver gets infected||TRICHY: Police have intensified preventive measures to keep the personnel safe after the official driver of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), crime and traffic, Trichy DCP’s driver gets infected positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The building where the office of the DCP is located was completely disinfected by corporation sanitary workers on Friday. The city crime branch (CCB) and offices of two assistant commissioners of police are also functioning in the same building. Commissioner of police, V Varadharaju said the driver got infected through his relative who came from Chennai and stayed at his house. The samples of 24 people of his family and contacts were lifted for Covid-19 testing. DCP R Vetharathinam said his driver had very minimal contact with the other staff in the office. “We will still take all precautionary measures,” he told TOI. A constable attached to the Tamil Nadu special police battalion also tested positive a few days back. He also got the infection through a Chennai contact, Varadharaju said. At the office of the city commissioner, petitioners and others were barred from entering the campus as a precautionary measure. Only those with prior appointment were allowed on Friday. Trichy city police had adopted a shift system to assign duty for around 1,000 police personnel on Covid-19 duty since March. Police personnel on duty for one week will be kept in home quarantine for another week and will be allowed to resume duty next week after Covid-19 testing. The commissioner said that the practice is still continuing. Across the central region, a total of eight police personnel have so far been infected by Covid-19 Inspector general of police, central zone, A Amalraj said they would intensify the safety precaution measures. “We have been advising the police personnel to wear masks, maintain social distancing and going for medical check-up in case of symptoms. We will intensify it further,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-step-up-vigil-after-trichy-dcps-driver-gets-infected/articleshow/76474526.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger kills farmer in Nagbhid range||Chandrapur: A tiger killed a farmer busy working at his farm near Tukum village under Nagbhid forest range. Body of victim Rajendra Ganvir (55) was recovered on Friday morning. Ganvir had gone to the farm on Thursday, but did not return home by evening. Family members and neighbours searched for him around till dark, but in vain. In the morning, they started the search again and visited the farm where they noticed pugmarks and Ganvir’s sandals. They then searched the nearby forest area to find his mutilated body in compartment no. 624, some 150 meters from the farm. This is 15th human kill by predators in Chandrapur in five months this year. Tigers have killed 14 people, while one was killed by leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-kills-farmer-in-nagbhid-range/articleshow/76474158.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Arrange for return of migrants: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the state government to make arrangements for migrant labourers to reach their native states even as the advocate general claimed that there are no migrant labourers left in the state now. Following the HC directions to the government to ensure proper transportation of migrant labourers to their respective states during the lockdown, Congress MLA Naushad Solanki came up with a grievance that the government deployed private buses for inter-district movement of workers. He demanded that GSRTC buses be deployed free of cost to ferry the workers intra-state as well as to other states. The advocate general claimed that buses were deployed to send workers to Allahabad and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arrange-for-return-of-migrants-hc/articleshow/76474174.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Miramar flooding puts residents at risk, healthcare services hit||Panaji: Flooding in Miramar with the first rains, has not only inconvenienced residents, senior citizens and businesses but also health services. The entrance to Trinity Esperanca hospital in Miramar was rendered almost inaccessible due to flooding twice this week, with staff trying their best to get the dirty water out and decontaminate the porch, only to start from scratch every time a vehicle passed by and sent fresh waves of water back in. Although CCP constructed new drains near Stella Maris Chapel which helped ease the flooding last year, the problem has resurfaced. “CCP must be appreciated for beginning de-clogging the drains earlier than usual this year, but unfortunately the lockdown hampered the work. Those who are familiar with the area accessed the hospital through the back entrance, while some waded through knee-deep water. Others cancelled appointments. No sick patient is going to attempt to walk through this water. It is contaminated and a health hazard,” consultant gynaecologist Dr Eugene D’Silva said. High tide coupled with heavy rains rendered many lanes in Miramar non-motorable, especially for two-wheelers. The water took over four hours to recede in some areas and forced people to stay indoors, skip work and important appointments. Senior citizens, many of whom live alone in the area, are also at risk. The flooding also hampered veterinarian Dr Achina Joglekar’s practice. “Some animals required urgent attention. A cat who was attacked by dogs could not be brought to the clinic. Another dog in an accident case couldn’t be treated. The flooding has impacted my clinic, not just this year but for the past several years,” she said. Dental surgeon Dr Vidhya Pereira was unable to open her clinic on the ground floor, on two occasions this week. “It’s a great loss to me to have to cancel appointments and send patients back home. There’s no other access to the clinic whatsoever with the approach roads and entrance totally submerged with water. It’s dangerous to walk in the water as snakes were found in it last year,” she said, adding that she has to factor in the weather before scheduling her day. Although a recurring problem, it has worsened over the past few years, D’Silva said. “CCP tried to sort it out last year with some success. CCP should stop constructions from emptying water sucked for the foundation into the drains as this is filled with silt. They should be made responsible to clean the drains or place filters so that the drains don’t get silted,” he added. Nothing has changed in the area for close to two decades, Joglekar said. “Every person coming to ask for votes promises that the problem will be sorted out, but nothing has happened. Last year, the water had touched my steps and we live in fear that it will enter my house and clinic,” he told TOI. A resident in the area said although CCP increased the size of the drains, leaves and plastic choke the flow of water with the first rains, and added that he expects the problem to be sorted out soon. Another resident blames the floods on illegal extensions blocking drains, over nullahs and filling up of open spaces in the area “CCP should give notices to everyone to demolish illegal extensions and encroachments into the nullah. If they don’t cooperate the illegal encroachments should be demolished and the owner made to bear the expense,” the resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/miramar-flooding-puts-residents-at-risk-healthcare-services-hit/articleshow/76473095.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal-Ghuma now in South West Zone||Ahmedabad: After the government notification merging several areas such as Bopal-Ghuma, Chiloda-Naroda and Kathwada into the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the AMC announced that Bopal-Ghuma will now be a part of its South West Zone, which also includes Jodhpur, Maktampura, Sarkhej and Vejalpur wards. The AMC said that Chiloda-Naroda will be part of its North Zone while Kathwada will be in the East Zone. The AMC also said that the areas of seven gram panchayats merged with the city will be included in the adjacent zone. For example, the notified parts of Sanathal and Visalpur will be in the South West Zone while those of Khodiyar will be in the North West Zone. A senior officer said that once the takeover is made effective, the elected wing of the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika will no longer exist and residents will have to approach the South West Zone office or the office of the New West Zone near Judges Bungalows. Officials said online complaints and complaints at the nagarpalika office in Bopal will be entertained. Officials said that for health issues, the AMC health team will now be in charge and will take care of fogging and other activities. The AMC on Friday issued orders and directed its staff to report to the concerned nagarpalikas and gram panchayats and prepare a list of their properties and assets. A senior officer of the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika said the Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Limited will continue to supply power to Bopal-Ghuma, as is the case in Sarkhej, where UGVCL still supplies power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-ghuma-now-in-south-west-zone/articleshow/76474171.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Railways office in B’luru sealed||Bengaluru: The divisional office of South Western Railway in Bengaluru shut on Friday after a staffer tested positive. Railway officials said station manager of Hebbal railway station tested positive on Thursday. He had visited the divisional office a few days ago to submit his leave application. Bengaluru divisional office was shut and sanitized and is expected to reopen on Monday. Meanwhile, another staffer tested positive on Friday. Rail officials said a 46-year-old senior section engineer at Kengeri station was found infected. “He stays in Hindupur and was commuting daily from there. We are tracing his contacts,” said an official. Meanwhile, two more Bengaluru city police personnel tested positive on Friday, taking the total number of infected cops in the city to 36. Sources said a 32-year-old constable attached with Ashokanagar traffic police station and a 40-year-old head constable from Cubbon Park police station tested positive. “As of now, 30 personnel are primary contact of the duo,” an officer said. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Friday said of the 36, six have been cured and an assistant sub-inspector died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/railways-office-in-bluru-sealed/articleshow/76473119.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Covid care: Admin to link pvt hospitals through MJPJAY||Nashik: The district administration, in order to provide Covid-19 treatment through the private hospitals, has decided to link the beds at these hospitals with Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) so that people can get timely treatment whithout worrying about the expenses.District collector Suraj Mandhare on Friday held a robust meeting with civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale, medical officials of the state, Nashik Municipal Corporation and district health office in order to chalk out the future course of treatment in the backdrop of rising numbers of cases across the district.“While the arrangement of beds for three tier Covid facilities are being made by all the responsible agencies in the district, we have decided to link the private hospitals with MJPJAY for Covid treatment so that the beneficiaries can get treated,” Mandhare said.The collector also stressed on the decision to further strengthen the ICU treatment facility so that the serious patients coming in the ICU across the district are given the best care possible by the team of the experts. “We have 40 percent mortality rate in case of ICU patients even during the Covid-19, which is way lower than the international average of 49%. We want to reduce this rate as further as possible,” he said.Over improvisation in testing facilities, Mandhare said he has asked the Covid-19 laboratory in Nashik to keep their stock of consumables available for the next 20 days so that there is no shortage of the material and at the same time cut down the turnaround time of the swab testing to less than 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-care-admin-to-link-pvt-hospitals-through-mjpjay/articleshow/76472105.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Carry out pre-monsoon works: Mayor||Nashik: Expressing concern over the delay in carrying out pre-monsoon works, mayor Satish Kulkarni said that the incomplete work has resulted in waterlogging in various parts of the city. Kulkarni has directed the civic administration to carry out incomplete pre-monsoon works at the earliest. He has also directed the officials concerned to ensure that there is no waterlogging in the city. .The recent showers in the city had resulted in waterlogging in many parts of the city even as some low-lying areas witnessed flooding. “There had been waterlogging in the city areas due to heavy rainfall. Also, many low-lying areas were found to be flooded. The municipal officials concerned have not carried out the pre-monsoon work properly. Moreover, cleaning of nullahs was also not done,” Kulkarni said. Meanwhile, corporators blamed the municipal corporation for the delay in carrying out the works. “The NMC did not clean nullahs of the city before the monsoon. Moreover, trimming of trees was also not done,” said Chandrakant Khode. More than 200 garment shops in the Dahipul, Jijamata Road, Hundiwala lane, Saraswati lane and Saraf Bazaar areas of the city suffered losses worth lakhs of rupees after the rainwater entered their outlets and damaged goods. Saris, bales of cloth and readymade garments were among the goods that were damaged. In addition, the odd-even formula of opening shops added to the problems of some store owners as they could not even take out their stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/carry-out-pre-monsoon-works-mayor/articleshow/76472123.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: As migrants leave, Fatorda shelter deserted once more||MARGAO: With just two days left for the Supreme Court-mandated deadline of June 22 for state governments to make travel arrangements for stranded migrants to return to their native states, the shelter home at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium Fatorda that until Thursday was bursting at the seams now lies almost deserted. Two Shramik special trains – one for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, and the other for Jharkhand, Orissa and West Bengal – left from Margao railway station on Friday. After nearly 2,400 migrants left for their native places on Friday by these two Special Shramik trains, sources said there were only 18 migrants left in the shelter home. “Of these, 14 are from Uttarakhand, and we have booked their tickets on the Goa Express train on Sunday,” Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar, who has been monitoring the arrangements at the shelter home as well as travel arrangements, told TOI. Over the last few days the crowd of migrants at the shelter home had kept on swelling as large groups of labourers would land at the stadium every day unannounced. “The doors of the shelter home are still open. Once all the migrants from the shelter home leave for their native places, the home will be closed,” a district administration official said. The shelter home has been in operation for the last 90 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-migrants-leave-fatorda-shelter-deserted-once-more/articleshow/76473123.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation sets up control room as Covid cases continue to rise||TRICHY: With Trichy reporting at least 6-10 cases daily in the past few days, the corporation has set up a Covid-19 control room to track positive cases. In case of people from other districts testing positive in Trichy, officials in the control room will cross-notify the concerned local bodies and district administration in order to test the contacts. The control room established at the main office of Trichy Corporation comprises two medical officers, a sanitary inspector and field workers. Upon receiving information about a person testing positive in any of the 65 wards here, the control room will coordinate with the health officials in the respective wards to trace the contact history of the person. Apart from tracking the hospitalisation of positive cases, the control room will follow up on the discharged cases to ensure they are under home quarantine. The control room will act as a centralised body to track the status of positive cases reported. Status of samples collected from people through mass screening and at urban primary health centres (UPHCs) will also be tracked by the control room to share the locations of positive cases with the concerned zonal corporation officials. Further, follow-up activities like carrying out disinfection drives and forming containment zones will be initiated. Sources said that the control room will also take up data collection from private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The control room will serve as a bridge to receive and share Covid-19 information with the stakeholders including the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-sets-up-control-room-as-cases-continue-to-rise/articleshow/76474527.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 20, 2020||Goa||Monsoon activity takes a breather||Panaji: Intermittent bright sunshine and lull in monsoon activity on Friday provided some relief after a week of overcast skies and copious rainfall. As of now, the rainfall will continue but only a few places may record it in higher quantum. The combined effect of an upper air cyclonic circulation over Konkan, a pressure gradient along the Arabian Sea and a shear zone over north interior Karnataka yielded heavy to very heavy rainfall during the last few days. The shear zone in Karnataka persisted for a day on Wednesday while upper air circulation intensified on June 17. “The pressure gradient still persists and this will create moderate rainfall conditions while the system over Konkan region has become less marked,” Rahul M, scientist at the India meteorological department, (IMD), Panaji said. After southwest monsoon hit Goa on June 11, the rainfall activity has risen progressively, yielding a total of 880mm of rainfall as compared to a normal of 513mm – a bountiful surplus of 71% in about eight days. During the last 24 hours, Pernem recorded heavy rainfall of 110.8mm. “Pernem has been recording more than 100 mm during the past four days, being close to the Konkan region where the system persisted,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-activity-takes-a-breather/articleshow/76473113.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||111ha reserve forest freed of encroachments in Yavatmal||Nagpur: With removing encroachments on forest land being a ticklish issue, The Pandharkawda division in Yavatmal forest circle has freed over 111 hectare reserve forest land from the clutches of encroachers. This is perhaps for the first time in the recent past that a vast tract of forest land, which was under encroachment for more than a decade, has been freed. Normally, removing encroachments is a sensitive issue, especially when tribals are involved. Hence, no action is taken. One of the reasons behind the action was to prevent T1 aka Avni-type episodes with most of the land being part of a tiger corridor. Of the 1,600 hectare forest land in Pandharkawda, there are no claims or court cases over 190 hectares under encroachments, while remaining is under Forest Rights Act (FRA) claims and legal dispute. “Of the over 111 hectares, 27ha is in Maregaon & Sonurligaon, 25 hectare in Pandvihir, 12 hectare in Pavnar and 47 hectares in Chanakha. The land holders were not valid claimants nor did they have any papers,” says deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) KM Abharna. “The drive though started last Friday is part of a long-drawn process underway since January to convince people by holding peaceful meetings. The villagers evicted will be provided livelihood through plantation works on the same land. We also got support from our circle head RK Wankhede,” Abharna said. “We have been convincing encroachers to vacate forest land but citing reasons like cultivating land they never vacated the area. Most of these areas are contiguous forest patches and at times used by dispersing tigers from Tipeshwar,” said Abharna. The best part of the massive drive was that all encroachments were removed without any clashes and force and police provided all protection despite lockdown. Yavatmal SP M Rajkumar said, “T1 was a great learning experience for us. It is better to spare 10 policemen now than over 50 during man-animal conflict situations for which encroachments on forest land is one of the major reasons.” “We felt the motive of the forest department was justified and was need-based, hence we supported them. Entire exercise is going on smoothly as we are negotiating with the encroachers to show papers or else get evicted. We are preparing them to voluntarily free the encroached land,” said Rajkumar. Forest officials said while undertaking such drives in tribal dominated areas, the worst problem foresters face is allegations of atrocities. Hence, both police and forest officials deployed tribal staff to convince the encroachers for a trouble-free drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/111ha-reserve-forest-freed-of-encroachments-in-yavatmal/articleshow/76474199.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Civc body’s proposal put on hold||Nashik: The general body of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has put on hold the proposal of the civic administration to start English-medium schools affiliated to CBSE board due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The education department of the NMC had proposed to start CBSE-affiliated English-medium schools to attract more students in civic schools. Mayor Satish Kulkarni said he is adjourning the proposal, but these schools may be started from next academic year. The schools were to be started with the help of NGOs or private educational institutes on PPP basis. Earlier, there were 126 schools that were managed by the NMC across the city. But 36 of them were merged with existing schools due to less number of students in 2018 by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. There are total 90 municipal schools across six divisions of the NMC, including 74 Marathi-medium, 4 Hindi-medium and 12 Urdu-medium schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civc-bodys-proposal-put-on-hold/articleshow/76472136.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 20, 2020||Agra||AMU scientist, LA prof identify protein forming cells causing tumour in liver cancer||Agra: An AMU zoologist, Dr Hifzur R Siddique, in coordination with Prof Keigo Machida of the University of Southern California, LA, has discovered protein forming cancerous cells in the body causing growth of tumour in the liver. It is either a result of alcohol consumption or hepatitis infection. Their research could serve as a potential therapeutic target for the drug design and give a direction to the management strategy for this deadly disease. Their study was recently published in the prestigious journal, Nature Communications 11 (2020). The finding evokes hope for the possible treatment of this lethal disease. Liver is considered as the powerhouse of the body. Due to the change in lifestyle, chronic alcohol consumption, Hepatitis virus infection, incidence of liver cancer is increasing by the day. However, exactly how these normal liver cells become cancerous is only partially understood. Siddique and Machida discovered the molecular mechanisms of a cancer causing protein, TBC1D15. The AMU scientist has been working on these cells for a decade and has established a dedicated lab to initiate pioneer research on Cancer Stem Cells at AMU. Siddique said, “Cancer stem cells are rare cells found in the tumour which are responsible for cancer initiation recurrence, invasion and metastasis. Thus, these cells were considered as root cause of almost all cancer. At initial stage of therapy, the cancer cells are killed either by chemotherapeutic drugs or radiation. However, a few cells survive and they form tumour and cancer reappears after a certain period.” In 2014, Siddique's work on therapy-resistant cancer was selected as one of the three 'Featured Prostate Cancer Research' work by the US department of Defence's '2014 Research Highlights' section -- a rare achievement by any scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-scientist-la-prof-identify-protein-forming-cells-causing-tumour-in-liver-cancer/articleshow/76471111.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Agra||65-yr-old Covid-19 patient dies in Agra, 10 new cases in Meerut||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: A 65-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 died while being treated at SN Medical College in Agra on Friday. At least eight new cases also surfaced in west UP's Covid "hotspot" till Friday evening, taking Agra district tally to 1,124. The man who passed away in Agra died due to co-morbid conditions. He was suffering from SARI and acute respiratory distress syndrome. So far, 73 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, six Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 1,124 cases, 81.02% have recovered and discharged. There are 137 active Covid-19 cases in the district now. CMO RC Pandey said, "So far, 914 people have been cured of the infection and discharged." In Meerut, at least 10 more cases were found positive on Friday, taking the total tally to 745, including one found in Kanpur. A 60-year-old man passed away, taking the death toll to 57, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Moreover, a police constable was among 11 fresh cases reported in Moradabad on Friday. The total number of cases has increased to 362. While seven people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Budaun and, of these, five are native of Budaun city and one each from Ujhani and Moradabad. In Bareilly, a Covid-19 positive woman gave birth to a healthy baby on Friday. However, the test report of Bareilly district was awaited till the filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/65-yr-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-agra-10-new-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76471105.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Railway stalls to sell masks, santizers, takeaway bedrolls||TRICHY: Railway board has asked various divisions to take steps to start the sale of Covid-19 protective items like face masks, sanitizers, gloves and takeaway bedroll kits at major stations. This follows the gradual resumption of train services in various sections following easing of the lockdown. In a circular dated June 18, the board asked the commercial department to make available the protective gear in the multipurpose stalls at stations fulfilling the needs of the travelling public with emphasis on safe and hygienic travel. The respective zonal and divisional railways have been advised to ensure that the items are of good quality and do not exceed the maximum retail price. Passengers while welcoming the decision appealed to the authorities to establish sales outlets at the entrance of the stations within the railway premises. State president of Air Rail and Road Travelers Federation M Sekaran said the initiative would also protect railway staff from catching infection from passengers while coming in close contact. “The authorities should ensure the quality of the protective items and reasonable price. Vendors are seen selling masks in every nook and corner of the city without any guarantee that they protect us from infection. Railways should guarantee that commuters will have a safe travel”, he added. When contacted, a senior official of the commercial department in Trichy division told TOI that the protective gear would be made available in the stalls. “This is a policy decision of railway board. Our next course of action would be based on instructions from our (souther railway) headquarters, ” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-stalls-to-sell-masks-santizers-takeaway-bedrolls/articleshow/76474528.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man ends life after losing job during lockdown||NAGPUR: A 30-year-old man Vivek Ladkar ended his life after losing job during the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. Ladkar hanged self from the grills of room ventilator with a sari at his Narayanpeth residence in Shanti Nagar on Thursday. He was rushed for medical assistance but declared dead at Mayo Hospital. Police have recovered a suicide note purportedly written by Ladkar from the room where he hanged self. In the note, Ladkar mentioned the plight he and his family was going through because of his joblessness. He had expressed anguish over the lockdown which rendered him penniless pushing the entire family on the brink of starvation. Unable to bear the pressure of feeding self and the family forced him to end life, Ladkar had written in the note. Senior inspector Uikey of Shanti Nagar police station confirmed the reason behind Ladkar ending life as his joblessness. A case of accidental death has been registered and further investigations are on. There has been a spate of suicides during the multiple phases of lockdown leading to major economic crisis and widespread job losses in private sector. The economic slowdown has also hit small businessmen hard leading to some of them taking the drastic step of ending life, like in the case of a real estate agent Dev Chatterjee, who committed suicide at Isasani last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-ends-life-after-losing-job-during-lockdown/articleshow/76474207.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Goa||Our soldiers martyred, BJP in celebratory mood: Cong||Margao: Congress on Friday accused the BJP government of being indifferent to the hardships faced by the people during the time of pandemic. GPCC president Girish Chodankar accused BJP of being in “celebratory mood” for organizing virtual rallies at a time “when our soldiers are martyred protecting our borders and people suffering due to covid lockdown and economic crisis”. “The BJP government in Goa has completely failed to protect the interests of the common man and is busy looting the state coffers even during the time of Covid pandemic. The ultimate focus (of BJP) is grabbing power through unethical and undemocratic manner,” Chodankar said. He was speaking at a “food kit distribution” programme organized by GPCC at ESI Hospital, Margao, to mark the 50th birthday of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat accused BJP of trying to grab power through unethical means. “When the leadership fails to develop its own cadre, the party tries to break other parties and import workers and leaders. This is the exact situation of BJP in Goa and elsewhere in the country. BJP has now crossed all its limits of grabbing power with the help of jumla politics,” he said. Kamat said, “Peoples power is supreme in a democratic set-up. Dictatorial and authoritarian governance don’t work for long. BJP has not learnt lessons from Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The realization and turnaround has begun in Manipur. The change is happening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/our-soldiers-martyred-bjp-in-celebratory-mood-cong/articleshow/76473131.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Agra||Top Agra officials accused of corruption in smart city, development works||AGRA: A letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath has alleged corruption in Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) relating to.smart city project works and development works. TOI has a copy of the letter. In it, senior officials of the civic body have been named and accused of corruption. It has been alleged that 5-27% commission is taken from contractors tasked to do the development works. The letter is marked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, state minister GS Dharmesh, Agra mayor Naveen Jain, Agra MP SP Singh Baghel and others. Speaking with TOI, mayor Jain said, “I have received the letter mentioning corruption in development works. The allegations are very serious. I will personally get the entire matter investigated. Corruption will not be tolerated at any cost." Agra Smart City rejects chargesResponding to the news report, the Agra Smart City questioned the veracity of the source and the content of the letter. "Alleged letter has no signature of any person. Without the signature of any person alleged letter cannot be treated as a complaint nor it can be considered in any view of the case nor any cognizance can be taken on its basis," wrote KB Singh, additional chief executive officer, Agra Smart City Ltd. The official, in a letter, refuted the allegations and underlined the transparent and efficient model of Agra Smart City. He said that the Agra smart city project was awarded the second rank in India by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. On the issue of tenders, the official said: "All the tenders of Agra Smart City are floated through UP E-tender website and publicity of the same is given in various newspapers." In the letter, Singh also refuted the allegations of "distribution of percentage", saying that all bills are only processed after subjecting them to three tiers of checks. (This story has been updated to include the reaction of Agra Smart City Ltd. to the news report.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/top-agra-officials-accused-of-corruption-in-smart-city-development-works/articleshow/76471126.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Patna||Indians want revenge for Galwan: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: JD(U) president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said if China is trying to humiliate India, there is no need to tolerate it. He said China was dreaming about taking control over certain parts of Indian territory as it would be impossible for them. He also said JD(U) would support any decision by PM Narendra Modi on the issues related to recent violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Ladakh region. Nitish was presenting his party’s viewpoint at an all-party meet convened by the PM to discuss the situation along the India-China border following the recent face-off at Galwan valley. Altogether 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in the violent face-off. “PM Modi has to take a decision. We all are with him,” Nitish said. Accompanied by his party’s national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, the JD(U) chief also said all political parties should remain united on such issues. “India shall prosper; we all are united for this purpose. We, all political parties, should remain united. It is the duty of all political parties to support the Centre by remaining united on such issues,” Nitish said. The CM thanked the PM for inviting him to the all-party meet. He said such an atmosphere was prevailing in the country over the misdeeds of China that everyone in India wanted to take revenge from the dragons. He said India always tried to maintain a better relationship with China. Nitish also pointed out that goods from China flooding Indian markets were causing environmental hazards in India. “Chinese dolls coming in Indian markets are plastic heavy. They aren’t even eco-friendly and harm the environment. Electronic waste associated with them is high. Chinese products don’t even last long,” he said and suggested not purchasing Chinese items from the market. “We should encourage and promote Swadeshi products. It is also on the priority list of the PM,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indians-want-revenge-for-galwan-nitish/articleshow/76473144.cms||Madan Kumar
June 20, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt ineffective in tackling Covid: K S Alagir||THANJAVUR: President of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC), K S Alagiri has accused the ruling AIADMK government of becoming inactive in the ongoing combat against Covid-19, as it failed to consult opposition parties. Speaking to reporters in Thanjavur here on Friday, Alagiri charged the government for failing to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state, particularly in Chennai and surrounding districts. “The ruling AIADMK government’s failure has driven around three lakh people from Chennai to their native across the state,” he added.Alagiri also said that the state should have provided Rs 7,500 per migrant family, whose condition was deplorable. He accused both the state and the Union governments for failing to safeguard them. On the India-China border issue, Alagiri said, “Despite Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s warnings on this issue the ruling BJP-led Union government never lent its ears. The government should come out with clarity on the present state of the issue and let the people of the country know what is going on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-govt-ineffective-in-tackling-covid-alagiri/articleshow/76474529.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Agra||No Guru Purnima fair in Mathura for the first time in over 400 years||Agra: For the first time in over 400 years, Guru Purnima (known as Mudia fair), which is held in Mathura every year and attended by millions of devotees from across the country, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, all shrines across the district, besides Sri Krishna Janmasthan temple, will remain shut for the public till July 8. A decision of cancelling the five-day fair, which was to commence on July 5 this year, was taken by district authorities after a meeting with stakeholders, including public representatives, traders, saints and temple management, confirmed the district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra. He told TOI that it is difficult to maintain social distancing in such large gatherings. However, some saints suggested that they would take out a symbolic procession of five saints for continuation of this age-old tradition. The administration assured them that it would consider their suggestion and do whatever best under the circumstances. Incidentally, this fair is considered as a "mini Kumbh" by locals. Last year, around 1,250 buses were arranged for pilgrims coming from different states such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Six special trains were also run by the Railways, especially for the devotees. Talking to TOI on Friday, Mathura’s assistant regional manager, BK Shukla, said that thousands of devotees thronged the temple of Lord Krishna last year to offer special prayers to mark the festival of Guru Purnima, which is celebrated to honour the spiritual teachers. Chanting hymns and carrying religious offerings, believers make a beeline to pay respect to Lord Krishna. According to Hindu mythology, the festival is celebrated to express gratitude towards one's Guru (spiritual teacher). The disciples and devotees take Parikrama (round) of the Govardhan Hill on this day. They also take a bath in the Manasi Ganga Kund to pay their respect to Govardhan and earn rewards. Hindus believe that Guru is the only person who can guide them on the path to 'Moksh' (emancipation). Last year, over 82 lakh tourists visited the temple towns of Mathura and Vrindavan while 77 lakh visited in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-guru-purnima-fair-in-mathura-for-the-first-time-in-over-400-years/articleshow/76471120.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 20, 2020||Nashik||Mayor criticises oppn corporators||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni criticised the opposition parties—NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena—for making allegations of corruption in 10 water supply related projects during the general body meeting on Thursday. The mayor said the allegations levelled by the opposition parties against him are false and baseless. The ruckus was created in the GBM of the civic body on Thursday over the rise in cost of 10 water supply related projects that were already approved by the GB two years ago. The civic administration had tabled the proposal for its approval for additional cost at the GBM on Thursday. The GBM was held through video conference from the office of municipal commissioner in NMC headquarters. NCP functionaries Gajanan Shelar, Gurumit Bagga and other opposition party corporators had strongly opposed the proposal. But the mayor approved the proposal despite opposition. The opposition alleged that the mayor had taken commission for the approval. This led to a tense situation in the GBM and some opposition party corporators rushed to the municipal commisioner’s office from where the mayor was conducting GBM through online. Finally, the mayor had to adjourn the GBM for 15 minutes. On Friday, the mayor in a press conference criticised the opposition for making allegations of corruption against him. The mayor also criticised Shiv Sena Ajay Boraste for seeking to hold the GBM in Kalidas Kala Mandir instead of online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mayor-criticises-oppn-corporators/articleshow/76472178.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 20, 2020||Trichy||120 with symptoms isolated so far in Nagai||NAGAPATTINAM: The district administration has isolated 120 people who returned to Nagapattinam from Chennai, other states and foreign countries with Covid-19 symptoms. Screening has also been intensified at all entry points in the district. District epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali said the district administration has been isolating people coming with the disease from Chennai, Thiruvallur, Chenglapettu and Kancheepuram districts. “So far we have isolated some 120 people from the districts and other states like Delhi, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Andhra, Telangana and Kerala as also from Dubai, Qatar and Kuwait. A total of 191 people have been infected in the district as on date. A 24-hour surveillance team of health, revenue, panchayat and police officials have been pressed into action,” he added. Meanwhile, Thanjavur West police arrested a 61-year-old woman for misusing an e-travel pass on Friday. She was booked under eight IPC sections. District collector M Govinda Rao said the accused K Rajalaxmi, a native of Thanjavur, had travelled from Guduvancheri in Chennai. Her samples were taken on arriving at a check post in Vilangudi in Thanjavur on June 16, which was found to be positive. However, she could not be traced at the address given in Tiruvarur. During the investigation, it came to light that she had travelled to Thanjavur using an e-pass applied in the name of her relative. She has been isolated after arrest at the Government MCH in Thanjavur, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/120-with-symptoms-isolated-so-far-in-nagai/articleshow/76474540.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Bhopal||MP traders pledge to boycott Chinese goods, support local business||BHOPAL: Amid India-China tension at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), traders across Bhopal and Indore started a campaign to boycott China-made goods. In state-capital, the traders are planning to paste sticker, reading “ Mein Chini samaan ka bahishkar karta hun” (I boycott Chinese goods), outside all the shops. General secretary of the traders association Anupam Agrawal said that all the traders were being asked to boycott the China-made goods, after 20 soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. Agrawal said that the posters were being printed and would be supplied to all the traders. He said that different organisations of the traders were coordinating to make the campaign successful. Similarly, Indore traders have called for a boycott of Chinese goods and demanded sops to boost local manufacturers to cater to home demand. Traders of Maharani Road, Ranipura and Jail Road, among other markets dealing with over 70 per cent supplies from China, have cancelled orders, while most have pledged not to place any fresh orders for Chinese goods. Close to 80 per cent supplies of fancy lights, panels, sound systems, cordless microphones, mixers, amplifiers, footwears, toys, plastic items, auto parts and raisins among others come from China with limited or almost no options available in the Indian market, claimed trade associations. Chinese goods have captured lion’s share in these markets as locally manufactured products come expensive and have less varieties, among other factors Ahilya Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “Traders have pledged not to keep any trade ties with China after what has happened at the LAC. Traders have cancelled orders and now no fresh consignments will be booked from China.” In Siyaganj, the wholesale market for grocery and dry fruits, raisins come from China. A blanket ban on Chinese goods across sectors looks difficult amid huge inventories and no alternate mode of supplies within the country. Though traders claimed to boycott Chinese goods in phases by clearing pending stocks and boosting local manufacturing. Maharani Road Vyapari Mahasangh president Jitendra Ramnani said, “The need is to prepare a road map for boosting local manufacturing and simplifying the procedures for setting up small plants by providing actual single window. Local manufacturing can be promoted only if we provide relaxations in tax and handhold small units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-traders-pledge-to-boycott-chinese-goods-support-local-biz/articleshow/76473169.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Nashik||City’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1,000-mark, toll rises to 51||Nashik: With 75 more people testing positive for Covid-19, the city’s tally went beyond the 1,000-mark on Friday. Other than the positive cases, three people also lost their lives that took the city’s death toll to 51. Of the total 1,053 positive cases, 420 people have been cured and discharged from the hospitals, while the active cases stand at 581, a civic official said. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), however, had said that there is still no community spread of the virus in the city and those being tested positive are either family members or close contacts of the infected patients. A section of people are also not following the physical distancing norm and wearing masks. In the last two days, the civic body has fined 52 erring citizens Rs 200 each for not wearing masks and cautioned over 1,000 people for not maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks. The firs case in the city was reported on April 6 when a person from Manohar Nagar in Govind Nagar area tested positive for Covid-19. Till April-end, the ity had only 10 positive cases. While the city had 214 patients till May 31. A total of 838 people tested Covid-19 positive in the city in just 19 days between June 1 and 19. Of total 1,053 patients, over 62% patients are from two divisions — Nashik East and Panchavati. The major hotspots like Wadalagaon, Naikwadipura, Ramnagar are from these two divisions of NMC. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citys-covid-19-tally-crosses-1000-mark-toll-rises-to-51/articleshow/76472193.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||Banna moratorium on all tenders, promotions at Rims||Ranchi: State health minister Banna Gupta on Friday issued a letter asking Rims director Dr D K Singh to put on hold tenders, appointments and promotions at the state’s largest hospital. The order is in direct contravention of the regulations of Rims as all tendering processes, work orders, appointments, and promotions are subject to approval of the governing body of the institute which is the highest authority that governs the autonomous institute under the state government. Taking strong objection to the letter issued by Banna, a copy of which is with TOI, the members of the governing body said the health minister is trying to sideline the panel for vested interests. Ranchi MP and a member of the governing body, Sanjay Seth said, “The health minister should have convened a meeting before issuing such an order which requires the approval of the governing body. Matter of importance to Rims should be first brought to the GB and the minister should have taken a note of it.” Talking to TOI, Dr R P Srivastava, another member of the governing body, said, “There is no point of having a general body to govern the institute if the minister starts issuing such orders. It is very unfortunate that the minister issues an order which creates hurdles in the progress of the institute.” Kanke MLA Samri Lal, who is also a member of the GB, said, “The order is in direction violation of Rims regulations and the minister, who himself is the chairman of the governing body, shouldn’t take any decision in haste. It is sad that the health minister is acting as an impediment in the development of Rims, that too when the whole world is fighting against a virus.” Rims’ governing body’s meeting has to take place in every three months as per the rules. The chairman can call up additional meetings in a year if required. However, not a single meeting has been convened under the chairmanship of Banna after he took over as the state health minister. The order issued on Friday contradicts Banna as on one hand he directs the Dean Academic Dr Manju Gari on June 9 to complete the scrutiny process of promotion list and submit it to the director latest by June 12, on the other he asks the director to put a hold promotions. Dr Gari said, “I was asked by the minister to handover the list of eligible candidates for promotions under APS after scrutiny by June 12 to the director, but I haven’t been able to submit it as I was busy in the final examination of third year PG students.” Banna accepted the fact that he had directed the dean to complete the scrutiny process by June 12, but refused to comment on the letter issued by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-moratorium-on-all-tenders-promotions-at-rims/articleshow/76473015.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||No containment zone in Ramgarh district, says DC||Ramgarh: The Ramgarh administration on Friday said the district does not have any containment zones. Ramgarh, which reported its first Covid case on May 17, nearly 50 days after the first case was reported in Jharkhand, had a total of 113 cases until Friday afternoon. Of these, 44 are active and 69 have recovered. Speaking to the TOI, deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said: “There were three containment zones in the district — one each in Patratu, Mandu and Dulmi. On Friday, the containment measures were removed as no fresh cases were reported from these localities in 21 days.” “Four of the patients are admitted to Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences and one is at Ramgarh Military Hospital. The rest are at the Central Coalfield Limited Hospital in Nayasarai, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid 19 hospital,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-containment-zone-in-ramgarh-district-says-dc/articleshow/76472997.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||Mukhiya, 10 others held in Giridih for involvement in cybercrimes||Bokaro: The mukhiya of a village in Giridih’s Gandey block and 10 others were arrested for their involvement in cyberfrauds and subsequently siphoning off crores of rupees from the bank accounts of people living across the country. The mukhiya was identified as Harilal Mandal. “Besides the arrests, 26 mobile phones, 33 SIM cards, 19 ATM cards, seven passbooks, five fake Aadhaar cards and four pen drives and with voter cards have been seized. One of the gang members is absconding,” Giridih SP Surender Kumar Jha said. Stating that the members of the gang are in the age group of 19-35 years, Jha said they posed as bank employees and sought bank account details from customers. After seeking privacy details of the account holders, they would siphoned off money from the accounts. “They have targeted numerous people in Maharastra, Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and other states,” Jha said. Police said one of the arrested, identified as Pawan Mandal, owns properties worth Rs 2.5 crore. Hairlal has criminal antecedents and has a case against him for attacking a block development officer. “He used to take a 3% cut of the money the gang stole from accounts,” Jha added. Others arrested have been identified as Subhash Mandal, Mantu Mandal, Minesh Mandal, Sandeep Mandal, Virendra Mandal, Ishwar Sau, Chhotan Mandal and Santosh Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mukhiya-10-others-held-in-giridih-for-involvement-in-cybercrimes/articleshow/76474154.cms||Divy Khare
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||Guruji enters RS, Jharkhand BJP president wins with 31 votes||Ranchi: JMM patriarch and noted tribal leader Shibu Soren returned to active politics on Friday after he entered the Upper House by securing 30 votes in the 79-member House. The second seat was bagged by BJP’s state president Deepak Prakash with 31 votes while Congress candidate Shahzada Anwar managed to secure only 18 votes, indicating that even this  was not free of horse-trading and cross voting. In the ruling Mahagathbandhan camp, JMM has 29 MLAs, Congress 15 and one from RJD. One MLA each of NCP and CPI(ML) are also extending external support, taking the tally to 47 in the 81-member house, effective strength of which has been reduced to 79 after the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh and chief minister Hemant Soren vacating the Dumka seat having been elected from Barhait. Two MLAs of JVM-P, Bandhu Tirkey and Pradeep Yadav, have joined Congress, but have not been allotted seats in the assembly by the speaker. Meanwhile, the opposition camp comprises 25 of the BJP, two of Ajsu-P, two Independents — Saryu Rai and Amit Yadav — while one JVM-P MLA, Babulal Marandi, who joined BJP after the polls, taking their strength to 30. On Friday, BJP got one extra vote than expected and Deepak Prakash won with highest (31) votes of first preference. “It is nothing, but people’s faith in BJP’s leadership. Our candidate got the support of NDA as well as other MLA friends to win with maximum votes. We express our gratitude to the MLAs and congratulate the candidate,” BJP’s national vice-president Om Prakash Mathur said. Commenting on possible cross voting, JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said both Congress and JMM have remained intact. “We know BJP believes in horse-trading and they might have managed to break someone from our camp. We are looking into the matter,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren expressed happiness over his father being elected with 30 votes of first preference. “BJP never had the required figures to win even a single seat, but it managed to bag 31 votes. It is a clear indication that MLAs were bought and the party somehow managed to win one seat. We have seen how BJP has toppled governments in other states even during the pandemic,” Hemant said stressing that stronger anti-defection laws should be enacted. Meanwhile, it was a breather for veteran politician Shibu Soren, who returned to active politics after a gap of little over one year. In May last year, he had lost to Sunil Soren of BJP in the Lok Sabha elections. The 76-year-old from Nemra village of Bokaro district is known for his topsy-turvy political career, which includes a term in the Centre as the coal minister in 2006 when he was sent to jail after being charged in the murder of his personal assistant Shashi Nath Jha. Later, Shibu was acquitted by the court and also served as the CM twice. Despite being a CM, Shibu never won an assembly election and continues to be the president of JMM even after the reins of the party were taken over by his son Hemant. Deepak Prakash on the other hand is a BJP loyalist since his youth. Starting his career from Vidyarthi Parishad and Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha, he rose to ranks of the state general secretary of the party and is presently the state president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guruji-enters-rs-jharkhand-bjp-president-wins-with-31-votes/articleshow/76473089.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||HC pulls up RMC for not maintaining Ranchi Lake||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday came down heavily on Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) for its lack of maintenance of the Swami Vivekanand Sarovar (Ranchi Lake) and directed the civic body to apprise the court regarding its plan of beautifying the lake. The high court also instructed the government to present its plan of restoring and conserving all the water bodies in the state before the court. While hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocate Khushbu Kataruka, the division bench — comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad — observed that there can be no excuse by RMC in having failed to maintain the beauty of the vast Ranchi Lake, also known as Bada Talab. In her petition, Kataruka stated that the lake is infested with water hyacinths and has become the sewage pond of the civic body. All the sewage of the city is drained into the lake, the counsel mentioned before the judges. She further said that the heavy vehicles parked near the lake are often washed there and the dirty water trickles into the water body, leading to its further damage. The RMC said that it has already floated tenders five times earlier for cleaning the lake, but there are no takers for the work. The bench did not accept its arguments and directed the civic body to file its reply regarding the matter. The case will be listed again after four weeks to enable the civic body and the government to comply with the directives of the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-pulls-up-rmc-for-not-maintaining-ranchi-lake/articleshow/76474142.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against 50 trade union leaders in Dhanbad for staging demonstrations against coal block auction||Dhanbad: An FIR was filed against trade union leaders for allegedly violating social-distancing norms during Thursday’s demonstration outside the headquarters of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) here. The unions had protested against the Centre’s decision to allow private players in the commercial coal mining sector. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a written complaint filed by Rajesh Kumar Mandal, a magistrate-level officer deputed under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005. Saraidhela police station in-charge Ashok Tirkey said: “We have lodged an FIR against 50 people, including six named persons, for Thursday’s incident. Among those named are Bachcha Singh, a former urban development minister and general secretary of Janta Mazdoor Sangh, vice president of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) A K Jha, general secretary of Dhanbad Colliery Karmchari Sangh K P Gupta, and INTUC leaders R K Tiwari, Ramendra Kumar and Ravindri Tiwari.” Tirkey added that the FIR was lodged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other sections of the DMA, 2005. The trade union leaders on Thursday had also intimated their decision of going on a three-day nationwide strike beginning July 2 to the BCCL management. Similar protests were held near other BCCL offices, like in Barora, Block II, Govindpur, Katras, Sijua, Kusunda, Bastacola, Lodna, PB Area, West Jharia, East Jharia and Chanch Victoria, among others. Reacting to the filing of the FIR, A K Jha of INTUC said, “We condemn the decision to lodge an FIR without a probe. We did not carry out any illegal activity and were just peacefully expressing our opposition to some of the decisions taken by the Union government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-50-trade-union-leaders-in-dhanbad-for-staging-demonstrations-against-coal-block-auction/articleshow/76474060.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant worker arrested after ‘brief stint with PLFI’||Gumla: A migrant worker, who returned to his village in Gumla district from Surat in Gujarat last month, joined Peoples’ Liberation Front of India (PLFI), an outlawed splinter group of the CPI (Maoist), only to be arrested by the police after a brief gunfight on Friday. Police said Vishal Kumar Sinha, a resident of Palkot’s Bazar Tand area, was lured into the rebel outfit by its self-acclaimed sub-zonal commander Parameshwar Gope. Gope’s squad, which Sinha was accompanying, exchanged fire with the police in Dombatoli forest around 10am, sources said. SP Hrudeep P Janaradhan said: “One PLFI member was injured in the exchange of fire and was arrested. Search operation is going in the area.” Sinha, the son of former army man, suffered two bullet injuries on his legs and was taken to Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) after initial medical treatment at Gumla sadar hospital. Dismissing the charges against him, Sinha said Gope was his friend and he had stayed with him just for one night. Sinha returned home on a Shramik special on May 26 and was put under institutional quarantine for 14 days. Palkot BDO Shankar Ekka said: “His samples were collected tested negative on June 6 and he was allowed to leave on June 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-worker-arrested-after-brief-stint-with-plfi/articleshow/76473135.cms||K A Gupta
June 20, 2020||India||House of Elders gets younger as 43 first-timers enter Rajya Sabha||NEW DELHI: With 43 first-time MPs set to enter Rajya Sabha after Friday’s biennial elections, the House of Elders is likely to get younger. But the House will also end up losing about 63 terms worth of collective experience. This is because 61 members who are due to retire from the Upper House in June have a total collective experience of 95 terms. In contrast, the new incumbents have a cumulative experience of 32 terms, resulting in a sharp decline in collective experience. Against the 61 vacancies created by retiring members, while 42 were filled by MPs who were elected unopposed, elections to the remaining 19 vacancies were held on Friday. The drop in the total experience in respect of four vacancies in Andhra Pradesh is six terms, followed by five terms in respect of six vacancies in Tamil Nadu, four terms in case of four vacancies in Gujarat and four terms in Odisha with all the four new members being first-timers. The prominent first-timers entering the Upper House include BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia, Congress’ Mallikarjun Kharge and KC Venugopal, former Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai and former Speaker of the composite Andhra Pradesh assembly KR Suresh Reddy. Six members entering Rajya Sabha have been members of the Upper House earlier and include GK Vasan, Dinesh Trivedi and Nabam Rabia (it will be third term for them) and former PM Deve Gowda, Shibu Soren (second term). State-wise, the four members who retired from Karnataka had a total experience of nine terms in Rajya Sabha while the new incumbents have a total experience of only one term in the election of Deve Gowda with the other three being first-timers. In the case of Maharashtra, while seven members with a collective experience of 10 terms retired, the new incumbents account for an experience of only two terms with the re-election of Sharad Pawar and Ramdas Athawale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-of-elders-gets-younger-as-43-first-timers-enter-rajya-sabha/articleshow/76474777.cms||Swati Mathur
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Withdrawal limit from PMC Bank doubled to Rs 1 lakh||MUMBAI: In a major relief for depositors of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank, the Reserve Bank of India has doubled the withdrawal limit to Rs 1 lakh but has extended the restrictions up to December 2020. With this relaxation, more than 84% of the depositors of the bank will be able to withdraw their entire account balance. “RBI has been engaging with the stakeholders to explore the possibility of a resolution of the bank. However, the process has been affected due to the lockdown on account of Covid-19 and the continuing uncertainty around the pandemic. Further, the extent of the negative net worth of the bank, and the legal processes involved in recovery of bad debts also pose challenges/limitations in the resolution of the bank,” RBI said in a statement. It added that consultation for the resolution is ongoing, because of which it was necessary to extend the directions for a further period of six months. PMC Bank was placed under direction of RBI on Sept 23, 2019 after its management admitted to a fraud involving lending a large part of deposits to HDIL group and hiding the illegal loans under a fictitious individual account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-withdrawal-limit-from-pmc-bank-doubled-to-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/76474781.cms||---
June 20, 2020||India||Post-1962, thinning population in border villages hits intel gathering||NAINITAL: As tensions between India and China flare up and Nepal introduces a new map claiming Indian territories, the declining population in border villages of Uttarakhand — within 5 km aerial distance from the international border — has become a security concern. Security experts said that it is in the country’s interests that the population in these border villages does not go down since they are integral to the security forces for information about incursions and early alerts. Speaking with TOI, locals as well as historians said that the migration from these border villages started after the 1962 war as the trade dating back to the 6th century was completely stopped and the dependence on agriculture became unsustainable. The situation has become so dire that in most of the villages barely a few young men are left. “Our village had around 300-400 people but now just around 40 are left. Most young people have migrated to cities such as Dehradun and Delhi for a better life,” said Ashish Rana, former gram pradhan of Niti village in the Chamoli district. Security experts emphasise that the trend of declining population in the border villages should be reversed. “These villagers as well as nomads in the upper reaches are invaluable assets for the security forces with respect to surveillance of unmanned areas and early warning, therefore it is necessary that their migration is stopped,” said Lieutenant General (retired) Syed Ata Hasnain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-1962-thinning-population-in-border-villages-hits-intel-gathering/articleshow/76474783.cms||Prashant Jha
June 20, 2020||India||Uninstall 52 Chinese apps from phones, UP STF tells its men||NOIDA: Within a day of intelligence agencies flagging 52 Chinese apps for potential security breach, the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) has asked its officers and employees to uninstall these apps from their phones and those of their family members. “The ministry of home affairs has advised against the use of these apps. All these apps are Chinese and there is a possibility of theft of your personal and other data,” the order says, along with a list of the 52 apps. That includes Tik-Tok (the top free Android app as of Friday), UC Browser (the 6th most downloaded Android communication app), Clash of Kings (the 8th top grossing Android app), ShareIt (4th most downloaded Android tool). There are communication apps like WeChat, default apps on Xiaomi phones (Mi Community, Mi Store, Mi Video Call) and short video platforms like LIKE and Helo on the list. IG (STF) Amitabh Yash, who has issued the order, told TOI that while the instructions were verbal initially, a written order has now been issued to all officers. “We issued the internal order because we deal with sensitive information which the local police do not always have. We may be the first department to have issued it,” he said. Local police, for now, have no such orders. “We have not received such orders so far. This is only for STF officers,” a civil police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uninstall-52-chinese-apps-from-phones-up-stf-tells-its-men/articleshow/76474791.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Govt gives nod to NMC GB meet today||Nagpur: The state government has given the green signal to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) general body meeting on Saturday. The government has suggested presence of fewer corporators, with the rest attending online. However, the ruling party BJP has invited all 156 corporators. Mayor Sandip Joshi had decided to hold a meeting of general body on June 12. Municipal secretary Rajana Lade had issued agenda. Then, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had written a letter to Joshi suggesting cancellation of the meeting, also saying it was in violation of lockdown guidelines issued by the government. After consulting leaders of all parties, Joshi had announced the meeting would be held. Then, Mundhe sent a letter to the government seeking its advice. The state’s urban development department on Friday sent a letter to Mundhe clarifying it has no problem with NMC holding the general body meeting. “Government had on April 3 issued guidelines to take decisions about such meetings at your level. Other municipal corporations had organized meeting of general body, which are mandatory as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act, but with compliance of Covid distancing and other norms. Therefore, all norms should be followed during the meeting,” the department said. The department added, “NMC should explore the possibility of presence of very few corporators in the meeting and rest can participate online.” Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav said in a press conference, “Government’s reply has proved Mundhe was unnecessarily obstructing the meetings. General body did not meet for last three months. General body is policymaking authority of the city. Now, we will hold meetings whenever required.” Asked whether only a few corporators will be present as suggested by the government, Jadhav said, “We have invited all corporators. The meeting is at Suresh Bhat Auditorium, which has the capacity of 2,000 seats. Therefore, we can easily comply with all norms.” On no-confidence motion against Mundhe, Jadhav said, “Ruling party has no interest. But we will think and take a decision if such occasion arrives in the meeting.” Sources from Congress said some corporators may table a no-confidence motion against Mundhe in the meeting. Assuming that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will not approve a BJP-backed no-confidence motion, the saffron party is backing the Congress to bring it in the meeting. The NMC administration has made all arrangements for the meeting. Only issue is that only 10 cordless mikes will be provided, which will have to be circulated among corporators to speak. BOX Janmanch urges CM not to transfer Mundhe NGO Janmanch has sent a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray requesting not to transfer municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. “NMC’s working has improved a lot. Complaints of people are being addressed fast and properly. Mundhe has played a major role in containing spread of Covid-19. Need of the hour is removal of encroachments and end garbage disposal on roads. It would be possible if Mundhe continues as municipal commissioner,” said president Pramod Pande. The online petition opposing Mundhe’s transfer has received a response from 1.15 lakh people and is still alive. It was floated after MVA ministers from the district and speaker Nana Patole demanded Mundhe’s transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-gives-nod-to-nmc-gb-meet-today/articleshow/76473516.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 20, 2020||India||More than 14,000 new cases, Covid count nears 4 lakh||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload was on the verge of crossing the 4 lakh mark, as new cases hit another record high of 14,574 on Friday with Delhi (3,137) and Maharashtra (3,827) both posting their highest daily numbers, taking the total to over 3.95 lakh. The total Covid-19 cases reported in the month of June so far had crossed the 2 lakh mark, and stood at 2,10,655 on Friday night, as per data from state governments. June cases now account for 53% of all coronavirus infections detected so far in the country. Likewise, 7,484 deaths out of the total toll of 12,888 had been declared in June. By comparison, the month of May had recorded 1.5 lakh cases and 4,267 deaths. The previous highest single-day rise in cases was recorded just a day earlier, when the count crossed 14,000 for the first time, at 14,052. Late on Friday, Delhi released its day’s Covid-19 data, showing another record jump in cases. The capital became the only state apart from Maharashtra to record over 3,000 cases in a single day. The city’s total caseload is now 53,116, behind only Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Maharashtra on Friday added 3,827 new Covid19 cases, its highest single day addition so far, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,24,331. Mumbai registered a sharp rise in the number deaths reported on Friday — 114 deaths, highest deaths in a single day, as against 67 on Thursday. The state added 142 deaths on Friday, pushing the total death tally to 5893. In the last two days, Maharashtra has added 7,579 cases. Uttar Pradesh, another state in the midst of a big spike in infections, reported 809 new cases, its highest jump in a single day, taking the state’s tally to 16,594, officials said. The death toll due to Covid-19 mounted to 507 after 19 fresh fatalities were reported from different districts of the state, they said. The previous highest single-day spike in cases was on Thursday when the state recorded 604 cases. The number of new cases rose sharply in Haryana, which reported 525 on Friday, up from 386 the previous day. Punjab continued to witness a spike in cases with 217 people getting infected on Friday. The state has seen 692 more people getting infected with the deadly virus since June 15. The twin states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana too reported their biggest surge in cases. Andhra recorded a new single-day high with 465 new infections on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,961, while four more persons succumbed to the pandemic. Bengaluru recorded 138 Covid-19 cases — its highest in 24 hours — and seven deaths on Friday, taking the city’s caseload to 892 and the toll to 58. Karnataka, in all, reported 337 cases and 11 deaths on the day, taking the total case count to 8,281 and the toll to 124.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-than-14000-new-cases-covid-count-nears-4-lakh/articleshow/76474794.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra move illogical, give test result to patients: SC||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court on Friday termed the Maharashtra government’s decision not to provide a copy of Covid-19 test result to the patient or his/her relative as “illogical” and directed other states not to follow the same example. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said it was strange on the part of the Maharashtra government to deny a copy of the test report to a patient if it showed that he/ she was found positive. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said, “There is no logic behind this decision. If one undergoes a test, he/she has a right to know the result of the test. When a report of the patient is positive, the same shall be given to the patient or his relatives.” Taking steps to stop other states from emulating Maharashtra’s example, the bench said, “We have no doubt that states and all concerned shall supply a copy of the report of the patient to him or his relatives and the hospital.” The SC ordered that a copy of the application, which pointed out Maharashtra’s decision, be given to the SG and the counsel for the state. The Maharashtra government informed the SC that it had fixed the rate of testing at Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,800. The bench termed this as a welcome step to increase testing in the state, which is the worst affected by Covid-19. Maharashtra’s counsel said more than 16,000 tests were being conducted every day and assured the court he would obtain instructions on denial of test report to patients or relatives. “He shall advise the state to issue an appropriate order permitting handing over of the test report to the patient or relatives and the hospital,” the bench ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-move-illogical-give-test-result-to-patients-sc/articleshow/76474793.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Expect light rain through weekend in Mumbai & Thane, says IMD||MUMBAI: After a day of significant rain in Mumbai and surrounding areas, Friday reported clear skies once again. IMD has forecast a reduction in rain activity over the next two days and only a probability of light to moderate rain through the weekend for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar. In the 24 hours till 8.30am, June 19, rainfall recorded by IMD Colaba was 44mm while by IMD Santacruz 40.8mm. Both were in the moderate rain category (15.6-64.4mm). The total rainfall reported since June 1 this year has been above normal. In case of IMD Colaba, rainfall reported so far has been 363.5mm while the IMD Santacruz observatory has reported 288.3mm, over 30mm above normal. Meanwhile, rainfall in the seven lakes which supply to the city is yet to pick momentum. Owing to Thursday's rain, only two smaller lakes, Vihar and Tulsi, witnessed slight increases in their water levels. On Thursday, the rain reported in Vihar lake was 61mm and Tulsi lake 54 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/expect-light-rain-through-weekend-in-mumbai-thane-says-imd/articleshow/76474799.cms||Richa Pinto
June 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: FIR against Congress MLA for flouting quarantine rules||JAIPUR: The BJP has filed a police complaint against Congress MLA Wajib Ali for violating the Covid protocol at Jyoti Nagar Police station on Saturday. The MLA from Nagar in Bharatpur, Ali had returned from Australia last night to Delhi in a Vande Bharat Mission special flight which are running to bring back stranded Indians from foreign countries. He went to the assembly for casting his vote faced the ire of deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore who raised the issue of him coming to vote without serving the seven-day mandatory quarantine rule.  A couple of hours later, Surendra Singh Naruka of BJP legal cell, handed over a complaint against Ali at the police station. "Ali didn't serve the quarantine and violated the rules and advisories of the union health ministry and state home department. He headed to the state assembly deliberately to spread the virus," said Naruka in the complaint. While talking to TOI, Naruka said, "His act has endangered the lives of those present at the assembly, including the MLAs, scribes and government officers present at the state assembly He is holding a constitutional post and how he can violate the undertaking that he must have had signed for following all health protocols at the airport in Delhi," said Naruka. Earlier in the day, Rathore spotted him in the queue collecting his ballot paper in the assembly. He asked him to vacate the premises since he had travelled abroad and returned a day ago. Ali argued that he had followed all rules and had a Covid test before he boarded the flight from Australia. Unconvinced, Rathore called the election commission officials who asked him to drop the ballot paper and told him to cast his vote once every MLA is done voting while wearing PPE kits. Ali, at around 3:30 pm, accompanied by the chief whip Mahesh Joshi came to the assembly and cast his vote. Talking to TOI, Ali said, "My Covid test taken at Australia house before boarding the flight turned out to be negative and I have followed all health protocols during the travel and after landing in India." Ali was elected on the BSP ticket and in 2019 joined Congress party along with five other BSP MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-fir-against-congress-mla-for-flouting-quarantine-rules/articleshow/76474802.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Final-year exams optional; decision on engineering, law later||MUMBAI: Final-year exams for non-professional courses across 14 state universities in Maharashtra will be optional due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said the state's disaster management committee has decided to cancel all final-year exams. For students who wish to take exams, though, individual universities will come out with a schedule for a later date based on the Covid crisis in their jurisdiction. Students will have to give a written consent for the choice they make. Samant said governor B S Koshyari has approved the decision. The decision has come as a relief to more than 7.3 lakh students who are enrolled in the final year of various non-professional courses across universities. It would also apply to the remaining 2.8 lakh students from professional courses such as engineering, law, pharmacy, architecture, hotel management and MBA. But the state will seek approval from the central apex bodies governing these courses, including All-India Council for Technical Education, Bar Council of India and Council of Architecture, before taking a final decision on it. Samant announced the GR in an interactive virtual session with students on Friday. The state mentioned its inability to conduct exams due to the complexities involved in the process. Currently, 41 colleges and 198 hostels are even being used as quarantine centres across the state, added the GR. Watering down its previous stand that no exams will be held for the class of 2020, the state has woken up to two legal ramifications: Admission for further education outside Maharashtra could be affected and it has no authority over professional education. Now, 20 days after the chief minister's announcement, it has thrown the ball in the students' court, asking them to give the decision of their choice-to take an exam or not- in writing. After the CM announced cancellation of exams, the matter was sent to the law and judiciary department. Lack of clarity had since been weighing on students and universities which were awaiting an order from the state. "The state has no authority over professional education. Only their respective apex bodies can take a call. The state government can take a decision only for non-professional courses," said a senior member of the law and judiciary department. "While physical exams cannot be held, it is up to universities to decide what must be done. Universities have their bodies, exam board and academic council. So every university will take a call," said a law and judiciary member.  A decision on the backlog of final-year students will be taken in the next two to three days after a meeting with the vice-chancellors, said Uday Samant. (With Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-final-year-exams-optional-decision-on-engineering-law-later/articleshow/76474810.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Sanitary workers still cleaning drains manually||Nagpur: Despite a ban on manual cleaning of underground sewerage networks, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sanitary workers still enter drainage line networks to clear blocks everyday. On Friday, two workers of NMC’s Gandhibagh zone were involved in cleaning the sewer line in Siraspeth area. These men were not wearing any safety gear, said AAP’s youth wing coordinator Piyush Akre, who clicked photographs of the workers cleaning a choked sewer line. Akre told TOI that the locality was suffering from frequent blocks in the drainage lines over the past few months. Despite complaints, NMC’s Gandhibagh zone failed to resolve the issue. On Thursday, residents of the locality, including Akre, again went to Gandhibagh zone and complained to assistant municipal commissioner Ashok Patil. Later, Patil asked the zonal officer (sanitation) to attend to the complaint on Friday. On Friday, an inspection of the sewer network revealed a lot of sludge had caused the blockage. First, the sanitation workers used iron rods to clear the sludge. But when they failed to clear it completely, one of the sanitary workers stepped inside the manhole and started removing the sludge manually. Sanitary workers said, requesting anonymity, that the zone offices often force them to clean the drainage networks in congested localities manually. On many occasions, workers are also forced to get into waist-deep muck in open channels to clear the garbage choking free flow of sewage. “We are not provided any safety kits,” they said. The civic body has procured mechanized vehicles to stop manual cleaning of underground drainage networks, said sanitary workers’ leader Rajesh Hatibed. He expressed anguish on seeing he saw the photos of sanitary workers cleaning drainage lines manually. “What is the use of NMC spending crores in procuring mechanized systems,” a miffed Hatibed asked. A senior official from NMC’s solid waste management department claimed that sanitary workers do not indulge in such work anymore, and said there is a clear order not to clean sewer networks manually. Every zone has been asked to use only jet-rodding machines to clear blocks in underground drainage. A zonal official, however, said narrow lanes in this case stopped NMC from deploying the sewer cleaning machine. “As residents are facing a chocking problem, one of the workers got down inside the drainage,” the zone official said. Sources pointed out engaging a sanitation worker for manually cleaning, carrying or disposing of human excreta is a punishable offence under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, which mandates their identification and rehabilitation by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanitary-workers-still-cleaning-drains-manually/articleshow/76473801.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 20, 2020||India||Girl without smartphone fails to attend online classes, kills self||HOWRAH: A Class X girl committed suicide in Howrah’s Nischinda on Thursday evening for not being able to attend her school’s online classes as she didn’t have a computer or a smartphone. The deceased, Shibani Kumari Sau (16), was found hanging in her room at Nischinda’s Rajchandrapur. No suicide note was found in the room. Her father Santu Sau, a truck owner-cum-driver, said Shibani studied in an English-medium school in Bally. “She was my youngest child. Before lockdown 1.0, my wife, my eldest son and I went to our native home in Bihar’s Samastipur. Shibani and my other son Shivom stayed back at Nischinda. The siblings shared a smartphone, which got damaged after it accidentally fell from Shivom’s hand on March 26. They could not get it repaired during the lockdown.” “Shibani’s online classes commenced 10 days ago. She feared she would fail for being unable to attend online classes and was very depressed. She called me on Wednesday from another mobile phone — a push-button handset — and informed me of her concerns. I told her that I would get back to Nischinda and buy her a smartphone. I asked her not to get disheartened and gather the class notes she had missed from her classmates. I obviously couldn’t drive it into her,” Santu said. On Thursday, Shivom left for his cricket practice after lunch. On returning around 6pm, he grew suspicious after Shibani didn’t open the door despite his repeated knocks. On looking through a window, he was shocked to see her hanging from a door panel inside. A police officer said, “An investigation has started. We haven’t found a suicide note. Preliminary investigation shows the girl took her life out of depression over not being able to pursue her studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/girl-without-smartphone-fails-to-attend-online-classes-kills-self/articleshow/76474815.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘My dad lay in a ward with bodies, staff at GTB hospital didn’t attend to him’||NEW DELHI: On June 9, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia estimated there would be 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July. Even as this startling admission seemed to indicate the government was readying for the challenge, the Garg family in east Delhi’s Vishwas Nagar found out that day how underprepared the city’s medical system was to help those suspected of infection by the novel coronavirus. The government figures for that day put the number of those who had succumbed to Covid-19 at 48, including among the statistics Sandeep Garg (53), an employee at a car dealership. Ironically, his Covid test result came back negative, but by then his case had already been listed as a corona-suspect death. ‘Hospitals delayed oxygen treatment for paperwork’His 24-year-old eldest daughter Kriti—Garg has two other children, daughter Manvi (20) and son Geetansh (17)—is yet to accept that her father died because the medical setup wasn’t good enough to keep him alive, with a number of private hospitals refusing to take him in and the government hospital they went to delaying oxygen treatment allegedly due to mandatory paperwork. At 4am on June 8, the condition of Garg, who had developed breathlessness, became aggravated. “Our father had been going for work after the lockdown was relaxed. A few days later, he began coughing and then got mild fever,” said Kriti, who lost her mother in 2013. “When he developed breathing problems, our doctor asked him to get a Covid-19 test done.” In fear, they awaited the test result. The three siblings underwent a traumatic struggle to keep their father alive, with fearful relatives keeping away and neighbours refusing to come to their aid. “I called one private hospital after another, but was refused a bed everywhere. As my father needed oxygen immediately, we decided to go to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, the closest to our home,” narrated Kriti. GTB Hospital is not only the biggest medical centre in northeast Delhi, but also a designated Covid-19 facility. “The GTB staff was extremely rude and said my father would be admitted after due formalities and preparation of a case file,” alleged the daughter. “There was no oxygen even as my father’s breathlessness worsened. No one wanted to touch the stretcher and my brother and I moved it around. We reached the hospital at 10am but he was shifted to a ward only by 6pm.” Dr Sunil Kumar, the hospital’s medical superintendent, refuted the allegation about the undue delay in paperwork as “absolutely wrong”. He said, “The data entry operator just asks for the patient’s name, age, mobile number and address. There are no other formalities or paperwork.” He did, however, say he couldn’t rule out impolite behaviour on the part of the staff and the complaint would be investigated. Kriti claimed that her father received oxygen much later, and even then it was she who had to put the mask on her father and operate the machine. “For the glucose drip too, I was asked to hold his hand firmly in position as a needle was inserted and then told to adjust the drip so the flow was right,” she alleged. “There were dead patients all around, and I have no idea why the bodies weren’t being removed. When I pleaded with the doctors to check my father, they asked me how they could survive if they had to check each Covid-suspect patient.” It was around 6 pm when Garg was given a bed in the ward. “There, I had to insert the oxygen pipe inside my father’s nose. No doctor had as yet checked my father and he had received no specific care, except oxygen and glucose,” Kriti maintained, adding that doctors, in PPE suits and sitting in their chamber, refused to come out except at the designated visiting hour. “I was told that it was a high-risk zone and I should leave. My father is hypertensive and diabetic and needs some food at regular intervals. My sister brought some food for him, after which we left.” Kriti alleged that was the last meal her father had. “I managed to arrange a bed in a private hospital and was asked to admit him there the following day. However, at around 9 am I got a call from GTB asking me to come immediately,” she said. By the time she reached the hospital, her father’s body had been sealed and moved to the mortuary. His Covid-19 test had come negative, but the hospital death summary had entered his case as a pneumonitis Covid suspect. When told of the Garg family’s trauma, Dr Kumar insisted that GTB Hospital was committed to the patients’ well-being. He, however, said, “All allegations and complaints will be fully investigated to uncover the truth.” The medical superintendent added if any dereliction of duty was ascertained, appropriate measures would be taken. Even if the complaint was found unfounded, he assured that the complainant would be called and informed about the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-my-dad-lay-in-a-ward-with-bodies-staff-at-gtb-hospital-didnt-attend-to-him/articleshow/76474806.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 20, 2020||Nagpur||Enthusiasts, cops move to make city cycling-friendly||Nagpur: With an objective of making Nagpur a cycling-friendly city, a local citizens group is launching a first-of-its-kind initiative by creating a traffic-free zone. The initiative is being launched by city group India Pedals along with Nagpur police, under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Vikram Sali. It will start from June 21 when citizens will get a traffic free zone of four kilometres for cycling from 7am to 8am. The designated route will be Ladies Club square, GPO, Akashwani Square, VCA square, Tirpude College, Japanese Garden and back at Ladies Club square. The route will be completely free of motorized vehicles. “Our long-term objective is to make Nagpur cycling friendly. More than 90% people here have their offices, schools, colleges and market places within two-to-five kilometres, still they use car or two-wheelers instead of cycles,” said Dr Amit Samarth, founder of India Pedals. The group wants to establish an advocacy with the local administration to promote cycling in the city and have dedicated infrastructure like cycling tracks and parking places at offices, malls and markets. “We will be working with the city police to make roads safer for cycling as well as for pedestrians. Right now, the biggest hurdle in people’s minds is that roads are unsafe for cycling,” said Samarth. Highlighting the environmental benefits of the initiative, the city doctor added, “More use of non-motorized transport like cycling will reduce use of fuel. If thousands of short trips in the city are done using bicycles, it will significantly cut down the carbon emissions and create a healthy living environment.” The group plans to make the initiative a regular affair for weekends in the city. “A designated road will be closed for two hours in morning where people can come and ride their bicycles. From elders to children to senior citizens, anyone can be a part of it. There will be no race or rally, we just want to promote cycling as a way of life,” said Samarth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/enthusiasts-cops-move-to-make-city-cycling-friendly/articleshow/76473879.cms||Manka Behl
June 20, 2020||World||Pompeo tears into 'rogue actor' China for 'escalating' border tension with India||WASHINGTON: The US on Friday criticised the Chinese Army for "escalating" the border tension with India and described the ruling Chinese Communist Party as a "rogue actor." Launching a scathing attack on the Chinese government, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the Chinese Communist Party wants to undo all the progress the free world has made through institutions like NATO and adopt a new set of rules and norms that accommodate Beijing. "The PLA (People's Liberation Army) has escalated border tensions with India, the world's most populous democracy. It's militarising the South China Sea and illegally claiming more territory there, threatening vital sea lanes," Pompeo said, a day after he expressed deep condolences to India on the death of 20 soldiers in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh early in the week. In his virtual address on "Europe and the China Challenge" during the 2020 Copenhagen Democracy Summit on Friday, the top American diplomat said that for many years, the West, in an era of hope, believed they could change the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and improve the lives of the Chinese people along the way. “Along the way, the CCP took advantage of our goodwill while assuring us they wanted a cooperative relationship. As (former Chinese politician) Deng Xiaoping said 'Hide your strength, bide your time.' I've talked in other venues about why this happened. It's a complicated story. It's no one's fault," Pompeo said. Over decades, European and American companies have invested in China with great optimism. It outsourced supply chains to places like Shenzhen, opened education institutions for PLA-affiliated students and welcomed Chinese state-backed investment in their countries, he said. But the CPC decreed an end to freedom in Hong Kong, violating an UN-registered treaty and the rights of its citizens. This is one of many international treaties the party has violated, the secretary said. "General Secretary Xi Jinping has greenlighted a brutal campaign of repression against Chinese Muslims, a human rights violation on a scale we haven't seen since World War II. Now, the PLA has escalated border tensions with India,” he said. The clash in Galwan Valley is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. "The CCP isn't just a rogue actor in its own neighbourhood. It lied about the coronavirus and let it spread to the rest of the world, while pressuring the WHO to assist its cover-up campaign. Hundreds of thousands of people have died, and the global economy has been decimated,” Pompeo said. Even now, months into the pandemic, China has not provided access to live virus samples, facilities, or information about patients in December in Wuhan, he said. China is pushing disinformation and malicious cyber campaigns to undermine governments and to drive a wedge between the US and Europe, Pompeo alleged. "It's saddling developing nations with debt and dependency. It's strong-arming nations to do business with Huawei, an arm of the CCP's surveillance state. It's flagrantly attacking European sovereignty by buying up ports and critical infrastructure from Piraeus to Valencia," said the top American diplomat. "We must take off the golden blinders of economic ties and see that the China challenge isn't just at the gates; it's in every capital. Every investment from a Chinese state-owned enterprise should be viewed with suspicion," he said. "Europe faces a China challenge, just as the United States does, and just as our South American, African, Middle Eastern, and Asian friends do. As I said earlier this week to my EU counterparts, I know there's fear in Europe that the United States wants you to choose between us and China," he said. "It's the Chinese Communist Party that's forcing the choice. The party wants you to throw away the progress we in the free world have made, through NATO and other institutions – formal and informal – and adopt a new set of rules and norms that accommodate Beijing," Pompeo said. Watch Pompeo calls China 'rogue actor' for 'escalating' border tensions with India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-tears-into-rogue-actor-china-for-escalating-border-tension-with-india/articleshow/76474843.cms||---
June 20, 2020||India||Pompeo tears into 'rogue actor' China for 'escalating' border tension with India||WASHINGTON: The US on Friday criticised the Chinese Army for "escalating" the border tension with India and described the ruling Chinese Communist Party as a "rogue actor." Launching a scathing attack on the Chinese government, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the Chinese Communist Party wants to undo all the progress the free world has made through institutions like NATO and adopt a new set of rules and norms that accommodate Beijing. "The PLA (People's Liberation Army) has escalated border tensions with India, the world's most populous democracy. It's militarising the South China Sea and illegally claiming more territory there, threatening vital sea lanes," Pompeo said, a day after he expressed deep condolences to India on the death of 20 soldiers in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh early in the week. In his virtual address on "Europe and the China Challenge" during the 2020 Copenhagen Democracy Summit on Friday, the top American diplomat said that for many years, the West, in an era of hope, believed they could change the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and improve the lives of the Chinese people along the way. “Along the way, the CCP took advantage of our goodwill while assuring us they wanted a cooperative relationship. As (former Chinese politician) Deng Xiaoping said 'Hide your strength, bide your time.' I've talked in other venues about why this happened. It's a complicated story. It's no one's fault," Pompeo said. Over decades, European and American companies have invested in China with great optimism. It outsourced supply chains to places like Shenzhen, opened education institutions for PLA-affiliated students and welcomed Chinese state-backed investment in their countries, he said. But the CPC decreed an end to freedom in Hong Kong, violating an UN-registered treaty and the rights of its citizens. This is one of many international treaties the party has violated, the secretary said. "General Secretary Xi Jinping has greenlighted a brutal campaign of repression against Chinese Muslims, a human rights violation on a scale we haven't seen since World War II. Now, the PLA has escalated border tensions with India,” he said. The clash in Galwan Valley is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. "The CCP isn't just a rogue actor in its own neighbourhood. It lied about the coronavirus and let it spread to the rest of the world, while pressuring the WHO to assist its cover-up campaign. Hundreds of thousands of people have died, and the global economy has been decimated,” Pompeo said. Even now, months into the pandemic, China has not provided access to live virus samples, facilities, or information about patients in December in Wuhan, he said. China is pushing disinformation and malicious cyber campaigns to undermine governments and to drive a wedge between the US and Europe, Pompeo alleged. "It's saddling developing nations with debt and dependency. It's strong-arming nations to do business with Huawei, an arm of the CCP's surveillance state. It's flagrantly attacking European sovereignty by buying up ports and critical infrastructure from Piraeus to Valencia," said the top American diplomat. "We must take off the golden blinders of economic ties and see that the China challenge isn't just at the gates; it's in every capital. Every investment from a Chinese state-owned enterprise should be viewed with suspicion," he said. "Europe faces a China challenge, just as the United States does, and just as our South American, African, Middle Eastern, and Asian friends do. As I said earlier this week to my EU counterparts, I know there's fear in Europe that the United States wants you to choose between us and China," he said. "It's the Chinese Communist Party that's forcing the choice. The party wants you to throw away the progress we in the free world have made, through NATO and other institutions – formal and informal – and adopt a new set of rules and norms that accommodate Beijing," Pompeo said. Watch Pompeo calls China 'rogue actor' for 'escalating' border tensions with India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pompeo-tears-into-rogue-actor-china-for-escalating-border-tension-with-india/articleshow/76474844.cms||---
June 20, 2020||India||Recovery rate at 54%, govt credits better management||NEW DELHI: With more than 2 lakh patients cured of Covid-19 so far, India’s recovery rate has increased to 53.79%, even as the total Covid count rose to over 3.80 lakh. The Centre said with rising recoveries, the gap between active and recovered cases is increasing steadily, indicating better clinical management. “The trend in the daily numbers shows an increasing rate of recovery, and an increasing gap between active and recovered cases. The increase in the proportion of recovered cases is a demonstration of India’s strategy of timely management of Covid-19,” a health ministry official said. With the 10,386 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered patients is now 2,04,710. Currently, there are 1,63,248 active cases under medical supervision. Maharashtra, which has roughly a third of all infections in India, logged the highest number of absolute recoveries at 60,838 till Friday. It was followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,641 and Delhi at 21,341. The health ministry said the lockdown provided a breathing space for the government to ramp up testing facilities and health infrastructure which ensured improved recovery rate by timely detection and clinical management of Covid-19 cases. This increasing gap is thus a result of the timely, graded, pre-emptive approach of the government to contain Covid-19 and its implementation by countless front-line workers, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recovery-rate-at-54-govt-credits-better-management/articleshow/76474849.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt awaits HC nod on capital shift plans||Amaravati: Notwithstanding the setback in the legislative council (LC), the government is set to go ahead with its plan to move the executive capital to Visakhapatnam. The government made a vain bid earlier this week to reintroduce the CRDA repeal and decentralisation of development bills in the legislative council, after getting it cleared in the assembly for the second time, as the LC doesn’t have the authority to reject bills which have been passed by for a second successive time by the assembly. Such bills are deemed to be treated as passed one month after the introduction of the same in the council. But opposition TDP, which has majority in the council, foiled the attempts of the ruling side to move the bills by adjourning the House sine die. However, constitutional experts say both bills can be deemed to have been passed after July 17, which is 30 days after the indefinite adjournment of the council. Meanwhile, sources said the government is also making parallel arrangements to move the state’s power centre to Visakhapatnam. A senior official from the CM’s office, along with a Mumbai-based architect, is believed to have shortlisted some buildings and spaces for the government’s key administrative offices, including the CMO. The Vizag visit reportedly happened a few days before the two-day assembly session. The state government is likely to wait for the high court’s nod before taking a final call on the issue as it had promised the court that it will not take any decision on shifting of the executive capital till the legislative process is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-awaits-hc-nod-on-capital-shift-plans/articleshow/76472869.cms||Samdani MN
June 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers’ petition: HC tells CRDA to file response||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Friday directed the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) to file counter affidavit in the petition moved by farmers in the capital region seeking directions to the government to pay annual lease amount to them. The high court asked the CRDA to file a counter by next Tuesday and posted the matter for further hearing. Karumanchi Phakiraiah and Idupulapati Sitaramaiah moved the high court contending that they have not received annual lease amount for land that they have given to the state government for the construction of capital city. They argued in the petition that the state government has agreed to pay lease amount for a period of 10 years at annual incremental price of lease in return for the land they have given for the development of the capital. The petitioners argued that the CRDA made 9.14 agreements with the farmers of the capital region under the provisions of the CRDA Act. However, the state government has not paid the annual lease amount for 2020. As the counsel for CRDA sought time to file counter, the HC posted the matter for hearing on next Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-petition-hc-tells-crda-to-file-response/articleshow/76472882.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP CM Jagan inaugurates boating control centres||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy inaugurated tourist boating control centres on Friday through video conference from Tadepalli. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao, panchayati raj minister Pedireddy Ramachandra Reddy and APTDC managing director Praveen Kumar were in attendance. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said that the state government has set up nine control rooms for boating operations in coastal districts to avoid boat mishaps. The state government has instituted an end-to-end system for boating operations, the CM said and instructed district collectors to ensure strict implementation of licensing rules. The chief minister further said that this is a first-of-its-kind arrangement for boating operations in the country and that the priority for the control centres will be to ensure safety of tourists. The control rooms have been set up in Singanapalli, Perantalapalli and Polavarm in West Godavari district, Gandi Pochamma temple and Rajahmundry in East Godavari district; at Rushikonda in Visakhapatnam; Nagarjuna Sagar in Guntur, Srisailam in Kurnool and in Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cm-jagan-inaugurates-boating-control-centres/articleshow/76472907.cms||---
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Chennai sleuths arrest youth for buying ecstasy||BHIMAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI): Customs and excise officials from Chennai recently arrested a 28-year-old man from Bhimavaram town in West Godavari district for allegedly purchasing MDMA (3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine), commonly known as ecstasy (E) or Molly, a recreational drug. The accused, identified as Kurella Bhanuchandra, was arrested on Wednesday and later produced before a court in Chennai. Sources informed that customs authorities in Chennai found a suspicious parcel while inspecting parcels that had arrived at the Chennai airport on a cargo flight. The parcel in question mentioned that it contained toys and was addressed to Kurella Bhanuchandra in Bhimavaram town. The package had come from the Netherlands. Upon opening the package, authorities found that it contained 400 pills containing MDMA. A case has been booked. Customs officials from Chennai arrived in Bhimavaram on Wednesday and arrested Kurella Bhanuchandra. Bhanuchandra, a BTech drop-out, and his father had started a vehicle spare parts’ business which failed. Following the business failure, Bhanuchandra reportedly suffered from depression. Bhanuchandra has reportedly told authorities that the total worth of the pack of pills was US$ 457.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chennai-sleuths-arrest-youth-for-buying-ecstasy/articleshow/76472932.cms||Samson Raj
June 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sad over actor’s death, woman commits suicide in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Heartbroken at the death of one of her favourite actors Sushant Singh Rajput, a 21-year-old woman hanged herself to death at Malkapuram area in Vizag. The incident happened on June 16 but came to light only on Friday. The deceased, Sumana Kumari, was from Bihar and taught Hindi at a private school in Vizag. Police found that the woman had been watching films of Sushant Singh Rajput recently. Inspector of Malkapuram police station, K Durga Prasad, said that it is possible that Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was not the main reason but served as a trigger. The woman reportedly was undernourished and her growth had stunted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sad-over-actors-death-woman-commits-suicide/articleshow/76472948.cms||---
