June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 10,223 cases, 149 deaths on Saturday||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Covid count on Saturday reached 10,223 cases and 149 deaths as 480 new cases and five new deaths were reported in past 24 hours. As many as 239 persons were discharged from hospitals which took the recovery rate to 50.16 % with overall 5,128 recoveries. Notably, Haryana has seen more than 400% increase in new cases and over 700% increase in the deaths in past 20 days. On June 1 , Haryana had recorded the figure of 2,356 cases and 21 deaths. While after struggling for 15 days, the recovery rate has jumped back to 50% and above. 68 persons are found to be critical out of them 48 are on oxygen support in Covid care centres across the state, revealed the bulletin adding that On Saturday four deaths took Gurugram total to 59 and one death in Faridabad took total to 52.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-sees-10223-cases-149-deaths-on-saturday/articleshow/76487347.cms||Manvir Saini
June 21, 2020||World||South Asians most at risk of Covid-19 death in UK hospitals: Study||LONDON: A paper due to be published in the medical journal Lancet has found that South Asian people are the most likely to die from Covid-19 after being admitted to hospital in Britain. The report concluded that ethnicity must be taken into account in Britain when prioritising who gets a vaccine if one becomes available. "South Asians are over-represented in frontline key worker and public-interacting occupations, and guidance and policies should take this factor into account," the report said. The study, titled "Ethnicity and Outcomes from Covid-19", the largest of its type in the world, shows South Asians who are hospitalised with the deadly virus are 20% more likely to die than whites, and 18% of the South Asians who have died had pre-existing diabetes. The study of 34,986 hospitalised patients with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 in 260 hospitals between February and May found that South Asians, blacks and other ethnic minority patients hospitalised with Covid-19 were more likely to be admitted to critical care and more likely to need ventilation than their white counterparts, despite similar disease severity when admitted. Around 40% of the black and South Asian patients hospitalised had diabetes. It found that once hospitalised, South Asians, despite being younger and with fewer co-morbidities, had the highest risk of death and were the only ethnicity with a raised risk of death. A separate study by the Office for National Statistics, released Friday, said Indian ethnic men in Britain have a rate of death from Covid-19 that is 1.8 times higher than males of white ethnicity and Indian ethnic females have a rate of death 1.5 times higher than that of white ethnic women. The study, based on death registrations relating to Covid-19 between March and May, contradicted the Lancet paper and found that black males have the highest risk of death involving Covid-19. It said the rate of death of black men is 2.9 times greater than those of white men and the rate of death of black women involving Covid-19 is 2.3 times higher than white women. This includes deaths outside hospital. It also found that males and females from the Muslim, Jewish, Hindu and Sikh religious groups are at greater risk of death involving Covid-19 compared with those identifying as Christian or no religion. Muslim men had the highest rates of death involving Covid-19 at 2.5 times higher than those with no religion, followed by Jewish men (2.3 times higher) and Hindu men (1.9 times higher). Muslim women are twice as likely to die from Covid-19 as those with no religion and Hindu females are 1.9 times as likely. Leicester East, which has a population that is one-third Indian ethnicity, has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks, just as the UK is starting to ease its lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/south-asians-most-at-risk-of-covid-19-death-in-uk-hospitals-study/articleshow/76487442.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri king seeks CM Naveen Patnaik's intervention for Puri Rath Yatra||BHUBANESWAR: Amid public outcry over the Supreme Court’s order on Thursday to stall this year’s June 23 Rath Yatra in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Puri king and chairman of Jagannath temple managing committee Dibyasingha Deb on Saturday urged the state government to file a review petition. Though the state government already clarified to comply with the apex court’s order, Deb wrote to the chief minister Naveen Patnaik and appealed to the state government to “immediately” move the apex court for a modification of the judgment. “Rath Yatra was not possible to observe only during the attacks by Mughals in 16th, 17th and 18th centuries when the deities had to be hidden in remote places. The Yatra was not stopped during natural disasters and epidemics,” the letter said. The Gajapati Maharaja, who drew flak for allegedly not pursuing the sensitive issue with the government vigorously, said Rath Yatra can be held without congregation of devotees amid the pandemic and precautions (as suggested by temple managing committee). He said cancellation of Rath Yatra will hurt sentiments of millions of devotees. "Rath Yatra in Puri is of special significance and it should not be stopped, even if the festival and other religious functions are not permitted elsewhere due to the Covid pandemic restrictions," king's letter said. With June 23 Rath Yatra barely two days away, the Maharaja’s appeal to the government came two days after the SC’s order triggered massive public outage across the state. The state government on Thursday already clarified that it would comply with the apex court’s order. “The Puri King should have made a strong stand immediately after the SC stayed the Rath Yatra. King’s letter to the government came very late. It seems he supported the government,” said Jayant Hota, a retired lecturer in Puri. The Maharaja’s letter followed the growing demand from different quarters to hold Rath Yatra in a restricted manner. A number of applications from individuals and private organisations have been filed in the Supreme Court since Friday to review its order. Now, all eyes are on the apex court on the fate of those applications and whether a review of the Thursday's order can really materialize in the short notice. “We know time is running out. Still, we hope the Supreme Court considers the applications and re-examines its order by Monday, a day before the festival. We appeal to the apex court to allow Rath Yatra in Puri alone in a restricted manner. Though Rath Yatra is observed across the country, Puri is revered as the real abode of Lord Jagannath. Rath Yatra of Puri has a special significance in our scriptures,” said Janardan Pattjoshi Mohapatra, the Nayak (chief) of Chhattisa Nijog, a confederation of different associations of servitors of Jagannath temple. A group of servitors and locals staged a silent protest outside the Jagannath Temple on Saturday, demanding that the Rath Yatra be held with riders. “We realize the unprecedented crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. But did the state government seek permission from the Centre or the SC before holding the Debasnan Purnima festival on June 5? It is also a religious function that was conducted smoothly in the absence of devotees,” temple servitor Shyamsundar Mohapatra said. “The government had imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC around the temple. The Rath Yatra too can be held in a similar manner,” he added. Echoing a similar sentiment, Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik on Saturday demanded that the Rath Yatra be held by imposing a complete shutdown in Puri. “I can understand the predicament of the state government. The government is scared of the Covid-19 situation,” he said, adding that the government should understand the emotions of the people here and convince the SC to allow the Rath Yatra by banning the congregation of people. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the Rath Yatra ‘in its normal shape’ seemed difficult this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The followers of Lord Jagannath, especially the Odias, have been deeply hurt. But still let’s wait for the wish of the almighty till Monday,” Pradhan added. Senior BJD leader and former minister Prafulla Ghadai said, “People should respect the SC order; it is the law of the land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-king-seeks-cm-naveen-patnaiks-intervention-for-puri-rath-yatra/articleshow/76487528.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 21, 2020||India||Terrorist killed, two aides trapped in Kulgam||SRINAGAR: Security forces killed a terrorist, allegedly of Hizbul Mujahideen, in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday afternoon. Two of his aides were still believed to be trapped in a hideout in the orchards of Lokhdipora there, said a cop, adding that the anti-terror operation was under way till late in the evening. This is the ninth encounter in south Kashmir this month. During this period, 28 terrorists have been slain by security forces so far. Based on intelligence inputs about the presence of ultras in the area, a joint team of Army’s 34RR, CRPF and J&K Police launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Lokhdipora orchards. A fierce encounter broke out after holed-up terrorists opened fire at the search party, in which one terrorist was killed, a police officer said. Two of his accomplices who were believed to be trapped in their hideout later fled the spot and took shelter in a house in the orchards even as the gunbattle raged on till late evening. The operation was suspended as darkness fell. As a precautionary measure, internet services were temporarily suspended in Kulgam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terrorist-killed-two-aides-trapped-in-kulgam/articleshow/76487533.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 21, 2020||India||Alert BSF guns down Pakistan drone carrying arms near international border in J&K’s Kathua||JAMMU/ SRINAGAR: Forefending a major Pak-sponsored terror bid, alert BSF personnel on Saturday shot down a “highly sophisticated” drone, carrying arms and ammunition, close to the International Border in the Hiranagar sector of J&K’s Kathua district. “Our troops shot down a Pakistani drone carrying one (US-made) M4 carbine machine, two filled magazines (60 rounds) and seven Chinese grenades, near the IB in Kathua,” a BSF spokesperson said in Jammu. Police claim that the weapons were meant for a terrorist named ‘Ali Bhai’, whose name was found on the drone’s payload. The aircraft was probably operated from a Pakistani picket opposite the Panesar post of the BSF deployment in Kathua sector. Referring to this incident, DGP-J&K Dilbagh Singh told reporters that Pak agencies are trying to arm Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists active in Kashmir with these drone tactics. “One more attempt by Pak agencies to drop weapons across the border using drones foiled at Kathua border,” he added. Around 5.10am Saturday, a group of BSF personnel noticed the hexacopter drone coming from the Pakistan side. The drone was 8ft-wide from blade to blade and flying at a height of about 150-200ft inside the Indian territory near Panesar border outpost in Rathua village of Hiranagar. “The alert troops on the ground reacted swiftly, fired on it and shot it down. On recovery, it was found to be a ‘hexacopter (China-made)’, weighing about 17.5 kg. The payload capacity of the said hexacopter was on the larger side,” the BSF spokesperson said. Of late, the BSF Intelligence branch has been receiving inputs about the possible use of drones for ferrying arms and ammunition from Pakistan into India, he said. “Accordingly, the troops were put on a high alert and the border domination was exponentially increased.” This was the first time that a drone carrying arms and explosives was gunned down by the force in Jammu region. A few months ago, police recovered similar weapons from JeM terrorists at a location near Jammu. Cops also foiled attempts of weapon smuggling in border areas of Kupwara, Rajouri and several Jammu sectors during the same time, police said. In January this year, the Punjab police recovered two GPS-fitted Chinese drones — a quadcopter and a hexacopter — 12 drone batteries, some custom-made drone containers, an INSAS rifle magazine, and two walkie-talkie sets, besides Rs 6.22 lakh in cash from an Indian Army soldier and two of his accomplices accused of smuggling drugs and weapons from across the Indo-Pak border in collusion with their Pakistani accomplices. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had handed over the investigation of the drone cases to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). In September 2019, Punjab Police had busted a terrorist module of the Khalistan Zindabad Force and recovered two Chinese drones from Pakistan allegedly used to airdrop arms and ammunition and to villages in Amritsar and Taran Taran districts. A senior police officer said this is another tactic of Pakistan to send weapons to ultras operating across the Union Territory, as terrorists’ arms and ammunition stock has dried up in the wake of the recent anti-terror operations in J&K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alert-bsf-guns-down-pakistan-drone-carrying-arms-near-international-border-in-jks-kathua/articleshow/76487765.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
June 21, 2020||India||Twin breach of truce by Pakistan, 5 civilians injured in Uri||SRINAGAR/ JAMMU: Five Uri residents, including two minors, were injured after Pakistan shelled forward posts and civilian areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday, police said. Later in the evening, another breach of truce followed along the LoC in Rajouri district. Baramulla SSP Abdul Qayoom said Pakistan violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Uri’s Nambla area and resorted to heavy mortar shelling, to which Indian troops effectively retaliated. Five civilians sustained splinter injuries after the shells landed in their vicinity. The wounded were identified as Ahmed Sheikh (60), Maqbool Mangral (20), Akhtar Bano (16), Idrees Mustaq (12) and Sakeena Begum. They are under treatment at a hospital. Maqbool’s cow also died in the shelling, the SSP said. The second ceasefire violation came later the same evening. “Around 6.45pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked firing and intense mortar shelling targeting forward posts and civilian areas along the LoC in Rajouri’s Nowshera sector. The Indian troops retaliated befittingly,” said Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. Pakistan has breached the truce more than 2000 times in this year alone, the highest ever reported so far. Three soldiers have lost their lives in these violations since June 4. On June 12, a woman was killed in Uri and two others injured after Pakistan breached the truce along the LoC in Baramulla. The heavy cross-border fire exchange — coupled with Pakistan’s indiscriminate, intense mortar shelling in civilian areas — triggered panic among residents who fled seeking safer refuges. Many families were evacuated and sheltered at a government school and later returned to their homes after a lull in the shelling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twin-breach-of-truce-by-pakistan-5-civilians-injured-in-uri/articleshow/76487827.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 21, 2020||World||US President Donald Trump to suspend H1B visas||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order suspending H1B, L1 and other temporary work visas through the end of the year, according to National Public Radio (NPR) citing multiple sources familiar with the plan. The new order, which may come just hours ahead of a nationalistic rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, late Saturday at which Trump is expected to throw red meat at his base, is expected to include broad exceptions. It will not affect those people already in the U.S. The executive order is also expected to suspend H-2B visas for seasonal workers such as hotel and construction staff and J-1 visas, which are meant for research scholars and professors, including doctors, many from India who use it to eventually become permanent residents and citizens. Panic swept through the tech community workers as word of the impending order came through. Some visa holders traveling to the U.S and in transit posted on social media accounts of being denied entry to the US. Watch US President Trump to sign executive order suspending H1B visas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-president-donald-trump-to-suspend-h1b-visas/articleshow/76488022.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars will join a virtual flashmob today to create a surya namaskar record||When it comes to yoga and records, Mumbaikars seem to ace that challenge. Last year, over 500 women came together to make a record for the maximum number of people holding the virabhadrasana or warrior pose in three minutes at Dadar. They also cracked another record by performing 108 surya namaskars in 45 minutes! With International Yoga Day today, the plan is set to top their best again, only this time the sun salutation poses will be done at home, as they won’t be able to gather outside in keeping with social distancing measures. Here’s what the participants have up their sleeves, rather on their yoga mats…  ‘We started preparing with five surya namaskars’ Suvarna Joshi, who has participated in yoga events before, says, “This year, it’s a virtual surya namaskar flashmob at home. Around 400 participants will be logging in at the same time from all over the world. We’ve been doing surya namaskars and chandra namaskars virtually every day, from last month, to get into the groove for today.”  Dahisar-based dentist Dr Noureen Hemani adds, “We started preparing with five surya namaskars a day when the lockdown began and slowly upped that count. Now, we do 108 surya namaskars on our zoom video calls.” Model-actor Milind Soman’s wife Ankita Konwar, who will be participating in the event, says, “Surya namaskars are the best cardio workout for me. And as you pay more attention to your breathing, it also helps you calm your mind. I am looking forward to the virtual surya namaskar challenge. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-will-join-a-virtual-flashmob-today-to-create-a-surya-namaskar-record/articleshow/76486376.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 21, 2020||India||With earnings hit by pandemic, railways brace for another round of austerity||NEW DELHI: In a drastic cost cutting measure, the railway board has instructed all zones to freeze creation of new posts except for safety purposes, immediate review of retired and re-engaged staff, exploring possible closure of uneconomic branch lines and rationalisation of passenger reservation counters. This is the second set of expenditure control measures rolled out by the financial commissioner of railways in the past one month as railway earnings have taken a hit during the Covid pandemic. While freight earning has fallen by nearly 34% during this year as compared to the corresponding period of 2019-20, earnings from reserved tickets has tumbled by 112% and the revenue from unreserved tickets has declined by 90%. The financial commissioner has also asked general managers to review posts created in the last two years and if these have not been filled, they should review them for surrender. The letter has also specified the interventions including rationalisation of manpower in workshops. The letter said the Covid is likely to adversely impact budgeted earnings and the national transporter is mandated to meet all of its expenses including pension from own receipts. Citing the need to explore new areas of expenditure control and enhancement of earnings, the letter said, “It may be clearly borne in mind that mere deferment of bills and payment is not expenditure control. Effort has to be in controlling activities, works, purchases and all contractual obligations so that the liabilities are controlled within the available funds, the allocation of which should be prioritised.” The financial commissioner has emphasised that the recommendations for expenditure control and economy “must be binding in nature” and the need to redeploy manpower to ensure maximum utilisation. The need for grounding of all diesel locos over 31 years through sale or export has been highlighted. According to the letter, every zone has been asked to review the outsourcing activities such as on board housekeeping service, linen management, station cleaning, manning of escalators and station announcement. Exploring the option of CSR funds to reduce expenditure on these activities has also been suggested. The finance department has asked all zones to cut down expenditures on events, entertainment and to avoid procurement of new furniture, computers and vehicles. It is mentioned how annual inspections by general managers become a big affair with huge expenditure. “This should be a silent and low key affair,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-earnings-hit-by-pandemic-railways-brace-for-another-round-of-austerity/articleshow/76488243.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 21, 2020||India||India: China’s Galwan claim unacceptable||NEW DELHI: China's claim on the Galwan Valley is unacceptable and not in accordance with its own position in the past, the government said in a strong rebuttal of Beijing’s late night statement on Friday in which it said the area which witnessed a brutal clash between Indian and Chinese troops on the night of June 15 was on its side of LAC. India said the position with regard to the Galwan Valley area has been historically clear and attempts by the Chinese side to now advance “exaggerated and untenable” claims about the Line of Actual Control are not acceptable. China has thrice claimed sovereignty over the Valley since the June 15 violence, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and also resulted in casualties on the Chinese side. This is possibly the first time that Beijing has claimed the entire Valley which has remained free of incursions till the recent face-off. Rejecting the Chinese claims on Galwan Valley, the government said it expects the Chinese side will “sincerely follow the understanding reached between Indian and Chinese foreign ministers to ensure peace and tranquility in border areas, which is so essential for the overall development of our bilateral relations”. While China had claimed India had entered Chinese territory by crossing the Galwan estuary on June 15, violating the consensus reached at the meeting of the senior commanders, India asked China not to misrepresent the understandings arrived at during the discussions. Indian authorities pointed to reports that Chinese claims had never in the past extended to the estuary. The MEA, in a statement, said that Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC in all sectors of the India-China border areas, including in the Galwan Valley. “They abide by it scrupulously here, as they do elsewhere. The Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC,” said spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, adding that Indian troops had in fact been patrolling this area for a long time without any incident. “All infrastructure built by the Indian side is naturally on its own side of the LAC,” he added. Strongly denying China’s allegation that India was unilaterally changing the status quo, the government said it was India which was actually maintaining it. The government also expressed hope that China will abide by the understanding reached between foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi to ensure peace in the border areas which was so essential for the overall development of bilateral relations. China had claimed in its “step-by-step” account that India had been “unilaterally” constructing roads and bridges at the LAC in the region since April and that Indian troops had crossed the border on May 6 to build “fortification and barricades”. India responded saying that since early May, the Chinese had been hindering India’s “normal, traditional patrolling pattern” in this area. This had resulted in a face-off which was addressed by the ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocols, said the MEA. Subsequently in mid-May, the Chinese side attempted to “transgress” the LAC in other areas of the western sector of the India-China border areas and that these attempts were invariably met with an appropriate response from India, the government said. “Thereafter, the two sides were engaged in discussions through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation arising out of Chinese activities on the LAC,” said the official. The MEA spokesperson said the June 6 meeting saw an agreement for initiating LAC de-escalation that involved reciprocal actions. Both sides had agreed to respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo. However, the MEA said, the Chinese side departed from these understandings in respect of the LAC in the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC (Indian side of LAC as sources clarified). When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on 15 June, 2020 that directly resulted in casualties, said the official. "The two ministers (Jaishankar and Wang Yi) also agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of 6 June sincerely. The two sides are in regular touch and early meetings of military and diplomatic mechanisms are currently being discussed," said Srivastava. Watch India: China’s Galwan claim ‘unacceptable and untenable’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-chinas-galwan-claim-unacceptable/articleshow/76488382.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 21, 2020||India||Nepal stations bombard Uttarakhand villages with anti-India songs||DEHRADUN/PITHORAGARH: Residents of Uttarakhand villages bordering Nepal that can catch the frequency of radio stations in the neighbouring country are being treated to a sudden surfeit of anti-India songs that call for return of areas in Uttarakhand like Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura that have been included in Kathmandu’s new map. These songs, mostly played on FM channels between news bulletins and other shows, don’t fail to taunt Nepalese politicians for “not doing enough to get back the land that belongs to Nepal.” Babita Sanwal, a school teacher in Dharchula in Pithoragarh district who was till some time back a regular listener of Darchula FM of Nepal, said she generally opted to listen to news on radio while walking back home from school. “I have now stopped listening to Nepalese FM after they started playing a lot of anti-India songs on FM,” she said. “These songs are being played multiple rounds, every hour.” Sanwal said she remember the lyrics of one of the songs: “Hamrai ho tyo Kalapani, Lipulekha, Limpiyadhura... Utha, jaga, veer Nepali (Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura are ours… Wake up, brave people).” She tuned out after a local kid asked her if what is being said in the song is true. There are other songs that say “Lipulekh and Kalapani should be ours, it’s our land that has been stolen”. While some of these songs are between a year and six months old and have resurfaced now with a vengeance, quite a few premièred recently on platforms like YouTube between March and June this year. According to locals, among the Nepalese FM channels whose broadcasts are accessible across the border in towns like Dharchula and Jhoolaghat in Pithoragarh are Naya Nepal, Kalapani Radio, Darchula Radio, Lok Darpan, Radio Sarthi and Mallikarjun Radio. Krishna Garbiyal, a local trader from Dharchula, who used to listen to news on these radio stations told TOI that he has stopped doing so of late since “the news bulletins are totally one-sided and show India in a bad light.” He said, “I stopped (listening) when I heard songs that said even Shillong and Darjeeling were part of Nepal and they will not just take away Kalapani but also drink water in Nalapani (a seasonal river in Dehradun),” he added. Manju Tinkari, a radio jockey with a Nepalese radio station, told TOI: “We neither exaggerate nor under-play things. We just read out the news bulletins as they have happened. Also, the choice of songs is mostly dictated by listeners’ requests.” N S Napalchyal, former chief secretary of Uttarakhand who hails from Dharchula area of Pithoragarh, said the Nepalese propaganda needs to be strongly countered. “The state government and even the central government should start its own community radios in the area to give a clear picture to locals about the present scenario.” Madan Kaushik, state government spokesperson, said that the issue is “a genuine one and the government, which is already focusing on setting up community radios, will definitely give a thought to start local radio stations in Pithoragarh too”. A senior Nepalese official from an intergovernmental organisation in Kathmandu told TOI that “such nationalist and anti-India songs are not prevalent across Nepal and, in my view, would be prevalent only in areas along the border.” Watch Nepal radio stations bombard Uttarakhand villages with anti-India songs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-stations-play-anti-india-songs/articleshow/76488425.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 21, 2020||India||Unusual activity by China air force detected: IAF chief||HYDERABAD: India has detected unusual movement of China’s People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) along the border in Ladakh and put in place its own strategy to respond to any contingency, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday. In Hyderabad for the combined graduation day parade at Air Force Academy, Dundigal, he said the Indian Air Force (IAF) was aware of China’s air bases and the deployment along the LAC. “During summer, there are usual exercises. But at this time, we have noticed more than usual deployment. We have taken necessary action,” he said while explaining why IAF had moved its aircraft to the forward air bases. Complete coverage of LAC face-off Asked if India would go to war with China, the air chief said: “No, we are not at war with China. But we are prepared for any contingency. All efforts are being made to solve the situation at the LAC peacefully.” In the backdrop of the biggest confrontation with Beijing in over five decades on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed, the IAF chief said these were “unacceptable Chinese actions”. “We will never let the sacrifice of our braves of Galwan go in vain,” he asserted. India China stand-off live updatesAsked if China had an advantage over India, the air chief said, “Rest assured, our armed forces are capable of handling the situation.” However, Bhadauria would not go into details on whether the Chinese army had crossed 2km into the LAC. “Have faith in the Indian Army. It has come out with information about what happened. We don’t have to give any message to the adversary because the adversary knows our capacity,” he said and added that air patrolling in the Ladakh region has been increased. On indigenous production of aircraft for India, he said the design of LCA Mk2 is progressing and in next 15 years, IAF will have 300 aircraft all manufactured indigenously. “We have to now create an eco-system for manufacturing,” he said. Read AlsoArmy ‘holding’ clash area, PLA blocking 8km Pangong stretchThere is still some lack of clarity about the exact ground situation in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh. But there is little doubt that Chinese soldiers have built dozens of new fortifications and bunkers after physically occupying an almost 8-km stretch of what India considers its ownAs many as 123 graduating officers were awarded the President’s Commission during the the combined graduation parade on Saturday. Eleven officers of the Indian Navy and Coast Guard also earned their wings apart from two officers of Vietnam Air Force, who too passed out. Read AlsoIndia: China’s Galwan claim unacceptableChina's claim on the Galwan Valley is unacceptable and not in accordance with its own position in the past, the government said in a strong rebuttal of Beijing’s late night statement on Friday in which it said the area which witnessed a brutal clash between Indian and Chinese troops on the night ofIn his speech, the Air Chief paid tributes to Colonel Santosh Babu and 19 soldiers who were killed in the clash with Chinese soldiers. “Their gallant actions in a highly challenging situation have demonstrated our resolve to protect the sovereignty of our country – at any cost,” he said. He said the graduating officers would go straight to their units and not take a break. “The security scenario in our region mandates our armed forces to remain prepared and vigilant at all times,” he added. Watch Sacrifices of martyrs won't go in vain: IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unusual-activity-by-china-air-force-detected-iaf-chief/articleshow/76488427.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 21, 2020||India||CERT-In warns of massive cyberattack using Covid as bait||New Delhi: India faces the prospect of a large-scale cyberattack that could target individuals and businesses, the country’s cybersecurity nodal agency, CERT-In has warned in an advisory. The Centre has said the attackers may use Covid-19 as a bait to steal personal and financial information. CERT-In says the potential phishing attackers could impersonate government agencies, departments and trade bodies tasked to oversee disbursement of government fiscal aid. The phishing campaign is expected to start on June 21 with cyber attackers using email IDs such as “ncov2019@gov.in”. The attackers are expected to send malicious emails under the pretext of local authorities that are in charge of dispensing government-funded Covid-19 support initiatives. “Such emails are designed to drive recipients towards fake websites where they are deceived into downloading malicious files or entering personal and financial information,” the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) said in its advisory dated June 19. CERT-In spelt out a series of steps for users to protect themselves, including not opening attachments in unsolicited emails even if it comes from people in the contact list. It has asked users to encrypt and protect their sensitive documents to avoid potential leakage. It also urged people to use anti-virus tools, firewalls and filtering services and asked them to report any unusual activity or attack immediately to CERT-In. The advisory noted that the “malicious actors” are claiming to have 2 million individual/citizen email IDs and are planning to send email with the subject line: free Covid-19 testing for all residents of Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Ahmedabad in a bid to coax users to disclose personal information. “It has been reported that these malicious actors are planning to spoof or create fake email IDs impersonating various authorities,” it cautioned. Watch Govt warns of massive cyberattack using Covid as bait||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cert-in-warns-of-massive-cyberattack-using-covid-as-bait/articleshow/76488434.cms||---
June 21, 2020||India||Congress, Left slam remarks, Jagan & KCR back PM||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi’s no-intrusion-no-encroachment-in-Ladakh remark touched off strong reactions from Congress, Left parties and Samajwadi Party, who said it will have serious repercussions for India’s territorial integrity vis-a-vis China. They cited China’s assertion over Galwan Valley following the PM’s remark to support their claim. Congress leader P Chidambaram said, “The Chinese claim the entire Galwan and they are present there. The PM says there are no Chinese troops on Indian territory. Put the two statements together and the conclusion is a horrifying one. So, the government must answer the Chinese claim today and not wait until tomorrow.” CPM chief Sitaram Yechury said, “Then there is no conflict? Why have our brave soldiers been martyred? Why this all-party meeting?” On the PMO’s clarification, Yechury said, “Modi should first make up his mind and then speak, unless his attempt was to mislead all the political parties and weaken our position in diplomatic talks…What else did the PM say in the all-party meeting last evening which he did not mean? Can we trust anything that was said on an issue of such strategic importance, if he changes his statements so quickly.” Saying that he was concerned by the "manufactured controversy" surrounding the all-party meet, Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy asserted that this is the time to "showcase our unity and solidarity" with our armed forces and not the time to point fingers or find faults. Concerned by the manufactured controversy surrounding the All Party Meet yesterday. This is the time to showcase ou… https://t.co/jgM74nCgpt— YS Jagan Mohan Reddy (@ysjagan) 1592670404000Hon’ble PM and other Ministers gave very convincing answers at the APM. Nation is and should be united on this subj… https://t.co/wQtKUOWYmw— YS Jagan Mohan Reddy (@ysjagan) 1592670404000He added, "Hon’ble PM and other Ministers gave very convincing answers at the APM. Nation is and should be united on this subject. Unity brings strength and division exhibits weakness." Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang also said that PM Modi's remarks were crystal clear in reaffirming India’s stand on the China issue. PM @narendramodi’s remarks in the all-party meeting were crystal clear in reaffirming India’s stand on the China is… https://t.co/umQ8LpS6OA— Prem Singh Tamang (Golay) (@GolayPs) 1592666855000During yesterday’s All Party Meeting, PM @narendramodi spoke extensively on the India-China situation. His answers… https://t.co/G3ljYAK0ZN— Conrad Sangma (@SangmaConrad) 1592666556000"It was reassuring to hear that the government won’t compromise on India’s interests. Everybody also had great faith in our forces to vanquish any evil design," he said in a tweet. Chief minister of Meghalaya Conrad Sangma also supported PM Modi's remarks, saying he spoke extensively on the India-China situation. "His answers clearly reflected India’s strong stand when it comes to safeguarding our sovereignty. All other 'commentary' may be best ignored. It’s not factual or desired," Sangma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-left-slam-remarks-jagan-kcr-back-pm/articleshow/76488453.cms||---
June 21, 2020||India||Army ‘holding’ clash area, PLA blocking 8km Pangong stretch||NEW DELHI: There is still some lack of clarity about the exact ground situation in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh. But there is little doubt that Chinese soldiers have built dozens of new fortifications and bunkers after physically occupying an almost 8-km stretch of what India considers its own territory along the Pangong Tso since early-May. Chinese troops have also taken control of the heights to dominate ‘Finger-4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs) area on the north bank of Pangong Tso, adroitly utilising the time when bilateral military talks were underway on the troop confrontations at Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17 in the Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs areas. Official sources on Saturday said the Indian Army is now “holding” the area near PP-14 in the Galwan Valley region, which was the location of the bloody skirmish that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 injured on June 15. After the clash, the Army said, "Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020." Complete coverage of LAC face-off “The two rival armies are more or less on their own sides of the line of actual control (LAC) in the Galwan region. But there is no disengagement (in the broader sense), with military build-ups being present on both sides,” said an official source. India China standoff live updatesThe troop confrontation on the north bank of Pangong Tso, located at an altitude of 13,900-feet across the Changla Pass, is much more serious. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA), after a clash between rival troops there on May 5-6, has been consistently blocking all Indian patrols going west to east from Finger-4 to 8 area, as TOI has been reporting since last month. Read AlsoUnusual activity by China air force detected: IAF chiefIndia has detected unusual movement of China’s People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) along the border in Ladakh and put in place its own strategy to respond to any contingency, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday.“All Indian Army maps show the LAC runs north to south at Finger-8. With an ITBP post between Finger-3 and Finger-4, our patrols have been going up to Finger-8 for years. But the PLA has been refusing to discuss its occupation from Finger-4 to 8 since early last month,” said a senior officer. In 1999, while India’s attention was diverted during the Kargil conflict with Pakistan, China had surreptitiously built a dirt track reaching up to Finger-4 area from its rear bases to the east at Sirijap-1 and 2. Subsequently, the PLA also black-topped it. Read AlsoIndia: China’s Galwan claim unacceptableChina's claim on the Galwan Valley is unacceptable and not in accordance with its own position in the past, the government said in a strong rebuttal of Beijing’s late night statement on Friday in which it said the area which witnessed a brutal clash between Indian and Chinese troops on the night of“PLA troops, often in vehicles from their post at Finger-8 and Sirijap, used to patrol in the area. But they had never physically occupied the area even though they claimed it till Finger-2,” said the officer. “But now, they have built a series of defences from Finger-4 to 8, while also occupying the heights. It will be difficult to dislodge them from there,” he added. India obviously wants a return to status quo ante, with the PLA’s pulling-back from the “Finger 4” area and demolishing all its fortifications there, but that will take some doing. Watch Army holds clash area as PLA blocks 8km Pangong stretch||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-holding-clash-area-pla-blocking-8km-pangong-stretch/articleshow/76488470.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 21, 2020||Patna||92.5% Covid cases in Gaya from rural areas||GAYA: Rural areas have turned out to be Covid-19 hotspots in Gaya district. As per official figures released by Gaya district administration, 148 of 160 or 92.5% of Covid-19 positive cases in the district are from rural areas. As per the 2011 census figures, only 13.24% of the nearly 43 lakh people of the district live in the urban areas. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said the percentage of Covid cases in rural areas is proportionately higher but not high enough to merit any alarm. “Social distancing maintenance and contact tracing is much easier in the rural areas as compared to the urban areas. The rural areas are less congested and better ventilated,” the DM said. According to district health officials, 116 of the 160 Covid positive cases are migrant workers in the district. More than 50,000 migrant workers and foreign returnees have come to the district since the easing of travel restrictions and movement of migrant workers from May 2. Field officials have been asked to step up sample testing of the more vulnerable sections like vendors, vegetable and fruit sellers, provision shop operators, auto drivers and rickshaw pullers. The direction was given during the review meet held on Friday evening. Civil surgeon Dr B K Singh made a detailed presentation at the review meet. Meanwhile, Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, president of the Gaya chapter of Indian Medical Association, reiterated the commitment of private practitioners to help government sector medical establishments in case such a need arises. According to Dr Singh, the elderly private practitioners may be exempted, but the younger ones would certainly join the fight against Covid-19 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/92-5-covid-cases-in-gaya-from-rural-areas/articleshow/76486642.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Five test positive in Diu||Rajkot: In the past few days at least 10 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in union territory Diu, with results of five being declared on Saturday. All the cases have been reported during the Unlock 1 phase during which flight operation resumed in the UT. The Diu administration has declared three containment zones namely Saranagar, Ghoghla and Diu city.Diu collector Saloni Rai said, “All the people who tested positive have come from Mumbai and are in government quarantine facility. These are Diu residents and have been stranded there during lockdown.” However to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the administration is not allowing tourists from hotspots, Rai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-test-positive-in-diu/articleshow/76486672.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Surat||23 diamond workers, two docs among 77 new cases||Surat: With the diamond hub of Katargam turning into the second hotspot after Limbayat, the Covid-19 cases crossed the 3,000-mark in Surat with 77 new cases recorded on Saturday. About 23 diamond workers tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. These workers have been employed in various diamond units located in the Katargam zone. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “About 35% of the cases detected in Katargam zone are linked to the diamond workers employed in various diamond units. We have asked the diamond unit owners for carrying out rigorous thermal screening of their workers and those found with fever or other symptoms should be not be allowed to work.” Dr Naik added, “The diamond factory owners have been asked to provide preventive medicines including homeopathy and Ayush to the workers to boost immunity for protection from infection.” Meanwhile, two doctors of private clinic and a hospital in Varachha and Majura Gate tested positive for Covid-19. A safai worker, teacher of a private school and a grocery shop owner in North zone were also infected with the deadly virus. Officials said that three persons, including a 64-year-old male and 55-year-old male from Katargam and a 52-year-old male from Pandesara, succumbed to the virus on Saturday. All the deceased had comorbid conditions including diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney disease etc. Eleven cases were recorded from the talukas of Olpaad, Kamrej, Palsana and Mandvi talukas, taking the total cases to 300. There are about nine male patients and two female patients, who are positive for Covid-19. BOX: Covid Meter Positive cases: 3095 Deaths: 126 Discharged: 2079 Zone-wise data of Covid-19 cases Zone Cases Central 419 Varachha(A) 345 Varachha (B) 139 Katargam 720 Limbayat 817 Udhna 338 Athwa 137 Rander 180||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/23-diamond-workers-two-docs-among-77-new-cases/articleshow/76486755.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Allahabad||Online yoga competition for govt primary school teachers||Prayagraj: As the country gears up for online sessions ahead of International Yoga Day this year, teachers of government-run primary and upper primary schools in UP would be showing off their prowess in performing asanas in an online competition. June 21 is celebrated as International Yoga Day every year. In view of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, a yoga competition for government teachers will be organised online this year. Shortlisted teachers will have to send eight-minute videos of themselves performing yoga State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). A panel of experts will judge the videos on the basis of a participant’s skill. SCERT has directed Basic Shiksha Adhikaris (BSAs) and principals of District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) to encourage contestants to send their entries. “We have received a number of entries. We have been sent to SCERT after being reviewed,” said principal of DIET (Prayagraj) Santosh Mishra.In a letter dated June 12, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan joint director Ajay Kumar Singh instructed officials to ask shortlisted teachers to send eight-minute clips of themselves performing yoga, he added. The teachers were asked to submit the clips along with a letter issued by DIET principals via email by June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/online-yoga-competition-for-govt-primary-school-teachers/articleshow/76486383.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Surat||Surat doctors join hands to fight blood shortage||Surat: At a time when the coronavirus cases are on the rise and the city is facing severe shortage of blood, Surat doctors have joined hands to deal with the situation by launching a mega blood donation camp on June 28.About 40 big and small hospitals in the city under the aegis of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Surat Medical Consultants’ Association (SMCA) and the Family Physician Association (FPA) will organise blood donation camps at their respective facilities on June 28. The doctors have set the target of collecting about 3,000 units of blood in a single day.Due to the extended lockdown and the coronavirus pandemic, the voluntary blood donations have been almost nil with the donors avoiding visits to the blood banks and hospitals fearing infection. This has resulted in severe shortage of blood.President of IMA, Dr Parul Vadgama told TOI, “Being doctors, it is our responsibility to take up the social cause to save lives of the patients in urgent need of blood. Since the city is facing severe shortage of blood, we have decided to hold mega donation camps at about 51 centres covering 40 hospitals in the city on Jun 28.” Dr Vadgama added, “Majority of the blood banks have run dry of bloods during the lockdown. If medical emergency strikes, we won’t be able to save the lives of critical patients due to the shortage of blood. ”Ahead of the camp, doctors will be spreading awareness in their respective areas to get more and more people to donate their blood. According to various blood banks in the city there is a almost 40% drop in the demand of blood. Dr Narendra Vasavada, CEO, Surat Raktadan Kendra and Research Centre (SRKRC) told TOI, “Against the daily requirement of 120 units, we are hardly getting 65-70 units. There is about 40% shortage of blood. The voluntary blood donation has dropped due to the coronavirus pandemic.”He added, “We have got 400 Thalassemia patients who require blood transfusion. About 15 units of blood is given free-of-cost to such patients on daily basis.”Dr Girish Modi, a general physician said, “Donors will have to visit the hospitals in the city for donating their blood. We are spreading awareness through social media, phone contact and pamphlets to encourage people to donate blood, so that we can overcome the shortage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-doctors-join-hands-to-fight-blood-shortage/articleshow/76486778.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Lab technicians, assistants stage dharna on permanent appointment issue||Rajkot: Laboratory technicians and assistants working at civil hospitals, community health centres and district panchayat hospitals all over the state staged a dharna on Saturday, demanding for their long-pending permanent appointment in their respective institutions. Having worked tirelessly during these difficult times of the Covid-19 pandemic, these front line workers are up with banners asking for their just demand.Altogether 400 protesters raised their demand by placing banners outside their working premises and submitted memorandum to their head of the institutions in Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Surat, Bhavnagar and other parts of the state. It is worth mentioning that the government had appointed pharmacists, X-Ray technicians, laboratory technicians and laboratory assistants in 2012-13. ‘‘While people in other categories have been given regular appointment after five years these laboratory technicians and assistant are still working on contractual basis. The reason is that there was some irregularities in the merit and a petition was filed in the Gujarat High Court. The court disposed the petition but even then because of some administrative reasons they are yet to get the orders of permanent job.” said Yogesh Patel, secretary of the Medical Technicians Association of Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lab-technicians-assistants-stage-dharna-on-permanent-appointment-issue/articleshow/76486826.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government cancels leaves of all health department staff||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has cancelled the leaves of all employees under its health department, including doctors and support staff of hospitals, as coronavirus cases in the city continue to rise rapidly. The capital has the third highest number of Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “All MDs, dean and directors of hospitals and medical institutions under the health and family welfare department are advised to issue directions to all the staff under them who are on leave to immediately report for their duties,” a government order said. It, however, allowed the employees to take leave under the “most compelling circumstances.” A senior doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital said they are facing shortage of staff and in such a situation the hospital cannot afford to have employees taking leave. Lok Nayak hospital has 2,000 Covid-19 beds. Only about 700 of them are full, but the authorities say they aren’t allowing any leaves because given the current crisis extra manpower needs to be available all the time. On Friday, Delhi government had issued orders for deploying final-year postgraduate and undergraduate nursing students to manage Covid-19 patients. The decisions were taken in a meeting deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia with senior health department officials to discuss the augmentation of the ICU beds in the capital. As most of the PG medical institutions in Delhi are affiliated with Guru Govind Singh Indraprastha University, Mahesh Verma — the varsity’s vice-chancellor — has been appointed for the recruitment and deployment of the required number of final-year MD/MS/DNB and nursing students. “Verma is also authorised to recommend necessary stipend payable to the recruits,” stated the order issued by Sisodia, who is in-charge of the health department in the absence of Satyendar Jain. All recruitment will be completed in four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-cancels-leaves-of-all-health-department-staff/articleshow/76488087.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||People in Bihar to celebrate Yoga Day at home||PATNA: The state government has asked people to celebrate the International Yoga Day on Sunday at home between 7am and 7.45am due to social distancing measures adopted in view of Covid- 19 pandemic. The theme set by the United Nations this year is ‘Yoga for Health — Yoga at Home’. The health department has shared a link of ‘common yoga protocol’ so that people can watch and learn different sets of pranayams at their homes. Political leaders, government and non-government organizations, associations, educational institutes and groups will hold yoga sessions online. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi appealed the citizens to celebrate the yoga day at home and make a 2-3 minute video of the session and upload it to social media platforms. “The world celebrates the yoga day on June 21. However, this time it is not possible at public places. So, I request people to perform yoga at home and upload the video of the same to social media,” he said. In his message, the deputy CM said people during the lockdown have understood the importance of yoga to increase immunity. “Yoga is also good to relieve stress and lockdown blues,” SuMo said. Sanjay Kumar Singh, state project director of Bihar Education Project Council (education department), has directed the district education officers to ensure maximum participation of students of classes VI to XII in national online yoga quiz competition to be held by the NCERT between June 21 and July 21. Meanwhile, there would be no yoga day event at Bihar School of Yoga at Munger. Shiv Kumar Rungta, who has been associated with the school for 40 years, said, “Yoga will be performed in the ashram only by ascetics by maintaining social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-to-celebrate-yoga-day-at-home/articleshow/76486670.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Unlock 1.0 amplifies Covid crisis in heart of Kolkata||KOLKATA: Ballygunge and Bhowanipore, located in the heart of south Kolkata, together now have 115 micro-containment units. While Ballygunge has 61 such units, Bhowanipore has another 54. All of them have cropped up following Cyclone Amphan and the gradual unlocking of the city. Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police, which are now trying to battle the Covid-19 pandemic across 1,595 micro-containment units in the city (there has been a rise of 154 in the past 24 hours, when 82 names were struck off the list), blame the spike to the sudden unrestricted movement of people in this densely populated zone. Between Friday and Saturday, the Bhowanipore-Ballygunge area has added 19 containment units. A day prior to Cyclone Amphan, wards 69-73 had merely seven containment zones. “You have everything — apartments, standalone buildings, big markets, commercial establishments and slums — here. There is no homogeneous character and few people are being able to follow the Covid directives while trying to carry out the economic activities,” said a KMC official from the health department. “With the beginning of Unlock 1.0, a section of people has become desperate to take public transport to reach office. This desperation has led to a spurt in the number of cases,” felt a KMC doctor who is a part of the civic body’s Covid response team. In Ballygunge and Bhowanipore areas, fresh cases are being reported from high-rises, apartments and standalone buildings. KMC sources said among the fresh positive cases in Bhowanipore include an army officer and the daughter of a ruling party councillor. The KMC health department has been asked to remain vigilant in large areas of Bhowanipore, Sarat Bose Road and Hazra Road. “We need to keep a special vigil on large markets in Park Circus-Ballygunge and Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road areas as these markets have become the hotspots post Unlock 1.0,” a KMC senior health department official said. At Karaya and its adjacent area, KMC health and solida waste management teams have been doing rounds after emergence of fresh cases. The past 24 hours have seen fresh cases from Hemchandra Street near Paddapukur, Gobinda Bose Road, Monoharpukur, Panditya Road, Rammohan Dutta Road, Beltala Road, Palm Avenue, Park Circus and Ballygunge Place. Multiple cases have been reported from Sarat Bose Road and its adjoining areas like Southern Park and Ritchie Park. While major markets like Jadubabu Bazar and Lansdowne Market remain the concern areas, reports from slums (Pyarabagan and Monoharpukur) are equally worrying. The disease has spread into a local hospital as well. “We are trying to disinfect the markets. But the highrises need to follow Covid norms — especially those who are going out daily — to effectively stop the spread of coronavirus,” said a KMC official. Atin Ghosh, a member of board of administrators that governs the KMC board, said special teams were deployed in these containment zones. “We have deployed special crack teams that will collect swabs of Covid suspects and conduct random thermal screening in densely populated areas and slums,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlock-1-0-amplifies-covid-crisis-in-heart-of-kolkata/articleshow/76487319.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 21, 2020||Patna||Youngsters in Patna ready to surprise dads on Father’s Day||PATNA: Youngsters are set to pamper their dads on Father’s Day on Sunday. While some have bought personalized gifts, others are making greeting cards, paintings and cakes at home to make them feel special on the occasion. Khagaul Nahar Road resident Aryan Raj and his sister will bake their dad’s favourite fruit custard cake. “Since we cannot dine at a restaurant because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we will bake a cake at home. We will also cook mutton kebab,” he told this newspaper on Saturday. Manisha Kumar of Kadamkuan has created a digital photo album for her father. She said, “Unlike coffee mugs and photo frames, this digital album will stay with him forever.” Another Kadamkuan resident Gungun has made her father’s sketch and painted it as well. She hopes that he loves the surprise because “I put my heart into it”. Meanwhile, gift stores in the city witnessed a hike in sales of Father’s Day presents on Saturday. Tarun Kumar, the owner of a gift shop on Boring Road, claimed, “I had not expected that the customers’ response would be so good this year. Watches, perfumes and photo frames are in high demand.” Garment showrooms were also crowded. Shivam Arora, the manager of a store on Kankarbagh, said, “Youngsters bought branded masks for their dads this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youngsters-ready-to-surprise-dads-today/articleshow/76486612.cms||Archi Rani
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Corona cases disrupt work at Kolkata civic headquarters||KOLKATA: A 40-year-old employee of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation finance and accounts department died of Covid-19 on Saturday. Another employee from the caretaker’s department has also tested positive. Functions of all departments at the headquarters came to a standstill on Saturday morning in absence of KMC caretaker’s department personnel who are entrusted with unlocking all department rooms. Even officials in the mayor’s office were taken aback to see the locked room when they turned up on Saturday morning. Later, a staffer in the mayor’s office could finally locate the keys in the caretaker’s department and unlocked the room. However, visitors who queued up at the birth and death registration counters at the headquarters had a difficult time as they waited for hours but the counters could not be opened for want of keys. “It is true that we could not open the counters and that led to a confusion among the visitors and a subsequent harassment. We hope to tide over the crisis by Monday morning,” a KMC health department official said on Saturday. A junior assistant at the caretaker’s department tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and he was sent to KPC Roy Medical College hospital for treatment. Caretaker Dipankar Dutta and other employees of the department who had come in regular contact with the junior assistant were sent to home quarantine. “Amid such a situation, there was skeleton manpower in the department who could not muster courage to unlock so many rooms at the headquarters. The result was obvious. Functions of several key departments were hampered. We hope to start normal functions from Monday morning,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-cases-disrupt-work-at-city-civic-headquarters/articleshow/76487271.cms||Saikat Ray
June 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Girl gang-raped after fleeing home, 4 held||PATNA: Police on Saturday arrested four persons, including a woman, in an alleged gang rape of a 14-year-old girl at a brick kiln named Sona Eit Bhatta in Vyapur village under Maner police station in western Patna on Wednesday and Thursday, SHO (incharge) Mukul Ranjan Singh said. Singh said the victim is a native of Sahebganj in Jharkhand and had fled from home due to misbehaviour of her stepmother. He said the girl’s father had married twice. “A woman Renu Devi (33) brought her for employment at the brick kiln on June 15 after which the girl was gang-raped. Renu has also been arrested. We are trying to contact the victim’s family,” he said. The SHO said the girl reached Maner police station late Friday night and narrated her ordeal after which an FIR was lodged on her statement. He said the victim has lodged an FIR against seven persons, including Renu. “Besides Renu, four others are named accused while two are unknown,” he said. The SHO said three of the arrested had been identified as Rajendra Oraon (18), Pintu Oraon (19) and Basu Oraon (19), all from Lohardaga in Jharkhand. “Renu is also from Jharkhand, but has married a local person and arranges workers for the kiln,” he said. Singh said the victim’s medical examination was conducted on Saturday, but her statement could not be recorded the same day. He said raids are on to nab the other three accused. Source said the brick kiln is owned by a close relative of an MP. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-gang-raped-after-fleeing-home-4-held/articleshow/76486944.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jitan Ram Manjhi hints at forming third front||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi on Saturday said he could be a part of the anti-RJD and anti-BJP ‘third front’ with any bigger party if the RJD failed to constitute a coordination committee of the grand alliance by June 25. Manjhi’s announcement indicates an unresolved stress and strain within the grand alliance three months before the October-November state assembly polls. The former CM said he has been demanding the constitution of a coordination committee of the grand alliance from last year and reiterated on June 15 as a single party cannot run this alliance. “They say I am for the third front, but I did not say this. The third front can be possible only if any bigger party comes forward to lead it — say for example, the Congress. Otherwise, any talk about third front is immaterial,” Manjhi said, adding: “I also know that any third front will only help the BJP,” he said. Asked as to the likely constituents of the third front, he said it would include Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni, Left parties, including the CPI. “The CPI leaders have been asking us to remain together in the grand alliance, but the CPI itself is not acceptable to RJD,” Manjhi said. When contacted, CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh said not only Manjhi’s third front line was faulty, his inclusion of the CPI into his scheme of things was also “wrong”. “The CPI favours and will support the formation of a strong front comprising secular and democratic parties with complete understanding to defeat the NDA combine of BJP, JD(U) and LJP. Our national party line is also the same,” Singh added. RJD, however, advised Manjhi to raise the issue through proper forum. “Manjhi JI has this habit of talking through the media. He should come to the proper forum. Also, he retracts what he says in the media the previous day,” RJD general secretary and spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said. Even Congress did not savour the new development in the grand alliance. “The stand of our central and state leaderships is that all like-minded parties with belief in secular and democratic values should come together. In fact, even the Left parties should join this formation. They should not do anything that helps the BJP or the JD(U),” Congress MLC and party’s media cell member Prem Chandra Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-hints-at-forming-third-front/articleshow/76486849.cms||Abhay Singh
June 21, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar’s economic empire on police radar||VARANASI: The economic empire of the jailed mafia don turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari being run by his gang members in east UP districts has come on the radar of men in khaki. Turning tough against this jail don the Mau police has not only initiated action against the illegal slaughter houses and extortion in the name of vehicle stands in past three days but the cops are also trying to take him on remand in the five month old case lodged against him for ensuring issuance of arms licenses to four including a criminal gunned down by police in past, by making recommendations on his letter head. Talking to TOI on Saturday the ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan admitted, “Under the on-going drive against gangs involved in organised crime sharp vigil is kept on the wealth being generated by them by indulging in illegal activities. With the exposure of involvement of any gangster in such activities prompt action is being initiated by the police. In same regard action had been taken by Mau police against Mukhtar Ansari backed gangster.” On Friday Mau cops had raided a dilapidated building of nagar palika, where an illegal slaughter house was being operated illegally for past 20 years. After the recovery of 800 kg meat and over 20 animals from this spot police also arrested Shaquil Ahmed, Ekhlaq Ahmed, Javed Akhtar, Aburrehman and Azmal Qureshi. SP Mau Anurag Arya said that three other accomplices of the arrested illegal slaughter house operators had been identified and after announcing cash reward of Rs 25,000 on each of them efforts have been intensified to nab them. According to him, process to book them all under Gangster Act had also been started. This illegal slaughter house was being operated for two decades under alleged patronage of Mukhtar. A day before it on Thursday the Mau cops had also taken rein on 11 of his accomplices including Surendra Singh, Saud Abbasi, Shivendra Kumar Singh, Samar Bahadur, Ashwini Kumar Singh, Jhinku Singh, Mahendra Chauhan, Makhanchu Yadav, Santosh Kumar, Mandhata Shukla and Dheeraj Rai by announcing cash reward of Rs 25,000 on each after lodging of a case against them under Gangster Act on May 31. Arya said that initially in 2019 three FIRs were lodged against the members of this gang with City Kotwali, Sarai Lakhansi and Dakshin Tola police stations when it came to light that they had taken contract of tax stand from nagar plaika for 2019-20 financial year but in the name of it they were extorting money from all kind of vehicles in entire district. A total of 11 members of their gang including Suresh and Abbasi were sent to jail while contract of Rs 65.51 lakhs had been cancelled. However, when the process of floating fresh tender was initiated by nagar palika in November 2019 Dheeraj Rai, who also belonged to this gang, grabbed the contract by quoting the amount of Rs 75 lakhs.In this episode Rai and his accomplices Mandhata had also been sent to jail. After all these facts surfaced during the police investigation and it became clear that they were extorting money the fresh FIR under Gangster act was lodged against them and process of registration of their separate gangs had also been started. Arya said that efforts for the arrest of these 11 had also been intensified. Arya said that process to take Mukhtar on remand for interrogation in the case registered by Dakshintola police in him, a former inspector of same police station, a lekhpal and three others in connection with issuance of arms licenses on fake address proofs, had also been initiated. In 2001 Mukhtar had sent a letter on his official letter pad to DM requesting issuance of arms licenses to four persons. Such persons applied for arms licenses on fake address, which were shown as verified for such cop and lekhpal. When verification of arms licenses in district was done in December last this episode had come to light with surprising fact that one of those arms license holders had also been killed in encounter with police. Other three arms had been recovered by the police, added Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/20vns1-mukhtars-economic-empire-on-police-radar/articleshow/76487739.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1,000 medicos write final year PG exam||HYDERABAD: Following the Telangana High Court’s nod, the Kaloji Narayana Rao University Sciences’ (KNRUS) authorities conducted the PG examinations as per schedule on Saturday. As many as 1,140 out of the total 1,187 PG students who had enrolled for the examination, took the test. The exams will conclude on June 29. Last week several medicos, in a desperate attempt to postpone the exams had filed PIL in the high court seeking intervention. Many had written to senior officials, including the governor, making a similar appeal. However, the high court ruled in favour of the exams while asking authorities to maintain all safety precautions. Among the students who wrote the exam on Saturday were some who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier but have now completed their mandatory 14-day quarantine period. The remaining 47 students who did not appear for the examination are those who had requested the university authorities to allow them to appear later citing reasons like pregnancy, low immunity, having infants and elderly parents at home etc. “We have taken special permission from the Medical Council of India (MCI) to allow conducting of examination for the 47, when the Covid-19 situation improves. We have agreed to transfer their fee to the later date. The single student who is Covid-19 positive currently, had requested on Friday that he wanted to write the examination. We made an examination centre at Gandhi Hospital just for him, while at the other centres we took all the necessary precautions like social distancing, sanitising etc,” said Dr Karunakar Rao, VC of the university. Some students, however, claimed that no masks or hand sanitizer was provided to students writing their final year examinations. “We demand that the government and KNRUHS provide N-95 masks to exam-going students,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1k-medicos-write-final-yr-pg-exam/articleshow/76488094.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt employees may receive full pay in June||HYDERABAD: With pressure mounting from the employees’ unions and following improved revenues, the Telangana government is considering paying full salary and pension to the state government employees and pensioners for June. The development comes after the recent ordinance promulgated by the government, empowering it to make part payment of salaries and pensions if a health emergency arises. Sources in the government said the CM will review state finances in the next few days and if the revenues are not satisfactory and has financial obligations, the government may continue salary cuts for elected representatives and order full salary to the employees and pensioners. The government has been paying only part of the salaries and pensions to serving and retired employees and elected representatives in the last three months mainly owing to sharp fall in the state revenues owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Sources in the CMO said: “The government is planning to give full salaries to the employees this month as state revenues have improved considerably when compared to the last two months. While it was less than Rs 3,000 crore revenue in May against Rs 12,000 crore a month during normal course, this month the revenues are expected to touch Rs 10,000 crore, including Rs 4,000 crore borrowings.” The government had borrowed the amount mainly to release Rythu Bandhu sum for farmers. “About Rs 1,500 crore had already been released and the balance is expected to be released by Monday,” sources said. Recently, Telangana employees’ JAC leaders reportedly met finance minister T Harish Rao and submitted a memorandum urging him to see that government employees get full salaries this month. . “Generally, salary bills are prepared by 25th of every month. We hope the CM will issue instructions to the finance department for full payment of salaries in the next couple of days,” a JAC leader, who met the FM, told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-employees-may-receive-full-pay-in-june/articleshow/76488084.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 21, 2020||Surat||Surge in coronavirus forces Daman to shut borders with Gujarat||SURAT: With surge in the Covid-19 cases, Daman has sealed its borders with Gujarat state to prevent the workers residing in neighbouring Vapi town from entering the union territory (UT) for next few days. In the last one week, Daman has recorded about 27 Covid-19 positive cases, most of them are workers employed in the industrial units of the UT. Official sources said that the borders with Gujarat state have been sealed to prevent the workers residing in Vapi and working in the factories in Daman from entering into the territory for few days. The decision has been taken to contain the spread of coronavirus, they added. Earlier, district collector Rakesh Minhas had stated that majority of the workers employed in Daman’s industrial units are residing in the Chawls in Daman and that they are being screened by the health teams on regular basis. However, there are many workers residing in Vapi, who cross the border everyday to work in the industrial unit located in Daman. “The administration has decided to close all the border check-posts for few days to contain the spread of coronavirus infection and to cluster the cases. People coming from Vapi seems to be the super spreaders as the cases of Covid-19 are increasing there,” said an officer asking anonymity. Meanwhile, Navsari district recorded three new Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases to 47 on Saturday. Those infected include, a 28-year-old diamond worker, residing at Shantadevi Road in Navsari and employed in a unit at Varachha in Surat; a 34-year-old man from Vijalpore in Navsari,who is employed as a salesman in a shop at Varachha and a Talati of Jalalpore’s Vesma village panchayat. Bharuch district too recorded six fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to to 134 on Saturday. About four new Covid-19 cases were reported from Jambusar taluka in Bharuch, while one case each were reported from Bharuch town and Rajpardi respectively. Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) said, “Surveillance and door-to-door visit of the health officials has been intensified in Jambusar as majority of the Covid-19 cases have been reported from there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-closes-its-border-with-gujarat-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76486652.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||More options for liquor home delivery in Kolkata||Kolkata: E-commerce major Amazon India and grocery giant BigBasket are all set to join the alcohol delivery bandwagon along with two local players — Golden Goenka and Senrysa Technologies — in what could be termed as the second phase of induction of companies for doorstep dispatch of liquor in Kolkata. In a notice issued on June 19, the West Bengal State Beverages Corp (Bevco), the government’s wholesale distributor of liquor in the state, invited Amazon and three others to sign agreements for empanelment in liquor delivery as they were found eligible for registration. Although Amazon India has not issued any comment, this would mark the e-commerce giant’s maiden foray in the alcohol distribution business in India. Grocery major Bigbasket, which is also a first-timer in the sector, has, however, confirmed the development. Hari Menon, co-founder and CEO, Bigbasket, told TOI: “We have been invited by the Bengal government against an Expression of Interest (EOI) for online delivery of liquor. We are happy to add a new category to our range. We are now working on creating a supply chain.” Besides Amazon and Bigbasket, city-based Golden Goenka and Senrysa Technologies will reportedly sign the MoU with Bevco. Rajeev Goenka of Golden Goenka group, whose company Golden Goenka Commerce has got a nod for delivery of liquor, told TOI that it was heavily into alcohol trade through its distribution company N C Shaw before the state had taken over the distribution. “Online liquor is an upcoming business and we want to explore the opportunity,” he added. Authorities of Senrysa Technologies could not be contacted for comments. Another eight firms who have expressed interest have been asked by Bevco to demonstrate the capabilities of their platforms in executing online orders. Last month, Bevco had invited companies to express interest in “handling orders of electronics, purchase, sale and home delivery of alcoholic liquor from licensed retail outlets” to eligible legal-age consumers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-options-for-liquor-home-delivery/articleshow/76487291.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||72% Covid-19 patients recover in Bihar||PATNA: There has been a sudden rise in Covid deaths in Bihar with 10 out of 49 casualties reported only on Thursday and Friday. However, most of the deceased had comorbidities. However, the high rate of recovery from Covid-19 is a matter of great relief. Of the 7,380 Covid-19 cases registered till Saturday evening, 5,376 had recovered. They account for 72% of the total positive cases in state so far. So far, Covid deaths have been reported from 27 districts, with maximum five from Darbhanga, followed by four from Saran, three each from Begusarai, Khagaria and Vaishali and Nalanda, two each from Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Sitamarhi and Siwan and one death each from Araria, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jamui, Katihar, Madhepura, Madhubani, Munger, West Champaran, East Champaran, Samastipur, Sheohar and Rohtas districts. The first Covid death took place on March 21. The Munger native was a kidney patient and had returned from Qatar. The second death was reported after a long gap on April 17 and the man from Vaishali also had brain infection. Altogether 21 people died in May and 26 in June till Friday after testing positive for novel coronavirus, but had serious health issues. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, said, “Out of the 12 Covid deaths in our hospital, five were cancer patients, one had kidney problem and two died due to cardiac arrest.” He advised people suffering from cancer, tuberculosis or HIV patients to remain indoors. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar advised people to take healthy diet and build their immunity. Majority of those who died in May and June were migrants. At least eight of them had returned from Maharashtra, seven from Delhi, one each from Haryana and Tamil Nadu and three from other places outside Bihar. One migrant, who was on way from Mumbai to his native place in West Bengal died at Samastipur. Another East Champaran native died on a Shramik special train and his body was taken down at Jehanabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/72-covid-patients-recover-in-state/articleshow/76486626.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Not wearing mask properly may land you in trouble||KOLKATA: As Covid cases continue to rise and people are increasingly found flouting basic rules, Kolkata Police has decided to ensure that people not only wear the mask, but wear them properly. The stricture came after at least 30% of those fined were found to be wearing the mask merely as an accesory without realizing the importance of wearing it. Last week, commissioner Anuj Sharma had asked all cops to implement all lockdown guidelines as far as possible. “We have been ensuring that people wear the mask properly,” said Nilanjan Biswas, DC (South West). “We are finding many people are not wearing the mask in the proper manner. This is like the helmet syndrome. Several of them are wearing it or merely covering their faces with handkerchiefs only when they are noticing cops around. They are forgetting that they are to use the mask as a prevention against a virus,” said a senior divisional officer. According to an IPS officer, people need to understand the importance of wearing masks. “We can always penalize violators. But they must understand that this can act as a simple tool to stop the community spread. Putting on a mask must come as easily as you wear a shoe, or like putting on a uniform. It should go hand-in-hand with other practices like not touching your face or maintaining social distancing,” said an IPS officer. In the first week of June, state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had written to Bengal’s director general of police, commissioner of Kolkata Police and zonal inspector generals of police, pointing out that there must be stricter implementation of the mandatory wearing of masks and violators should be punished as specified in the state government order on masks dated April 12. “As a measure to contain the spread of contagion, wearing of mask is important and must be ensured and enforced appropriately,” he had written.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/not-wearing-mask-properly-may-land-you-in-trouble/articleshow/76487285.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 21, 2020||Patna||Nepal stops anti-erosion work by Indian experts||MOTIHARI/BETTIAH: Amid the India-Nepal tensions over the neighbouring country adopting a new map that claims certain Indian territories, local issues continue to pinprick cross border relations in Bihar. After the killing of an Indian national near Sitamarhi border on June 12, Nepal has stopped repair and other anti-erosion works on the right embankment of Lalbakeya river between pillars 346 and 347 that demarcate the India-Nepal border in Guawari village in East Champaran district. Basudeo Ghimire, chief district officer (CDO) of Rautahat district of Nepal bordering East Champaran along with other Nepali officials and police force reached the embankment repairing site at Guawari on June 15 and asked Ranbir Prasad, executive engineer of the drainage division of Bihar’s water resources department to stop work. The Nepalese official claimed that the embankment was being constructed on no man’s land. Guawari village is located 47km north-east of Motihari, East Champaran’s district headquarters. “The CDO of Rautahat district, Ghimre, obstructed the work when the repairing of embankment was going on near Guabari in 2019 as well and it was agreed upon by officials on both sides that a fresh measurement of the area of no man’s land near 347 number pillar would end the impasse,” executive engineer Prasad said. Anil Kumar, ADM (disaster management) of East Champaran told this newspaper on Saturday that East Champaran officials and the CDO of Rautahat along with Nepalese officials had measured the area of no man’s land in March and there was no dispute and all objections of Nepal side was removed in a cordial manner. Rautahat CDO Ghimre, on the other hand, said at that time his concern was to save a village named Banjarawa on the Nepal side from the flood waters of Lalbakeya. He requested Bihar government officials to make a channel towards Banjarawa to drain out flood waters in rainy season. He also requested not to raise the embankment height towards Nepal side. “We did not raise the height of embankment on Nepal side but the channel has not been built till now. This is the bone of contention,” Ghimire said. East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok said he has sent a report to the Bihar government, Union ministry of home affairs and the Indian consulate general at Birgunj in Nepal. He said the Nepal authorities have objected to the repair of embankment in a 500m area. “The major repairing works have been completed and only guarder fittings and pucca road construction has to be done as the monsoon has set in and the region is flood prone,” Ashok said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-stops-anti-erosion-work-by-indian-experts/articleshow/76486751.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
June 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways to short terminate few trains in Samastipur division||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has short terminated several special passenger trains and also diverted some on the Darbhanga-Samastipur and Jayanagar-Samastipur sections under Samastipur division from June 21 to 27 due to non-interlocking (NI) work to be carried out in the railway yards of Thalwara, Laheriasarai and Darbhanga stations. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the Lokamanya Tilak- Darbhanga special train (01061/01062) and Amritsar-Jayanagar special train (04673/04674) will short terminate at Samastipur during this period. Similarly, Jayanagar-Amritsar special train (04649/04650) will start its return journey to Amritsar from Samastipur. Besides, railways has diverted the routes of Darbhanga-New Delhi special train (02565/02566) via Narkatiaganj-Gorakhpur instead of Samastipur-Muzaffarpur-Gorakhpur route while Darbhanga-Ahmedabad special train (09165/09166) will run via Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur instead of Samastipur-Muzaffarpur during this period. According to CPRO, railways has increased the speed limit of passenger trains under Samastipur and Sonepur divisions after completion of track upgradation work. Passenger trains have been allowed to run from 75 to 110km/hour on the Hajipur–Goshwar section, while speed limit on the Kurhani–Ram Dayalu Nagar has been increased from 70 to 110km/hour. Sectional speed limit has been increased from 80 to 110km per hour on the Chaudharana-Ram Dayalu Nagar section. The sectional speed of passenger trains has been increased from 75 to 110km/hour on the Goraul-Bhagwanpur section while speed limit has also been increased from 80 to 100km per hour on Samastipur-Kisanpur route. Likewise, passenger trains will now run at the speed limit of 100km/hour on Mansi–Saharsa route while speed limit has been increased from 60 to 100km/hour on the Kodarma-Hazaribagh route after track upgradation work. Railways has also increased sectional speed of passenger trains up to 100km/hour on Dauram Madhepur–Purnea, Bhagwanpur–Sarai, Moinuddin Nagar-Bachhwara, Bachhwara-Vidyapathi Dham, Sakri-Jayanagar, Raxaul-Narkatiaganj and Bargania–Chudharana sections of the ECR to improve further traffic operations on these routes. Altogether 58 special passenger trains are currently running from different places of the ECR jurisdiction and 57 of them have registered cent percent punctuality in the zone on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-short-terminate-few-trains-in-samastipur-division/articleshow/76486927.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Social media keeps priests connected to parishioners||KOLKATA: With just 10 worshippers being allowed inside Roman Catholic churches at a time and 25 in churches governed by the Church of North India, parish priests, who are primarily responsible for maintaining social distancing on the church premises, are linking up with parishioners on social media for smooth communication. Most parishes now have WhatsApp groups and pages on Facebook and Instagram for announcements, postings, views and requests. The Archdiocese of Kolkata is going slow on increasing the number of worshippers inside churches from 10 to 22, but has asked parish priests to install e-alerts in the groups so that everyone knows how many are visiting that particular church at any given point of time. “These are difficult times and one is not able to physically be in touch with the others in the parish, so the groups formed by the priests are weaving the community together,” said Father Rodney of the Ignatius Church at Ekbalpore. The WhatsApp group formed by the priest of the church, Father Albert, is being effectively used also for Sunday classes. While the CNI churches have not yet started corporate worship or mass by parish priests, the whatsapp groups are working to make sure that only 25 worshippers are present at a time in church. Each member of Union Chapel church on Lenin Sarani, for example, knows who is headed towards the church between 10am and 6pm. “They can even write in advance that they wish to visit the church at a particular time so that there is no overlap. The group is also keeping the priest informed about any parishioner falling ill,” said Father Pradip Nanda, priest of the church. From July, all CNI churches will start corporate worship and the social media groups will then publicise the mass timings. “It’s a whole new system. Yes, we are unable to meet face to face, but there are video chats. It is helping us a lot,” said Angela Ghosh, a parishioner at St James Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/social-media-keeps-priests-connected-to-parishioners/articleshow/76487299.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||In Chhota Udepur, leopard hurt in infighting attacks farmer but succumbs||VADODARA: A five-year-old male leopard that was severely injured during infighting for territory died outside Ghutanvad village of Pavi Jetpur taluka in Chhota Udepur district on Saturday. Before succumbing to injury, the leopard attacked a farmer and fell into a six-foot deep pit. According to the forest department, there seems to have been territorial fight between two leopards around three days back. The fierce fight had resulted in grievous injuries to both the leopards. “One of the leopards that roamed around with injuries for two to three days was found from a pit near Ghutanwad. The other leopard must have also been injured and we have launched a search for it,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. On Saturday morning, the leopard which died had attacked a farmer Kanu Solanki at his farm before falling in a pit. Solanki suffered minor injuries. “We were waiting for the moment to tranquillize the leopard when it came out of the pit, but it died before we could help it,” Pandya told TOI. “The injury marks on the leopard indicate that the territorial fight proved fatal for it. It is very rare that fights between leopards result in death as usually the weaker one withdraws itself and goes away,” Pandya added. According to estimate of the forest department, the Chhota Udepur district has around 84 leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/injured-in-infighting-leopard-attacks-farmer-falls-in-a-pit-dies/articleshow/76486622.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Woman files harassment complaint against husband, in-laws||RAJKOT: A woman in Lakshminagar locality of Rajkot on Saturday lodged a complaint of harassment against her husband, who lives in Vadodara, and in-laws who live in Surendranagar. In her complaint, Swati Chawda (32), a resident of Gayatri Krupa in Lakshminagar, alleged that her husband Dharmesh Chawda had thrown her out of the house in PWD quarters on Vaghodia Road in Vadodara, four years ago. “Swati has alleged that as Dharmesh had an extra-marital affair with a woman colleague in his office in Vadodara, he wanted to divorce her ,” said an official from Rajkot Mahila Police Station. Swati has been living with her five-year-old son at her parents’ house in Lakshminagar for the past three years. She alleged that when she used to live at her in-laws’ house in Surendranagar, her in-laws mentally tortured her. “Swati's sister-in-law, Hina Chawda, allegedly pushed her on the floor, subsequent of which she suffered a miscarriage. After this, Swati moved to Vadodara to live with Dharmesh. After some months when she was again pregnant she found out that Dharmesh had an illicit affair with a woman in his office. When she took up an issue with him, Dharmesh allegedly threw her out of the house,” added the official. Apart from Dharmesh and Hina, Swati has named her father-in-law Pravin Chawda, mother-in-law Vasant Chawda, brother-in-law Harshad Chawda, uncle in-law Jagdish Chawda and aunt in-law Sonal Chawda as the co-accused in her complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-files-harassment-complaint-against-husband-in-laws/articleshow/76487022.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||PM’s praise makes BRC officials happy||PATNA: Officials and ex-servicemen of Bihar Regimental Centre (BRC) at Danapur were jubilant over their unit’s praise by PM Narendra Modi for the valour shown by the regiment’s officers and jawans at Galwan valley in Ladakh. “Our country is always proud of our armed forces, but when I am talking today to people of Bihar, I want to proudly mention the valour of Bihar Regiment. Every Bihari is proud of it. I pay my respect and tributes to the brave soldiers, including those from Bihar, who have sacrificed their lives for the country. I want to assure the families of martyred soldiers that this country is with them, with the armed forces,” Modi said during the launch of Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan on Saturday. The PM’s praise elated the officials of BRC at Danapur. “Feel good to have such praise and motivation from the PM. We want moral support from the people of the country. Bihar Regiment has a glorious past and we will live up to that tradition,” Col Hemant Parmar of Danapur sub-area headquarters told this newspaper. Five jawans of Bihar and from BRC were martyred during the clashes between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Laddakh region on June 15. Apart from the brave fight in Ladakh, BRC officers and jawans had also participated in 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars. As per web search engines, millions of people across the globe have searched for the word Bihar in the last four days following the clashes in Galwan valley. Bihar Ex-service Men Association, which include five retired Lt Generals, 15 Major Generals and two lakh senior officers and jawans who served the Bihar Regiment, were also jubilant over the PM’s praise for their regiment. The association (officers) president, Col (retd) V K Singh, said the Bihar Regiment with its headquarters at the second oldest Danapur cantonment has been the main training centre and recruitment zone of Army. “Lord Clive had raised the first Bihar battalion in 1758 and since then it has not looked back,” he said. Dwelling at length on the past glory of the Bihar Regiment, Col Singh said during World War II, its soldiers fought bravely in Burma against Japan and the regiment was honoured with the title of ‘Haka’ for its action in the battlefield. “In Somalia and Sri Lanka, too, the soldiers of Bihar Regiment won the hearts of people by virtue of their good behaviour in restoring peace in the trouble-torn areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pms-praise-makes-brc-officials-happy/articleshow/76487015.cms||Kumod Verma
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delayed by Covid, agencies in a rush to unclog drains in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With monsoon on the horizon, the spectre of another season of waterlogged roads and clogged drains looms large. Though the north and the east civic bodies claim to have lifted silt from the drains, Public Works Department and the south corporation are still running behind schedule. South corporation officials blamed the June 15 deadline miss on the staff shortage caused by the Covid pandemic. “A list of several junior engineers who would perform duties related to disaster management was sent to us on June 16. It has also been decided that teams of corona foot warriors, including sanitation staff, will now visit houses in the containment zones. Due to the staff shortage, our work has been impacted,” a senior official in SDMC’s engineering department said. The civic agency has 243 drains that are more than four metres deep. It claims to have removed 95% of silt from places like Maharani Bagh, Sriniwaspuri, Chirag Delhi, Subhash Nagar, Anand Lok and Kushak nullah. “Despite the odd circumstances, we hope to complete our work by at the earliest. It’s not us who are running behind the schedule; the government has yet to call a final meeting wherein action taken at the key waterlogging points is to be discussed,” the official added. PWD, which claims to have completed 90% of its work, gave two reasons for the delay — shortage of staff and availability of only two sanitary landfills for dumping silt. A PWD official told TOI, “The remaining work will be completed in a week’s time. Though we had an initial deadline of June 15, there was a delay due to the acute shortage of labour. Also, two senior engineers in west Delhi tested Covid-positive, due to which a few people who had come in contact with the two engineers were put on quarantine.” “Most of the silt is deposited at temporary locations because of limited sites offered by the corporations and the department is looking for alternatives. We are working hard and constructing new drains in areas like Lajpat Nagar, Vasant Kunj and ITO, considered to be major waterlogging points,” he claimed. PWD has also told its maintenance field units to not take leave without prior approval. The east civic body has, meanwhile, claimed to have collected 100% silt from its 223 drains. “We also faced shortage of staff, but we engaged private companies and machines to complete work on time at big drains, including the 52-cusec SSBL, Bhajanpura and Kasturba drains,” an EDMC official said. Silt collected from PWD, I&FC department and corporation drains in east Delhi is being sent to a dumping site at Singhola. “But the problem is that it has become saturated and we need an alternative place. We discussed this issue at several joint meetings in the recent past,” the official added. For the monsoon period, the civic agency has planned to set up a call centre number (155303) and 24×7 control rooms. It has also fixed the responsibility of officers to deal with waterlogging. “We have similar plans and our staff is making arrangements to avoid waterlogging. Work for collecting floating material is on at some drains,” said a north corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delayed-by-covid-agencies-in-a-rush-to-unclog-drains/articleshow/76499641.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 21, 2020||Patna||20 workers on way to Punjab hurt in accident||PATNA: At least 20 migrant workers were injured, 12 of them seriously, when a bus in which they were travelling overturned into a roadside ditch on NH-28 in Gopalganj district around 6am on Saturday. The bus carrying over 40 labourers was on its way to Ambala in Punjab from Supaul district. The locals told the police that the driver lost control over the bus while negotiating a turn near Rampur village under Sidhwalia police station in the district. The injured were rushed to Gopalganj Sadar hospital. The injured, including Kameshwar Mukhiya, Prem Sah and Shiv Narain Ram said the bus had started its journey late Friday night. SHO Ranjeet Paswan said the driver was apprehended later and the bus was seized. An FIR under Motor Vehicles Act was lodged against the driver. The bus has registration number of Punjab, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-workers-on-way-to-punjab-hurt-in-accident/articleshow/76486827.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Surat||Businessman abducted for ransom, released within hours||Surat: In a matter of few hours on Saturday, a businessman in Surat was kidnapped from outside his office complex in Vesu area and released too. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the kidnapping was done for ransom as the abductors had allegedly demanded Rs 28 crore for the release of Kalpesh Bosamiya, a resident of Vesu. The incident was captured on CCTV camera. Sources in police informed that the businessman was released on the National Highway 48 near Mahuvej Patiya on Kim-Kosamba road after a few hours later when the abductors could sniff cops at their tail. In a late evening development, a team of detection of crime branch (DCB) nabbed Jignesh Ghori and Umesh Mavani for their alleged involvement in the crime. Police investigation revealed that Umesh had some financial dispute with Bosamiya for which Ghori was sent to kidnap him. Ghori went along with two others, Pravin alias Pallu Solanki and Viru Darbar. Police are yet to arrest Solanki and Darbar. Umra police have booked the accused for assault and kidnapping under other sections under IPC. According to details, Bosamiya was going to his office at Canal Walk Complex when the abductors came in a black car and forcefully took him along. They punched him while trying to get him into their car, said a complaint lodged by Chitrang Modi, a software engineer in Bosamiya’s firm, who had reached office early on Saturday to attend a meeting. It all happened when Modi was standing in the lobby of the complex when he noticed Bosamiya getting down from the car at around 7 am and walking towards the elevator when the two persons dragged him into their car. The victim later told police that the accused were demanding Rs 28 crore from him and were threatening of dire consequences. Cops, however, are yet to confirm the amount. Bosamiya who was in finance business in the past was to start IT business and also did stock trading. He had borrowed money in the past. Sources in police informed that a person named Umesh is involved in the kidnapping to recover loaned money. “While police identified the accused from their car number, the kidnappers realised that police is close and so released Bosamiya,” said M L Salunke, police inspector, Umra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/businessman-abducted-for-ransom-released-within-hours/articleshow/76486846.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Mahuva locks down in protest of attack on Bapu||Rajkot: Protesting the assault on Morari Bapu by former BJP MLA Pabubha Manek in Dwarka town, a few days ago, Mahuva and Talgajrada observed a bandh on Saturday. While a few bodyguards were also spotted in the Ram katha narrator’s ashram in Talgajarda, but Bapu’s spokesperson denied engaging them for the preacher. Talgajrada village, where Morari Bapu has his ashram is also his native place. There was a rumour that Manek is likely to come to offer his apology and so, nearly 150 people gathered outside the ashram, armed with ink to blacken Manek’s face. State minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya also reached the ashram on Saturday to meet the preacher. Talking to media, Chudasama said, “This is not the right way to express his disagreement, we condemn the incident.” When asked what action would the party take on the ex-MLA, Pandya skirted the query with an evasive reply: “The party will take an appropriate decision.” It is for the first time that private security guards were spotted outside the ashram all day long. When contacted Jaydev Makad who is handling the ashram’s public relations, said, “They (guards) are not engaged for Bapu, they have come here with one of his followers.” Morari Bapu had gone to Dwarkadhish temple on Thursday to ‘apologize’ for his alleged comment about Lord Kirshna on the demand of the Aahir community. As he was talking with media persons at VIP guest house, Manek tried to assault him and hurled expletives. This incident that was recorded in mobile phones spread like wildfire on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mahuva-locks-down-in-protest-of-attack-on-bapu/articleshow/76486806.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||Rising trend in Gandak after heavy rain in Nepal||PATNA/BAGAHA: The catchment areas of river Gandak in Nepal have received heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours, increasing the water discharge through the Valmiki Nagar barrage. But the situation is not alarming, water resources department (WRD) sources said. It is learnt that the heavy rainfall was recorded at around 12-14 rain gauge stations in the Nepal catchment areas of the river. The rainfall received was in the range of 50mm to 130mm (or 5cm to 13cm). “The 13cm of rainfall received in the last 24 hours is not small, but the situation is not alarming,” a WRD official said, adding that the details of the rainfall received in the entire Gandak, Kosi and Mahananda river basins, including that in the Nepal areas, have been sent to the DMs concerned in Bihar, as well as to the officials concerned in Nepal as a routine matter. He said the discharge of water through the Valmiki Nagar barrage on Saturday was 1.06 lakh cusecs till 3pm, but it could increase to 1.16 lakh cusecs in the night. “The design of Valmiki Nagar barrage is set to 6.5 lakh cusecs of water,” he added. Meanwhile, water in Gandak river witnessed a rising trend in West Champaran on Saturday following incessant rain in the catchment area in Nepal. “Around 1,06,000 cusecs of water were released from Gandak barrage downstream, said Vikas Kumar, assistant engineer, Gandak barrage at Valmikinagar division. Sources said floodwaters spread in low-lying areas of Gandak diara under Piparasi, Madhubani, Bhitaha and Thakaraha blocks in West Champaran district. The district administration has directed the BDOs and COs concerned to maintain strict vigil on the water level and ensure preparedness for shifting diara dwellers to safer places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rising-trend-in-gandak-after-heavy-rain-in-nepal/articleshow/76486804.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Surat||State team reviews facilities at Surat hospitals||Surat: With Covid-19 cases in Surat crossing the 3,000-mark, the state principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi and her team visited the city on Saturday to assess the ground situation. Ravi emphasised on increasing screening and surveillance in Surat city and district areas and urged people to immediately visit the hospitals if they develop Covid-19 like symptoms and help prevent aggravation of the infection. Ravi along with state health commissioner Jay Prakash Shivhare also visited the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER hospital to review the preparedness and held discussions with the doctors there. A review meeting was also organised with the top officials of the district collectorate and the Surat Municipal Corproation (SMC). Talking with media persons, Ravi said, “The administration is fully prepared for any situation. If there are any gaps, the government will provide all possible help.” “There is a trend of the increasing Covid-19 cases in the urban areas. To step up fight against the virus, we reviewed the preparedness at the New Civil Hopsital (NCH) regarding the required beds, ventilators, bipap, oxygen, medicines and above all the trained staff of doctors and nurses,” said Ravi. Asked about revising the price cap for Covid-19 tests in private labs after Supreme Court order, Ravi said, “We are still awaiting orders from the central government regarding the private lab charges. Once it is done, we will revise the prices after discussing with the private labs.” “We have come for the review meeting with the officials in Surat. We are also contacting the private hospitals in Surat to be prepared for the worse. Though we don’t wish to use the private hospitals for Covid, but if the cases would rise we will need their facilities,” she added. Ravi also talked of accelerating the surveillance in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-team-reviews-facilities-at-surat-hospitals/articleshow/76486738.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Illegally excavated sand worth Rs 91L seized in Mundra, one detained||Rajkot: In a major crackdown on sand mafia, Kutch police seized an illegally excavated cache of sand worth Rs 90.66 lakh in Mundra on Saturday. “We caught the accused, identified as Qasam Turk, with two earth movers and three dumpers while he was taking out stolen sand from the bed of Surai River on the outskirts of Dhrab village near Mundra and transporting the supply in the dumpers,” said an official from Mundra police station. “We have contacted the mines and minerals department officials who will lodge an official complaint against Turk. During his interrogation, Turk confessed that he was carrying out sand theft on behalf of the members of sand mafia,” the official said. The mines and minerals department officials are in the process of tracing the owner of the dumpers and earth movers on the basis their registration numbers. The names of many high profile people are likely to crop up during the investigation, added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-excavated-sand-worth-rs-91l-seized-in-mundra-one-detained/articleshow/76486977.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Drug peddler held with 104kg ganja denied bail||New Delhi: A Delhi court refused to grant bail to a drug peddler by observing that 104kg of marijuana was “considerably heavy recovery”. In his bail plea, the accused, Kunwar Singh, argued that a policeman, who was part of the team that raided his car and recovered the contraband in 2018, had forgotten crucial points of raiding exercise when examined earlier. Kumar’s counsel submitted that constable Rakesh had testified earlier saying he did not remember the time when the accused was served with a notice after he was caught with the contraband. He had also stated that Singh’s arrest did not happen before him. It was also argued that there were no independent witnesses to show complicity of the accused and, therefore, nullifying any possibility of influencing or threatening witnesses, the counsel said.Additional sessions judge Neelofer Abida Parveen rejected the argument saying the policeman concerned was not “empowered” and the alleged “ignorance and memory lapses” on his part was not enough to conclude that there was no case against the accused.“Recovery falling in commercial quantity of the contraband, rigors [sic] of Section 37 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act will be attracted and there is no material before the court to record its satisfaction that the accused has not committed the offence, and if enlarged on bail is not likely to commit any similar offence,” the court added.Opposing the bail plea, the prosecutor contended that the seized quantity of 104kg marijuana was recovered from Singh’s car in compliance with mandatory protocol. He submitted that the mandate of Section 37, dealing with bail in such cases, of the NDPS Act weren’t fulfilled.The court subsequently noted that the prosecution’s evidence needed to be “sifted and sieved” to assess the case against Singh. It also stated that the recovery was reportedly done after a search of the accused’s car. “No ground is made out to release the accused on bail,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drug-peddler-held-with-104kg-ganja-denied-bail/articleshow/76499645.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata malls tackle virus with tech, tweaked trial rules||KOLKATA: From sanitizing customers’ hands at the entrance to keenly observing what the customer has touched and removing items that are not going to be bought for decontamination, retailers in malls are taking all steps to ensure that items on display don’t turn into fomites that carry the novel coronavirus. And the stores are using various technologies to destroy the virus. At Forum mall that opened for business on Friday, several apparel retail stores, like Anokhi, Toffi House, Cotton World and Label Life, have converted one of their trial rooms into ultra-violet chambers where clothes can be sterilized. Some other shops, like home accessories store India Circus and jewellery stores Amrapali and Tribe, have installed UV chambers or boxes to disinfect home decor items and jewellery. “We did not want to discourage customers from trying out clothes or jewellery. Yet, we recognize the need to disinfect the items that are touched so that there is no transmission of the virus by an asymptomatic carrier. We felt the best option was to use UV light to sterilize the products,” said Forum mall vice-president (retail division) Pragna Johar. The chemical-free multi-focal UV light exposure covers the surface of the items and destroys pathogens. But care is required while operating UV equipment as exposure to the radiation can cause skin irritation and damage to eyes. At Quest, the mall is using a very different technology to destroy the virus — a colourless, odourless, non-leaching liquid called Zoono. “The liquid sprayed does not contain harmful chemicals. When applied to a surface by spraying, wiping or fogging, it leaves behind a mono-molecular layer that permanently bonds to the surface. These molecules are antimicrobial, silane-based polymers that form a barrier of positively charged microscopic pins. These attract and pierce negatively charged pathogens. The pins rupture the cell walls and causes the pathogen to break up with lethal effect,” said Quest mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra. Stores at Quest, as well as South City and the two City Centres, are using various other means to disinfect products and apparel. Brands like Levi’s, Lee, Wrangler and Allen Solly are sanitizing the apparel with steam iron while jewellery stores are using gold-cleaning liquid. Sanitizers are being used to clean footwear and other articles. “Unlike the larger stores that can afford UV chambers, many brands that occupy smaller stores cannot block the space and are using other means to make the merchandise safe,” pointed out Ramesh Pandey, wholetime director of Ambuja group that owns and operates City Centre I and City Centre II. The clothes that are tried are set aside in quarantine boxes so that the virus perishes naturally. They are then steam ironed and put on display. The malls also have several apparel retailers who don’t want their trial rooms used and are encouraging customers to try out the clothes at home. Lifestyle has introduced a 90-day return policy. “We don’t want to rush our customers. They can try out the apparel and return it to us within 90 days,” an official said. At Acropolis mall, all apparel retailers have agreed to a no-trial-room policy. “Trial rooms lead to queues and require to be sanitized each time they are used. We felt trying out the clothes at home was the best option,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-tackle-virus-with-tech-tweaked-trial-rules/articleshow/76487275.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||‘Cyanide’ Mohan conviction: The woman who helped prosecution convict the infamous criminal||MANGALURU: For more than nine years, legal officers, along with law enforcement agencies, have been fighting a long battle to get the infamous ‘Cyanide’ Mohan, accused in 20 cases, convicted. A key witness who has been invaluable to the prosecution is a survivor, the efforts and courage of whom earned her praise from public prosecutor Jayarama Shetty. Thus far, Mohan has been acquitted in five of the 20 cases he has been named as an accused in, while the high court has sentenced him to death in two of these cases, said Shetty. Mohan had introduced himself to the survivor and key witness, Shetty said, by posing as Sudhakar Achary. “He claimed to be her distant relative, and told her he was employed in Kudremukh in the forest department. In April 2009, promising her a job in a garment factory and took her to a hotel in Madikeri, where he allegedly had intercourse with her against her will. He asked her to leave behind all her jewellery, and took her to the KSRTC bus stand. There, he told her to take a powder, which he assured her was a contraceptive,” the public prosecutor said. The staff at the bus stand subsequently found her lying unconscious, and rushed her to the government hospital. However, she did not disclose the ordeal she had gone through to the staff at the hospital. It was only after Mohan’s arrest that she decided to offer her statement as a witness. “There are three common witnesses in Mohan’s cases, including a block education officer and a priest, whom he visited after committing murder, seeking expiation for his sins,” Shetty added. Prior to Shetty, Cheyabba Beary, Shivaprasad Alva and Judith OM Crasta have appeared in court as prosecutors in the case, the proceedings of which started at Mangaluru’s fasttrack court in November 2011. Mohan aka Anand was first arrested in October 2009 in Bantwal taluk, for his alleged involvement in the murder of 20 women in Dakshina Kannada and neighbouring Kasaragod districts. His modus operandi largely involved taking women to remote locations, where he poisoned them using cyanide, before making away with their jewellery. A teacher, Mohan reportedly married thrice, while his criminal record has entries dating as far back as 2000. In fact, investigation into one of the cases, wherein a girl was reported missing, Mohan was involved in that helped Dakshina Kannada police arrest him. This had been a controversial case with several organisations alleging that the girl had been a victim of Love Jihad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cyanide-mohan-conviction-the-woman-who-helped-prosecution-convict-the-infamous-criminal/articleshow/76487025.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||Truck driver in Chamarajanagar tests +ve; Covid-19 covers entire Karnataka map||MYSURU: The spread of the novel coronavirus in Karnataka is now complete, with the last remaining Covid-free district, Chamarajanagar, reporting its second case on Saturday a day after the border district’s first patient was discharged. A truck driver tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gundlupet taluk, following which he was admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital in the district. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi and superintendent of police HD Anand Kumar on Saturday visited Gundlupet town, and designated the area of which the patient was a resident a containment area. The patient, a 39-year-old male, was involved in transporting onions between Gundlupet and Tamil Nadu, travelling to the neighbouring state every alternate day. On June 18, the day after he returned from Salem, he developed fever and complained of soreness in his throat. His blood samples and throat swabs were immediately dispatched to the laboratory for examination. He was confirmed infected on Friday evening. Ravi said that all primary contacts of the patient had been shifted to the district’s quarantine facility. “He had visited a private clinic in Gundlupet before he was shifted to the designated hospital. The doctor in the clinic, however, adhered to all the safety norms prescribed for treating patients,” the DC said. Ravi added that, as many as 10 people, including the patient’s mother and wife had been identified as his primary contacts. “The street on which he lives has ten houses, and it has been notified as a containment zone, the first in Chamarajanagar. We have asked the residents not to step outside their homes. Groceries will be delivered to their homes,” he said. The DC said that primary investigation had revealed that the patient had visited a tea stall. “We are also mapping all the places he visited in the district,” Ravi added. Both the DC and SP Kumar called on the people to take follow all the safety measures without fail. “All people must wear masks while stepping out of homes, and use hand sanitiser regularly to minimise spread of infection,” they said. The case of the 22-year-old, who had come to Chamarajanagar from Mumbai, the authorities in the district had refused to categorise as their own, citing his travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/truck-driver-in-chamarajanagar-tests-ve-covid-19-covers-entire-karnataka-map/articleshow/76486842.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||Woman cured of Covid-19 gives birth in Mysuru; test results indicate relapse of infection||MYSURU: A 30-year-old woman with Covid-19 infection on Saturday gave birth to a baby at a Mysuru hospital on Saturday. But what has piqued the interest of the medical fraternity in the city is that she is suspected to be the first individual in Karnataka in whom the Covid-19 infection has relapsed. The pregnant woman, a resident of KR Pet in Mandya, was referred to Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru. Once in Mysuru, she was tested for the Covid-19 infection, and after tests confirmed that she was positive for novel coronavirus, she was shifted to Mysuru’s designated Covid-19 hospital in VV Puram. It was here that the lady gave birth to her infant through a C-section procedure. The procedure was performed by a team from the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), who followed all safety norms and guidelines to the letter. The infant will be examined for the novel coronavirus. MMCRI dean and director Dr CP Nanjaraj said that the woman had been admitted to the hospital on Thursday. “She had returned from Mumbai, and had tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mandya. But she was declared cured and had been discharged a month ago. This could be a case of the infection relapsing. This was her first delivery and both she and the infant are in good health,” he added. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that healthcare personnel were still deliberating on the case. “They are yet to confirm if this is a case of the infection relapsing or a false positive. When she came to the Mysuru hospital, her family members did not inform the staff there that she had been cured of Covid-19. But her samples were collected in accordance with procedure, and she tested positive for the virus. Before another sample could be tested in Bengaluru, she went into labour,” Sankar told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-cured-of-covid-19-gives-birth-in-mysuru-test-results-indicate-relapse-of-infection/articleshow/76486390.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 21, 2020||Patna||Rs 18 lakh in Nepalese currency seized at Indo-Nepal border, 2 detained||PATNA: Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel seized Rs 18 lakh in Nepalese currency at Jamunia border post near Indo-Nepal international border and detained two youths on Friday. SSB sources said it was the biggest seizure of Nepalese currency till now at the border. While one of the detained youths was a minor aged around 17 years, another was identified Vikash Kumar (26). Both are natives of Ghorasahan. The seizure followed alert at the international border after the recent death of a Sitamarhi native in firing by armed police of Nepal. SSB Patna frontier IG Sanjay Kumar on Saturday said the seized currency and the two detained youths were handed over to customs officers for interrogation. Kumar said SSB has clear guidelines on Indian currency. “One can carry only Rs 2 lakh at a time to any side of the border in denomination of Rs 100 or Rs 200, but there is no guideline on Nepalese currency. Hence, we have referred the matter to the customs department,” the IG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-18-lakh-in-nepalese-currency-seized-at-border-2-detained/articleshow/76486784.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Separation shows dad single mothers’ powers||AHMEDABAD: Life changed for Nachiket Dave three years ago after divorce, when the responsibility for his son, Rishaan — 3 at the time — fell solely on him. As a lawyer with busy practice, it was initially a challenge for Dave to find time for his son. Rishaan was too young to attend even kindergarten. Dave got the child’s custody, but had to contend with the fallout of separation. “I played the role of both parents,” Dave said. “I realized what a single mother has to undergo to raise kids. Though I managed to cope, lives changed for our entire family, including my parents.” Dave said he has to be careful about the timings of his son’s school and activities. His days pass swiftly as he drops Rishaan at his school and picks him up. He aligns the trips with court’s opening time and its recess. After courtroom battles, Dave chills out with his son. “I start working on my cases only after he goes to sleep,” Dave said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/separation-shows-dad-single-mothers-powers/articleshow/76488384.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||A very special day for Khagaria villagers as they interact with PM||PATNA/KHAGARIA: It was a red letter day for the people of Khagaria as ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Bihar, the district was chosen for the online launch of the ambitious Rs 50,000 crore nationwide ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GRKA)’ by PM Narendra Modi on Saturday. While launching the scheme aimed to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in villages witnessing large number of returnee migrant workers, PM Modi began his address by mentioning his online interactions with residents of Telihar village under Beldaur block of Khagaria district from where the GRKA was formally launched. Modi’s interaction with people of Telihar village started with Mukhiya Anil Singh discussing the situation during Covid-19 lockdown and the work done by gram panchayat. The PM also heard the views of Smita Kumari, a migrant worker who had recently returned from New Delhi. Officials claimed that Khagaria was selected for the launch as it is among the most backward districts in the state and received a sizeable number of returnee migrant workers. As per rough estimates, around 45,000 migrant workers reached Khagaria during the lockdown from various parts of the country. Besides, the district is surrounded by seven rivers—Kosi, Bagmati, Kamla, Kareh, Kali Kosi, Ganga and Gandak, which inundate vast tracts of cultivable land almost every year. However, residents of Telhara village were jubilant over the launch of the scheme from the district. Jhaksu Sada ‘Up-Mukhiya’ of Telihar village said it was a proud moment for the people of the area. Lalita Devi, a migrant worker from ward number- 14 in Beldaur block said she will not have to migrate elsewhere as she has been provided employment opportunity for 125 days under the scheme. The GRKA will involve focused implementation of 25 categories of works and activities in 116 districts in six states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. In fact, the highest number of 32 districts where GRKA will be undertaken are from Bihar, including the highest number of 12 aspirational districts. Speaking at the occasion, PM Modi also paid homage to jawans and personnel from Bihar, who were martyred in the clash with Chinese forces in Galwan valley in Ladakh earlier this week. He also talked about the valour of Bihar Regimental Centre. “Country is proud of the sacrifice made by our braves in Ladakh. Today, when I am speaking to people of Bihar, I will say the valour was of Bihar Regiment, every Bihari is proud of it. I pay tributes to the braves who laid down their lives for the nation,” PM Modi said. Talking to the returnee migrants, PM Modi enquired about their current state of employment and also whether the various welfare schemes launched during the lockdown were available to them. “I was talking to my brothers and sisters in Khagaria before formal launch of the scheme. After talking to you all from the village, I have got some relief as well as satisfaction. You all were involved in the concern of central as well as state government when Covid-19 pandemic started spreading. During this time, efforts were made to provide the necessary support and assistance to whoever was stuck at whichever place. We ran Shramik special trains as well for our worker brothers and sisters,” PM Modi said. He added: “I could actually feel the energy, freshness, pride and hope in all of you during our interaction. When entire world was shaken and scared of Corona, you al stood firmly against it. The way villages in India have fight against Corona, it has been a lesson for the towns as well.” DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh, SP Meenu Kumari, DDC R N Singh, ADM Shatrunjay Mishra besides a number of officials were present at the virtual launch of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-very-special-day-for-khagaria-villagers-as-they-interact-with-pm/articleshow/76486979.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Surge in Nepalese FM stations playing anti-India songs, say residents along border in U’khand||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: Residents of Uttarakhand villages bordering Nepal that can catch the frequency of Nepalese radio stations, are being treated to a sudden surfeit of anti-India songs that call for return of areas in Uttarakhand like Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura that have been included in Nepal's new map. These songs, mostly played on FM channels between news bulletins and other shows, also taunt Nepalese politicians for “not doing enough to get back the land that belongs to Nepal.” Speaking to TOI, Babita Sanwal, a school teacher in Dharchula in Pithoragarh district who was till some time back, a regular listener of Darchula FM of Nepal, said that she generally opted to listen to the news on radio while walking back home from school. “I have now stopped listening to Nepalese FM after they started playing a lot of anti-India songs on FM,” she said. She added that “these songs are being played multiple rounds, every hour.” “I still remember the lyrics of one of the songs, “Hamrai ho tyo Kalapani, Lipulekhya, Limpiyadhura... Utha jaga veer Nepali” (Kalapani, Lipulekhand Limpiyadhura are ours… Wake up brave Nepalese). When one of our neighbourhood children asked me if what is being said in the song is true, I decided it was time to stop listening to these radio channels,” she said. Songs like “Humra ho Lipulekh, Humra ho Kalapani” (Lipulekh and Kalapani should be ours) and “Lutiago humro bhoomni” (Our land was stolen) are among those which have started being played with increasing frequency on Nepalese FM, says locals in villages alongside the India-Nepal border. While some of these songs are between a year and six months old, quite a few premièred recently on platforms like YouTube between March and June this year. According to locals, most of the songs are being run on Nepalese FM channels like Naya Nepal, Kalapani Radio, Darchula Radio, Lok Darpan, Radio Sarthi and Mallikarjun Radio whose broadcasts are accessible across the border in towns like Dharchula and Jhoolaghat in Pithoragarh. Krishna Garbiyal, a local trader from Dharchula, who used to listen to news on these radio stations told TOI that he has stopped doing so of late since “the news bulletins are totally one-sided and show India in a bad light.” “I stopped listening to these channels when I heard a song playing in one of them in which the singer was saying that even Shillong and Darjeeling were part of Nepal and they will not just take away Kalapani but also drink water in Nalapani (a seasonal river in Dehradun),” he added.  Manju Tinkari, a radio jockey with a Nepalese radio station, when contacted by TOI, said, “We neither exaggerate nor under-play things. We just read out the news bulletins as they have happened. Also, the choice of songs is mostly dictated by listeners’ requests.” Meanwhile, commenting on the issue, N S Napalchyal, former chief secretary of Uttarakhand who hails from Dharchula area of Pithoragarh, said that “the Nepalese propaganda needs to be strongly countered.” "The state government and even the central government should start its own community radios in the area to give a clear picture to locals about the present scenario. We don’t have to become like Nepal and bad-mouth them but there is no harm in making our stand clear on such sensitive issues directly to residents of these areas,” said Napalchyal. Madan Kaushik, state government spokesperson, said that the issue is “a genuine one and the government, which is already focusing on setting up community radios, will definitely give a thought to start local radio stations in Pithoragarh too.” Meanwhile, a senior Nepalese official from an intergovernmental organisation in Kathmandu who was contacted by TOI, said while requesting anonymity that “such nationalist and anti-India songs are not prevalent across Nepal and in my view, would be prevalent only in areas along the border.” “In Kathmandu, there are other concerns that people have. A number of people are protesting at the mismanagement of the Nepalese government on the issue of Covid-19. Most of the people here feel that the Kalapani issue was simply brought to divert people’s attention from the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/surge-in-nepalese-fm-stations-playing-anti-india-songs-say-residents-along-border-in-ukhand/articleshow/76486535.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 21, 2020||Patna||Slushy roads, open manholes trouble people||PATNA: A few days of rain in the first phase of monsoon was sufficient to throw life out of gear in several parts of the city. Though the rainwater was drained out from the western parts of Patna on Saturday, there are still few areas in Bahadurpur and Bazaar Samiti where the people are struggling with the 1-2 feet water in residential areas. Kamlesh Prasad Singh, an entrepreneur and resident of Bahadurpur Colony, said, “Rainwater seeped out from potholes and even entered some homes. We sought the help of the civic body by dialling its toll-free number. However, none came to help us,” he said. Mahima Aggarwal, a resident of Mussallahpur, Bazar Samiti, said the waste dumped at the corner of the road has blocked the chamber. “The sanitation workers pumped out water from post office area and released the same in our area. People have left the manholes open, which is quite dangerous,” she said. People in low-lying areas are struggling with slushy roads, potholes and puddles. Abhishek Anand, a resident of D N Das Road, said all the adjoining roads, including Arya Kumar Road and Abhilash, were dug up prior to the monsoon. “After rain, it becomes difficult to locate the dug-up areas in the absence of barricading. People are facing difficulties in going to Langar Toli and Bari Path,” he added. Meanwhile, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is gearing up to tackle waterlogging as the meteorological department has predicted more rain over the next few days. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the reason behind the delay in pumping out water was that a motor pump at Kadamkuan sump house got out of order. “It was repaired soon after which the accumulated water was pumped out from Congress Maidan and Kadamkuan areas,” he added. “A motor pump set of 375hp was also out of order. As a result, the overall capacity at Saidpur sump house reduced. Secondly, the R K Avenue sump house also discharged its water at Saidpur leading to slow outfall of water in nullah. The BUIDCO has repaired the pump set of Saidpur sump house. It will now work at its full capacity of 2,100hp,” Sharma said. As far as R K Avenue sump house is concerned, the PMC has started constructing a separate drainage outlet to discharge the rainwater from Nala Road and adjoining areas. The PMC has also decided to monitor the functioning of sump houses from the control room during the monsoon season. The PMC commissioner said accumulated rainwater could have been drained out within 7 hours on Friday had all the sump houses functioned properly. Sharma said the newly acquired motor pumps have been installed in several low-lying areas. The civic body proposed to the urban development and housing department to complete all the projects related to laying of pipelines, cables and road construction by June 30. UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma said, “We have asked all the construction companies to expedite the work and cover the dug-up roads by June 30. No new project will be taken up during monsoon for the safety of residents.” The BUIDCO officials and engineers have been asked to closely monitor the functioning of sump houses. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said all 39 sump houses are under CCTV camera surveillance. “Senior officers have been asked to visit the sump houses regularly. All the control rooms and combat cells have been working round-the-clock to tackle waterlogging,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/slushy-roads-open-manholes-trouble-people/articleshow/76486574.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Lini’s husband faces Congress ire||Kozhikode: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran’s controversial remarks against health minister K K Shailaja, questioning her role in containing Nipah outbreak in 2018, was condemned by Sajeesh, husband of nurse (late) Lini Puthussery, who died in the line of duty after contracting Nipah. In a FB post late on Friday, Sajeesh said, “Among those who consoled me, cutting across political differences, Mullappally Ramachandran sir – who then represented Vadakara parliament constituency where I reside – was not there. He was not there even in a guest role and had not offered a word of solace either directly or over telephone.” On Saturday, local Congress workers took out a protest march to Koothali primary health centre where Sajeesh works. In his controversial speech, Ramachandran had termed Shailaja as ‘Nipah princess’ and ‘Covid queen’. “Shailaja teacher’s words offering support were not a token statement. She was there to console us during our grief like a family member. Later, she met us and contacted us over phone many times. On May 21, the death anniversary of Lini, she called us,” Sajeesh wrote. However Chakkittapara Congress mandalam committee president and block panchayat member Jithesh Muthukad claimed Ramachandran had called him and he had given the phone to Sajeesh. “If he cannot recollect it due to his state of mind following Lini’s death, I won’t fault him,” he added. Meanwhile, Nipah survivor and nursing graduate Ajanya M also flayed KPCC chief’s remarks and recounted the support she received from the health minister. “Shailaja teacher visited me at the hospital without wearing mask and gloves. She talked to me and it gave me the confidence to go back to our society after my recovery,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/linis-husband-faces-congress-ire/articleshow/76486538.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Textile companies bet safe on antiviral fabrics||SURTI SAREE GETS ‘INFECTION-FREE’ AVATAR For the first time ever, the famous six-yard wonder – Surti Saree – has come in a new, ‘infection-free’ avatar. Laxmipati Industries, a manufacturer and exporter of sarees and textile fabrics from Surat, uses 40,000 metres per day to make sarees, kurtis as well as lehengas and the fabric is treated with antimicrobial finishing chemicals to keep them free from bacteria, viruses, fungi, algae and mildew.These sarees cost around Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 and are supplied to several Indian states. “Even though treating sarees with antimicrobial property increases production cost by 10%, it is an important value-addition in times of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sanjay Saraogi, MD, Laxmipati group. WELSPUN TAPS INTO ANTIVIRAL FABRICS, LAUNCH NEXT WEEK Home textiles major Welspun Ltd will launch an antiviral range of fabrics next week, primarily in the home linen segment. Treated with HealthGuard AMIC technology, their fabric, the company claims, is 99.94% effective against coronavirus and further minimizes the spread of harmful viruses through textiles. It will also have anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties. The fabrics will be manufactured at its Anjar facility in Kutch. The company has partnered with Australia-based HealthGuard Corporation to launch the product. The company recently forayed into the health and hygiene segment with Welspun Health, which produces a slew of textile products such as masks, coveralls, personal protective equipment (PPE) and antiviral surface cleaning wipes. ARVIND, CHIRIPAL GROUP AMONG FIRST MOVERS Arvind Ltd, Ahmedabad, has tied up with Swiss textile innovator, HeiQ Materials AG, and Taiwanese speciality major, Jintex Corporation, to introduce antiviral textile technology in India. HeiQ technology has been proven effective against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Arvind plans to soon launch antiviral fabrics. Nandan Denim Ltd and Nandan Terry Pvt Ltd — companies of city-based Chiripal Group — have launched anti-bacteria and anti-virus treated denim and terry towels. SURGICOT TEXTILES SEES DEMAND SURGE Surgicot Textiles Ltd, Ahmedabad, has been into antimicrobial fabrics since 2011. The company, however, has seen orders pouring in after the Covid-19 outbreak. “Previously, the business was good only in specific segments, but the demand now has grown drastically after the pandemic. We got our products tested for antiviral properties and once proven so, we began marketing them,” said Paresh Patel, MD, Surgicot, which supplies the fabric primarily for manufacturing of masks and coveralls. “We have received orders from the local civic body in Indore for making uniforms for the sanitation workers with antimicrobial properties,” he added. MORE TEXTILE BIGGIES JUMP ONTO THE BANDWAGON Anticipating good demand and better prospects for textiles with antiviral and antimicrobial properties, textile companies in other parts of the country have also ventured into antiviral fabrics. Biggies like Donear Group and Siyaram Silk Mills (Siyaram’s brand) have already announced their plans to launch antiviral fabrics in different categories. Siyaram Silk Mills has its factories in Tarapur (Maharashtra), Silvassa and Daman. EXPERTS SEE SOARING DEMAND IN MONTHS TO COME Textile industry veterans and experts believe that in times of the coronavirus pandemic, the demand for fabrics with antimicrobial and antiviral properties is here to stay. More awareness about hygiene and keeping oneself safe will encourage brands to adopt fabrics that have antiviral properties. “The fabrics will get an enthusiastic response from customers as people will have a feeling of safety with these products. However, the onus will also be on the manufacturers to ensure consumer confidence is maintained through quality,” said Rahul Mehta, chief mentor and past president, Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India (CMAI). Industry players opine that given the diverse applications of such fabrics, the market is here to stay. Gagandeep Singh, secretary general, Denim Manufacturers’ Association of India (DMAI), said, “These products can have multiple applications. For instance, currently the PPEs that are available are not breathable and therefore, antiviral fabrics can prove to be a great user-friendly alternative. The demand will be good for at least the coming two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/textile-companies-bet-safe-on-antiviral-fabrics/articleshow/76487118.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Congress makes public list of questions for RMC||Rajkot: Sparks are expected to fly at the June 20 general body meeting of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) with opposition Congress expected to grill the BJP over the plan to provide basic amenities of newly merged areas and other civic issues.The Congress has already made public a list of questions regarding host of issues. Newly developing areas of Mota Mava, Munjka, Ghanteshwar and Madhapar have been officially merged with RMC. According to Congress questionnaire, discussions are expected to heat up on basic facilities like water supply, drainage, high-rise building plans approved by civic body, collection during anti-encroachment drives, cleaning of water tanks during summer etc. Vashram Sagathiya, leader of opposition in RMC, said, “I have sought a report of development work done in Kotharia and Vavdi that merged with RMC in 2015. I have raised this in reference to four more villages being mergd now.”Meanwhile, RMC allotted wards to the newly merged villages by expanding the limits of present wards. In a statement, RMC said Mota Mava will be in ward number 10, Munjka in ward 9, Ghanteswhar in ward 1 and Madhapar in ward 2. “This is a temporary arrangement till the delimitation plan is executed. Thereafter, it’s expected that two more wards will be added. At present, there are 18 wards in RMC,” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/congress-makes-public-list-of-questions-for-rmc/articleshow/76487010.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||CM dedicates new RTO office in Jamnagar to public||Rajkot: The new Regional Transport Office (RTO) of Jamnagar was dedicated to public by chief minister Vijay Rupani through video conferencing from his office in Gandhingar on Saturday. Built at the cost of Rs 6.26 crore, the new RTO office in Jamnagar consists of public service centre, staff rooms, smart card room, smart optical card room, clerk rooms, record room, electric room, server room and the offices of ARTO, RTO, mamlatdar and assistant inspector of motor vehicle. “We are adding a fleet of 1,000 new buses to the state ST. That apart, taking into consideration the need of pollution free transportation, we are launching e-bus services soon,” Rupani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cm-dedicates-new-rto-office-in-jamnagar-to-public/articleshow/76486997.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Rajkot||Lockdown may sound death knell for 4,000-year-old Ajrakh art||Rajkot: Lack of business owing to the lockdown and poor artisans, Ajrakh, a more than 4,000-year-old Kutchi fabric art has almost been pushed to the brink of extinction. This art is a monopoly of the Khatris in Kutch for three generations now. Since the past three months business has almost been nil owing to the strict lockdown and the artisans from Ajrakpur near Bhuj in Kutch, don’t have the necessary wherewithal to keep the ancient art floating. More than 100 families in this village are engaged in the business of Ajrakh who sell their cloth to patrons in mainly metro cities. Ajrakh is a block-printed textile made using natural dyes, especially indigo. It’s believed that Ajrakh came from the Arabic word ‘Azarakh’ which means blue. Garments like dupatta, stoles and sarees are made from the Ajrak material. Average annual production of Ajrakh fabric is 11 lakh metres which is worth Rs 20 crore. However, the Khatri community is struggling to keep their tradition alive. Ismail Khatri, who is in the business since the last three generations, is the oldest professional in Ajrakpur. Talking to TOI, Khatri said: “We used to sell 1,000 metres every day, but for the past three months business has gone own drastically and today we are not even selling 1 metre cloth. Our unique art fabric is available even on e-commerce platforms, but we don’t find business viable there. As we don’t have any alternate employment opportunity, we will be ruined if demand does not surge again soon.” Talking about the the 4,500-year-old art, Khatri said that it has been in use since the Mohenjodaro era. “This Ajrakh fabric is made from a special tree in Kutch and the cloth woven from it keeps one warm during winter and cool in summer,” Khatri explained, adding that the fabric enjoys great demand in metro cities like Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. Another artisan, Ashraf Khatri said, “The payment channel has been disrupted by the lockdown. Earlier, we got our payment within 90 days of selling it, but now the amount is stuck because the buyers don’t have liquidity. In fact, liquidity crunch has affected fresh orders as well while we are still waiting to get our outstanding money from the market. All the big traders selling our fabric are closed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lockdown-may-sound-death-knell-for-4000-year-old-ajrakh-art/articleshow/76486892.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Students divided over taking pending exams||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, several Class XII (ISC) students of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have chosen to be graded on the basis of their pre-board or internal assessment marks while few are ready to take their pending exams. As far as the Class X (ICSE) pupils are concerned, most of them are willing to appear for their examinations. While the ISC exams will be held between July 1 and 14, the remaining ICSE exams will be conducted from July 2 to 10. Schools have, therefore, started gearing up for the examinations, keeping social distancing norms in mind. Don Bosco Academy (DBA) principal Mary Alphonsa, who is also the CISCE’s city coordinator, told this newspaper on Saturday, “Only seven Class XII students have decided to appear for the board exams. On the other hand, all Class X pupils will write their papers.” While holding the exams, DBA will “follow all the norms mentioned in the council’s letter”. “We have four exam halls, each with a capacity to accommodate 120 students. We will create gap between each desk to maintain social distancing,” the principal said. Of the 171 Class X students of St Xavier’s High School, 35 will not appear for the remaining exams. Principal Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ said, “We have two halls where we will follow all social distancing norms while students write their papers.” Similarly, 20 Carmel High School students want to appear for their exams. “The final list is yet to be prepared,” claimed principal Sr M Serena AC. Meanwhile, Shalini, a Class XII student of St Joseph’s Convent High School who will not write her remaining exams, said, “I had performed well in my pre-boards and am confident that I will get good marks. Right now, I want to focus on my medical entrance exam.” DBA’s Amritanshu, on the other hand, has decided to appear for his Class X pending exams. “Since I am not sure how I will be graded on the basis of my previous performances, I will take the exams,” he said. Another Class X student, Divya Singh, pointed out that she had worked hard for her board exams and would appear for the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-divided-over-taking-pending-exams/articleshow/76486591.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Watch annular solar eclipse live on Sunday||PATNA: While the star-gazers in the city are excited to see the annular solar eclipse, commonly known as ‘ring of fire’, on Sunday, some people, who believe in superstitions, will avoid leaving home during the eclipse period as advised by the astrologers or priests. The eclipse will start at 10.20am and last till 1.30pm, when the moon will pass between the Earth and the Sun. During the solar eclipse phenomenon, the image of the sun will remain totally or partially obscured by the moon. Shri Krishna Science Centre (SKCC) has made necessary arrangements for the solar eclipse phenomenon which will be live on its official Facebook page. The centre is temporarily closed in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Amitabh, project coordinator of SKCC, said the live streaming of solar eclipse would start at 11am. “Through the filter lens of telescope, we will show the movement of sun and moon, depending on the visibility. Experts will also explain this cosmic phenomenon through live session,” he said, adding the sun will be partially visible during the eclipse. “During partial solar eclipse, the moon casts only the outer part of its shadow on the Earth,” he added. Meanwhile, astrologers, priests and clerics have advised people not to leave their homes during the solar eclipse. Dharmendra Pandey, a city-based priest, said people should stay indoors and not consume food during the eclipse. “People should also chant mantras dedicated to Sun God and put tulsi leaves in food and water to prevent the ill effects of eclipse. Pregnant women should take more precautions,” he said. Maulana Mohd Alam Quasmi, convenor of Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masajid, an association of Imams in Bihar, also advised people to offer two rakats (units) of special prayer called ‘Qusuf’ and avoid going out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/watch-annular-solar-eclipse-live-today/articleshow/76486685.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 21, 2020||Delhi||All private Covid-19 beds to cost less now in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Offering major relief to the common man, Delhi Disaster Management Authority ordered a reduction in the rates of all Covid beds in private hospitals on Saturday. For an isolation bed in a private hospital, a patient was earlier required to pay Rs 24,000-25,000 per day, but this has been reduced to Rs 8,000-10,000. In the ICU with ventilator, which cost Rs 44,000-54,000, the rate has been lowered to Rs 15,000-18,000. “In a meeting chaired by lieutenant governor, DDMA approved the recommendations of the high-level expert committee for fixing rates of hospital beds for Covid patients,” the LG’s Office said in a statement on Saturday. A Delhi government statement added, “The central government committee had limited the recommended rates to 60% of the beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals. But because Delhi government had asked private hospitals to reserve 40% of their beds for Covid patients, the 60% cap would have meant that only 24% of beds could be capped. The chief minister strongly presented a case to cap all such beds. After deliberations, it was unanimously decided to impose this cap on all reserved beds to benefit the common man and leave no scope for arbitrary over-charging.” The rates fixed for private hospitals beds will be all inclusive as a package and will include cost of medical care for underlying co-morbidities conditions, supportive care and cost of medication thereof, for the duration of care for Covid-19. “This step will provide much needed relief to the people of Delhi with drastic reduction in treatment charges from the current charges of Rs 24000-25000, 34000-43000 & 44000-54000 respectively,” the LG’s office said. The LG also directed the hospitals to follow the national guidelines on admission of Covid-19 patients and reiterated that the best clinical care should be provided to all patients. Baijal directed the health department to ensure adherence to quality care by the hospitals and laboratories as per the standards. Accordingly, the health department is going to put in place a system to get feedback and grievance redressal to strictly ensure implementation of the recommendations of the high-level expert committee. Covid-19 testing has been ramped up in the capital too. A total of 25,754 tests were conducted on Friday, which included 13,074 RT-PCR tests and 12,680 rapid antigen tests. The government recently made Covid-19 tests affordable for the common man by fixing its price at Rs 2,400 instead of the earlier Rs 4,500. “The decision taken to reduce the rates charged by hospitals as per the recommendations of the committee will further help the common men in the fight against Covid,” the LG’s Office said in a statement. Watch Covid-19: Centre slashes cost of beds by more than 50% in Delhi hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-private-covid-beds-to-cost-less-now/articleshow/76488058.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 21, 2020||India||Modi’s ‘no intruder’ remark being interpreted mischievously: PMO||NEW DELHI: In a rebuttal of interpretations of PM Narendra Modi’s “no intruder on our land” comment as a validation of China’s claims to Indian territory, the PMO on Saturday said the remarks were made in the specific context of the Indian Army’s successful resistance on June 16 to PLA’s attempt to erect structures across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley area in Ladakh. Responding to the charge — seconded by some veterans — that Modi’s statement at the all-party meeting on Friday was tantamount to acquiescence to China’s claims that its territory has been “violated”, PMO termed such a reading of the comments as “mischievous”. The focus of the PM’s remarks at the discussions were the events of June 15 that led to the loss of lives of 20 Indian military personnel. Speaking at the all-party meeting on Friday, the PM had said: “No intruder is present inside India’s borders nor is any post under anyone’s custody. Our 20 soldiers did attain martyrdom but they taught a lesson to those who had sought to intimidate the mother land.” “The PM paid glowing tributes to the valour and patriotism of our armed forces who repulsed the designs of the Chinese there. The PM’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces. The sacrifices of soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment foiled the attempt of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day,” the statement said. Opposition parties attacked the PM’s statement as signifying surrender to China’s claims in the Ladakh sector, and pointed out that it is the Chinese army which transgressed across the LAC in the Pangong lake area, built semi-permanent structures and has been stopping the Indian soldiers from going up to the spots they had so far routinely patrolled. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said the PM has surrendered land to China and demanded to know why Indian soldiers were killed. PMO sources pointed out that the main objectives of the all-party meeting — to brief all leaders, evolve a consensus against the Chinese action and project national resolve — were met fully. The statement said the government made a presentation on Indian territories China has grabbed over the years. “What is Indian territory is clear from the map of India. This government is strongly and resolutely committed to that. Insofar as there is some illegal occupation, the APM was briefed in great detail how over the last 60 years, more than 43,000 sq km have been yielded... It was also made clear that this government will not allow any unilateral change of the LAC,” it said. On the charge that the PM contradicted the government’s own contention that the clash at Galwan Valley on June 15 happened because of Chinese intrusion, the PMO said leaders were told that PLA’s transgression triggered the fight. “The meeting was also informed that this time, the Chinese forces have come in much larger strength to the LAC and that the Indian response is commensurate. As regards transgression of LAC, it was clearly stated that the violence in Galwan on June 15 arose because the Chinese side was seeking to erect structures just across the LAC and refused to desist from such actions,” it said. The criticism by Congress and Left parties and by other commentators began immediately after the PM’s remarks were telecast and escalated on Saturday morning with Congress saying that the statement will have “horrifying consequences”. Significantly, the CPM and CPI, not known for taking strong position against China, attacked the government for giving in. Some army veterans were also indignant even as the Chinese foreign ministry late on Saturday evening reiterated its claim that the entire Galwan Valley is their territory, which served to fan the controversy. The PMO said that the PM had, contrary to the charge that he had legitimised China's territorial claims, said that tensions on the border have been rising because the Army, unlike in the past, has lately been been resisting PLA’s incursions. “He (PM) specifically emphasised that in contrast to the past neglect of such challenges, Indian forces now decisively counter any violations of LAC (“unhe rokte hain, unhe tokte hain”),” said the PMO. “The words of the Prime Minister, “those who tried to transgress our land were taught a befitting lesson by our brave sons of soil”, succinctly summed up the ethos and values of our armed forces. The PM further emphasised— ‘I want to assure you, that our armed forces will leave no stone unturned to protect our borders”, the statement said. Watch Chinese troops didn’t enter Indian territory, our bravehearts taught them a lesson: PM Narendra Modi at all-party meet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modis-no-intruder-remark-being-interpreted-mischievously-pmo/articleshow/76488485.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE results likely to be declared in first week of August||Dehradun: The board exam results of Classes X and XII will be released by the first week of August by Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE). Most of the exams had got completed before the lockdown and the remaining ones will take place from June 22-25. The evaluation of the answer sheets will be completed by mid-July. However, the students residing in the containment zones will not be able to give the exams and will be provided the opportunity later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-results-likely-to-be-declared-in-first-week-of-august/articleshow/76486553.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police bust an extortion racket run by man in jail, three held||NEW DELHI: An extortion racket allegedly being run by a murderer lodged in jail has been busted by Delhi Police. The accused have been identified as Bhanu Pratap (21) from south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, Ashok Kumar from Karol Bagh and Mahesh alias Mannu (39) who has been inTihar Jail since 2014. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said that three more men involved in the murder have been identified and two mobile phones used to hatch the conspiracy have been seized. A 62-year-old man from Karol Bagh lodged a complaint of extortion last November. The complainant, who is a builder, had received multiple WhatsApp voice calls from an unknown mobile number. “The caller identified himself as Mahesh from Tihar and asked the victim to shell out Rs 20 lakh, starting with an ‘EMI’ of 50,000 in lieu of ‘protection’,” DCP Bhatia said. At first, the victim refused to pay but the threatening calls for money became more frequent. The cops managed to identify the accused based on technical surveillance. Mahesh, police have found, was involved in another case of attempted murder reported from Karol Bagh last year. In that case, he had hired goons to open fire at the victim. A sample of his voice recording was also available on record in that case. Police said that his associate in that case was another jailed criminal, Atar Rehman. The cops informed the city court about Mahesh’s role in the present case of extortion and arrested him apart from his two associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-bust-an-extortion-racket-run-by-man-in-jail-three-held/articleshow/76499652.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After losing wife to cancer, father raises sons against all odds||AHMEDABAD: Things had come to a standstill for Bhupendra Shah, when he lost his wife to cancer in 2008. “My elder son, Sambhav, was in Class X and the younger one, Karan, who is speech and hearing impaired, was in Class III. I didn’t know what to do back then. But my mother, who was 100 years old then, was a big support,” said Shah. “When my wife passed away, I didn’t even know how to cook. It was all sorted for me when she was there, but it was after she left that I learnt to cook to ensure my kids get to relish the meals they like,” said Shah (68). Managing his work front came with challenges, because Shah had to take a loan for his wife’s treatment and yet, he managed to keep his children motivated. “Since I was the only one who understood sign language well, I helped my younger brother cope with his studies and took care of him. That way, I could provide some help to my father by sharing responsibilities,” said Sambhav, who now runs an IT firm in Ahmedabad. “Despite his limited means, he encouraged me to pursue my area of interest and today, it is with his support, I run a firm of my own. My brother, on the other hand, is a YouTuber, who translates news in sign language and uploads it in the form of videos for others with hearing issues,” said Sambhav. “I always miss mother. But after she passed away, my father never let me or my brother feel that we didn’t have a mother’s love and support. He indeed means the world to us both,” said Sambhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-losing-wife-to-cancer-father-raises-sons-against-all-odds/articleshow/76488383.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||‘Plant various trees to boost bio-diversity’||KOLKATA: Botanists and green activists have questioned the wisdom of KMC to plant 20,000 deodar trees and called for diversity in species, pointing to Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation that has drawn up plans for 25 varieties for Salt Lake, Rajarhat and other areas with help from state Pollution Control Board. The civic body plans to launch a plantation drive to compensate for the destruction of the city’s green cover during Amphan a month ago. Environmentalist Bonani Kakkar on May 28 wrote to Debasish Kumar, member of the board of administrator at KMC and former MMiC (parks and squares), saying fresh plantation drives should be carried out after systematic micro-planning to prevent a repeat of past mistakes. “The species of trees need to be decided according to the purpose for which the plantation is taking place and the location. For instance, there can be a requirement for shade in a residential neighbourhood, reduction in pollution on main roads, adding to bio-diversity across the city and adding to aesthetics, like on medians. The space available in each location and ground area availability has to be checked before a tree is planted. Also important are factors, like area required for the crownto spread, encroachment on pedestrian right of way, space between trees and survival likelihood against climate events,” she said, adding the need to plant local species, such as bakul, jarul, kanchan, putranjivi, neem, karanj, kadam, chhatim and Indian almond. An urban forestry division expert said any plantation drive of the KMC’s scale required a lot of planning, on the types of species and to see if trees were suitable for establishments alongside. “Trees are cut down for obstructing shop hoardings. Instead, why not look at trees that are suitable to be planted there?” he said. Another forest official called for diversity in plant species to ensure biodiversity. “Along a certain stretches, one may have a particular species for uniformity. But 20,000 is a large number. Selecting multiple species would have been a wiser choice,” he said, adding weeping deodarcould be planted but they need to be sourced from quality seedling. The KMC parks department said in addition to 20,000 deodar, it would plant 10,000 neem trees. The civic body also hopes to plant bakul, jarul and kadam trees, along major roads. “We will plant 20,000 deaodar on narrow pavements as these need less space to grow. Those saplings will be planted under a drive, Kalpabrishkha, in association with Credai. The state forest department will provide 10,000 neem trees,” a civic official said. But the KMC needs nod and saplings from the forest department for plantation of a variety of species in three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plant-various-trees-to-boost-bio-diversity/articleshow/76487453.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Traders burn effigy of Nepalese PM||Pithoragarh: Traders in Jhulaghat area of Pithoragarh burnt the effigy of Nepalese Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli on Saturday. They alleged that Oli is hampering the "roti-beti" relation between the two nations to promote his own political interests. "Oli is working like China's puppet at a time when Indian and Chinese military personnel are engaged in a border face-off in Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. Further, Oli's decision to include Kalapani area in Nepal's map is driven by his political motives. People living along the Indo-Nepal border are miffed with Oli and hence, the Nepalese government must act responsibly," said Sanjeev Joshi, a local trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-burn-effigy-of-nepalese-pm/articleshow/76486566.cms||Prem Punetha
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Landslip: Probe ordered into explosives at Gap Road||Idukki: Special branch ADGP ordered a probe into the huge amount of explosives found behind a rock near the landslide site that occurred at the Gap Road stretch on Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway. TOI had reported the incident of a huge amount of explosives under a rock near the landslide site. Special branch ADGP directed the district special branch to submit a report on it. On Saturday, state special branch deputy SP Jilson John led a team to the spot and collected evidence. John said, “We couldn’t find the explosives under the rock and suspect that it was removed from the spot after the landslide. We will submit a detailed report to the ADGP.” Three Munnar residents found a huge amount of explosives under the rock on June 18 after the landslide and they clicked photographs of the explosives. Around 200 booster explosives (Kelvex-100) and detonators were found in a plastic bag under the rock. However, Munnar deputy SP M Ramesh Kumar said that they did not register any case over the incident. A report submitted by the district special branch last year recommended that quarrying in the region be conducted only after a scientific expert study. A meeting called by district collector H Dineshan decided to begin work on Monday to remove debris from the landslide site. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said, “District collector H Dinesan will visit the area on Sunday to open a temporary alternative route to resume traffic. Road widening works in the area will be allowed only after a study by an expert team from National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kozhikode.” “The meeting directed the agricultural department to submit a report on the loss of agricultural land after the landslide. After submitting the report the contractor should pay compensation to the farmers,” said Krishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslip-probe-ordered-into-explosives-at-gap-road/articleshow/76486576.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Clean chit to medical staff in Kota hospital death||Kota: The three-member probe committee, which was formed to look into the death of a 40-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient after his family members disconnected the ventilator to plug in a cooler cable in the isolation ward, submitted its report to the superintendent of MBS Hospital on Saturday.The probe committee gave a clean chit to the medical and nursing staff positioned in the ward at the time of the patient’s death and stated that the family members of the deceased patient did not turn up before the probe committee.The panel in its report stated that the patient identified as Vinod, son of Shivlal, was admitted to the surgical ward at 11am on June 13. The patient was suffering from severe respiratory complications with high blood sugar level, swelling in legs and he was shifted to the male surgical emergency ward at 11.45am on the same day.On June 14, his condition worsened and was shifted to MICU where he was put on ventilator. He was later shifted to the isolation ward at 2pm on June 15.At 6.30pm on the same day, ward boy Tarun reported to the medical staff in the isolation ward that the family members of the patient disconnected the ventilator to plug in a cooler cable following which the medical staff and resident doctor rushed to attend to the patient where his attendants misbehaved with them.The probe report further stated that at 7.20pm the patient suddenly suffered a severe respiratory attack, following which the resident doctor performed CPR to save his life, but he could not be saved and was declared dead at 8.40pm.The family members of the deceased patient were constantly called for recording of statements before the probe committee, but none of them turned up, the report stated.“Following thorough investigation into the matter, the probe committee has reached to the conclusion that there was no negligence by the nursing staff and resident doctor in the entire episode,” the probe committee stated.“We received the report on Saturday and it has been sent to the principal, Kota Medical College, for action into the matter,” Dr. Naveen Saxena, superintendent, MBS Hospital said.Dr Vijay Sardana, principal, Kota Medical College, did not respond to the repeated calls for his comments on the probe report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clean-chit-to-medical-staff-in-kota-hospital-death/articleshow/76488098.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Unit stretched, spare us Covid waste: IMAGE writes to Kerala government||KOCHI: The daily rise in number of Covid-19 patients has increased the quantity of Covid-19 waste generated in the state. The quantity of Covid-19 waste, which was 3 tonne a day on May 22, has increased to a 7.5-9 tonne a day by mid-June. IMA Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE), which handles the entire Covid-19 waste generated in the state, has written to the government requesting it to spare the agency from the responsibility and also to arrange alternative arrangements for treating waste. In a letter sent to chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, IMAGE authorities said the capacity of their plant at Palakkad is fast exceeding due to the extra load of Covid-19 waste. “IMAGE plant and machinery are getting exhausted due to incessant operation. We are unable to find time for carrying out even the routine maintenance works of the machinery,” IMAGE authorities stated in their letter to the chief secretary. “The quantity of Covid-19 waste has touched 9 tonnes a day. On Wednesday, it was 7.5 tonnes. If the volume of the waste increases continuously, our facility won’t be sufficient for treating or handling the entire Covid-19 waste generated in the state. So, on Monday, we wrote to the government requesting alternative facilities for the purpose,” Dr K P Sharafudheen, secretary, IMAGE told TOI. The IMAGE authorities also said the Covid-care centres in the state don’t segregate the waste generated in their facilities properly. IMAGE is spending around Rs 54,000 per tonne for managing Covid-19 waste. It is three times the amount being spent on treating other biomedical waste. So, treatment of Covid-19 waste causes financial burden for IMAGE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unit-stretched-spare-us-covid-waste-image/articleshow/76486582.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||RTO to open tomorrow, with restrictions||Dehradun: The regional transport department (RTO) is all set to open on Monday, with strict adherence to social distancing rules. The new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) released by the department stipulates only 20 people will be allowed to deposit road tax and fitness licenses in a day. While new driving licenses will not be issued for the time being, renewal of licenses will be allowed for 20 people in a day. Regional transport officer DC Pathoi said that the decision has been taken to ensure a smooth start of operations at the RTO. “We will start making new licenses soon but as of now, the RTO will only be open for road tax and renewal of licenses,” Pathoi said. The RTO will also conduct fitness tests of a maximum of 20 vehicles in a day at Asharodi checkpost, instead of its premises. “Only 20 vehicle permits will be issued in one day. In different departments, the RTO will work on 100 applications altogether in one day,” reads the SOP. Applicants will have to call on the number 135- 2743432 a day before they plan to visit the RTO office. They can arrive at the RTO at 11am the next day with all necessary documents, as well as masks and sanitizers, which have been made mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rto-to-open-tomorrow-with-restrictions/articleshow/76486573.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 21, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi registers another Covid-19 death, toll 12||Varanasi: Varanasi, Mau and Chandauli registered three Covid-19 deaths including that of a policeman since Friday. The graph of Covid-19 maintained a rising trend as new cases came to light, especially in Varanasi and Mau districts of the region. In Varanasi , a resident medical officer at a private hospital and Delhi-returned DRDO scientist were among those who tested positive for the virus. In Chandauli district, a police sub-inspector, who worked in radio section of the superintendent of police office, died on Friday and in late night his Covid-19 lab test report arrived in which he was confirmed as positive, admitted SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal. The cop, who died was diabetic and had gone on leave few days ago. Due to some complication in his health condition he was admitted to BHU hospital on June 18 but he died on Friday. Kutiyal said that as precautionary measure cops, who remained in his contact had been quarantined. Varanasi recorded 12th Covid-19 death when a 24-year-old native of Vidur village in Cholapur area died on Saturday, said chief medical officer Varanasi Dr VB Singh. This youth was in a private job in Rajasthan, where he had met an accident in January and was admitted to PGI Rohtak. He had returned home in February but due to complication in his health condition he was admitted to trauma centre of BHU but died due to septicaemic shock. When his lab test report arrived he was found infected, he added. Another Covid-19 death was reported in Mau. District magistrate Mau Gyanprakash Tripathi said that a Khiribagh locality native was admitted to BHU hospital in Varanasi where he died and later he was confirmed as positive after the arrival of his lab test report. In Varanasi a 55-year-old man of Govindpur in Rohania, who worked as resident medical officer at a private hospital and had treated an infected person, a 38-year-old native of Ashokpuran in Shivpur and a Delhi-returned DRDO scientist of Chandrikanagar Sigra area, who had returned home on June 17, were tested positive said CMO. With these developments the total figure of Covid-19 cases in Varanasi reached to 318, he said adding, of them 226 have been cured while 12 died so far. Now active cases in the district are 80. Ashokpuram and Chandrika Nagar were declared new hotspots. After it total number of hotspots in Varanasi has reached to 166. DM Mau said that nine more Covid-19 positive cases had come to light in the district in which three are fire brigade constables. Now, total cases in the Mau have touched the mark of 78. Of them 57 have been cured while two had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-registers-another-covid-19-death-toll-12/articleshow/76487753.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala moves up hydrology ranking||Thiruvananthapuram: The state has bettered its rank among states and agencies and rose to the second spot in the rankings for the implementation of the national hydrology project. In the previous ranking in January this year, the state had reached the seventh spot from 13th spot. The Damodar Valley Corporation is the only agency ahead of the state at present, that too with a difference of 0.67 points. The state rose to the second spot in the ranking given by the Centre, through the coordinated effort of the irrigation department. The project, implemented with assistance from the World Bank, is being implemented by 44 entities, including the states and agencies. The project that started in 2016 will come to a close in 2024. The state has been given a grant of Rs 44 crore for the eight years. The NHP in the state includes recording the quantity of water flowing through 44 rivers in the state, recording the quantity of rain received in a year and real-time data collection. The project also aims at ensuring the quality of the water resources in the state, basin-level resources assessment and planning and strengthening the efficiency of professionals and management institutions in the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-moves-up-hydrology-ranking/articleshow/76486610.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘This Yoga Day, let’s work for mental well-being’||Ahmedabad: During the Covid-19 pandemic, one of the most common complaints of even those without any symptoms presented to medical practitioners was sleeplessness. Many also complained of anxiety and stress. Dr Vijaykumar PS, assistant professor at Lakulish Yoga University, said yoga is a holistic science not just for body but also the mind. “Mental health gets affected easily during epidemics due to uncertainty about the future. During this period, we worked with several individuals without any symptoms and those who have already recovered,” he said. “Studies have shown positive effect of yoga – meditation, asana, pranayama – on cd4 and cd8 cells that boost our immunity.” Hetal Desai, a city-based yoga instructor, said, “This International Yoga Day, let’s work for mental well-being. For Covid-19 patients, we devised asanas that they could do on their beds without much twisting and turning. The results are encouraging.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-yoga-day-lets-work-for-mental-well-being/articleshow/76487579.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Surprise gifts and virtual celebrations for their real-life heroes||Jaipur: It will be a virtual Father’s Day celebrations on Sunday for many corona warriors. From surprise gifts at work places to cutting cakes over live app meetings, children of corona warriors have planned surprises for their real life heroes.SMS Hospital medical superintendent DS Meena’s son Sunil Kumar is in Chennai. Usually in summers, he visits Jaipur to spend some time with family, but this year is different for him since he too is a doctor. “I have told my mother that a cake has been arranged online which she will make my father to cut it on Sunday. I along with my wife will join the small function through an online app. I have always been proud of my father but this year I realized how difficult it has been for my father and myself,” said Sunil Kumar who works in the neurosurgery department in a Chennai hospital. For Ankush Arora, a male nurse working at the ICU of Rajasthan University of Health Science (RUHS), the last few months have been extremely tough. “My daughter was born in January but since mid-February I have not been able to see her as she is with my wife and family in our hometown. For Father’s Day, I have requested my wife to let me see her face through video calling that too when I would be off duty,” Arora said.The Covid outbreak and lockdowns have also been challenging for policemen across the state especially for those whose families are settled away from the city. “I have two daughters and a son to whom I talk daily. They called me saying they will bring a cake and cut it and urged me to pick up their video call. I am touched. Every now and then they call and urge me to take care of myself,” said Heeralal, the circle inspector of Mohana police station in Jaipur, said. His family lives in Ringas. Arun Chaudhary, the circle inspector of Aadarsh Nagar police station, is worried for his son Utkarsh. “There is spike in Covid cases in Bharatpur where my family lives. My son is very shy still he makes it a point to call me. There is nothing much planned for Father’s Day, but I will call him and my wife who is a principal at a government school,” he said. Family members of some doctors, male nurse and police have planned to send a surprise gift but wished not to give elaborate details. “I have sent some masks and sanitizers for my father. Hopefully, he will get it by Sunday. Let it be a surprise for him,” said the 22-year-old from Bharatpur whose father is in the police in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surprise-gifts-and-virtual-celebrations-for-their-real-life-heroes/articleshow/76488103.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Secretariat gets fresh guidelines||HYDERABAD: With health concerns growing among the secretariat employees due to a surge in the coronavirus cases at BRKR Bhavan and other state-level government offices, the government on Saturday came out with fresh guidelines for their safety. As against 100% attendance that was being insisted till date, the fresh guidelines state that only 50% of clerical staff and circulating officers will attend duties on an alternate day basis. Likewise, only 50% of office subordinates, data entry operators and class IV employees will attend duty on alternate week basis. Also, 50% of clerical staff and circulating officers will come to respective offices alternatively. Secretariat and other state-level government offices will function with 50% workforce from Monday. These orders will remain in force up to July 4. TNGOs’ secretary N Suresh Kumar and TSEA treasurer Rendla Rajesh told STOI they are requesting government to give relaxations in morning attendance norm. CS Somesh Kumar issued the orders, listing out the guidelines after associations represented to him that employees were scared to come to offices due to coronavirus scare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secretariat-gets-fresh-guidelines/articleshow/76488111.cms||Roushan Ali
June 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Youth fests hop onto online bandwagon in Kerala||KOCHI: Online youth fests of engineering colleges are the new trend amid lockdown as most colleges, which could not conduct their yearly cultural fests due to the pandemic, are now conducting them virtually. All aspects of a normal cultural fest like the inauguration, competition, judging, appeal submission, result announcements, certificate distribution etc, are now done online. Moreover, unlike traditional youth fests, the judges in most competitions in online fests are celebrities like filmmakers, actors, dancers, writers, etc from various parts of India who do the service free. So far, 12 colleges across the state, including CET, Thiruvananthapuram, RIT Kottayam, Govt Engineering College Kozhikode, University Engineering College Malappuram and Government College of Engineering Poonjar, have conducted their festivals online. The items include almost all those are featured in the normal cultural fests like essay competition, drawing, painting, classical music, instrumental music, elocution, dance forms like Bharatnatyam, Kuchpudi, folk dance, and Mohiniyattom, among other things. Makeups are not a criterion for marking. Some colleges have even conducted Tik Tok video competitions too. On an average, 22 competitions were held over three or four days of each fest. The competitions are held between 10am and 5pm and all candidates are given chest numbers at the time of registration. The coordination is done through Whatsapp groups. The candidates have to send pictures or videos of their works to respective groups and they will be uploaded to Google Drive of which the links are shared to judges. Winners are given digital certificates as prizes. All these fests were coordinated by a Kochi- based tech entrepreneur and artist Sreenath Gopinath. An engineering graduate and a winner in mono act competition in MG University’s youth festival, Sreenath did not lose his passion for arts and came up with the idea of conducting the fest online as the colleges will not be reopening anytime. Sreenath said since April 8, he has been engaged in conducting fests for various colleges for free by sitting at his home using smartphone and laptops. “I am the former convener of Technos, the All Kerala Engineering Students Association, and have acted small roles in a few films. So, using our contacts, we managed to rope in well-known personalities in various fields as judges for the fests. I think it is for the first time, youth fests conducted by colleges feature celebrity judges. Online fests have expenditure near to nil as the judges did not charge any fee. The promotion posters as well as certificates to winners and judges are digitally made. Nearly one lakh students have participated in the fest so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/youth-fests-hop-onto-online-bandwagon/articleshow/76492169.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man missing after cops’ summons, Gujarat high court moved||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday sought details from police of a man who went missing six months ago after being summoned to a police station. The Telangana man was last seen visiting the Fatehgunj police station in Vadodara. After the months-long search, the man’s son approached the HC on Thursday seeking the custody of his father from cops. On Friday, the court told the government lawyer to gather details from Fatehgunj police. But the police inspector is on leave due to the Covid-19 infection. The case involves Shaikh Babu, 65, originally from Nizamabad. He used to sell bedsheets in several places of Gujarat. He has been missing since December 10, 2019, says his son Shaikh Salim, who filed a habeas corpus petition in the HC. The HC directed the Vadodara police commissioner to issue directions for the preservation of CCTV footage of the Fatehgunj police station, spanning the period between December 2019 and March 2020. Vadodara police have been ordered to produce the man before the court by Wednesday. Salim approached the HC as he and his family suspected that his father’s case was that of custodial death. In his petition filed through advocate Imtiyaz Kureshi, Salim stated that Shaikh Babu used to live in Nizamabad as well as in Ahmedabad’s Shah-e-Alam area. Shaikh Babu last came to Gujarat on December 9 and went to Vadodara for hawking. Some information about Shaikh Babu was garnered from the Vadodara railway station, where he used to park his bicycle. His family say that on December 10, Shaikh Babu got his bicycle from the parking slot, from where he was summoned by Fatehgunj police for questioning. The family members inquired with Fatehgunj police but did not receive any response. Salim claims to have seen his father visiting the police station in CCTV footage. But he says he did not get any further help from cops. Salim and his brother-in-law filed a missing-person complaint on January 31, but it had no effect. They sought CCTV footage from the Fatehgunj police station under the provisions of the Right to Information (RTI) Act in March. They later filed an application for an investigation into the whereabouts of Shaikh Babu. But when the family did not get any response from Vadodara police, Salim filed the habeas corpus petition. The court has posted further hearing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-missing-after-cops-summons-hc-moved/articleshow/76488393.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||College students form helpline for employers in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: A group of students from IITs, IIMs and Delhi University, along with a few IAS officers, have come together to start a helpline for employers and for people looking for jobs during the novel coronavirus pandemic. The group plans to begin their pilot project in NCR and has released a helpline number to connect with people. “The pandemic has disproportionately affected the marginalised and disadvantaged groups in our society. In India, a exodus of migrant workers from urban cities took place during the lockdown, due to their sudden unemployment,” stated Bharatendu Verma, an MBA student from IIM Ahmedabad. The group — Students for Involved Governance and Mutual Action (SIGMA) — stated that India’s rural economy was not capable of this scale of labour absorption and millions of workers would again have to move back to cities in search of livelihood. “Since the lockdown has been lifted in most parts of the country and things are getting back to being normal, it is important to have a mechanism to help locals, as well as migrant workers, to find employment conveniently,” Verma claimed. As part of their initiative, SIGMA wants to simplify the job search process for those working in the informal sector. “Our project aims to help solve the labour demand-supply mismatch — an extremely pertinent issue in the post-lockdown scenario. We reached out to a group of employers, primarily from the manufacturing and construction sector, including construction in NCR to gauge labour demand and supply in their respective industries. These employers alone have over 250 vacancies for labourers, which we have documented and categorised based on skill requirements, industry and demand urgency,” explained Rhea Sinha, a St Stephen’s College student. As part of the plan, SIGMA launched a helpline number to allow workers, contractors, and employers alike to reach out with their requirements. IAS officer Abhishek Singh, who is part of the group said: “We are looking to create a centralised database with relevant, impersonal data to help match appropriately skilled workers with employers in need. Workers looking for opportunities in and around NCR and employers offering jobs can reach out to us at 88008 83323 with their interests, needs and other concerns.” Called ‘Ekatra’, the SIGMA helpline number will be operational from 10am to 7pm on all days of the week. Student volunteers attending phone calls will take note of the requirements of the interested parties to facilitate the matchmaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/college-students-form-helpline-for-employers/articleshow/76499714.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 21, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Ex-BSP leader who gifted Mayawati plot on Moon in 2010 shot dead||KANPUR: Former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Narendra Singh alias Pintu Sengar was shot dead in Kanpur on Saturday afternoon. Sengar had made headlines in 2010 when he gifted a 3-acre plot on the Moon to then UP chief minister Mayawati on her birthday. Police said Sengar was passing through JK Ashiana Colony in Chakeri, Jajmau when four unidentified assailants on two motorcycles fired indiscriminately at him. He suffered at least six gunshot wounds and was rushed to a private hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead on arrival. The assailants managed to flee unchallenged. Sengar, who was a resident of Chakeri’s Mangla Vihar, had earlier held a post in BSP. He had also unsuccessfully contested assembly election from Cantt area of the city in 2007. His mother Shanti Devi is a zila panchayat member from Kathethi area of Gajner in Kanpur Dehat, while his father Sone Singh is head of Gogemau village in Kanpur Dehat. Sources said Sengar was also into property business. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dinesh Kumar P, along with forensic experts, reached the spot soon after getting information and all entry and exit points of the city were sealed. Police said 11 spent cartridges were recovered from the crime scene. “The four assailants wearing helmet and riding on two motorcycles shot Sengar when he was alighting his Innova driven by his driver Rupesh. Before anyone could realize, the assailants fled. We have accessed CCTV footages from the area. We are also working on some leads provided by his kin about his rivals who had perpetrated murderous attack on him earlier in 2017 in which he was seriously injured,” police added. Sengar had shot into limelight when he had gifted a 3-acre plot on the Moon to Mayawati on her 54th birthday in 2010. He had then told the media that he purchased the lunar plot from US-based Lunar Republic Society. “The society openly sells plots on the moon,” Sengar had claimed and showed the registration papers signed by its member-secretary Margaret Hayes Barton. The move, however, had resulted in his ouster from the party. Watch Ex-BSP leader who gifted Mayawati plot on moon, shot dead||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-bsp-leader-who-gifted-mayaa-plot-on-moon-in-10-shot-dead/articleshow/76487800.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Youth fests hop onto online bandwagon in Kerala||KOCHI: Online youth fests of engineering colleges are the new trend amid lockdown as most colleges, which could not conduct their yearly cultural fests due to the pandemic, are now conducting them virtually. All aspects of a normal cultural fest like the inauguration, competition, judging, appeal submission, result announcements, certificate distribution etc, are now done online. Moreover, unlike traditional youth fests, the judges in most competitions in online fests are celebrities like filmmakers, actors, dancers, writers, etc from various parts of India who do the service free. So far, 12 colleges across the state, including CET, Thiruvananthapuram, RIT Kottayam, Govt Engineering College Kozhikode, University Engineering College Malappuram and Government College of Engineering Poonjar, have conducted their festivals online. The items include almost all those are featured in the normal cultural fests like essay competition, drawing, painting, classical music, instrumental music, elocution, dance forms like Bharatnatyam, Kuchpudi, folk dance, and Mohiniyattom, among other things. Makeups are not a criterion for marking. Some colleges have even conducted Tik Tok video competitions too. On an average, 22 competitions were held over three or four days of each fest. The competitions are held between 10am and 5pm and all candidates are given chest numbers at the time of registration. The coordination is done through Whatsapp groups. The candidates have to send pictures or videos of their works to respective groups and they will be uploaded to Google Drive of which the links are shared to judges. Winners are given digital certificates as prizes. All these fests were coordinated by a Kochi- based tech entrepreneur and artist Sreenath Gopinath. An engineering graduate and a winner in mono act competition in MG University’s youth festival, Sreenath did not lose his passion for arts and came up with the idea of conducting the fest online as the colleges will not be reopening anytime. Sreenath said since April 8, he has been engaged in conducting fests for various colleges for free by sitting at his home using smartphone and laptops. “I am the former convener of Technos, the All Kerala Engineering Students Association, and have acted small roles in a few films. So, using our contacts, we managed to rope in well-known personalities in various fields as judges for the fests. I think it is for the first time, youth fests conducted by colleges feature celebrity judges. Online fests have expenditure near to nil as the judges did not charge any fee. The promotion posters as well as certificates to winners and judges are digitally made. Nearly one lakh students have participated in the fest so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youth-fests-hop-onto-online-bandwagon/articleshow/76486565.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam tops list on number of people making distress calls||KOCHI: The number of people under quarantine seeking psychological support is high in Ernakulam compared to other districts in the state. Over three thousand people have sought counselling in the district till Friday since the lockdown kicked in. The psycho-social helpline in Kozhikode, which stood second in the list, received distress calls from as many as 1,151 people. With the number of people undergoing quarantine rising, the forced isolation is leading to a negative psychological impact on many. The consequences are more severe for city dwellers living cooped up in their flats than on those living in rural areas, say counsellors. A total of 3,371 people in the district have sought counselling till June 19. While 1,906 people sought assistance to deal with stress, 552 were worried about the social stigma associated with coronavirus infection and its fallout on their families. “As against people in rural areas, those living in the city do not have any means to let out their emotions. They are financially sound and mostly live in flats and have little or absolutely no communication with their neighbours. They mostly belong to middle and upper classes and while undergoing quarantine, they are comfortable to open up on their anxieties to counsellors who are strangers to them instead of an acquaintance. Those from lower, middle-income families are the ones who have suffered financial setbacks. They are more worried about financial support,” said Soumya Raj, nodal officerof district mental health programme. For the elderly and those living alone, absence of their loved ones is painful. Some of them are living even without maids. We received several calls from such people as well, she added. The counsellors explain to them how to deal with anxiety, depression, sleeplessness and psychological issues over phone on daily basis. People living close to those who are undergoing quarantine also call up the counsellors due to the anxiety and fear over contracting Covid-19. “In one such case, after a man was asked to undergo home quarantine in his flat, his neighbours got tensed. We collected a list of all residents in the flat and called them up to address their concerns. They were very tensed until the tests results came out,” said Soumya. Several people have protested against allowing suspected Covid patients to undergo quarantine in their residential complexes, she added. Ernakulam District Residents’ Association Apex Council (EDRAAC) members said the council has been conducting awareness programmes for residents to maintain social distancing and not to stigmatize people in quarantine or those infected with Covid-19. “People are really scared. We have been asking residents not to let those in quarantine feel isolated. We need fight Covid-19 and keep the virus at a distance, not the people,” said EDRAAC president Rangadasa Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-tops-list-on-number-of-people-making-distress-calls/articleshow/76486575.cms||T C Sreemol
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||One dead, another hurt after vehicle falls in gorge||UTTARKASHI: One person was killed while another sustained critical injuries after a car they were travelling in fell from Nagun-Suvakholi Road at Nagrajadhar area of Tehri district on Friday night. According to sources, the two persons were going to Uttarkashi from Dehradun when the vehicle fell into a nearly 50-metre-deep gorge, killing one of them at the spot. Soon after the accident, rescue forces reached the spot and pulled out the critically injured person, who was later sent to a higher medical centre in Dehradun. Surendra Rawat, revenue officer, told TOI, “The deceased has been identified as Atol Chand Ramola (57), a resident of Uttarkashi district and the injured person has been identified as 37-year-old Naveen Dev Thapliyal, also from Uttarkashi. Thapliyal is currently undergoing treatment at Jolly Grant Hospital and has been declared “out of danger” by the doctors. We are probing the cause of the accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-another-hurt-after-vehicle-falls-in-gorge/articleshow/76486585.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 21, 2020||Kochi||No clause for free movement of vehicles without paying toll in Kerala: HC||KOCHI: There is no rule stipulating that vehicles should be allowed to pass through a toll on the NH for free if more than five vehicles are waiting in queue, said the high court. Considering a petition seeking free movement of vehicles through Paliyekkara toll during traffic congestion, a division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said there is no such stipulation in the concession agreement that allows vehicles to pass without paying the toll. The court considered a PIL (WP-C No. 32672/2017) filed by Thankachan Devassy of Thrissur. Intervention of the court was sought by the petitioner by citing a clause in the concession pact between NHAI and Guruvayur Infrastructure Pvt Ltd. Schedule C of the project facility of the concession agreement stated that ‘normally the service time allowed is 15 seconds for manual/semiautomatic system with a queue length of not more than 5 vehicles at any point of time’. NHAI filed a counter affidavit stating that allowing vehicles to pass without paying toll, citing traffic congestion, is not permissible as per Rule 3 of National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008. The concession agreement only states that the time taken for clearing a vehicle is 15 seconds in a manual or semiautomatic system with a queue length of not more than 5 vehicles and it has nothing to do with a facility to opening up the toll plaza for decongesting traffic block, NHAI submitted. Electronic toll collection through ‘FASTAG’ was introduced to enable vehicles to proceed without stopping, the court was told. The judgment said, “On a perusal of the said specification, what is contemplated thereunder is only an estimation of time taken to clear the vehicle from the toll plaza and that does not mean that if more than 5 vehicles are in the queue, the toll plaza should be opened and all the vehicles shall be allowed to pass toll free. According to us, it is only a figment of imagination of the petitioner that consequent to the specification contained in Schedule C, the concessionaire is liable to be let off the vehicles without charging toll free. This we say because, the issue is guided by Rule 3 of Rules, 2008 and there is no enabling provision under the said Rules which facilitates toll free movement of the motor vehicles consequent to the traffic congestion of more than 5 vehicles.” Noting that traffic congestion at the toll plaza will reduce once ‘FASTAG’ is widely adopted, the court disposed the case by directing NHAI to ensure speedy clearance of vehicles and directing Thrissur SP to ensure that no untoward incidents take place at the toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-clause-for-free-movement-of-vehicles-without-paying-toll-hc/articleshow/76486593.cms||Mahir Haneef
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government tells houseboat industry to stay anchored||ALAPPUZHA: Though the tourism department has approached the state government for permission to resume operating houseboats and shikara boats in the state, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said they'll have to wait until the current situation improves. Speaking to TOI, the minister said that at present the state government is not ready. A top official in the tourism department, has, however, maintained that they had approached the government to resume the industry in tune with the Covid-19 guidelines. The Covid-19 pandemic has rocked the houseboat industry leaving thousands of employees and their dependent families in a difficult situation. At least 4300 were employed in the field and all of them have become jobless. Usually, in April and May, the industry is flooded with bookings mostly from Gulf countries. The same period also brings in a wave of domestic tourists as it is a holiday for school children. But the season has already gone for a toss as the houseboats and shikara boats have been anchored since the first week of February. The industry had only managed to wriggle out of the peril caused by the consecutive floods followed by the Nipah virus situation. That said the houseboat owners wish to remain optimistic. Sagar S, a young houseboat entrepreneur and owner of Rado Houseboats, said that they would be relieved if the government approved to resume operations. “We don’t know if domestic tourists will come as all of them are in financial constraints. But we are hopefully looking forward,” he said. Meanwhile, though there are over 1500 houseboats in the state as per the data available with the port department, only 833 are registered. In the Alappuzha Port, 769 houseboats were registered while there are 34 in Kollam. Kodungallur has seven registered houseboats and there are five in the Beypore port. Besides, Azhikal port has 18 registered houseboats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-govt-tells-houseboat-industry-to-stay-anchored/articleshow/76486604.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana guns for $10billion electronics manufacturing investment||HYDERABAD: Not only has Telangana nearly doubled its IT exports since 2014 to reach Rs 1,28,807 crore in 2019-20, the state is now gunning for investments worth $10 billion in electronics manufacturing sector over the next four years with a target to create over 3 lakh jobs as part of its strategy to make Hyderabad a global electronics hub. According to the Telangana ITE&C department’s annual report for 2019-20 that was released on Saturday, the state’s fledgling electronics sector too has begun attracting serious attention with investments worth Rs 7,371.84 crore. This is one-third the total investment of Rs 21, 536.84 crore the IT & ITeS sector received in 2019-20 and nearly 85% of the cumulative investment of Rs 8694 crore the sector attracted in the previous three years. Electronics giants like Intel, Micron and OnePlus invested in R&D units in FY20, while Skyworth Group, HFCL, ChargeXO, Exicom Group and Innolia Energy invested in manufacturing. Telangana, which houses over 250 electronics companies that employ over 1.15 lakh people, accounts for 6% of the country’s electronics goods production. The report said over 30% (912 acres) of India’s EMC land is located in Hyderabad across two EMCs – E-City at Raviryala and Maheshwaram EMC — and the state has asked the Centre for a third EMC to be notified. The E-City EMC has 2 lakh sqft plug-and-play built up area that will be leased by the next quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-guns-for-10bn-electronics-manufacturing-investment/articleshow/76488115.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM’s doc who tested Covid +ve tests -ve the next day||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat's physician, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, was found negative on Saturday. The physician’s sample had been sent to a lab in Chandigarh and was re-tested after the positive report came in on Friday. Speaking to TOI, Dehradun's Chief Medical Officer Dr BC Ramola said that he will re-analyse all the positive reports that came from Chandigarh lab. “We have decided that we will not send samples from Dehradun to Chandigarh anymore,” said Dr Ramola while adding that Covid-19 test of 24 healthcare staffers was done at GDMCH on Saturday. Among these, 14 positive cases were re-tested and found negative. He informed that the samples were re-tested after it was found that most of the samples sent to Chandigarh are coming out to be "positive". On the day, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally also reached 2,301 with 124 fresh cases. As many as 17 healthcare workers from Dehradun and three from Tehri district were found positive on Saturday along with 104 others. Also, with 17 people getting discharged on Saturday, total recoveries in the state has now shot up to 1,450. “Among the 124 new cases, 34 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 24 from Tehri, 15 from Uttarkashi, 12 from Udham Singh Nagar, 11 from Almora, seven from Chamoli, five each from Bageshwar, Nainital and Haridwar districts, four from Rudraprayag, and two from Pauri,” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 positive case died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. The victim was a 66-year-old woman. According to the hospital, the deceased was referred from the government hospital of Almora. and had travel history from Delhi. She was admitted to the hospital on Monday. The clinical diagnosis of the deceased shows — Type 2-Diabetes Mellitus/Severe Acute Respiratory Infection/Bilateral Pneumonitis/Multi organ dysfunction syndrome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cms-doc-who-tested-covid-ve-tests-ve-the-next-day/articleshow/76486590.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||NSUI protests against holding exams during Covid-19 outbreak||DEHRADUN: Members of National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Indian National Congress, and other student groups on Saturday protested against the proposal of holding college semester exams in times of Covid-19 outbreak. The student groups claimed that the students have not been able to prepare themselves for the exams as those in remote areas couldn't access online classes. The student groups added that a lot of students who are still stuck in their villages do not have books with them. These groups demand that all the students should be promoted or a decision should be taken on the basis of their previous performance. Notably, University exams are scheduled to begin by June last week or by July first week in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-protests-against-holding-exams-during-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/76486601.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP, BJP will fight Baroda bypoll together and win: Dushyant Chautala||JIND: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala announced in Uchana town here on Saturday that the BJP-JJP alliance would contest the Baroda assembly seat bypoll together and would win by a comfortable margin. The constituency in Sonipat district fell vacant aas MLA Krishan Hooda (74) died after a prolonged illness on April 12. The date of election is yet to be declared. Chautala, whose Jannayak Janta Party is in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party, said leaders of both parties had already discussed the bypoll. “We are running a government in the state together and will fight the elections together too,” he added. Chautala added panchayat elections would be held once things went back to normal. “All steps have been taken and officials have beem asked to ensure all arrangements for panchayats elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-bjp-will-fight-baroda-bypoll-together-and-win-dushyant/articleshow/76488114.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Hectic lobbying delaying BJP’s Haryana chief choice’||Chandigarh: After a brief lull, the BJP’s Haryana unit is witnessing hectic lobbying among those linked to the party high command, RSS and chief minister’s team over the choice for the party’s next state president. According to sources, due conflict of choice between RSS ideologues, party high command and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and changed circumstances, the election or selection of state BJP president has been delayed. Sources said the BJP high command was keen on a Jat face. Former ministers Capt Abhimanyu, Om Parkash Dhankar and Panipat Rural MLA Mahi Pal Dhanda are among the frontrunners in case BJP high command and CM go for a Jat face. The RSS, said sources, is looking for a someone with deep roots in the party and and who can confront the government as well as CM. Hence, the RSS seems to be not in tune with CM’s choice of candidates. Hisar City MLA Kamal Gupta and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini are the choice from CM’s team in case party decides to have a non-Jat face, which was unlikely. A senior functionary of the RSS said the organisation would always look forward to a person who could act as catalyst between government and organisation and, if required, could question the government and executive. Unwilling to be identified, he pointed to difference of opinion over CM team’s choices Gupta, Saini and Dhanda, even as the three WEre RSS men. Referring to Capt Abhimanyu and Dhankar, sources said the party high command too was keen on the two due to their stature and acceptability in state. “Both are experienced. Capt Abhimanyu has held several important assignments, which include his role as co in charge for election affairs in western UP during assembly elections. Similarly, Dhankar is a farm leader and the name is recognised by farmers and Haryanvis,’’ a senior functionary in BJP said. . Senior party leaders too have been tight-lipped. BJP national general secretary and Haryana in charge Anil Jain refrained from elaborating on the matter. “Why should we discuss such things in media or public domain. Selection of state BJP president is the organisation’s issue. We have also not yet decided if we will have a new president or will continue with the existing one. This will be finalised by month end,’’ said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hectic-lobbying-delaying-bjps-haryana-chief-choice/articleshow/76488113.cms||Manvir Saini
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang posing as CBI robs seniors, three arrested||NEW DELHI: An interstate gang of men posing as CBI officers to dupe senior citizens of their cash and jewellery has been busted after three members were arrested on Saturday. With their arrest, 26 cases of cheating in south Delhi have been solved. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said that the accused, Lakhvinder Singh, Sonu Kumar and Sunny, claimed to have got the idea to cheat people from a Bollywood movie. The men would first recce an area to identify the target house. Over the next few days they would then collect information about the members of the household and their jobs. Finally, they would enter the house when only the elderly members or women were present. The gang would pretend to be CBI officers and threaten the houseowner in a case of cheating and impersonation. They would get into a conversation with the members present in the house and ask them jewellery and cash stashed for inspection. One of them would engage the target family in the conversation while the others would swipe the jewellery and cash. The cops had received a complaint from one such victim at the Rajpur Khurd village on May 27 and launched a manhunt to nab these men. During the probe, police scanned through CCTV footage from cameras in an area of more than 15 kms from the house of the victims in one which they were captured while fleeing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-posing-as-cbi-robs-seniors-three-arrested/articleshow/76487456.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Institutions, companies to take Yoga Day home||Ahmedabad: To mark the International Yoga Day every year on June 21, yoga practice sessions are organized by public and private institutions, companies and educational institutes across the country. However, due to social distancing measures adopted due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, this year’s theme for International Yoga Day is ‘Yoga for Health, Yoga for Home’. So, several institutions have begun taking their yoga practice sessions online. Ahmedabad-based Dev IT Limited is hosting a yoga session online for its employees to mark the day. “One of our employees is also a yoga instructor, and will demonstrate various yoga poses online for the rest of the team members to follow. This is how the entire team will mark the International Yoga Day. Owing to social distancing norms, we decided to host a live telecast where members can join and practice yoga,” said Jaimin Shah, managing director, Dev IT Limited. The government of Gujarat has encouraged people to practise yoga at home as a way of boosting immunity, through its call for #DoYogaBeatCorona. Many social enterprises have not just limited the online yoga sessions to their own employees, but extended them to all interested. “Yoga is known to be beneficial for both the body and the mind. On the occasion of International Yoga Day, we will be organizing a virtual yoga session not just for our employees, but for all those who are interested. The session will also cover the topic of de-stressing. We will also be organizing webinars on the topic of mental health in the coming days,” said Krishna Handa, founder, Brihati Foundation. Even educational institutions, which were otherwise known to organize elaborate yoga practice sessions not just on the International Yoga Day but even in the run-up to it, have taken yoga practice to their homes. “Our employees will be performing various yoga asanas at their respective places since congregation of people is not possible this year due to the pandemic. We want to inspire everyone to adopt healthy living through yoga amid this challenging and stressful situation,” said a spokesperson from Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/institutions-companies-to-take-yoga-day-home/articleshow/76487578.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held with 59kg of cannabis||Ahmedabad: The special operations group (SOG) of city police on Friday held three persons for smuggling ganja (cannabis) and seized 58.92kg of ganja. The person caught first, Dharmendra Dhamu, 23, was intercepted by cops near Jashodanagar based on a tip-off. “We found 18.20kg ganja from the glove box of the scooter,” said ACP, SOG, B C Solanki. Subsequent raids based on interrogation of Dhamu led to apprehension of two more persons and seizure of more ganja. Cops said the street value of the ganja was Rs 5,89,300 “Dhamu revealed that he was to deliver the ganja to one Premchand Tiwari. We raided his house and nabbed him. Further interrogation revealed that another 40.72kg ganja was at one Amit Patel’s house in Jashodanagar. We made a raid, caught Patel, and seized the narcotics,” Solanki added. SOG said all three have claimed they were working for one Munna Ashwinkumar who lives near the railway tracks in Jashodanagar. “We have sent the accused for pre-arrest Covid tests, and are hunting for Ashwinkumar,” said an SOG official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-with-59kg-of-cannabis/articleshow/76487577.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Man shot dead in Rudrapur: Wife, her paramour and 2 others held||RUDRAPUR: A 25-year-old man was shot dead in the city by his wife’s paramour and two of his accomplices in Mukherji Nagar area of city’s Transit Camp Colony. A manhunt was immediately launched and the deceased’s wife, her paramour and two of his accomplices were nabbed. Police also recovered a .315 bore country-made pistol from the possession of the accused. The deceased was a functionary of the Congress party. Thus, party leaders assembled at his house after the crime came to the fore and demanded strict punishment for the accused. Circle Officer (CO) Amit Kumar said that the police received a phone call at 3 am on Saturday that a man was shot dead by unknown assailants. The kin of the deceased, identified as Sameer Biswas, alleged that his wife Shyamali was behind the murder. “After filing the complaint, we held Shyamali and upon interrogation she revealed that her paramour killed her husband and he was helped by two other persons,” said CO Amit Kumar. Police have arrested all the accused and they have been booked for murder. CO Singh further informed that when police arrived at the spot, Sameer was lying in a pool of blood as he was shot in the head from point blank range. “Shyamali confessed that she was in an illicit relationship with Vishwajeet Roy, a resident of Gularbhoj in Badarpur. On Friday night, she mixed sleeping pills in a bottle of beer and gave it to her husband. After he became unconscious, she called Roy and his accomplices — Shibu Adhikari and Mahesh Sarkar — both residents of Dineshpur. They shot Sameer in the head,” added CO Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-shot-dead-wife-her-paramour-and-2-others-held/articleshow/76486616.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Karnal villager’s cow sets national record by producing 76.61kg milk in a day||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: A Holstein Friesian cow owned by dairy farmer from a Karnal village set a new record by producing 76.61 kg milk in 24 hours at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) in Karnal. Following this feat, NDRI on Saturday honoured the cow owner, Baldev Singh from Galib Kheri village, for the record-breaking yield of his animal. The proud owner termed the animal (entry no. 106232/112) to be a champion performer. "The cow first calved on January 2, 2014, and produced 42 kg milk in a day. In her second and third lactation the yield went up to 54kg and 62kg, respectively. This is the animal’s fourth lactation and it had earlier produced 66.20 kg milk at the National Livestock Championship & Agri Expo-2020, Batala, in Punjab," he said. The same cow had also won the top prize at the 10th PDFA International Dairy & Agri Expo-2015 held at Ludhiana, Punjab, and National Dairy Mela at NDRI, Karnal. Dr MS Chauhan, director, NDRI-Karnal, said Baldev Singh and his brother Amandeep Singh had completed training in management of dairy animals from National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, in 2010 and 2011, respectively, and learnt about scientific breeding and feeding of animals. This training and continuous technical knowhow from NDRI inspired them to take up dairying. Dr Chauhan urged all dairy farmers and rural youth should take up dairying as an entrepreneurship and skill development programme, and welcomed them at KVK, NDRI, Karnal, where such training is conducted. He said Baldev Singh can be a role model for other youngsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/karnal-villagers-cow-sets-national-record-with-76-61kg-milk-in-day/articleshow/76488118.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Sorting centre for dry garbage in Keri gets nod||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has permitted the Keri-Tiracol panchayat to set up a material recovery facility for non-biodegradeable waste in the coastal area, provided that no alteration or harm to vegetation is carried out at the facility sheds. The authority said that permitting material recovery facility is important so that people do not throw non-biodegradable waste into the sea, creek and other water bodies and cause damage to the fragile coastal ecosystem of the state. The authority noted at its recent meeting that the material recovery facility is as required under a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order. “The material recovery facility is basically to collect all types of non-biodegradable waste, be it recyclable or non-recyclable including e-waste. If there is no proper station to receive these material then people such tend to throw it in the open which finally ends up polluting the environment and very often it leads to various water bodies creeks, rivers, seas etc. This is more dangerous as it can affect the fragile eco-system of the coastal area,” said the GCZMA. The Goa State Pollution Control Board gave a permission to set up the facility by setting some terms and conditions, the GCZMA noted. As the area identified in Keri falls under the no-development zone, an expert committee of the GCZMA visited the site for inspection in March this year. “Proposed site falls within the NDZ. However, since the facility proposed does not require any permanent construction of sheds or platforms and being exclusively used for material recovery facility purpose, the project may be recommended with the condition that the area shall be exclusively used for the purpose for which it is allowed,” the GCZMA said. It also said the panchayat will have to give an undertaking that no biodegradable waste will be treated in the facility and that care must be taken to minimise damage to vegetation. No alteration to the landscape should be carried out, except putting up temporary sheds for the purpose of sorting, storing etc, the authority has said. The GCZMA has said that the facility would not in any way affect the environment, but on the contrary the proposal was almost synonymous to blue flag certification of beaches which requires such facilities to maintain beaches in their pristine state. “Although the material recovery facility would cater to the Keri-Tiracol village, the coastal region would also get protected from the litter,” the GCZMA has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sorting-centre-for-dry-garbage-in-keri-gets-nod/articleshow/76488397.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Experts warn growing complacency will cause Covid-19 spike in central districts||Trichy: As the number of Covid-19 cases crossed 1,500 from 1,000 in the central region in just about two weeks, public health experts have sounded a note of caution at the growing complacency among the people in following preventive measures as the lockdown is relaxed. The doctors have predicted a spike in infection rate in the days to come. On June 7, the region had 1,007 cases with Trichy district contributing 15 cases while on June 19, the tally touched 1,522 as 63 new patients were added to the count. Ariyalur remained on top with 414 cases while Trichy and Thanjavur crossed 200 plus cases. Karur, Perambalur, Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur clocked over 100 cases except Pudukottai which has recorded 69 cases so far. While the contribution of Chennai returnees to the district could be an obvious reason for the spike, public health department doctors say the callous attitude of the people in following precautionary measures is also to be blamed. The mortality was comparatively lower in central region in the state as it recorded one death each of Covid-19 patients in Trichy, Pudukottai and Thanjavur. A senior public health officer who requested anonymity said, “Chennai returnees are not the only reason for the increase of cases. People are unmindful of the fast-spreading virus, mortality and other consequences. High-risk category people are more exposed to the virus after the lockdown,” said a senior doctor. Former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr N Balasubramanian said people should understand the severity of the issue and cooperate with frontline health workers and the police. “Healthy people are roaming about in the town and crossing borders clandestinely. They are posing a risk to the high risk category people,” said Balasubramanian. Other doctors pointed out that social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing were considered unnecessary by several people. “They are under the impression that returnees from Chennai, other states and foreign countries are quarantined but they should realize the virus may be prevalent everywhere,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/experts-warn-growing-complacency-will-cause-covid-19-spike-in-central-districts/articleshow/76488119.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Set up Covid-19 help desk: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that the state government establish an integrated help desk for people suspected to have contracted coronavirus infection or other diseases. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, in a statement, said there is chaos and confusion over health issues in the state due to coronavirus. People should be briefed daily, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-covid-19-help-desk-cong/articleshow/76488125.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Man stabbed to death over wine sale dispute||KANPUR: A 48-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by a Palm wine seller, for objecting to sale of wine in a mango orchard in Khidarpur village under the limits of Kotwali police station of Kannauj district. The man identified as Chotey Lal used to guard a mango orchard belonging to ‘Atar’ trader- Anand Pathak of Pathkana area of the district. The accused identified as Ismail, a resident of Khidarpur village used to tap Palm tree in the area and produce and sell wine in the mango orchard of ‘Atar’ trader Anand Pathak, who had deployed Chotey Lal to guard the mango crop this season. The police have booked Ismail and two of his aides on charges of murdering Chotey Lal, a resident of Khidarpur village. Few days ago, Chotey had objected Ismail, who was selling wine in the mango orchard and warned him to apprise police. The accused, along with his two aides had apparently attacked Chotey Lal with a sharp tool around 1 am on Saturday. The assailants fled from the spot leaving Chotey Lal profusely bleeding. Later, he succumbed to his injuries at the spot. On Saturday morning, locals spotted Chotey’s body lying in a pool of blood and alerted his family members and the local police station. Inspector Kotwali, Nagendra Kumar Pathak, said, “In the past also, Ismail had threatened Chotey Lal of dire consequences when he had objected to sale of Palm wine in the mango orchard.” “Victim’s body has been shifted to mortuary and raids are underway to make arrest of the accused. Investigations are underway,” said inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-stabbed-to-death-over-wine-sale-dispute/articleshow/76487816.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 21, 2020||Kanpur||Head constable tests Covid-19 positive||KANPUR: A police head constable posted at MIG police outpost of city’s Panki police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. This has led to panic among the police staff working in close proximity with him. The police outpost was sanitised while the cop was admitted to Naraina Medical College in Gangaganj area of Panki. Panki inspector Shailendra Kumar, meanwhile, said the head constable at MIG outpost was running a fever on Friday. “His swab sample was sent for test the same day and his test report arrived on Saturday which confirmed he was Covid positive. He was admitted to a Covid hospital at the Naraina Medical college,” added the inspector. “Now, we are in the process of identifying other staff members who were in contact with him since the past few days. Their samples will be collected and sent to the Covid lab. Those among the staff who will exhibit symptoms, will also be quarantined,” said Kumar. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla said that the health department team is trying to identify the source of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/head-constable-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76487808.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala division gets 5 new police stations||Ambala: The home department of Haryana government recently established five new urban and semi-urban police stations in three districts of Ambala division, including one at Ambala, and two each at Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts. These three districts come under the jurisdiction of Ambala range of Haryana Police. The new police stations are at Sector 9 in Ambala city, Krishna Gate, Thanesar and Pehowa in Kurukshetra district and Gandhi Nagar and Sector 17, Jagadhri in Yamunanagar districts. Notably, the then additional chief secretary (ACS) of the home department wrote to the director-general of police (DGP), Haryana, a consolidated proposal for establishing five stations on December 26, 2019, and the official notifications have been issued on June 12. According to the official orders, 74 each posts of police staff are sanctioned to the police stations at Gandhi Nagar, Yamunanagar and Sector 9, Ambala City, including one inspector, three sub-inspectors (SI), six assistant sub-inspectors (ASI), 12 head constables (HC), 48 constables (CT), two cooks, one each water carrier and sweeper. Similarly, 61 posts of police staff got sanctioned for police stations at Krishna Gate, Thanesar, Pehowa City, and Sector 17, Jagadhri, including one inspector, two SI, four ASI, 10 HC, 40 CT, two cooks, one each water carrier, and sweeper. With the establishment of these police stations, 13 listed areas were transferred from Baldev Nagar to new Sector 9, Ambala City police station in the Ambala district, 56 from Pehowa to new Pehowa City police station, 62 from Thanesar City to the new Krishna Gate police station in Kurukshetra district. Similarly, 47 areas were transferred from Jagadhri City to new Sector 17, Jagadhri police station and 44 from Farakpur to Gandhi Nagar police station in Yamunanagar district. Ambala-based Punjab and Haryana high court advocate Hemant Kumar said, “The home department can establish new police stations under Section 2 (S) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). However, on the recommendation of DGP, the state government can also establish a new police station under Section 12 of the Haryana Police Act, 2007, but till date none has been established under this law in Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-division-gets-5-new-police-stations/articleshow/76488121.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Snatchers strike twice in four hours in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Days after an elderly man was stabbed and robbed by criminals near the Sarai Rohilla railway station in north Delhi, two back-to-back incidents of snatchings in the area within four hours have left the cops on their toes. The first incident was reported by the wife of a railway employee. She was returning from a market around 5 pm when two men on a white scooter snatched her gold chain and fled. A few hours later, a doctor heading for night duty at a hospital had his phone snatched in Gulabi Bagh. The area did not have any CCTV camera due to which the snatchers could not be identified. Both the incidents happened within an area of three kilometres. In the first incident, the woman told the cops that she was walking down the market in Kishanganj when two men on a scooter approached her from behind to block her path. One of them riding pillion snatched the gold chain from her neck and drove off. The 47-year-old woman could not note down the registration number of the scooter as they drove zigzag through the road. A case of snatching was later registered at the Sarai Rohilla police station. The doctor was targeted within a few hours after this. In his complaint, the doctor told the cops that he had reached the area from south Delhi and asked the cab driver to drop him a few steps away from the hospital gate. After the doctor took out his phone to call someone, two men arrived from behind and snatched the phone from his hand. “Before I could react, they escaped,” he said. A case was registered at the Gulabi Bagh police station and a police team later found no CCTV in the area. The possibility of the same group of criminals being involved in the snatchings is being probed. These incidents have left the residents concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/snatchers-strike-twice-in-4-hrs/articleshow/76487471.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Revenue inspector, aide held for taking bribe||TRICHY: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC), Trichy on Saturday arrested a woman revenue inspector (RI) and a woman village assistant for taking Rs 15,000 bribe to issue a legal heir certificate. The DVAC team led by inspector A Xavier Rani caught RI M Jothimani, 46, and T Rajeswarai, 42, red-handed while they were taking the bribe from I Shivaji Ganesan, 43 of Thavalaiveeranpatti, at the taluk office in Manapparai. I Nallammal, 80, of Thavalaiveeranpatti and her five children, including Ganesan had applied for legal heir certificate from the Manapparai taluk office. Nallammal’s husband Isa Gowndar had passed away 25 years back. Jothimani demanded Rs 25,000 from Ganesan to clear the file. After much bargaining, Jothimani settled for Rs 15,000. Police said that both of them will be produced in the court and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/revenue-inspector-aide-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76488122.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Sarpanch bans widow’s entry into in-laws’ village, women’s panel cries foul||Fatehabad: The state commission for women has taken note of a panchayat diktat in Haryana’s Fatehabad district which banned the entry of a widow into her in-laws’ village for the next 15 years. SCW chairperson Pratibha Suman visited the village on Saturday and urged the district administrator to suspend the sarpanch. She also recommended registration of an FIR against the panchayat. Rajbala Bala Devi said after her husband’s death, the panchayat in Dhani Bhojaraj ordered her to not to set foot in the village till her son turned 18. Rajbala Devi said a panchayat was called when her in-laws refused to give her husband’s share of the land after his death. They agreed to register it in her son’s name but objected to her entry into their house. “This week, the panchayat passed a diktat banning my entry into the village for the next 15 years. It has asked me to live at my parental home with my son and daughter and I am allowed to rejoin my in-laws only after my son turns 18,” she said. Describing this as injustice, Devi said, “It is very difficult for me to live at my parental home for so long.” When contacted, Sarpanch Sadhu Ram said the panchayat did pass an order to such effect. “We called a panchayat as Devi and her in-laws were constantly engaging in domestic fights. Initially, in-laws accused Devi of her husband’s death but later accepted their mistake. We have asked Devi to return to her in-laws’ house when her son attains the age of 18 years,” Ram said. Bhuna block development and panchayat officer Mahender Singh said the panchayat has been unjust to the widow and that the sarpanch had no right to issue such a diktat. “We can only take action against the sarpanch. Rest of the investigation will be conducted by the police if the woman files an official complaint,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sarpanch-bans-widows-entry-into-in-laws-village-womens-panel-cries-foul/articleshow/76488123.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Excise ramps up safety measures for officers||Kochi: The Ernakulam excise division has started taking stringent protective measures after an excise officer died of Covid-19 in Kannur and a policeman in Kalamassery was tested positive. Head shields and reusable PPE kits will be given to officers on outdoor duty like highway patrol, vehicle checking, court duty, surveillance at bars and Bevco outlets. Public entry would be restricted and thermal gun will be distributed at all range and circle offices. All these measures will be implemented with immediate effect, said deputy excise commissioner (Ernakulam) A S Ranjith, adding that the Covid-19 health protocols were already implemented by the department across Kerala, but considering the increasing number of cases, directions were given by the excise commissionerate to strengthen protective measures. “Masks and sanitizers were given to officers earlier too. But now, head-shields and reusable PPE kits will be issued to those officers are exposed to the public in the line of duty. This include those officers in law enforcement duties like highway patrol, vehicle checking. They face high risk of infection due to continuous interaction with the public. Also, chances are there to get infected while inspecting vehicles from other states. Instructions have been given to avoid physical contacts and use gloves in such situations,” said Ranjith. Officials have also been directed to take care of their health and immediately seek medical advice in case of fever or other ailments. All range and circles offices will start thermal screening of visitors and unwanted entries will not be permitted. “Those services which could be availed via online will be given only through online to avoid crowding at offices. People are advised to not visit office if the services they seek can be postponed. Single-point contacts will be implemented in all offices to minimise interaction of officers with the public,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-ramps-up-safety-measures-for-officers/articleshow/76486608.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Freshers to intern for Smart City projects||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation has implemented an initiative under the smart cities mission to offer internship opportunities to fresh graduates to plan and manage the day-to-day activities of the civic body. While young undergraduates will gain work experience in the projects undertaken by the local body and its routine activities, it may consider implementing suggestions and solutions put forward by the interns. Implemented under The Urban Learning Internship Programme (TULIP) of the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), the corporation has invited young undergraduates to apply for the internships. The applicants should apply within 18 months of their graduation. The corporation will provide them a fixed monthly stipend to the interns. The duration of the internship ranges from minimum eight weeks to maximum one year. As the local bodies still pursue conventional methods in formulating new projects and maintaining the existing infrastructure, fresh impetus from young graduates is touted to help the local body explore the latest technological advancements. Engineering streams such as IT, electrical, mechanical and civil are likely to be given a significant weightage in the internship opportunities. “Young graduates have better insight about utilising technology to improvise the overall work efficiency. In return, they will get to know how a local body works,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. The corporation will upload the details of the available intern vacancies and eligibility on www.internship.aicte-india.org. The online applications will be shortlisted based on qualification, skills and locational preference of the applicants. An interview process will follow to select the required interns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/freshers-to-intern-for-smart-city-projects/articleshow/76488131.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: He fought the odds and saved his daughter||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Byju S is a happy man when he watches his eight-year-old daughter Abina smile and play with her elder sister Adna. The Neyyattinkara man’s efforts to save his daughter, who required a liver transplant, succeeded despite lockdown restrictions amid the pandemic. On Father’s Day, Abina’s smile is a precious gift for Byju who was the donor. Byju is a painter by profession and his wife Liji VL, a homemaker. Abina’s life changed during lockdown in March when she contracted fever . She was taken to a hospital when her condition worsened; her stomach also started bloating. As the family moved in and out of hospitals for a few more weeks, the number of Covid cases too increased. Then, doctors asked him to take her to Kochi. The family applied for financial assistance from social security mission. “Doctors told us that she needed immediate surgery and the cost was nearly Rs 20 lakh. Luckily, I was a matching donor, but the cost of surgery was beyond my reach. With no job for two months our family was struggling. The paperwork to get funds from social security mission would take some more time. Then, hospital staff told me about Milaap, a crowd-funding platform. The funds arranged by them were directly transferred to the hospital,” he said. The surgery on April 27 was a success. Abina was diagnosed with Wilson’s disease before her surgery. The crowd-sourcing drive saw the participation of over 600 people who donated around Rs 11 lakh. The social security mission provided Rs 10 lakh for the surgery. Byju arranged Rs 5.5 lakh from his relatives and friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/he-fought-the-odds-and-saved-his-daughter/articleshow/76486648.cms||Anasooya.S
June 21, 2020||Goa||Awareness on cards after pests strike Verna melon crop||Panaji: A recent virulent pest attack that devastated mainly the watermelon crop in Verna and adjoining villages, has been attributed to the cucumber moth – a larva with a good appetite for cucurbitaceous plants. The Agusta watermelon variety had been yielding well for them in recent years and this was the first major pest attack. Due to the lack of pest management expertise, farmers in Verna, Nuvem, Majorda and other areas suffered huge losses. The state’s pest control machinery was informed late about the attack, but the awarness programme couldn’t be conducted due to the nationwide lockdown. The cucumber moth (Diaphania indica), also called pumpkin caterpillar or cucumber caterpillar, feeds on different crops, but preferentially likes various types of cucurbitaceous plants like ridge gourd, snake gourd, pumpkin and muskmelons. The telltale signs of the pest attack are white patches on green part of the watermelons. “Though its quality for consumption remains unaffected, the fruit’s marketability is reduced,” an agriculture department official said. “It is actually the larva that feeds on the plant leaves and later moves to the fruit, scraping its outer skin,” R Maruthadurai, scientist, agricultural entomology, (ICAR), Old Goa said. The larva stage usually lasts nine to 13 days. The issue of the crop damage figured at a meeting convened by the south Goa collector after Goacan, a voluntary organisation called for an interaction to draw up a district action plan to prevent and protect plants, considering that the year is the International Year of Plant Health (IYPH-2020). The department has plans to sensitise farmers before the next season starts. “Surveillance is important to detect the pest during early vegetative stage. The larva can be collected and destroyed. At a later stage, use of bio-pesticides is good for healthy food as compared to chemical ones,” Maruthadurai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awareness-on-cards-after-pests-strike-verna-melon-crop/articleshow/76488398.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Boy drowns in Nethravati river||MANGALURU: A Class 10 student drowned in Nethravati River after he accidentally fell while washing feet, near Boliyar under Konaje police station on Saturday. The victim is Fasil, 14, resident of Nadupadavu near Konaje. The incident happened when Fasil and two other children had gone to a farm in Boliyar located close to the river. After playing, he got into the river to wash his feet and accidentally fell into water. The other children immediately alerted the elders, but failed to save him. His body was recovered from the waters after a few hours. A case of unnatural death record has been registered at the jurisdictional police station. Guard’s body found The body of a 45-year-old person, who had gone missing from Nethravati bridge, was found near Uliya on Saturday morning. Police suspect the victim as Surendra. The resident of Devipura in Talapady was working as a security guard. He may committed suicide after jumping from the bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/boy-drowns-in-nethravati-river/articleshow/76485841.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy to track down rejected e-pass applicants who sneak in||TRICHY: Trichy corporation has embarked on a mission to track down e-pass applicants whose requests to travel to the city from Covid-19 hotspots like Chennai were turned down by the district administration, but who still managed to sneak in. This is based on the assumption that many of these applicants, who are natives of Trichy, had clandestinely made it to the city to ‘escape’ the complete lockdown in Chennai and adjoining districts. Scores of people had applied for e-passes to reach Trichy ahead of the imposition of complete lockdown in four districts including Chennai from June 19 to contain the spread of Covid-19. But, except those for emergency reasons, 4,786 applications were rejected. Officials said that from June 13 to 18, thousands of e-pass applications requesting permission to travel to destinations in Srirangam, Trichy west and Thiruverumbur taluks were received. The applicants include a few people from other states and zones other than Chennai as well. Many of these applications were rejected as the purpose of travel mentioned was not convincing. Considering the desperate movement of people from Chennai and other hotspots, these applicants will now be under surveillance. Usually, those granted e-passes are tracked by the civic body. The district administration has sent the list of rejected applicants with contact information and address to the Trichy corporation for the follow-up. “Our sanitary supervisors and field workers were instructed to check whether any people mentioned in the list had recently reached the address given. If so, we will strictly insist they go on home quarantine,” a corporation official said. If the returnees show any symptoms of Covid-19, they will be immediately sent for sample testing at MGMGH or the corporation’s UPHC. The civic body will paste stickers outside their houses so as to isolate them at the earliest and prevent any further spread of the disease. The corporation has urged residents as well as their welfare associations to share information with it about any clandestine arrival of people from Chennai and other hotspots in their localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-to-track-down-rejected-e-pass-applicants-who-sneak-in/articleshow/76488127.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Online frauds: Hry Police deactivates 392 SIM cards||Chandigarh: In view of the increasing number of online frauds, the Haryana Police has deactivated 392 mobile SIM cards issued on fake and forged documents between May 12 and June 15 this year. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said on Saturday that the Cyber Crime Unit had identified a total of 685 mobile SIMs, which are found to be issued on fake and forged documents by cellular service providers. To get these mobile numbers deactivated, the department of telecommunications, government of India was approached, after which 392 mobile numbers were deactivated by the service providers. The cases of online fraud are increasing by the day and gullible people are being cheated by fraudsters. Such fraudsters mostly carry out their illegal activities by obtaining SIM cards on fake ID proofs to evade detection. Highlighting certain precautionary measures, Virk said cyber criminals are constantly looking for ways to make money at others’ expense. Keeping this in view, it is advised to neither share any personal information like bank account, CVV code, OTP nor respond to suspicious links on WhatsApp or email, as the same could result in siphoning off of funds from bank accounts. “We are time and again advising and cautioning people to be wary of unsolicited and fictitious offers received through phone calls, emails and on social media. At the same time, the mobile service providers have also been asked to verify the documents of SIM card seekers properly,” he added. Cautioning citizens not to fall prey to cyber fraudsters, he also urged them to make complaints regarding any such fraud at cybercrime.gov.in or the office of concerned district superintendent of police or police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-frauds-hry-police-deactivates-392-sim-cards/articleshow/76488126.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||One more month to repair damaged aerobridges at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: It will take one more month to repair three aerobridges at Kolkata airport that were damaged by Cyclone Amphan a month ago, when gusty winds clocking 133 km/hour slammed into the steel and glass building. Work is currently under way on the terminal roof. “Of the 18 aerobridges in the integrated terminal, three were damaged by the cyclone. Though they are still in use when the weather is dry, we have to shut them down when it rains as leaks have sprouted on the roof. The folds in the complicated roofing structure as well as the joints between the profiled metal sheet in the roof and the glass on the facade have developed gaps. We have employed reputable roofing solution provider Llyod Insulations to carry out the repairs but it will take at least a month to complete the work,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee told TOI. The segment of the aerobridge that has been damaged is the portal, a fixed corridor that extends from the terminal building and connects with the retractable arm of the aerobridge that then links with the aircraft. Each portal at Kolkata airport has two levels, one connecting to the security hold area used by departing passengers to board the plane, and the other to the arrival level, used by incoming passengers after alighting from an aircraft. The high-velocity blasts damaged the sealants used to plug the joint between the facade glass panels and the steel roof panels. But joints were exposed in the past as well by birds pecking at sealants. “We carry out regular maintenance during which missing bits of sealant is replaced. But the cyclone has stripped off big sections,” the director said. Officials expect the roof work to be completed by June 30. The cyclone stripped one of the three steel sheet layers and exposed the joints in multiple places. This caused rainwater to drip into the departure terminal, leading to urgent repairs. That work, Bhattacharjee said, had been completed. The overall damage to the terminal caused by the cyclone has been assessed at Rs 80 lakh. The airport operator has claimed insurance for which the survey has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-more-month-to-repair-damaged-aerobridges/articleshow/76487475.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Cops keep vigil in Vengola||Kochi: Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick on Saturday visited the containment zone at Vengola from where the policemen in Kochi who were tested positive hailed from. The SP conducted an assessment of the security measures and gave directions to the personnel deployed in the area. Special picket posts were set up at the containment zone to keep a check on the activities. As many as 20 personnel have been additionally deployed in the zone premises to ensure strict adherence to the restrictions. A control room vehicle (CRV) has been deployed in the zone for 24-hour service. “Entry points to the zone have been closed. No one will be allowed to go into the zone from now on. No one will be allowed to go out of the zone unless for any emergency purpose. On Saturday, police made announcements using megaphone to alert the public,” said an officer. SP Karthick urged the public to cooperate with the police in enforcing the containment measure. Meanwhile, Kalamassery police station, which was disinfected after the policemen tested positive, is slowly getting back on track with patrolling and inspection being held at the houses of over 160 persons under home quarantine by the newly-appointed personnel at the station. According to sources, though there was apprehension among officers about working at the station, it hasn’t affected the morale of the personnel. “We are back at it and things are almost normal. All personnel have been given N95 masks and gloves. Inspection and regular patrolling are done as usual,” said an officer with Kalamassery police station. Metro station inspector A Ananthalal is given charge of the station with over 40 personnel drawn from other stations at Thrikkakara and Ernakulam sub-divisions getting redeployed to the Kalamassery station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-keep-vigil-in-vengola/articleshow/76486629.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Doubting dad seriously hurts newborn in Kerala||KOCHI: In a bizarre incident, cruelty towards a 54-day-old girl child at the hands of her father came to light after police arrested the father, a 40-year-old man, for allegedly hitting the child on her head and throwing her on to the bed after he became suspicious of the child’s parenthood. Shaiju Thomas (40), who hails from Kannur, is the accused. He was arrested on Friday after being charged with Section 307 (attempt to murder) and relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice Act. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. The accused used to stay at Josepuram in Angamaly with his wife, a woman of Nepali descent, his older sister and mother. Police said the incident came to light on Thursday when the family took the child to a private hospital in Angamaly and then to Kolenchery MOSC Medical College hospital. Hospital sources said that the child was brought to the hospital with low haemoglobin count and bleeding in the brain. “The father at first said that the child was sleeping on the edge of the bed and when they woke up the child was found on the floor. Later, he said that he saw a mosquito biting the child and when he hit it, the child fell off the bed. Again, he changed his version that he used a mosquito racket. As he kept on changing his statements, we alerted police,” said a senior doctor with the hospital. Police later questioned the child’s mother with the help of a translator and she said that the accused used to slap the child whenever she cried. She also told police that he hit the child and threw her on to the bed, making the child unconscious. A team led by Chengamanad CI T K Jossy made the arrest. Police said that the accused is a BCom degree holder and used to teach in schools. “The man has an anger management issue. He used to beat his wife and his sister as well after getting drunk. On the day, he was however sober. As per the mother’s statement, he hit the child on her head and threw her on to the bed. He always raised doubts about the child’s parentage. As per our preliminary analysis, these are the reasons for the attack,” said a senior police officer. Another senior officer revealed that the doctors said that there was improvement in the child’s condition, however, she is still not out of danger. “There is bleeding and excess fluid in the brain and in an infant it is a critical condition. There have been continuous seizures as well,” said the officer. Meanwhile, the accused claimed innocence and even resisted the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/doubting-dad-seriously-hurts-newborn/articleshow/76486677.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Fearing cattle menace, farmers in Trichy prefer gingelly crop||TRICHY: Farmers in Trichy district, who cultivated black gram in rice fallow areas and were reluctant to grow pulses due to the increasing cattle menace have started turning towards gingelly crop. The crop, which was cultivated on a negligible area has witnessed a rise this year, as it is disliked by cattle due to its bitter taste. Farmers are also getting a reasonable price due to the increase in consumption of gingelly oil, officials said. Gingelly crop used to be cultivated in a meagre area at Thiruvarumbur block of Trichy district. However, the area was increased to 125 acres by the new scheme ‘targeted rice fallow area (TRFA) oilseeds’ in Pathalapettai village in the block. “Under the scheme, TMV-7 seeds, micronutrients, bio-fertilizers, tarpaulins and other inputs were distributed at a subsidised cost,” consultant of national food security mission, R Santhanakrishnan said after visiting a gingelly field in Pathalapettai as the crop is nearing harvest. “Farmers are expecting a yield of 500 to 600kg per acre which is quite remunerative. This scheme is expected to contribute for the next two years and the impact can be seen with an increase in gingelly area over the coming years in Thiruverumbur block,” assistant director of agriculture, Esther Premakumari told TOI. Farmers who raised gingelly crop were advised to use manganese sulphate and proper water management for better growth of the crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fearing-cattle-menace-farmers-in-trichy-prefer-gingelly-crop/articleshow/76488133.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi crosses 56,000 mark with highest daily jump of 3,630 cases||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 count in Delhi touched 56,746 with 3,630 new cases — the highest in a single day — being reported on Saturday. As many as 17,533 people were tested for the disease in the 24 hours of which 3,630 (20%) tested positive, officials said. Delhi’s death toll mounted to 2,112 with 77 people succumbing to Covid-19 in 24 hours, as per latest data. A 39-year-old doctor died at Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialty Hospital due to Covid-19 on Saturday. On June 1, Delhi had only 20,834 Covid-19 cases and 523 fatalities due to the disease compared to Mumbai’s tally of 41,099 cases and 1,319 deaths. However, in 20 days, Delhi’s numbers have come close to Mumbai’s where 65,239 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19 as on Saturday and 3,561 people have died due to it, and experts believe, the national capital might overtake the financial capital of the country in Covid-19 numbers. Where did Delhi go wrong? According to Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), contact tracing wasn’t carried out effectively in Delhi. “Mumbai did a much better job of tracing the contacts of positive cases which helped limit the spread of the disease, even in places like Dharavi – one of Asia’s largest slums,” he said. The PHFI president said post-lockdown, when the Covid-19 count started surging in the national capital, the government shifted its focus to ramping up infrastructure to hospitalise the seriously ill. Public health measures such as contact tracing and house-to-house surveillance, which are equally important to limiting disease spread, were not carried out effectively, he added. “Even in the containment zones, the authorities failed to ensure strict social distancing. There were reports of people moving freely inside even as the area was barricaded and outsiders weren’t allowed in them,” Dr Reddy said. Lower testing rate was another key problem, said a senior doctor from AIIMS. “Delhi’s testing numbers were as low as 5,000 till May. It picked up only recently. It is possible that many Covid-19 patients, who were asymptomatic, continued to spread the disease because they were never tested,” she added. On Saturday, data shows, 17,533 people were tested for Covid-19 in Delhi – a three times increase compared to last week’s testing number. Recently, on the instruction of union home minister Amit Shah, the state has also initiated house-to-house surveys to ascertain the spread of the virus and put in record the high-risk and vulnerable segments of the population. “This exercise should have been started much before. Also, the government ought to have involved citizens in disease control through mass awareness campaigns. People should know the importance of wearing masks properly and continuing with social distancing measures though the lockdown has ended because cases are still coming and in larger numbers,” Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director in the internal medicine department at Max hospital, Saket. Many health experts also blame lack of coordination between the civic bodies, state and centre for the crisis in Delhi. “There is no coordination between the municipal bodies, state and centre for a concerted approach to take on the crisis,” said a health official, who did not want to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-crosses-56000-mark-with-highest-daily-jump-of-3630-cases/articleshow/76487491.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Outdoor visitors’ rooms opened at police stations||Kochi: With two policemen testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district, Ernakulam rural police have opened outdoor visitors’ rooms to minimize interaction with the public. PROs would meet with complainants in these rooms, maintaining a distance. Rural police also launched modified patrol vehicles on Friday. District police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthick said that unused buildings or rooms in the compound of police stations or makeshift tents would be used for the purpose. “If someone has to meet any particular officer, then that officer too would come to these rooms and address them,” said SP Karthick. He said that video calling facility has been set up at SP and DSP offices so that those who require to meet the senior officers can visit their stations and use the video calling system set up at the front office to talk to the officers. “One policeman, in proper safety gears, would help the public at the front office. After the complainant talks with the officer through video call, he would note down the direction of the superior officer and further action would be taken accordingly,” said SP Karthick. The rural SP on Friday flagged off 15 upgraded patrolling vehicles. The vehicles were fitted with 360-degree cameras, recording facility, display screen, GPS, etc. “The vehicles would be put to use across the rural police district for surveillance. The vehicles are expected to boost the measures to fight Covid as well as the fight against a possible natural calamity that could happen in the coming months,” said an officer with rural police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/outdoor-visitors-rooms-opened-at-police-stations/articleshow/76486646.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to accept online building sanction plan from July 1||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation will start accepting online application for sanction of building plans from July 1. The online project, which was to roll out on Apirl 1 ,was delayed owing to the lockdown. With its introduction, people will have a single-window system that will cut down on delays. Announcing the online system at a virtual interaction with the members of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Saturday, Firhad Hakim, chairperson of KMC’s board of administrators (BOA), said sanctioned plans would get an extension for completion deadline following the disruption caused by the pandemic. The real estate regulator has already given an extension of nine months, followed by a further three months if necessary, for completion of ongoing projects. According to KMC building rules, a realtor or developer is given a five-year deadline to complete a project from the time of receiving approval. If developers fail to finish projects on time, they have to revalidate the project by paying additional fees. Hakim also said KMC would take over the entire process of sanctioning housing projects on thika tenancy land. Currently, an applicant who wants to build housing projects on a thika land needs multiple NOCs from different government agencies, including the state land revenue department, KMC and thika tenancy authorities. “We need to introduce a single-window system at the earliest. KMC will play the role of a nodal agency for sanctioning building plans on thika land in city,” Hakim told CII members. Urging CII and Credai, umbrella organisation of developers, to take the lead to redevelop wholesale hub Burrabazaar, Hakim said extra floor area ratio (FAR) and amalgamation of property would be allowed . Hakim also requested the real estate fraternity to create jobs for migrant labourers who have returned to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-accept-online-bldg-sanction-plan-from-july-1/articleshow/76487488.cms||Saikat Ray
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Same-sex couples can live together even out of wedlock: HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC), while hearing a habeas corpus petition earlier this month, held that same-sex couples have the right to live together even if they are not competent to enter into a wedlock. A single bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma made this observation on June 12 while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman alleging that her partner — a major with whom she has been in a consensual relationship since 2016 — has been illegally confined by her mother and brother. Citing Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, which upholds right to life and personal liberty, the judge said, “Intimacy of marriage, including the choice of partner, which an individual makes, on whether or not to marry and whom to marry are the aspects which exclusively lie outside the control of the state or the society. The court as an upholder of the constitutional freedom has to safeguard that such a relationship where there is a choice exclusively vested with a major person, has to be honoured.” “In view of the above concept, this court is in agreement that the consensual cohabitation between two adults of the same sex cannot in our understanding be illegal far less a crime because it’s a fundamental right which is being guaranteed to the person under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, to protect an inherent right of self-determination with regards to one’s identity and freedom of choice with regards to the sexual orientation of choice of the partner,” he added. Referring to the apex court’s observation that courts should not assume the role of a ‘super guardian’, Justice Sharma said that individuals, even those belonging to the same sex, have the “right to live together even outside wedlock”, adding that a live-in relationship is now recognised by the legislature too. The judge, however, dismissed the habeas corpus petition as the detenue withdrew her earlier statement concurring with the petitioner that she was being confined against her will. When the court proceedings were conducted at Justice Sharma’s residence on June 8, she said that she wanted to live with her parents and there was no illegal confinement. The same was reiterated on June 12 after which the court dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/same-sex-couples-can-live-together-even-out-of-wedlock-hc/articleshow/76485083.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||PASA order against Sonu Dangar junked||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday quashed a Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) detention order against Rajkot gangster Sonu Dangar. The order had been issued in connection with a video she had circulated in December last year, allegedly abusing cops in Amreli district. Police said that Dangar had circulated the video abusing Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai and sub-inspector A P Dodia to obstruct investigation against one of her gang members. She was booked for criminal intimidation, criminal defamation, and insulting religion. After the FIR was filed, the Amreli collector issued the detention order under PASA by declaring Dangar a dangerous person to public order. She challenged the invocation of PASA in the HC, arguing that declaring her dangerous on the basis of one FIR was not justified. Justice S H Vora on Friday quashed the detention observing, “…simpliciter registration of FIR/s by itself cannot have any nexus with the breach of maintenance of public order.” In legal parlance, simpliciter denotes something done ‘simply or unconditionally’. The judge went on to say: “And the authority cannot have recourse under the PASA and no other relevant and cogent material exists for invoking the power under Section 3(2) of the Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pasa-order-against-sonu-dangar-junked/articleshow/76487576.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s Antra Mehta first woman fighter pilot from Maharashtra||Nagpur: Nagpurian Antra Mehta, flying officer with the Indian Air Force, has become the first woman fighter pilot from Maharashtra and tenth overall. She completed her schooling from Mount Carmel High School and got her engineering degree from Sri Ramdeobaba Kamla Nehru College of Engineering. A national-level basketball player, Antra always aspired to join IAF. She was trained at the Air Force Academy in Hyderabad. She honed her skills flying the Pilatus PC7 and then for stage two at Fighter Training Wing she flew Kiran MK 1 aircraft. A combined passing out parade (with other branches) was held at Hyderabad. Antra’s advanced training will continue at Air Force Station in Bidar and Kalaikonda. She gives the credit of her success to parents Punam and Ravi Mehta and sister Deepshika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-antra-mehta-first-woman-fighter-pilot-from-maharashtra/articleshow/76486456.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Police catch robbers in Pudukottai with 100 sovereigns jewellery||TRICHY: Police arrested five members of an 11-member gang that looted valuables and cash from a house in Dindigul. The arrests were made in Pudukottai district on Friday. The arrested have been identified as M Chellapandi, 22, K Kalyanasundaram, 35, K Kalaignanam, 27 from Ramanathapuram district and N Ajeesh, 20, M Santhosh, 23, from Pudukottai district. In a broad daylight robbery, the gang armed with machetes and knives barged into the house of Durai Adithan, 54 near Sukkampatti and decamped with more than 100 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs 35 lakh in cash at knife point. Seven of the gang escaped in a jeep and two of them in a motorcycle and two in a mini truck after the robbery. In the evening, the jeep was intercepted by a police team at Ponnamaravathi in Pudukottai district and caught five members of the gang and seized the jewellery and cash from the vehicle along with the weapons used for threatening the family. Pudukottai police said that the arrested had involved various other robberies that took place in the recent past in Pudukottai and neighbouring districts. A case has been registered by Ponnamaravathi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-catch-robbers-in-pkottai-with-100-sovereigns-jewellery/articleshow/76488140.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Shops in Karur to function only till 2pm||TRICHY: As part of curbing movement of people in public places, shops in Karur municipal limits will only be allowed to operate till 2pm from Sunday. An order to this effect was issued on Saturday by district collector T Anbalagan. Anbalagan said that the move is aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19, as more people from other states and abroad have been entering the district, especially in the municipal limits. He expressed concern over unnecessary movement of people in public places after the relaxation of lockdown norms. Social distancing norms are being flouted by people and many are venturing out sans facemasks increasing the potential for spreading the virus. Therefore, curbing the movement of people has become pivotal to containing the spread, said the collector in a statement. All the commercial establishments including textile, jewellery and grocery shops will operate only till 2 pm from Sunday onwards. Shops that fail to ensure social distancing on its premises will be sealed. People venturing out without facemasks will be penalised, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shops-in-karur-to-function-only-till-2pm/articleshow/76488134.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Sludge from Canacona bypass mars service rd||Poinguinim: Sludge from the new bypass road at Canacona that was inaugurated last November has washed onto an adjoining service road due to torrential rain over the past few days, inconveniencing residents of Galgibaga, Colsor, Talpona and surrounding areas. Some commuters who use this road on a daily basis told TOI that several two-wheeler riders sustained minor injuries over the past two days after their vehicles skidded on the slippery surface. When contacted, PWD assistant engineer (highways) Subhash Pagi told TOI that M Venkata Rao Infra Projects Pvt Ltd, the contractor responsible for building the bypass road, has been alerted to the situation and has agreed to rectify it on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sludge-from-canacona-bypass-mars-service-rd/articleshow/76488401.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||19,500 register for UG courses at Delhi University on Day 1||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s admission process began on Saturday with 19,543 students registering for the undergraduate courses within four hours of the portal going live. The registration portal will remain open for students till July 4. As many as 5,889 students registered for admissions to the postgraduate courses and 457 for PhD. The portal will be re-opened for students to upload their marks later. As the varsity is waiting for clarity on the CBSE board exams, the cutoff dates will also be announced afterwards. The registrations are open for students applying for merit-based and entrance-based courses. There are 10 courses for which entrance exams are held by National Testing Agency in 20 cities. The dates are yet to be announced. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the admission process has seen several changes this year. While admissions under the extracurricular activities quota, except for NSS and NCC, have been scrapped, sports admissions will be based on only certificates. The admission process will be contactless and students will not have to go to college to complete the admission process. The colleges will verify the documents online. “No application will be left undecided. It will either be approved or declined. The uploaded documents will be verified by respective colleges within the stipulated time period. If at this stage, it is found that the information given by the applicant is false and is not supported by the documents presented, the admission will be immediately cancelled. No fees will be refunded in such cases,” said Shobha Bagai, the admission branch head, at an online press meet. Instead of the ‘open days,’ which the university used to conduct to clarify doubts related to registration and admission, Delhi University would be conducting webinars. Bagai added, “The first few webinars will explain the registration process. Later, such webinars can be used to clarify any doubts related to the admission process.” Earlier, the colleges used to reserve up to 5% seats for sports and ECA categories. Now with ECA admissions scrapped, the colleges have been asked to rework their seat matrix. As per the information bulletin, the university will release five cutoffs. Even after this, if seats remain vacant for the general category, the colleges will be releasing a special cutoff. The cutoff for the special cutoff admissions will be the last cutoff declared by the college for a particular course. For reserved categories, special drives will be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/19500-register-for-ug-courses-at-du-on-day-1/articleshow/76487504.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Shortage of counsellors a concern||Kochi: With the rise in the number of Covid positive cases, there has been an increase in the number of people undergoing quarantine as well in the district. Several of them have been calling up counsellors seeking assistance to beat quarantine blues. However, the mental health wing in the district is staring at a dearth of counsellors as many of them were voluntarily offering their services to those in quarantine and have taken up their previous jobs since the relaxation of the lockdown. There were around 160 counsellors in the psychological support team to hold the counselling sessions for people during the lockdown. Once the lockdown restrictions began to be lifted and offices resumed functioning, they have moved to their previous jobs leaving only a handful in the support team to do the job. “Currently, we have only 75 counsellors to hold the sessions. We would be needing the service of more counsellors in view of the rising number of Covid cases and people in quarantine. Some students will have expressed willingness to do internship with us. We plan to engage them for the time being after giving them training. We hope to rope in a few of them when the need arises,” said Soumya Raj, district coordinator of the mental health program. Around 1,500 calls are made from the mental health team per day. G Dinakaran, president of the association of professional counselling psychologists, Kerala said the association will support the government to provide psychological support to people in need. “More people are expected to reach Kerala from abroad and other states in the coming days. They might face several psychological issues while undergoing quarantine. Though the government has not approached us so far, we are ready to deliver the service if the need arises considering the existing situation in the state,” said Dinakaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shortage-of-counsellors-a-concern/articleshow/76486665.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dalit bank employee accuses managers of casteist abuse||Ahmedabad: A 32-year-old woman bank employee, who is from a scheduled caste, has accused her zonal manager and deputy general manager, of harassing her and making derogatory comments about her caste. She filed a complaint at Ellisbridge police station on Saturday.According to the FIR, the woman has been working for the bank as a ‘rajbhasha adhikari’ since July 2017. She stated that Vijay Kumar, posted in the office as zonal manager since April 2019, knew that she is from a scheduled caste. She stated in the FIR that whenever Vijay Kumar would pass by her, she had to step away.She has also accused her deputy general manager, Jatin Chaudhary, of casteist behavior against her. “She alleged that both the accused would use foul language against her and try to intimidate her. She stated that the accused used proscribed words about her caste against her and tried to harass her,” said an Ellisbridge police official.“We registered an offence under Sections 354 A (1) (4), 354 (3) and 114 of the IPC and violation of the Atrocities Act against the accused. We are verifying the details stated in the FIR,” said a senior Ellisbridge police station official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dalit-bank-employee-accuses-managers-of-casteist-abuse/articleshow/76487575.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Eyebrows raised over Quepem babu’s transfer||Quepem: Citizens from Quepem and Curchorem constituencies have voiced their disapproval over the sudden transfer of Quepem mamlatdar Rosarrio Carvalho, within 16 days after taking charge, terming it as an act of political interference. Carvalho was a joint mamlatdar at Quepem. Under secretary Shashank V Thakur had issued a transfer order on May 29, in which eight mamlatdars were transferred on the recommendation of the Goa Services Board. Carvalho was transferred as mamlatdar, according to the order. However, another order issued by Thakur on June 16 sought to transfer Carvalho back to joint mamlatdar I of Quepem, with additional charge of joint mamlatdar II. Deputy sarpanch of Assolda panchayat, Anthony Fernandes, along with panch members Manoj Naik, Sushant Naik and Subhash Dessai met power minister Nilesh Cabral on June 17 and questioned why Carvalho who worked dedicatedly was transferred within 16 days of taking charge. Fernandes said that Cabral said is unaware about the transfer order and assured that Carvalho will remain as Quepem mamlatdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eyebrows-raised-over-quepem-babus-transfer/articleshow/76488403.cms||Johnny M
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Mentally-ill woman reunites with family||Hyderabad: Telangana police helped reunite a mentally-ill 35-year-old woman, who had accidentally reached New Delhi, to her family. The woman, a resident of Mettupally village in Bhupalpally’s Mogupally mandal had mistakenly boarded the wrong train while travelling home from Godavarikhani and reached New Delhi on March 17. Soon after, the lockdown was declared and she remained quarantined in a hospital there. After she was discharged, she went to Ghaziabad. While she was roaming around, an individual, Vidya Sagar, noticed that she was not a local and approached her. He then helped her contact her husband, Rajaiah,who contacted additional SP, Bhupalpally. The SP at Ghaziabad rural was contacted then, who helped them reunite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mentally-ill-woman-reunites-with-family/articleshow/76488150.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Astronomy buffs raring to view ‘necklace of pearls’||LUCKNOW: Astronomy buffs in the city are gearing up to witness the rare celestial event — the annular solar eclipse — on Sunday, but there won’t be the usual arrangements and crowd at the Indira Gandhi Planetarium this time due to Covid-19 curbs. Rather for the first time, the Indira Gandhi Planetarium will live stream the celestial event for astronomy enthusiasts. Solar eclipse takes place each year, but is not visible across globe. The next ‘ring of fire’ solar eclipse will be visible in India in 2031 while in the city it will be visible in 2034. “The annular solar eclipse occurs when the Moon comes in between the Sun and earth and blocks its view, and since the Moon is smaller and cannot cover it fully, a circular ring of Sun remains visible. It appears like a ‘ring of fire’ and is also called a necklace of pearls,” said scientific officer, Indira Gandhi Planetarium, Sumit Srivastava. “In this eclipse, that ring is expected to be very thin as the Moon will cover up to 98.8% of the solar disc, making it the “deepest” annular eclipse of the century in India,” he added. “In Lucknow, 84.24% of the sun will be hidden by moon from 12:11:15pm to 12:12:02 pm for 47 seconds,” said Srivastava. The sun will appear like a necklace of pearls for around 30 seconds where full eclipse is visible, he added. “We are not installing telescope at the planetarium for public viewing this time due to the pandemic, but will live stream it on YouTube channels ‘CSTUP’ and ‘UPASTROCLUB’. The link of live streaming will be made available on the website of Council of Science and Technolgy, Uttar Pradesh, said Srivastava. “It is a wonderful opportunity to witness this rare celestial show from the comfort of one’s home via live streaming. The next annular solar eclipse will be visible in city after 14 years,” he added. “Instead of a ring of fire, the Sun may appear as a necklace of shiny beads, known as Baily’s beads,” said a member of Scientific Knowledge for Youth Amateur club Swapnil Rastogi. “If you want to witness the eclipse, do not look at the Sun directly as it could harm the retina of eye. It’s important to wear proper eye protection like goggles for looking directly at the Sun without damaging your retina,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/astronomy-buffs-raring-to-view-necklace-of-pearls/articleshow/76488145.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 21, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy director named president of binational organization||TRICHY: Director of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy, Mini Shaji Thomas has been appointed as president of the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute (SICI) - a bi-national organization that promotes understanding between India and Canada through academic activities and exchanges. The decision was taken in the annual general meeting of SICI held on Saturday. John Kershaw from the University of New Brunswick, Canada, took over as the vice-president of SICI. SICI was initiated in 1968 by the government of Canada, and became bi-national in 2005. It has 114 premier academic institutions as its members in India including IITs, IIMs, NITs, law schools, central and state universities and 42 universities in Canada. It is funded by partners closely with government bodies both in India and Canada. The internship and fellowship programmes of the institute provide opportunities for individuals to gain first-hand experience in India or Canada. The aim is to facilitate scholarly research and exchanges between Indian and Canadian universities, cultural organisations, government bodies and United Nations millennium development goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-director-named-prez-of-binational-organization/articleshow/76488148.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Trichy||Some schools make Class X students rewrite half-yearly exams secretly||TRICHY/COIMBATORE: At least two government high schools in Trichy and a private school in Tirupur have allegedly made Class X students rewrite half-yearly examinations secretly after the government scrapped the board exams and asked schools to submit quarterly and half yearly answer scripts to award marks. According to teachers, around 30 students of government high school in Seerathoppu in Trichy were asked to come on Thursday to write the half yearly exam again for Tamil paper as the answer scripts were missing. A few of them wrote mathematics paper too the same day. It was not clear how the exams were conducted or whether Covid-preventive steps were taken for the exercise. While the headmistress could not be reached on phone, a similar incident was reported at the government high schools in Inamkulathur and Poongudi as well. The headmaster of Poongudi school however denied having called students to the school for writing exams again. The private school in Tirupur allegedly sent half-yearly question papers to its students on WhatsApp and asked them to submit the filled-in answer sheets at the school on Saturday. As visuals of parents and students visiting the school with answer sheets went viral, Tirupur CEO R Ramesh went to the school and held an inquiry. However, he said that they could not find any incriminating evidence on the school campus. “After we learnt about the allegations, we visited the school, but could not find any parents or students,” he told TOI. Sources say the matriculation school at Chettipalayam in Tirupur did it in a bid to boost the marks of its students as the marklists were yet to be submitted to the directorate. The state government had announced after cancelling board exams for Class X and the pending exams for Class XI that all Class X students were promoted and their marksheets would be prepared with 80% marks from their quarterly and half yearly exams and 20% from their attendance. The directorate of government examination had asked headmasters to submit records including progress report, mark registers and answer scripts for half-yearly and quarterly exams by Monday to prevent malpractices and inflation of marks by schools. Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi has asked schools not to engage in such activities saying that submitting hard copy of half-year marksheets is not mandatory. She said action will be initiated if they receive complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/some-schools-make-class-x-students-rewrite-half-yearly-exams-on-the-sly/articleshow/76488151.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||SHRC directs Gandhi Hosp to submit report on scribe’s death||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Saturday directed the superintendent of Gandhi Hospital to submit a report on the complaint filed by the journalists forum for Telangana, alleging medical negligence and irregular treatment of duty doctors at Gandhi Hospital which resulted in the death of one Manoj Kumar, a journalist. In the complaint, Amarender Rao, a representative of the journalist forum, alleged that after being admitted in the isolation ward, Kumar was barely attended to. They said that despite complaining of severe pain and breathing complications, he was neither given oxygen nor taken to the ICU. It was submitted that since the journalist’s brother, Sainath, was also admitted in the same ward, he appealed to the doctors to take care of the matter, but still, he was not shifted to the ICU despite instructions by a senior doctor claiming that they don’t have enough beds in ICU and oxygen cylinders. Claiming that Kumar’s old-aged parents and wife, who were dependent on his earnings, were thrown into utter hardship and mental agony, he demanded that the forum to direct the state to pay Rs 1 crore and a government job for Kumar’s wife on compensatory grounds. Kumar was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on June 4 and succumbed to Covid-19 on June 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-directs-gandhi-hosp-to-submit-report-on-scribes-death/articleshow/76488158.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Teacher loses Rs 95K to cyber fraud||Vadodara: A female tuition teacher living in Bhayli lost Rs 95,775 in an online fraud on March 19. The woman Rupal Shah lodged an offence at Vadodara Taluka police station on Thursday. Shah told police that an unidentified person identifying self as a customer care executive from PayTM asked her to verify her know-your-customer (KYC) details as it had expired. To renew the KYC, the accused asked her to download TeamViewer QuickSupport application on phone and make a transaction of Re 1 through the PayTM. Later, although she did not make any more transactions, Shah received messages on her phone from her bank informing her that Rs 50,997 and Rs 44,878 have been spent on her credit card. Police said that since the country was under the lockdown, she lodged the offence now. “It is a standard modus operandi wherein the accused asks the victim to download the TeamViewer QuickSupport application. This application is used to get support for a mobile device from a computer located anywhere in the world due to which the accused can access all information on the mobile phone,” said a police official. He added that the accused first sends an SMS mentioning that the KYC has expired and asks them to respond to it. “If the victim responds, the accused calls them to con them,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teacher-loses-rs-95k-to-cyber-fraud/articleshow/76486640.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Some schools make Class X students rewrite half-yearly exams secretly||TRICHY/COIMBATORE: At least two government high schools in Trichy and a private school in Tirupur have allegedly made Class X students rewrite half-yearly examinations secretly after the government scrapped the board exams and asked schools to submit quarterly and half yearly answer scripts to award marks. According to teachers, around 30 students of government high school in Seerathoppu in Trichy were asked to come on Thursday to write the half yearly exam again for Tamil paper as the answer scripts were missing. A few of them wrote mathematics paper too the same day. It was not clear how the exams were conducted or whether Covid-preventive steps were taken for the exercise. While the headmistress could not be reached on phone, a similar incident was reported at the government high schools in Inamkulathur and Poongudi as well. The headmaster of Poongudi school however denied having called students to the school for writing exams again. The private school in Tirupur allegedly sent half-yearly question papers to its students on WhatsApp and asked them to submit the filled-in answer sheets at the school on Saturday. As visuals of parents and students visiting the school with answer sheets went viral, Tirupur CEO R Ramesh went to the school and held an inquiry. However, he said that they could not find any incriminating evidence on the school campus. “After we learnt about the allegations, we visited the school, but could not find any parents or students,” he told TOI. Sources say the matriculation school at Chettipalayam in Tirupur did it in a bid to boost the marks of its students as the marklists were yet to be submitted to the directorate. The state government had announced after cancelling board exams for Class X and the pending exams for Class XI that all Class X students were promoted and their marksheets would be prepared with 80% marks from their quarterly and half yearly exams and 20% from their attendance. The directorate of government examination had asked headmasters to submit records including progress report, mark registers and answer scripts for half-yearly and quarterly exams by Monday to prevent malpractices and inflation of marks by schools. Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi has asked schools not to engage in such activities saying that submitting hard copy of half-year marksheets is not mandatory. She said action will be initiated if they receive complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/some-schools-make-class-x-students-rewrite-half-yearly-exams-on-the-sly/articleshow/76490808.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 21, 2020||Pune||Trio booked for cheating 21 people of Rs 48.32 lakh||Pune: The Deccan Gymkhana police on Friday booked three persons from Kothrud on the charge of duping 21 people of Rs 48.32 lakh collectively by luring them into investing in a fake scheme of handsome returns and cheaper loans. Police said the suspects had temporarily opened an office on Karve Road where they accepted investments from the unsuspecting customers. Police said the suspects claimed they were running two separate companies from the same office. “The trio claimed one of the companies would provide cheap and easy loan to the customers while the other called for investment from people with the promise of hefty returns,” sub-inspector Vitthal Zanjurne of Deccan Gymkhana police station said. The officer said the trio did not return money to the investors after lapse of the maturity period and shut down their shop before the lockdown. “The scam came to light when one of the investors, a woman (37) from Narhe, lodged a complaint,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-booked-for-cheating-21-people-of-rs-48-32-lakh/articleshow/76487505.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Chicken kebabs new normal, Tunday unlocks after 90 days in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: When Lucknow’s iconic Tunday Kababi reopened after an unprecedented closure of 90 days, a lot had changed at the Nawabi-era eatery. Most importantly, for fans of the 115-year-old recipe the experience of melt-in-the-mouth kebabs was not the same. Its signature dish of galawat kebabs made with buffalo meat has been replaced with that of chicken kebabs as a ‘majboori’ because buffalo meat is not available in the city since the lockdown. Though the eatery is also serving mutton kebabs, sales have barely touched 60% of what they were before the lockdown. Besides, the restaurant which had tables packed closed together and one would usually need to wait to get a seat now looks bare. Only two people, with sometimes a child, are allowed on one table to follow social distancing norms and there is space between two tables. Besides, prices of dishes such as kebabs, parathas and biryani have also gone up. Mohamad Usman, the owner, said that all three major outlets had reopened. “We have resumed operations at Akbari Gate, Aminabad and Kapoorthala outlets. The focus, however, is now on chicken dishes because chicken is available easily but mutton is still difficult to get. Buffalo meat, as of now, is completely off the market. Meat sellers have no idea when that crisis would get resolved,” said Usman, whose great grandfather had developed the Nawabi-era recipe. Making the kebabs with chicken meat, however, is a challenge and in a way, incongruous with the idea of melt-in-the-mouth. “Chicken meat is drier and doesn’t get tenderized as well as buffalo meat. We have used the same spices and method but the difference will remain. Lekin abhi to majboori hai (We have no choice),” says Usman. The supply chain of even the available meat is not back to normal as yet. There is still shortage of meat sellers as many have not been able to resume operations owing to losses. Besides, the cost of meat has gone up substantially. “Both mutton and chicken meat are being sold at a higher price than before. As a result, we have been forced to increase prices slightly. But, we have considered affordability of people,” said Usman. The early closing time is proving to be another obstacle. “We don’t expect people to come in large numbers as of now. However, the closing time of 9pm is a hindrance to the little turnout which we are seeing. Daytime is very hot and people step out at dinnertime but we need to close early,” said Usman. While seating arrangement has been modified to follow social distancing, the restaurant is allowing dine-in on only one section. Its focus remains on takeout services though home delivery orders have gone down by more than half of usual.  At another eatery which is more than a century old, a revolution of sorts is in the making. Shoaib Rizwan Qureshi, the third-generation owner of Mubeen’s, known for signature its dish ‘pasande’ and ‘nahari’ is also experimenting with chicken dishes. “We have been trying chicken nihari with the same meticulous process as was used with buffalo meat. We made our family members try the dish and at first, they outright disapproved of it. However, after relentless efforts, we have managed to get close to the original taste. If all goes as planned, we will open in a few days,” said Qureshi. However, he too reiterates that the iconic preparations using buffalo meat and mutton would be missed dearly. Both Usman and Qureshi said that permission to all meat sellers was imperative to keep the name of Lakhnavi cuisine intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chicken-kebabs-new-normal-tunday-unlocks-after-90-days/articleshow/76488157.cms||Rashi Lal
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat RS polls: Despite being third candidate, Narhari Amin got highest vote value||GANDHINAGAR: Despite being the third candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Rajya Sabha election, Narhari Amin won the election with the highest vote value on Friday. The BJP won three of the four seats for which polling was held at the Vidhan Sabha. This happened despite the fact that he polled four less first-preference votes than the two other BJP candidates Abhay Bharadwaj and Ramila Bara. The value of Amin’s votes at the end of counting stood at 3,596 (each RS vote carries a value of 100 points; value of each surplus vote of elected candidates was 198 this time ), while the three other winning candidates Abhay Bharadwaj (BJP), Ramila Bara (BJP) and Shaktisinh Gohil (Congress) each secured a vote value of 3,401. The losing Congress candidate had a vote value of 3,198. Simply put, Amin secured 35.96 votes, Bharadwaj, Bara and Gohil got 34.01 votes each while Bharatsinh Solanki got 31.98 votes in the election. At the first count of votes, Amin had a vote value of 3,200, while the two other BJP candidates had 3,600 each. One vote having a value of 198 was transferred from Bharadwaj’s tally and one from Ramila Bara’s tally to Amin, taking his vote value to 3,596 (3200+198+198). The value of votes polled by Bharatsinh Solanki was 3,000 and the overflow of one vote of Shaktisinh with a value of 198 was transferred to him, taking his vote value to 3,198.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-being-third-candidate-amin-got-highest-vote-value/articleshow/76487572.cms||Kapil Dave
June 21, 2020||Goa||22k non-Krishi card holders can avail of cashew scheme||Panaji: Goa boasts nearly 60,000 cashew farmers. But out of these, nearly 22,000 of them are not Krishi card holders, a handicap that doesn’t allow them to avail of various state-sponsored benefits and schemes. Now, in a move that is bound to bring relief to these farmers, agriculture minister and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar has said that under the revised scheme, the benefits will be extended to this section too. Under this new development, non-Krishi card holding farmers will be allowed to purchase a minimum of 20 and a maximum of 40 cashew saplings at a subsidised rate of Rs 15. The remaining part of the scheme, where the farmer gets Rs 300 per plant over a period of three years, will remain the same. “The initial investment for every farmer interested in cashew cultivation has been eased by making cashew sapling available at just Rs 15 each,” Kavalekar said. Further, the subsidy for purchasing cashew sapling will be given at source. Earlier farmer had to pay the entire amount upfront and apply for 75% subsidy later with the department. Now, the farmers will only pay the Rs 15 per plant upfront. The balance amount will be transferred directly to the registered vendor’s account. Even the initial Rs 15 the farmers pay for the plant they will recover when the scheme’s first year benefit is transferred into their account, thus making the sapling virtually free for the farmer. Kavalekar said that the exemption of the Krishi card requirement is expected to benefit more cashew growers as one of the preamble to avail the card was ownership of land or authority to cultivate it. As a result, poor farmers who did not have land to cultivate in their name could not avail this scheme so far. Meanwhile, it seems that an increasing number of Goans are taking to farming. As compared to last year, this year, during the lockdown, the agriculture department sold five times more kharif vegetable seeds. WhatsApp groups under the name 'e-Krishi Sampark’ have also been started where department officers and farmers can interact. “Each group also has a high-ranking officer which helps in fast complaint redressal as well as farmer appreciation,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/22k-non-krishi-card-holders-can-avail-of-cashew-scheme/articleshow/76488406.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sreekaryam flyover: KIIFB allots Rs 35cr for land acquisition||Thiruvananthapuram: The land acquisition for constructing a flyover at Sreekaryam is likely to begin soon. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has handed over first instalment of the fund for acquiring land for the flyover, which is expected to resolve traffic congestion at the junction. Deputy managing director of KIIFB Virakmjit Singh handed over Rs 35 crore to chief general manager of Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Limited (KRTC) Anand Elamon, in the presence of tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran, on Friday. The compensation amount will be handed over to district administration who will then distribute it among people who surrendered their property for the project. “The capital’s dream project is becoming a reality. The project will resolve the traffic snarl at Sreekaryam Junction, which is one of the major roads that connects the city with Kazhakoottam,” Surendran said. The flyover at Sreekaryam will be a four-lane road with a width of 7.5 metres on both the sides. The total width of the flyover will be 15 metres and there will be service roads of 5.5m width each on both sides. The 535-m-long flyover will run from Chavadimukku to Kallampally Junction. The flyover is proposed as a technical requirement for Light Metro project. The development of Sreekaryam Junction is also included in the project. The project is estimated to cost Rs 135.37 crore, including for land acquisition. The project requires acquisition of 1.34 hectares. The work for two other flyovers proposed at Pattom and Ulloor will begin shortly. “Along with the land acquisition, technical study of the project and tender procedure are in progress,” added Surendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sreekaryam-flyover-kiifb-allots-rs-35cr-for-land-acquisition/articleshow/76486729.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||KA’s theatre webinars from tomorrow||Panaji: Kala Academy Goa’s College of Theatre Arts will be starting its masterclass webinar series from Monday onwards. The inaugural session will feature playwright and director, Vijaykumar Vishwanath Naik who will speak on theatre arts on June 22 at 4pm. Naik has been credited for founding the organization Hauns theatre training centre in Ponda. TOI had earlier reported that the institute had invited applications from theatre personalities to volunteer for this initiative in the wake of lockdown restrictions. Officials from the institute said that they have received about 15 proposals from theatre personalities and experts in the field from Goa and other parts of the country. About two to three webinars will be held in a week wherein the panelist will speak for 45 minutes, following which the online attendees will be given 15 minutes for Q&A. The webinars are free and open for all with prior registration. The institute has already received 200 registrations on Google Meet. Since the online platform has a limit of only 250 participants, the institute is contemplating live streaming the webinar in case the limit exceeds. On Monday, Kala academy will release the schedule for the other webinars along with the list of speakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kas-theatre-webinars-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76488408.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Government to probe refusal charge against hospital: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has asked the AAP government to probe allegations against a private hospital that it forced out a physically disabled woman, suspected to be suffering from Covid-19, to another hospital citing lack of beds. Justice Navin Chawla, who conducted the hearing through videoconferencing, said the allegations are of “grave nature” while ordering an investigation. “As allegations made by the petitioner (patient’s father) against the Primus Super Speciality Hospital, Chanakyapuri, are of a grave nature, Delhi government is directed to carry out an investigation into the same and in case the hospital is found to have derogated in its duty in any manner, take appropriate action. I may, however, clarify that this court has not expressed any opinion on the allegations made by the petitioner,” the judge said in an order passed on Friday. The court’s direction came on a petition filed by a man whose wife died on June 14 due to Covid-19. He alleged that when his 34-year-old daughter — who is 85% permanently disabled — was suffering from fever and breathlessness and her oxygen level also started dipping, she was admitted to the hospital on June 18. However, the hospital did not carry out any test on her and citing non-availability of beds, asked her father to shift her to another hospital. “She was almost thrown out of the hospital. This was in spite of the fact that the website of Delhi government showed availability of beds in the said hospital for Covid-19 patients,” the petition said, informing the court that only after moving court he was able to secure a bed for his daughter at Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-govt-to-probe-refusal-charge-against-hospital/articleshow/76487519.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CMO emerges most popular on social media||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s office topped the popularity charts on social media in 2019-20 with the CMO’s Twitter handle notching the highest number of followers per 1,000 population. Its Facebook page is at second spot in terms of the number of likes per 1,000 population. In 2019-20, the Telangana CMO’s Twitter handle emerged numero uno vis-a-vis CMOs of other states with 24.55 followers per 1,000 population as compared to Haryana CMO's 20.88, Madhya Pradesh CMO's 18.78 and Uttar Pradesh CMO's 15.23 followers per 1,000 population. This was revealed by the 2019-20 annual report of the Telangana IT &EC department that was released on Saturday by Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao. However, in terms of the total number of followers, UP CMO had 30,43,895 followers out of a total population of 19,98,12,341 followed by MP CMO with 13,63,646 followers out of a total population of 7,26,26,809, Telangana CMO’s 8,59,442 followers out of 3,50,03,081 population and Haryana CMO’s 5,29,420 followers out of a total population of 2,53,53,081. All total population figures are based on the 2011 census. When it comes to Facebook, Telangana CMO was next only to Rajasthan CMO with 23.09 likes per 1000 population at 8,08,270 likes out of 3,50,03,674 population. The Rajasthan CMO notched 26.61 likes per 1000 population at 18,23,891 likes out of 6,85,48,437 population. They were followed by Kerala CMO with 22.78 likes per 1000 population at 7,60,552 likes out of a population of 3,33,87,677 and Punjab CMO with 17.37 likes per 1000 population at 4,81,339 likes on a population of 2,77,04,236. The Telangana CMO had 8,08,270 followers in 2019-20 on Facebook and 8,90,677 followers on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cmo-emerges-most-popular-on-social-media/articleshow/76488170.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 21, 2020||Pune||Duo in net for duping youths promising jobs||Pune: The Pune rural police on Saturday arrested two persons for posing as Indian Navy officers and cheating many jobseekers over the past two years. The arrested duo duped youths from Pune, Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Osmanabad, Wardha, Washim and other districts of the state. A team headed by superintendent of police, Pune rural, Sandeep Patil and senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat arrested the suspects — Nitin Tanaji Jadhav (30) of Baramati and Akash Kashinath Dange (25) of Phaltan in Satara. A case against them was registered at the Bhigwan police station. Police were searching them for a few months. The police said the duo visited different towns posing as naval officers. They used to interact with the local youths and claim that the Indian Navy was looking for people for posts like storekeeper, guards and naval officers. They used to take Rs3-4 lakh from the youths promising them jobs, Ghanwat said. After taking the money, the duo would send fake appointment letters to the youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-net-for-duping-youths-promising-jobs/articleshow/76487520.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Businessman loses Rs 1.96L to KYC fraud||Pune: The Bibvewadi police have booked a fraudster for duping a businessman to the tune of over Rs1.96 lakh on the pretext of updating the person’s Know Your Customer (KYC) documents on a e-commerce payment system on April 17. Police said the businessman had received a telephone call from the fraudster on April 17 stating that his KYC had been suspended. He later received a text message to contact a person on a particular number. The businessman contacted the fraudster on the given number and the latter lured him into sharing details of his bank account and debit card, police said. Police said the fraudster later asked the victim to download an application, following which Rs1,96, 393 was transferred from his bank account to the fraudster’s account in 12 transactions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/businessman-loses-rs-1-96l-to-kyc-fraud/articleshow/76487514.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Injured turtle’s flippers sutured, fisherman feted||COLVA: Forest department officials have started treating the injured Olive Ridley turtle that was handed over to them on Friday even as Pele Fernandes, the fisherman who rescued it and four others at Benaulim beach, was felicitated by the local MLA. Range forest officer Prakash Naik told TOI that veterinary doctors had sutured the turtle’s right flippers. Its movement has been restricted as a result, Naik said, and added that it is being kept moist by the continuous pouring of sea water on it. It is also being fed seafood. On Friday, five adult Olive Ridley turtles that were found tangled in a discarded fishing net at Benaulim beach, were rescued by Fernandes and three of his workers who spotted them while they were fishing. Four were promptly released back into the sea and the fifth was handed over to forest officials as it was injured. Fernandes, who said he had learned about conservation of marine life from foreign tourists, was felicitated for his efforts by Benaulim legislator Churchill Alemao with a shawl and a memento, on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/injured-turtles-flippers-sutured-fisherman-feted/articleshow/76488415.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tea seller’s daughter tops IAF academy||HYDERABAD: A tea seller’s daughter from Madhya Pradesh did her father Suresh Gangwal proud when she bagged the President’s Plaque at the combined graduation day parade at Air Force Academy, Dundigal in Hyderabad. Flying Officer Aanchal Gangwal got commissioned as an officer on Saturday in the presence of IAF chief BKS Bhadauria. Suresh Gangwal runs a steel shop in Neemuch district of MP. With a never-give-up attitude, she went on to bag a job as sub-inspector in the MP police and later worked as inspector in the labour department. She was hardly content with it. She chased her dream of getting into the IAF and at the graduation parade, the Flying Officer bagged President’s plaque in administration branch. Aanchal GangwalFlying Officer D Harsha from Lingampally in Hyderabad had cleared the SSB test the first time but his entry was rejected because of retinal haemorrhage that he suffered. He overcome all hurdles the next time and got into the IAF, much to the delight of his father D Narasimha Rao and his mother D Lakshmi. “Ever since I saw a jet plane in the sky, I wanted to be a fighter pilot,” he said. Flying Officer Anurag Nain, who was the winner of the sword of honour also derived inspiration from his father who retired as a sergeant from the IAF. “Choose to be blind and do whatever it takes to see,” is the motto of Nain, whose family hails from Harayana and settled in Delhi. From Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, Flying Officer Arsulan Yaseen bringing a change in the mindset of the people of his village He had the intention of joining the IAF thanks to the encouragement he got from his father. There is much that Flying Officer Anatara Mehta is proud of. She is the first woman fighter pilot from Maharashtra and the 10th woman pilot in the country. “I always wanted to do something challenging in life,” the national-level basketball player said. Life at the Air Force Academy while training is not easy. “It was challenging,” Flying Officer Kajal Yadav, inspired by her uncle, said. She is the first woman to join the elite helicopter fleet of IAF from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan. Watch Tea seller’s daughter tops IAF academy, bags President’s Plaque in Hyderabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tea-sellers-daughter-tops-iaf-academy/articleshow/76488171.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 21, 2020||Pune||Puneites get ready to watch solar eclipse on Sunday||PUNE: Cloud cover, the Covid-19 pandemic, and only a partial sight are little hindrances for Pune’s amateur astronomy community, as they prepare to see and discuss Sunday’s solar eclipse, the last one that can be seen from India for the next 28 months. The solar eclipse will be an annular one, where the moon doesn’t cover the sun fully. On a narrow track over the earth, people will be able to watch the “ring of fire” effect with the moon traversing the sun. Kurukshetra in Haryana and Dehradun in Uttarakhand have been identified by scientists to be the best observation points for the annular phase, which will start at Gharsana in Rajasthan at 11.50am, and will last for about 30 seconds. The eclipse has been calculated to begin at 9.58am at Bhuj in Gujarat and will end at 2.29pm over Dibrugarh in Assam. A partial eclipse will be visible in Pune, beginning around 10.02am, with the maximum cover expected at 11.40am. But, the cloud cover is expected to hinder that view as well, which is why some amateur astronomers, the Khagol Vishwa group, decided to move north, as far as Suratgarh in north-western Rajasthan, not too far from Gharsana. The group will also conduct experiments to test out the myths over food during an eclipse, as well as studying microbial behaviour during the eclipse. “The annular phase could have been best viewed from Dehradun and Kurukshetra, among other places, but we have come here to Suratgarh because the weather is perfectly clear here. We have brought our telescopes and other equipment and we are also partnering with the National Centre for Cell Science to study microbial activity during the eclipse, and also to test out the eclipse’s supposed effects on food, as there are many superstitions around it,” said Mayuresh Prabhune, who is part of the Khagol Vishwa team that travelled to Rajasthan. In Pune, the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) will host an online seminar on the eclipse on Sunday, with livestreams of the eclipse and discussion panels by experts. Another amateur astronomers’ group Jyotirvidya Parisanstha will not hold any gatherings to observe the eclipse because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, they will also host an online viewing session using their telescopes and equipment located in Pune. “We will live stream the eclipse in Pune on our Facebook page and our members will also observe the eclipse in different wavelengths such as visual, infrared and radio, like we did during the last eclipse in December 2019,” Aniruddha Deshpande, the vice-president of Jyotirvidya Parisanstha, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-get-ready-to-watch-solar-eclipse-today/articleshow/76487522.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 21, 2020||Pune||Merchant navy engineer killed in hit-and-run||Pune: A merchant navy engineer, who was heading to Gujarat from Kerala with his uncle, died after a speeding truck rammed his car in the wee hours of Friday at Bavdhan on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The Hinjewadi police have identified the deceased as Libin Mathew (33) of Malappuram in Kerala. His uncle, George Phillip (63), who was injured in the accident, has lodged a complaint with the police. Assistant inspector Anand Pagare of the Hinjewadi police told TOI, “Mathew’s aunt was stuck in Gujarat due to the lockdown. He decided to drive his uncle there to bring his aunt back home. The accident occurred when Mathew and his uncle reached the Ramnadi bridge on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass around 4am on Friday.” The officer said Mathew lost control of the vehicle and hit the railings along the bypass seconds after the truck rammed his car from the rear. “The truck driver did not halt after hitting the car,” Pagare added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/merchant-navy-engineer-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/76487526.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Civic bodies add pyre platforms to handle rush in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Witnessing an increase in the number of funerals due to the pandemic, the municipal corporations are creating space for more pyre platforms at major cremation grounds. With 367 platforms already reserved for Covid patients, the facilities catering to non-corona bodies are facing extra load and space crunch. Hence, additional platforms are being added at several crematoria, including Hastsal, Bindapur, Subhash Nagar and Nigambodh. An official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said 20 pyre platforms were being added to the existing 35 pyres at Hastsal crematorium, a Covid-designated facility. It is working in coordination with the Punjabi Bagh crematorium, a Covid-only facility. “Whenever we find that Punjabi Bagh may get overburdened, we divert bodies to Hastsal,” he said. At the Bindapur crematorium, space has been marked for 12 additional platforms while the Subhash Nagar cremation ground, a key facility in west Delhi, now has 40 platforms instead of the previous 34. “Space for 12 more platforms has been found here and the NGO running it has agreed to further increase the number,” the official said. With Punjabi Bagh being a Covid-only facility, the load on the smaller crematoria is increasing for non-Covid last rites. ANorth Delhi Municipal Corporation official said at Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, Delhi’s biggest facility, 13 conventional wood-based platforms are being added to the existing 44 pyres for Covid bodies. “Three dysfunctional CNG furnaces are also being repaired, which will make six furnaces operational,” he said. The capital has more than 53 big crematoria, including Nigambodh Ghat, Punjabi Bagh, Lodhi Road, Sarai Kale Khan, Green Park, Dwarka and Karol Bagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-bodies-add-pyre-platforms-to-handle-rush/articleshow/76487532.cms||Paras Singh
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No ambulances for accident victims||Thiruvananthapuram: When 46-year-old Suresh met with an accident at a construction site in the city on Thursday, fire and rescue services personnel rushed to the spot. They found that his injuries were serious in nature and dialled 108 for an ambulance. But they received a reply that there were no ambulances available at that moment. After waiting for a few more minutes, the fire force officials took the injured in their Quick Response Vehicle fitted with essential tools and a mini-water tender to the nearest hospital. But, their efforts went in vain as the injured soon succumbed to his injuries. “The reply we received from the control room of the 108-ambulance service was that all ambulances in the city were currently engaged in Covid-19 related activities such as transporting patients as well as suspected cases,” said an officer attached to the Thiruvananthapuram fire station office. Unfortunately, the only police ambulance too was busy at that time. Though, the fire department too has an ambulance, it is currently in a bad condition after being used non-stop for distribution of essential medicines to patients across the state during the initial phase of the lockdown. The officer said this was not a one-off incident and it had been the case ever since life almost came back to normal following relaxation of lockdown rules . Two days before this incident, a man who met with a road accident had to be taken to a hospital in a private ambulance after waiting for more than 15 minutes as 108 ambulances were not available. The same night, another young man, who met with an accident at Poonthura, lay on the road for around 30 minutes before he was taken to the hospital in a private vehicle. There are 29 ambulances under 108 ambulance service in the district. At present, 27 ambulances are reserved for Covid duty. The remaining two that have been exempted from Covid duty services are at Neyyatinkara and Palode, forcing people on other parts of the district, including those in city limits, to rely on private ambulances. “For accident victims, relying on private ambulances can be a burden as their services are not free,” the officer said, adding that ever since lockdown regulations were lifted, minor accidents have become frequent on roads and absence of government’s ambulance service was a cause for concern. Sources in the health department said that there are around 40 ambulances in all at the government hospitals in the district. City police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay too admitted that the lack of emergency ambulance services is a serious issue. “City police have one ambulance, but, it is not enough to attend all the cases,” the commissioner said, adding that he will take up the matter with the district health authorities and seek an alternative arrangement until the crisis is over. The rural district police too have one ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-ambulances-for-accident-victims/articleshow/76486745.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five cheated by online scammers||Ahmedabad: While more people go online to buy things, cyber cheats seem to have proliferated and the number of cases involving online cheating are rising by the day. Five such cases were registered in eastern Ahmedabad on Saturday. In the first case, cheats siphoned off Rs 1 lakh from the bank account of one Ashok Vaniya, on the pretext of ‘updating his PayTM KYC’. The complainant submitted an application to cyber police station, which has been transferred to Ramol police station. In the second case, one Riki Purani lodged a complaint at Gomtipur police station, saying that he had bought a phone on installments using his credit card in March. He recently received a call telling him to use an application to pay his instalments. The person sent him a link, saying it was to pay a fee of Rs 10 so he could fill a form on the application. As he clicked the link, Rs 18, 848 was transferred from his bank account. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-cheated-by-online-scammers/articleshow/76487570.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Petroglyphs discovered from Idukki hills||Idukki: Researchers discovered ancient petroglyphs from Kallipara mountains of Thoppramkudi in Idukki. The team included researcher and principal of BEd College, Nedumkandam, Rajeev Puliyoor, lecturer and member of Nedumkandam Archaeological Committee Raison P Joseph and member of the archaeological committee Melbin, who is also a resident of Thopramkudi. “There are a total of nine illustrations on the petroglyphs. “The petroglyphs indicate that ancient people had settled in the hills and it throws light on their culture,” said Puliyoor. “The similarities of style of illustration, which are repeated in circular, ring-like scrolls, are unusual in Kerala. Similar imaging techniques have been found in foreign countries such as Lake Utah in the USA, Southern Nevada and Barstow in California, and various mountain ranges in Mexico,” said Puliyoor. Historian and former vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University Rajan Gurukkal said that the petroglyphs are not of Neolithic but of Iron Age. “Thopramkudy petroglyphs do not seem to be concentric circles but a double line spiral pattern etched into rock. Petroglyphs of vortices, spirals, and circles with cup-marks are seen across cultures from Neolithic to Chalcolithic and Bronze Age to Iron Age in different parts of the world. Generally, representation of cup-marks together with a gutter from the centre to the outer line distinguishes the petroglyphs of post-Neolithic times. Adjacently another small set of circles is also seen. Normally the two are found linked with a gutter. It is unclear whether there was a gutter in this case due to the weathered surface of the rock with flakes peeled off from the crucial portion. Nevertheless, the etching, which is sharp and deep indicates that it is of Iron Age.” “Thopramkudy is part of large zone of Iron Age megaliths like dolmens and cists dating back roughly to 2,500 years. All these graphic signs or symbols are found on the variety of megalithic pottery recovered from southern India and Sri Lanka,” said Gurukkal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/petroglyphs-discovered-from-idukki-hills/articleshow/76486790.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Corp Council: BJP demands discussion on Covid spend||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation council that met here on Saturday sought approval for the anticipatory sanction issued for various expenses related to Covid management in the city in the past three months. Anticipatory sanctions issued for running of community kitchens, arranging quarantine facilities, purchase and distribution of masks and hand sanitizers were presented in the council. Health standing committee chairman IP Binu said anticipatory sanction for expenses under different heads amounting to Rs 4.5 crore was issued by mayor on various occasions to health officials in various circles and wards. BJP councillors demanded an elaborate discussion on the matter and said the accounts on contributions received by city corporation from individuals and private organisations should also be presented in the council and that the existing accounts were not transparent. They also demanded a special council to approve the expenses incurred by city corporation so far in Covid management in the city. BJP councillors also pointed out that the recent policy of the state government to send all incoming passengers to home quarantine negates the efforts undertaken by city corporation to ensure institutional quarantine in the city. BJP councillor Girikumar said there was no point spending money when people were being sent to homes for quarantine. BJP councillors said detailed income statement should be presented in the council. UDF councillor Beemapally Rasheed, however, supported LDF ruling council and said the efforts undertaken by city corporation for Covid management are appreciable and that it cannot be put in bad light on allegations of corruption or lack of transparency. The city corporation has recently submitted bills to the tune of Rs 1.6 crore to district disaster management authority. A major percentage of amount has been spent in running community kitchens. Disinfection measures, rehabilitation of destitutes, setting up and maintenance of Covid care centres, identification of first line treatment centres are the other components, which made corporation shell out substantial sum. While the number of inmates in Covid care homes numbering over 30 came down by half following the directive of the district collector that inmates can opt for home quarantine based on proper investigation of requisite facilities by local bodies, the civic body continues to receive inmates who do not have facilities at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-council-bjp-demands-discussion-on-covid-spend/articleshow/76486773.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Child rights body: Keep data on kids at homes to stop trafficking in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a bid to save children from being trafficked, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has asked government officials to maintain a detailed register with the complete data of those living in shelter homes, including children of migrant workers. DCPCR made the request after it received several complaints about kids being pulled into child labour post the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A DCPCR official said that data needs to be maintained by the CWC and district officers with respect to children so that they could attend schools, anganwadis and get social scheme benefits post the Covid-19 pandemic. DCPCR also asked the government health department to ensure immunisation programme is conducted for these children. In a letter to Delhi Police, the divisional commissioner, labour commissioner, officials from civic bodies and the state government, the child rights body wrote, “Delhi is in the Unlock 1.0 phase and almost everything has opened, there is a likelihood that factory owners, establishments would target the most vulnerable population, i.e., young children, who aren’t aware of their rights. Labour department must ensure that such things do not occur.” Since the movement of migrant labours have begun through special trains and buses for their native place, a DCPCR official claimed, there is a possibility of children being trafficked for the purpose of domestic servitude, prostitution or child labour. “Railway authorities and public transport systems, including DTC, must ensure that if they find anything suspicious about the movement of any child, immediate action be taken.” The letter stated: “All stakeholders need to take initiatives towards prevention of child labour, trafficking and share ideas of effective measures in dealing with issues of migrant children to stop them from falling in the trap of trafficking. Periodic meetings can be planned to achieve the purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/child-rights-body-keep-data-on-kids-at-homes-to-stop-trafficking/articleshow/76487547.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Two senior citizens who tested +ve 7 times, discharged||MANGALURU: On a day that the two coastal districts recorded 17 Covid-19 cases, Udupi accounting for 13 of them, the Dakshina Kannada district health authorities, among 15 others, discharged two senior citizens who had tested positive for the disease seven times since their admission to the designated Covid-19 hospital here in mid-May. One is an 81-year-old man, who was admitted to the hospital on May 12, and the other is a 76-year-old man, who was admitted on May 20. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that the patients designated P-1006 and P-1476 were discharged by the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, Bengaluru. Both these senior citizens will be subjected to robust home quarantine, Dr Bairy said, adding that since they are asymptomatic, chances of onward transmission from them to the community is nil. “We will continue to monitor their health in their respective residences,” he said. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said the 13 positive cases that pushed the total positive cases to 1,063, included a primary contact of P-5451, another patient whose source from where he contracted the disease from is being traced, a person who came to Udupi from Bengaluru, and the rest of them are Maharashtra returnees. The district presently has 102 active cases, and 959 patients have been discharged thus far. The DC warned that people violating the Covid-19 directives of the government will be dealt with strictly. The four cases reported in Dakshina Kannada included a returnee each from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait on June 11 and 17, respectively, one from Maharashtra on June 9, and one of them was a primary contact of the patient designated P-8005. Two patients are still being treated in the ICU, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh. The total Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada with the day’s tally is 416, and active cases stands at 197. In all, 221 patients have been discharged and samples of 56 people are awaited, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-senior-citizens-who-tested-ve-7-times-discharged/articleshow/76486764.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 21, 2020||Pune||Cops to rescue of woman jobseeker||Pune: A 24-year-old woman, who came to Pune from Bengaluru by train on Thursday evening to appear for a job interview, failed to find an accommodation after she was stamped home quarantine on arrival by the authorities. As one paying guest facility after another shut door on her, she approached the Yerawada police station for help. Not only did the police allow her to spend the night at the women’s rest room facility, but also found an accommodation for her at Kothrud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-to-rescue-of-woman-jobseeker/articleshow/76487531.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath action plan: Raise no. of surveillance panels to 1,000||LUCKNOW: To contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to prepare an action plan to control Covid-19 in NCR districts. Presiding over a high-level Unlock review meeting here at his official residence, he said that the surveillance system can be made more effective by increasing the number of surveillance committees to 1 lakh. Asking health, medical education departments along with district administration to work in this direction as it will be an important effort to break the infection chain. The CM directed to increase random testings to assess the actual position of the Covid-19 spread. It will also be helpful to work out strategy against Corona, he pointed out. He also directed to make every effort to prevent police and PAC personnel from the Covid-19. Meanwhile, in another random survey, active Covid-19 cases were found in nearly 10% of 311 urban slums on Saturday. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “A total of 311 urban slums were sampled randomly across the state. Of these, 30 slums in 20 districts showed positivity in pool test.” The districts were: Ambedkarnagar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Moradabad, Mathura, Shravasti, Aligarh, Auraiya, Badaun, Ballia, Etah, Firozabad, Ghazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar. “In all, 4,160 samples were collected from the 311 slum. Of the total, 75 samples tested positive while 4,085 tested negative,” he said. Prasad said that the such random sampling was being carried out to map the vulnerability of high risk groups in the state and generate awareness among them so that corrective measures in time to contain the spread of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-action-plan-raise-no-of-of-surveillance-panels-to-1l/articleshow/76488178.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||HC limits civil works in Aguada jail vicinity, disallows alteration of area||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday directed that government authorities and others may go ahead with civil work exclusively confined to fabric of the erstwhile Aguada jail without touching the surrounding vacant area. The directives were issued upon a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging hill cutting under the garb of restoration work in this area. Filed by Roshan Mathias and others, PIL alleged that Goa Tourism Development Corporation and a company is indulged in rampant and aggressive hill ravaging and devastation outside Aguada jail in Candolim. The petitioners pointed out that the proposed repairs were to the existing structures in the survey nos. 92 and 91 from the temple to the entrance gate of the jail. However, there is no permission to GTDC for area beyond the entrance gate of the jail, the petitioners said. “Seen from the record, including the photographs filed, we prima facie feel that the permission the GCZMA granted to the authorities concern the erstwhile central jail that is only structures of that building. But petitioners’ counsel has demonstrated again, we may note prima facie that authorities are cutting trees in a wide swathe in the name of laying road and also providing parking facility. It is next to a river, in an ecologically sensitive zone,” the division bench comprising Justices Dama Sheshadri Naidu and M S Jawalkar observed. The petitioner alleged that in the course of lockdown, several trucks and bulldozers were used to make approach road and create parking facility outside the gate, which resulted in irrevocable damage to environment. While alleging that there is a blatant violation of environmental law, coastal regulation zone notification of 2011, town and country planning development norms and use of land laws, the petitioners sought a direction to the GTDC and others to forthwith stop the illegal hill cutting and ecological damage in the area. According to the petition, the ministry of tourism had sanctioned an amount of Rs 99 crore under Swadesh Darshan Scheme as central financial assistance. Under this scheme one of the component was for development of Aguada jail as a tourist destination comprising approach road, parking, boundary and fort walls, landscaping, rehabilitation and repair of the buildings, sound and light show, watch towers with equipment, jetty and services. The petitioners alleged that the activity is undertaken in the earmarked no development slope and heritage landscape under the regional Plan 2021 and it is also within the 100 meters of the draft CZMP plan by violating the CRZ regulations. Due to the onset of monsoons, the unprotected slopes will be eroded, the petitioners apprehended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-limits-civil-works-in-aguada-jail-vicinity-disallows-alteration-of-area/articleshow/76488416.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, Malkajgiri post office to provide citizen-centric services||Secunderabad: The Secunderabad division of India Post in Malkajgiri is providing ‘citizen centric services’ (CCS) to facilitate the consumers of the Malkajgiri-Medchal districts. Though there are 73 services available in the CCS portal, the postal service will begin with six services initially, according to an official release issued by the senior superintendent of post offices at Secunderabad division, A Subrahmanyam, here on Saturday. These services include mobile/DTH recharging, bills payment, insurance premium (renewal) collection, national pension scheme (NPS) registration, PAN Card and EPIC (Voter ID) modifications. Other important services which are proposed through the post office are passport (MEA document), soil health card, birth/death certificate, IRCTC booking and labour department services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-malkajgiri-post-office-to-provide-citizen-centric-services/articleshow/76488206.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Agrochemical factory gutted in Waghodiya GIDC||Vadodara: A major fire broke out at an agrochemical company in Waghodiya GIDC on Saturday early morning. According to fire officials, the fire began at the company’s solvent plant sometime around 5 am. Around 30% of the company’s staff was present in the packaging plant but they were all evacuated in time. Firemen from Emergency Response Centre (ERC) at Darjipura were the first to respond, but due to blasts occurring in the solvent plant, a major call was announced. Around seven fire emergencies from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services and two water bowsers from local industries were pressed into service. “We had to use thousands of litres of water and foam liquid to control the fire in the solvent plant. However, flames had also engulfed the packaging and other areas of the plant so we could douse the fire only by noon,” said fire officer Harshwardhan Puwar of ERC. He suspected that fire could have been sparked due to fault in electric connections. Even in the evening, one fire engine was kept on standby at the company as smoke continued to bellow from the gutted plant. Puwar said that the company did not have basic equipment like hydrant systems and water to fight fire. “We had to take water from neighbouring companies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/agrochemical-factory-gutted-in-waghodiya-gidc/articleshow/76486819.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS busts statewide firearms racket||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad on Friday busted a state-wide racket, in which foreign-made firearms were supplied on the basis of duplicate arms licences made using forged documents. ATS detained nine persons with 54 foreign and Indian-made firearms including revolvers, automatic pistols, double-barrelled shotguns and rifles. ATS also seized 44 live cartridges. Cumulatively, the seized items are worth Rs 80 lakh. According to ATS sources, the accused confessed to buying the weapons from Tarun Gupta, the owner of Tarun Gun House, located at Ramdevnagar in Satellite. DIG ATS Himanshu Shukla said the firearms were sold to buyers in Ahmedabad, Amreli, Wankaner, Chotila and Jamnagar. “We suspect that more such weapons were sold and are investigating the racket to its roots, to catch the masterminds. Some other firearm retailers are also on our radar,” added Shukla. Shukla said Tarun Gupta is in judicial custody of a Kutch court, in connection with a case in which he had allegedly supplied a firearm used in the poaching of a peahen. “We will get him on a transfer warrant in this case,” added Shukla. DSP Bhavesh Roziya of crime branch received a tip off that one Mustaq Baloch of Wankaner, who owns a stable and is fond of horses and often visits Kutch for horses, and one Wahidkhan Pathan of Gangad, have illegal pistols and revolvers with them. “We then kept watch on them and detained them up on Friday near Iskcon Crossroads. We found a revolver with four live cartridges and a pistol with four cartridges on Baloch and a revolver with four cartridges in it on Pathan,” said in-charge SP of ATS, Deepan Bhadran. “During their interrogation, it came to light that Tarun Gupta was supplying weapons to people in various districts of Gujarat. Based on the information we got from the two accused, we arrested seven more persons, Javedkhan Pathan, Imrankhan Pathan, Naeemkhan Pathan and Kacha Sandhi, all residents of Bavla; and Amir Mogal, Raju Yadav and Wasim Diwan of Wankaner. All of them have been sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests,” added Bhadran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ats-busts-statewide-firearms-racket/articleshow/76487551.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hubballi||Pourakarmikas find worms in free breakfast served in Hubballi-Dharwad||HUBBALLI: Pourakarmikas employed by the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) greeted with elation the much delayed rolling out of the free breakfast scheme, which the state government wants implemented in all municipalities across Karnataka. The scheme was rolled out in Hubballi-Dharwad three weeks ago, with all civic workers being served breakfast around 8am. However, pourakarmikas were dismayed to find worms in their breakfast thrice in the past 20 days. President of the Guttige Pourakarmikara Sangha, Hubballi Vijay Guntral confirmed to STOI that the workers had found worms in their meal on June 6, 12 and again on Friday. “The quality of the food being provided also leaves a lot to be desired for. The government introduced the scheme so as to ensure that the pourakarmikas, who left their homes early to report to work and had no time to prepare and have breakfast, were provided sufficient nourishment. But the contractor supplying food is not complying with the government guidelines to provide quality and tasty food. HDMC must immediately cancel the contract,” Guntral said. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that the terms of the contract with the vendor stipulated that the pourakarmikas were provided healthy and tasty food, prepared in a hygienic environment. “Health inspectors have been asked to check the quality of food before it is served to the pourakarmikas,” said Itnal, adding that HDMC, taking note of complaints from the pourakarmikas about finding worms in their meals, had served a notice to the vendor. “We have issued a final warning to the contractor. If the quality of food continues to be below par, we will cancel the contract,” Itnal said. Praveen, a pourakarmika in Dharwad, said that he was shocked to find a worm in the poha or avalakki that was provided to them for breakfast on Friday. “I immediately informed the officials,” said Praveen, who is one of the many pourakarmikas who are very disappointed with the quality of food they are being served.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pourakarmikas-find-worms-in-free-breakfast-served-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/76487165.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Agrochemical factory gutted in Waghodiya GIDC||Vadodara: A major fire broke out at an agrochemical company in Waghodiya GIDC on Saturday early morning. According to fire officials, the fire began at the company’s solvent plant sometime around 5 am. Around 30% of the company’s staff was present in the packaging plant but they were all evacuated in time. Firemen from Emergency Response Centre (ERC) at Darjipura were the first to respond, but due to blasts occurring in the solvent plant, a major call was announced. Around seven fire emergencies from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services and two water bowsers from local industries were pressed into service. “We had to use thousands of litres of water and foam liquid to control the fire in the solvent plant. However, flames had also engulfed the packaging and other areas of the plant so we could douse the fire only by noon,” said fire officer Harshwardhan Puwar of ERC. He suspected that fire could have been sparked due to fault in electric connections. Even in the evening, one fire engine was kept on standby at the company as smoke continued to bellow from the gutted plant. Puwar said that the company did not have basic equipment like hydrant systems and water to fight fire. “We had to take water from neighbouring companies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/agrochemical-factory-gutted-in-waghodiya-gidc/articleshow/76486684.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Right click: Indians stranded abroad plan virtual revelry with kids on Father’s Day||Lucknow: It used to be a twin celebration for Manisha Sonal every June. Come what may, she would land in Lucknow every year for her parents’ marriage anniversary and Father’s Day which are only two days apart. However, travel restrictions following coronavirus pandemic have forced the 28-year-old merchandiser to stay put in Dhaka and skip the revelry this year. Catching on with the trend of virtual celebrations, Sonal has planned a get-together with her family with live music, housie and a dinner party on Sunday. Looking for some entertainment in their largely cooped up lives, Sonal has also prepared a jig on his father’s favourite songs and penned a poem on his major teachings which helped her sail through the lockdown crisis. “Whenever I splurged on an outing or clothes, he used to quip that a penny saved is a penny earned. Whenever I missed my family, he always told me distance doesn’t separate people... This helped me tide over the present crisis,” says Sonal, whose family lives in Indiranagar. “Covid-19 is the biggest crisis witnessed by millennials. Staying away from dad is all the more tough in these times. I used to make it a point to visit my family twice every year — once in June and then around Diwali. Since Covid played a spoilsport this year, I have planned a virtual party on Father’s Day and surprise him by getting food delivered at home,” she adds. Every year, IT professional Swati Dube used to pack her bags and leave New Jersey to celebrate her grandfather’s birthday which coincides with Father’s Day. But with life taking a 360-degree turn due to coronavirus, her homecoming plans to Lucknow were stalled. Left with no option, she has also planned a virtual celebration. “Father’s Day meant long drives, gifts, handmade cards and me baking dad’s favourite chocolate cake. All this was anyway not possible in Covid times if I were in Lucknow but hugging dad would have been a solace. Though Father’s Day is less popular as compared to its May counterpart Mother’s Day, it’s important to also express your gratitude for father with words. Nothing means more to your father than hearing how much you appreciate him,” she says. “As dad says one should always remain positive, I have planned a virtual party which will provide a much-needed break from the monotony of being largely confined to home. I will begin the day with a video call and praying for this wellbeing.” Vishal Srivastava, a student in Sydney, was also left in a quandary after his plans to visit his home in Aliganj on Father’s Day were dashed. “My mother died of cancer last year. So, I was planning to give a surprise to my dad on Father’s Day and spend some quality time with him. But coronavirus played a party pooper. Now, I have planned an online dinner with him.” City-based IT professional Aditya Bhargava has been under bouts of depression ever since the lockdown was announced in March as his wife Ankita and five-year-old son Daksha got stranded in Delhi. The duo had gone to Delhi on March 23 to attend the retirement party of Ankita’s mother. Aditya was all smiles on Friday after his wife and son surprised him by visiting him for Father’s Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/right-click-indians-stranded-abroad-plan-virtual-revelry-with-kids-on-fathers-day/articleshow/76488193.cms||Ankur Tewari
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man falls for sister-in-law, they assault his wife||AHMEDABAD: A man and his wife’s sister, beat up his wife, because they had fallen in love and wanted to marry. The victim lodged a complaint against her younger sister and husband at Bapunagar police station on Friday. According to police sources, the elder sister lives with her parents as her husband wants to divorce her and marry her younger sister. As the elder sister objected to this, the man went to his in-laws’ place and along with the younger sister, beat up his wife with a pipe. The victim in her complaint stated that her husband fight with her often because he wants to marry her younger sister, who also wants to marry him. The elder sister in her complaint stated that on Friday her husband came to her house and told her that he wanted to divorce her and marry her younger sister. “Her younger sister, who was present in the house, then dragged her by her hair and started hitting her. Her husband said that if she did not divorce him, he would kill her. As the victim was bleeding profusely and neighbours rushed to her aid, her husband and sister fled,” said a Bapunagar police official. Police registered a case of assault against the husband and younger sister and are looking for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-falls-for-sister-in-law-they-assault-his-wife/articleshow/76487604.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Central team asks Jalgaon admin to lower death rate||Nashik: A two-member team of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has directed the Jalgaon administration to conduct more tests and work overtime to bring down the high Covid-19 mortality rate in 0 district. BJP MP Raksha Khadse had requested the ministry to send the team to handhold the local administration to deal with Covid-19 issues. Subsequently, the ministry had sent the team to Jalgaon to ascertain the reasons for the constant spike in Covid-19 cases as well as high death rate. The team, led by the ministry’s senior regional director Dr. Arvind Alone, held a meeting with the district administration officials, elected representatives and Indian Medical Association (IMA) functionaries at the district collectorate office on Saturday. The team visited some containment zones in Jalgaon city and also inspected the Jalgaon medical college and hospital where an elderly woman infected with Covid-19 had allegedly died in the toilet block and body was recovered five days later. Khadse, who attended the deliberations, told TOI that the district administration has been told to ensure that lab reports of the swab tests should be made available at the earliest so that treatment can start without any delay. “I have observed that in several cases in the past, lab reports came after 36 hours,” Khadse said, adding that the patients must get proper facilities at Covid hospitals. According to Khadse, the administration has been directed to undertake micro-level planning to prevent the spread of the infection. Jalgaon has emerged as one of the major coronavirus hotspots in the state and has one of the highest Covid-related mortality rate. At present, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district stands at 2,149 with over 159 deaths. A total of over 1,250 patients have recovered from the illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/central-team-asks-jalgaon-admin-to-lower-death-rate/articleshow/76488204.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Emergency centre to cater to patient issues soon||Nashik: Collector Suraj Mandhare has decided to set up an emergency operation centre (EOC) for Covid-19 treatment in the district and has also formed two teams at the rural and city level to cater to the effective utilization of the infrastructure for the same. Mandhare said that the EOC will be operated and manned by senior officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) as well as the non-municipal corporation areas. They will ensure that every patient gets the required treatment efficiently. In addition, the teams will also keep a check on the spread of Covid-19. “Senior officials of the NMC as well as the authorities of the local administration in rural areas will be incorporated in the teams. They will cater to the needs of the hospitals and also deal with patient management issues. They will be responsible for sequencing of the use of hospitals in their respective areas, management of patients and treatment meted out to them,” Mandhare said. Many patients face a number of issues such as waiting for swab test reports and, at times, occupying the hospital beds despite requiring treatment in Covid Care Centres. Such issues will be handled by the teams. The respective teams will also be responsible for the complaints raised by patients about treatment provided by hospitals — both government and private.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/emergency-centre-to-cater-to-patient-issues-soon/articleshow/76488199.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||Covid warriors test positive in Mysuru||MYSURU: An oncologist, 13 police personnel, a Tibetan and a textile shopowner were among 22 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Saturday. This is the first incident of Covid warriors contracting the virus in Mysuru. Authorities have closed the OPD and sanitised the hospital where the woman oncologist worked. The OPD will remain shut till all those who consulted with the 54-year-old oncologist are tested next week. However, all patients admitted in the hospital will continue to remain in the hospital, and will not be discharged till they are tested for the novel coronavirus, said deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. This is the first case here, where a doctor has been infected, and it has caused panic among health staff, patients and their relatives. Since cancer patients are vulnerable to the disease, the authorities are a worried lot. Tibetan man hospitalised A 31-year-old Tibetan from New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19. He was at one of the monasteries in Bylakuppe, the Tibetan refugee settlement camp in Periyapatna in Mysuru. He was one among four from New Delhi who arrived here. After he developed fever, he was tested for the novel coronavirus, and tested postive. The other three are not infected. About 14 people, including the camp officer, have been quarantined. The youth came to see one of his friends here, but stayed separately. Sources claimed that people from Bihar and Bhutan too have arrived at Bylakuppe to participate in religious camps, but the officials were clueless about it. Policeman’s son-in-law tests positiveThe son-in-law of a policeman attached to Devaraja police station tested positive for Covid-19. The police station was sanitised, but the policeman has not been infected. His son-in-law had come from Tamil Nadu recently. 13 KSRP personnel shifted to Covid hospital About 13 KSRP personnel tested positive for Covid-19 and were shifted to the Covid hospital here. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar appealed to the public who visited Neeha Textiles on JSS College Road, Hullahalli town, in Nanjangud, to quarantine themselves and get tested, as a person associated with the shop has tested positive. He has no travel history, but tested positive after showing ILI symptoms. With 22 fresh cases recorded on Saturday, Mysuru’s tally reached 151. So far, 112 people have been cured of the disease and discharged, while 39 including 13 police personnel, an oncologist and a Tibetan man are in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-warriors-test-positive-in-mysuru/articleshow/76486798.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Pandemic sees more interest in yoga||Nashik/Aurangabad: The International Yoga Day on Sunday is likely to generate a greater response this year given that people are looking for ways to boost their immunity, improve health and tackle stress during the pandemic. Yoga ⁠— comprising breathing and stretching techniques — is a good way to boost immunity, believe experts. In Nashik, the city police have organised an online yoga session for the police personnel and their families on Sunday. The session, organised in association with Art of Living members, will be streamed live via Facebook from 7.45 am. Senior officers including police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil, DCPs and ACPs would be joining the session from their homes. In Aurangabad, department of Yogashastra of the Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), in association with the National Service Scheme (NSS), has organised a webinar. Department coordinator Sonali Kshirsagar said the online event would focus on yoga protocol prescribed by the Ayush ministry. “There has been an increase in the number of people embracing yoga now. People call us and ask about asanas and their benefits,” said Uttam Kalawane, Bhartiya Yog Sansthan, divisional head, Aurangabad. Yoga trainer Ruchira Gadekar said, “Besides issues associated with mental health, restricted physical activity during the lockdown gives way to obesity and other disorders. Yoga is the perfect solution as it can be practiced within the confines of one’s home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pandemic-sees-more-interest-in-yoga/articleshow/76488207.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Rs 200 fine for not wearing mask in CBD area||Nashik: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in the Cantonment Board, Deolali area, the CBD will slap a fine of Rs 200 if people are found moving out of their houses without wearing a mask. Ajay Kumar, the CEO of CBD, confirmed that they have decided to fine the people if they do not wear masks while coming out of their houses. Kumar said that over the weekends they will spread awareness about the fine and from Monday the process of fining people will begin. Officials of CBD said that people were not wearing masks though it has been made compulsory by the both the Union and the state government. Bhagwan Kataria, the vice president of CBD, said that the need was felt as a large number of people were found moving around without the mask which increases the spread of the infection. Approximately 30 people have tested positive so far in the cantonment area,said Kataria A 52-year-old woman from Deolali Camp area also died from Covid-19. Over the weekend, a vehicle of the CBD will move around the board area to spread awareness about the importance of wearing a mask and the fine imposed for not adhering to the instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-200-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-cbd-area/articleshow/76488209.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five arrested with arms, ammunition||Ahmedabad: Crime branch arrested five persons with a country-made pistol, two guns and 20 live cartridges near Aavkar Hall in Maninagar on Friday.Those arrested are Vijay Pawar, 28, and Rahul Kumbhar, 22, both from Ghodasar; Manish Dhomse, 45, from Khokhra; Brijesh Kushwah, 33, from Vatva; and Jatin Shah, 45, from Kankaria.Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said that on a tip-off, two teams were sent to the spot to cordon off the area. “We saw five persons at the place. When our teams checked them, the fire-arms and the cartridges were recovered,” Gohil said.Police said the gang has an enmity with another gang. Kushwah, who hails from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh, had brought the weapons and the cartridges from Bhind. “The accused have been sent for Covid-19 test before their arrest officially,” Gohil said. “Pawar was earlier arrested in cases of assault and prohibition and Kumbhar was earlier arrested for murder. Dhomse was held for assault and betting and Kushwah too has criminal past as he was earlier arrested for rioting and assault. Shah was caught for taking bets on cricket matches,” said a police official. In another case, the crime branch arrested one Aamir Pathan from Narol Circle with a country-made revolver. “He said that the revolver was given to him by one Sultankhan Pathan of Fatehwadi and his nephew Samir Phendi to eliminate Samir Sajuu alias Gotilal,” said a police official. A complaint of assault and extortion was recently registered against Phendi and Pathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-arrested-with-arms-ammunition/articleshow/76487558.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Partial solar eclipse up to 72% in Gujarat today||AHMEDABAD: If you miss Sunday’s solar eclipse, which also happens to be the longest day of the year, you will have to wait for another 11 years to witness a similar celestial event. On Sunday, you have a chance to see an annular solar eclipse, which will be visible in Gujarat and in most part of the country. In Gujarat, however, it will be a partial eclipse, up to 72%. It will begin at 10am and continue to 1.27pm. The eclipse will be at its maximum around 1137am. “An annular solar eclipse occurs when the moon appears smaller than the Sun as it passes centrally across the solar disk and a bright ring, or annulus, of sunlight remains visible during the eclipse. The annularity of the ellipse will be visible in the northern part of India,” says Dr Narottam Sahoo, adviser and member secretary, Gujarat Council on Science and Technology (GUJCOST).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/annular-solar-eclipse-today/articleshow/76487567.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||State board affiliated schools advertise as CBSE institutes||Aurangabad: A section of private schools in the city have been found to have advertised themselves as institutions running under the aegis of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) despite being affiliated to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHE). The glaring discrepancies have come to the fore after schools furnished official data for becoming a part of the admission process under the Right to Education (RTE) Act for the academic year 2020-2021. Stating that the education department should take legal action against “errant” schools, educational activist Prashant Sathe said, “The issue becomes grave in nature when such schools charge more fees for having affiliation with the central board.” Sathe accused a section of authorities from the education department for working hand-in-glove with the errant schools. “The education department cannot remain a mute spectator and allow such schools to loot parents,” he said.Among other irregularities, a section of private schools have been found operating from an area other than their officially registered address. The irregularity assumes significance as the admissions under RTE Act are based on the concept of neighbourhood schools only. When contacted,education officer (primary) with Aurangabad Zilla Parishad S P Jaiswal said parents or activists should make a written complaint against state board affiliated schools claiming to be run by CBSE or operating from an area apart from their registered address. “The CBSE formally offers affiliation to institutes for offering education from and above Class VI. The schools have to register themselves with the MSBSHE for completing formalities for running upto Class V. It is a serious issue if schools and junior colleges offering education from Classes VI to XII have tie up with the state board but project themselves as CBSE-run institutions,” said Jaiswal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-board-affiliated-schools-advertise-as-cbse-institutes/articleshow/76486811.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Covid brings pay losses to ordnance factory workers||Nagpur: An employee of the ordnance factory Ambajhari, Cyril Pedro, whose wife has been undergoing treatment for a major illness, has been facing financial crisis due to the pandemic even if the organization provides enough facilities, including healthcare, for its employees. Pedro, a government employee though, is among the thousands of workers in 41 ordnance factories across the country who have suffered indirect pay cuts. The ordnance factory workers are perhaps the only central government employees whose salaries have been reduced due to Covid-19. For the factories’ employees right from the level of industrial workers till charge man, piecework allowance — a variable pay depending on the productivity — and overtime make a sizeable component of their monthly salaries. The unprecedented lockdown due to Covid-19 stopped the piecework allowance and overtime. Even as most of the factories resumed functioning from June and some started earlier, the production levels have not picked up yet. This has led to a reduction of Rs10,000 to Rs20,000 per month in salaries of the ordnance factory workers. There is hardly any payment of the two allowances. As the allowances are paid on a regular basis, the employees do their financial planning, considering it as part of their take home pay. Pedro’s salary sheet shows a net salary of Rs47,000. “I am not entitled to piecework allowance but get overtime, which was stopped in February itself as the workload was down. This further continued due to covid,” he said. “The employees plan their expenses and even take loans considering that they will be getting piecework and overtime each month. Now, their entire calculations have gone haywire. There are employees who are finding it difficult to pay for their children’s education or EMIs,” ordnance factory employees association president Girish Khade said. Khade said a worker at junior level who has a gross pay of Rs30,000 could manage to get another Rs10,000 to 15,000 as the two allowances. For the senior workers, it went up to Rs22,000. The charge men who did not get piecework allowance managed to get Rs16,000 extra through overtime. Piecework allowance is pegged on the extra work done as against what is expected in the mandated hours. Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh general secretary Mukesh Singh said, “It’s not for pay alone that the workers want the production to pick up. The current situation on the Chinese front has left them emotionally charged up and they want to contribute to the nation’s defence also.” “The allowances were not to be paid due to the lockdown. Even after restarting factories, the production could not reach the regular levels due to problems in procuring raw material from the industry. Now, it is up to the factory management at local level to ensure that the raw material supply is resumed so that the workload increases too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-brings-pay-losses-to-ordnance-factory-workers/articleshow/76487562.cms||Shishir Arya
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maha CM to decide on Ganpati idols’ height limit on Monday||Mumbai: There will be no 20-25 feet tall idols during Ganeshotsav this year. Mandals have agreed to a state government request to limit the height of moortis given the threat of drawing crowds amid Covid-19. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to Ganpati mandals to scale down festivities. The state said mandals could reduce the height to three feet, but at a meeting chaired by Thackeray with prominent city mandals, they sought a limit of five feet. “Moortikars had decided to make small idols this year. All mandals at the meeting said they will agree to what the CM decides, which is likely in two days,” said Sewree MLA Ajay Chaudhary (Shiv Sena). Few in Lalbaug have crafted small clay idols averaging three feet, instead of regular 22-foot plaster of paris idols. The state had contemplated allowing mandals like Lalbaugcha Raja and GSB King’s Circle to have large idols as they are puja moortis, but this could open the doors to litigation. Lalbaugcha Raja averages 16 feet, while Ganesh Gully is 22 feet. Some in Khetwadi and Girgaum reach 26-28 feet. Swapnil Parab, secretary of Mumbaicha Raja Mandal of Ganesh Gully, Lalbaug, said, “Our moorti averages 22 feet, but understanding coronavirus, we will agree to the government decision. We are waiting to see if visarjan will be permitted at Chowpatty, or we will have to build artificial tanks.” They are also waiting to see if devotees can come for darshan, or it will be limited to TV and online. Visarjan spots like Girgaum and Dadar Chowpatty were discussed but officials said immersions may be allowed in eco-friendly tanks created by BMC, with limited people per idol. R G Bhat, trustee of GSB King’s Circle mandal, who coordinated the meeting, said, “The government permitted us to organise the festival in August. By Monday, Thackeray will decide on the height of idols.” Naresh Dahibavkar of Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, which did not attend the meeting, said they have been recommending self-regulation of height since March-April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-cm-to-decide-on-ganpati-idols-height-limit-on-monday/articleshow/76487566.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LIFE mission honors individual who donated private land for housing project||Thiruvananthapuram: LIFE Mission CEO U V Jose honoured Sukumaran Vaidyar, a resident of Panniyode, Poovachal, who donated 2.75 acres for constructing apartments for homeless people under LIFE housing mission here on Saturday. Vaidyar said he had put in much thought before donating his land for LIFE Mission. Vaidyar, a traditional medicine practitioner, visited the flat complex constructed under LIFE Mission at Adimali and also paid a visit to Abdulla, a resident of Kadakkal who had earlier donated land for the mission. He understood the requirements before donating the land priced at Rs 3 crore. Jose said such a kind gesture from Vaidyar is a recognition to state government’s initiatives to ensure home for the homeless people in the state. That he donated the land after understanding the requirements is a testimony to his earnestness, the CEO said. The land donated by Vaidyar is so far the largest expanse of land given to LIFE Mission by an individual. Jose also visited the plot donated by Vaidyar at Kulavupara. He had purchased the land for Janaki memorial trust, an initiative he started in memory of his mother. Poovachal panchayat president K Ramachandran, development standing committee chairman S Vijayadas, health standing committee chairman P Manikantan, panchayat member A K Dinesh, panchayat secretary S Jayanti, LIFE Mission chief engineer N Ajayakumar, project manager U S Rahul,district co-ordinator K Sajeendra Babu accompanied Jose. As many as 113 beneficiaries have been included in the list of landless-homeless people in Poovachal panchayat for LIFE Mission. The panchayat had earlier transferred 70 cents for LIFE Mission. This land was insufficient for constructing flats for all the beneficiaries. It was following this issue Vaidyar decided to donate 2.75 acres he had bought with his savings towards the objectives of LIFE Mission. He has also undertaken charity initiatives like bus-waiting shed at Panniyode junction, reading centre, library which were constructed under Janaki memorial trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/life-mission-honors-individual-who-donated-private-land-for-housing-project/articleshow/76486841.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, AIMIM corporators file nominations||Hyderabad: Nine Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) corporators and six All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) corporators have filed their nominations for GHMC standing committee election. The 15 member committee will be unanimously elected as Congress , BJP and TDP lack quorum. From AIMIM, former Mayor Majid Hussain (Mehdipatnam ward) is also in the race. GHMC standing committee headed by Mayor Bonthu Rammohan is the apex body of the civic body and takes important policy decisions, including according sanction for all works above Rs 2 crore. - Nabinder Bommala||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-aimim-corporators-file-nominations/articleshow/76488211.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Captured monkeys in deplorable state||JAIPUR: Monkeys captured in Jaipur for being released into the wild are kept under horrifying conditions leading to grievous injuries. A contractor hired by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) for catching monkeys and releasing them in the wild is violating all norms of keeping them after being captured. As per norms, each monkey caught must be kept in a separate cage but due to lack of facilities all of them are being hurled into a single cage at Dawa Khana. This has led to infighting among them leading to grievous injuries. On Saturday when volunteers of People For Animal (PFA) went to Dawa Khana, they saw nine monkeys kept in a cage with many injured. Experts said it’s not advisable to capture and keep different groups of monkeys in one cage as conflicts rise. PFA activist Suraj Soni said, “The department was not even aware that monkeys are kept in deplorable condition for past five days. The monkeys should be released in the wild within 24 hours. However, due to lack of resources, the corporation is keeping in animals in such deplorable conditions.” According to sources, the JMC had asked two contractors to catch a total of 500 monkeys in greater Jaipur and Heritage Jaipur. After one contractor did not adhere to the norms, the corporation terminated the contract of one of them. “The contractor was catching monkeys on his own even after his contract was cancelled. We have issued warning to file a case if he repeat it in future.” To catch a monkey, JMC had fixed Rs 677. Sources said the JMC will release 50 monkeys together near Ranthambore National Park (RNP). “Till the time the contractor catches 50 monkeys, they are being kept in cages in Jaipur. As per the rule, they should be kept in separate cages. To cut the cost, the contractor was keeping in one cage and not feeding these animals. This is why contract was terminated,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/captured-monkeys-in-deplorable-state/articleshow/76488208.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Down on sales, stores lenient with customers not wearing masks in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Despite rules, staffers at several malls and stores were lenient with customers who were not wearing masks inside their stores. Inside a mall in Madhapur, some people were seen relaxing on the seating space provided in the common area without masks. Some of them had a piece of cloth wrapped on their neck. In a mall located in Madhapur, stalls selling ice-cream and snacks were located in the middle of the floor with shops on either side. Customers were eating near the common seating space and near the counter, some of them were eating while they headed towards a store. Some coffee shops inside malls arranged seating for customers outside their store. As people who were eating in the common areas did not wear masks, other people were at risk too. Store managers and security guards with masks on their chin were a common site at several malls. The condition was the same in standalone stores too. Many customers removed the mask soon as they entered stores, especially when they were trying jewellery. Several shoppers also said that they can’t try clothes and jewellery with a mask on their face. “Social distancing is the key, wearing mask and visiting a crowded place does not protect people. It is not possible to try a necklace with a mask on face. While trying out jewellery I ensured the mask is inside my bag,” said a shopper on Banjara Hills road no. 10. Owners of commercial establishments admitted that they can’t be strict with customers. “ We are already into losses, for me and several businessmen, hospitality is the key to retain customers. Some customers get offended, even when we politely ask them to wear the mask properly,” said the owner of a jewellery store on Banjara Hills road no. 10. According to GHMC officials, all the complaints are being attended to. “GHMC’s directorate of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management is even attending to the complaints raised on Twitter and penalising offenders,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/down-on-sales-stores-lenient-with-customers-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76488239.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Articles worth Rs 7L gutted in fire||Nashik: A sweet shop caught fire at Gonde Phata, 30 km from Nashik city, in the wee hours of Saturday. The incident has been registered at the Wadivarhe police station. Police said that they had to summon two fire tenders to douse the flames. It took about two hours for the fire tenders to bring the situation under control. Of the two fire tenders, one was called in from Nashik city and the other one from Mahindra & Mahindra company located at Igatpuri. Wadivarhe police said that while there was no loss to life, goods and other articles worth Rs 7 lakh were gutted in the fire. Police inspector Vishwajeet Jadhav said that the fire broke out from an electrical short circuit. Jadhav said that they received a call about the fire at around 4.30 am on Saturday after which they summoned the fire brigade tankers from Nashik and the Igatpuri industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/articles-worth-rs-7l-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/76488212.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hyderabad-bound flight cancelled||Ahmedabad: The departure of a Hyderabad-bound flight was cancelled on Saturday from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) Airport in Ahmedabad. Well-placed sources confirmed that the flight was cancelled due to operational issues faced by the airline. Of late, flight cancellations in the last minute have been rampant at the city airport, either because of operational reasons or lack of adequate passenger load to viably operate the aircraft. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, individuals are apprehensive of travelling. Moreover, travel restrictions imposed by corporates have also impacted business travel. On Friday as well, two flights departures were cancelled from the city airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hyderabad-bound-flight-cancelled/articleshow/76487569.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Business||India looks at ‘travel bubbles’, domestic fare cap may be extended||New Delhi: India will from next month look at creating travel bubbles with countries that allow access to its citizens and vice versa, while immediately scaling up Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) repatriation exercise. The government expects domestic passengers movement to touch half go pre-pandemic level by mid-July after which it will consider allowing schedule international flights under a “bilateral bubble arrangement” with such countries. And, the capping done for domestic fares could be extended beyond August 24 depending on the situation. The fare range was introduced for three months when domestic flights resumed on May 25. “In pre-pandemic times, we used to have 3-3.5 lakh domestic passengers daily. We started with 30,000 passengers on May 25 and since then have seen a maximum of 72,000 domestic passengers on a day. I expect to reach half of the pre-corona level of 1.5-1.6 lakh domestic travellers before mid-July. At that point, we will consider resuming schedule international flights on a country-by-country basis, depending on who allow our citizens in and we theirs based on a bilateral bubble arrangement,” aviation minister H S Puri said. Air India will add more flights under the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission phase-3 and the next phase, that will see private Indian airlines operating 750 flights to Gulf and southeast Asia. “We will operate 650 flights under VBM-4 in July. The maximum demand for travel is to and from the US, Canada, Europe, Middle East and southeast Asia,” AI chairman Rajiv Bansal said. Aviation secretary P S Kharola said “Depending on how the situation turns out, the fare band may have to adjusted beyond August 24 also. But right now, it is only for three months.” Minister Puri said VBM flights are being operated to ensure people can travel till normal schedule flights begin. “As we ramp up operations further, the fares may fall. AI will tie up with airlines to bring Indians to places in Europe, from say the Carribean, and then fly them to India from there. AI will look at making such arrangement wherever needed,” he said. About AI privatisation, Puri said: “I have never been as hopeful and confident on Air India, divestment or disinvestment whatever you choose, as I am now. AI’s true worth has revealed itself in recent times and it is a first class asset. Whether it be for evacuation of indians from Wuhan, AI has been at the heart of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-looks-at-travel-bubbles-domestic-fare-cap-may-be-extended/articleshow/76488496.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Candidate under lens over wrong info on kids||Jaipur: Following complaints received with regard to allegedly giving wrong information about the number of children in the affidavit by a candidate during panchayat polls to Karera bujurg gram panchayat in Newai, Tonk collector Kishore Sharma has directed SDM Newai to investigate the matter.“We have received the complaint and we have sent it to Newai SDM for investigating the matter. According to the complaints received, it was alleged that wrong information was given with regard to the number of children in the affidavit. It was alleged that the person had three children,” said Sharma. “Since 1995, according to the rules, a person was not eligible to contest elections if he/she had more than two kids,” he added. According to SEC official, this is a criminal offence and, as per the rules, if found guilty one will be punished under IPC 191 (giving false evidence) and 193 (punishment for false evidence) for giving wrong information in the affidavit, and it could lead to two-month imprisonment of the person with regard to the number of children in the affidavit. It was alleged that the person had three children,” said Sharma. “Since 1995, according to the rules, a person was not eligible to contest elections if he/she had more than two kids,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/candidate-under-lens-over-wrong-info-on-kids/articleshow/76488210.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Govt fixes refund rate for pvt hosps||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has fixed the rate at which select private medical colleges and hospitals serving as Covid hospitals would be reimbursed by the government. Issued by the State Agency for Comprehensive Health and Integrated Services, the order will allow private medical college and hospital administrators to get paid for their contribution towards the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. The payments are to be made through Ayushman Bharat and Mukhya Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana.The selected hospital can charge from the government a sum of Rs 1,800 per day for general bed while it can make a bill of Rs 2,700 per day for a high dependency unit, the order says. A sum of Rs 3,600 per day has been fixed for intensive care unit services not requiring a ventilator while ICU with a ventilator would mean Rs 4,500 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-fixes-refund-rate-for-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76488215.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||India’s fastest supercomputer at ‘sealed’ IITM shut till Monday||PUNE: India’s fastest supercomputer Pratyush would not function till Monday because the premises of the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology — housing the gadget — was sealed on Friday evening after a temporary IT employee tested positive for Covid-19. The Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) authorities and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) decided to seal the facility in Pashan till Monday to sanitize the campus, a source said. So, Pratyush and Aditya, another super computer, would remain shut for a couple of days. The personnel coming in contact with the infected staffer are in home isolation. A senior IITM scientist told TOI on Saturday, “A Covid-19 patient was identified in IITM. So, the entire complex has to be sanitized and closed for a few days as per the guidelines of the government. As a result, the supercomputers have been shut and the operational forecasts load will be temporarily shifted to Noida’s supercomputers, Mihir and Bhaskara, in the NCMRWF (National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting).” The scientist said the institute never had to shut down the two supercomputers for an extended period, except for maintenance for 12-18 hours. “Shutting down the systems has been as surprising for us as it has been for others. The systems will be restarted on Monday, but it will take another 24 hours for them to become operational again. So, the scientists will be able to use the systems once again only from Tuesday,” he said. Another IITM source said, “The institute had engaged the IT staffer detected Covid-19 positive with some other personnel on contract. They used to visit the IITM to work on the computers and supercomputers and interact with scientists as well. There has been a thrust on online webinars after the Covid-19 pandemic. Technical issues frequently crop up during such events.” The source added, “The IT personnel seemed asymptomatic in the beginning. When he got fever, he decided to get himself tested for the contagion, and was found positive. Others in his team are also being tested.” A scientist in the IITM said it was the first time that the supercomputers would be shut down for a few days. “The systems were shut on Friday evening as the authorities could not take a risk,” he said. Before the supercomputer Pratyush at IITM, models were running at 25km resolution. With the fastest supercomputer, the models are now running at 12km resolution, which is why national forecasters have been able to give block-level forecasts as well. All forecasts of India Meteorological Department — short, medium and extended-range (two- to four-week period as well as seasonal) — run on the four super computers. Pratyush, launched in 2018, placed India at the fourth position after Japan, UK and US for dedicated HPC resources for weather/climate community. Its high performance computing facility is of 4.0 Peta Flops. It has helped in improving the ocean state forecasts, including marine water quality. It also gives tsunami forecasts with greater lead time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indias-fastest-supercomputer-at-sealed-iitm-shut-till-monday/articleshow/76487582.cms||Neha Madaan
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||3 members of robbery gang held||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police, on Saturday, busted a gang of criminals involved in robbing scrap dealers by calling them to the Shendra MIDC industrial area.The accused have been identified as Asif Khan Ismail Kha and Irfan Hasan Bhola (both from Pune), and Muqtar Azim Qureshi from Aurangabad. The police are looking for their accomplices.The gang came under police radar, after they robbed a Mumbai-based scrap trader Bahal Ahmed Siddiq. The criminals had called Siddiq to Shendra MIDC on the pretext of showing him scrap. The gang had also forged an inter-district movement pass for Siddiq. The accused took him to a deserted place in the industrial area. They robbed him of Rs 29,500 and four cellphones. They also forced him to reveal his debit card password and withdrew Rs 46,000.About 10 days ago, the same gang robbed Jalna-based scrap dealer Syed Mohsin of Rs 1 lakh. The offence was registered by Karmad police. Inspector Santosh Khetmalas said the gang may have robbed others. “We have identified their modus operandi and are checking if they have previous records or if they have duped others. They had also prepared fake travel passes. We are going in-depth in that as well,” said Aurangabad rural SP Mokshada Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-members-of-robbery-gang-held/articleshow/76485989.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Mobile toilet for women in Kosgi||Hyderabad: A mobile toilet, exclusively for women, has been pressed into service by the officials of Narayanpet as part of the Pattana Pragati programme. Equipped with solar panel, sanitary napkin dispensers and biodigesters, the toilet will move around in Kosgi municipality. A bus was converted into this toilet, which also has two washbasins. “Route map of the public washroom has been decided based on footfall and availability of public washrooms in Kosgi,” said an official from Naryanpet collectorate. According to MAUD officials, washrooms are being built after MAUD minister KT Rama Rao directed officials across the state to ensure hygiene and sanitation in their jurisdiction. “In Narayanpet, 15 cost effective toilets were built in May,” said a district collectorate official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-toilet-for-women-in-kosgi/articleshow/76488216.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thane||Thane: Kalwa’s 1.5 lakh slum residents fear hunger more than Covid-19||MUMBAI: The coronavirus hasn’t been the only killer in this lockdown. Another fallout of the pandemic has been starvation or the extreme lack of food, witnessed in distressful sights and reports of people in the teeming slums of Kalwa, a distant north central suburb situated between Thane and Mumbra, chafing in hunger and despair. Overcrowding, poor sanitation, hygiene related illnesses — life was already a struggle in the labyrinthine shanties of Kalwa, long before the virus came. The slum may have escaped the brunt of any Covid-19 cases till date but more than the virus still looming large it is hunger that they fear. Without work since the lockdown, most of the residents who live a hand-to-mouth existence working in construction, cleaning and as domestic help and earn an average daily salary of Rs 140 are staring at an unsheltered future, their savings and food dwindling by the day. Home to roughly 1,50,000 residents, old timers say that the Kalwa slum community was birthed one tiny shanty at a time over two decades across a contentious land parcel that belonged to the liquidated Mafatlal Industries. It’s boundaries grew briskly, with the illegal settlement of migrants from UP, Bihar, Bengal and Karnataka looking for work in the city, and the resettlement of slum dwellers from other parts of Mumbai, after their homes had been razed by demolition drives. While around 40,000 travelled back to their hometown following the lockdown (number calculated by the Gabriel Project, an NGO that works with marginalised communities), two young children suffocated to death in the back of an unventilated lorry after their parents paid for them to leave Kalwa and join relatives in Uttar Pradesh. Many stayed back, too poor to afford the cost of travel and presently clinging to grassroots charities for essential food supplies as their savings ran dry and foodstock depleted. A gaunt-looking Shivratan Gupta, 58, with a family of seven to feed including his three-year-old granddaughter, is at his wits’ end trying to navigate survival. Shivratan migrated to the city from a village in Uttar Pradesh last year to escape crippling poverty and managed to scavenge a living on local trains, selling chocolate and snacks is starving and facing eviction from his one-room shack in Kalwa. As the trains sit still, so does he. “There’s nothing worse than sitting around, unable to provide for your own family. I’m also desperate to take my family back to UP but I cannot afford the inflated fares,” he rues. “These migrants came here to get out of extreme poverty in urban settings and now with the pandemic, they’re worse off than before they came here. Unlike Dharavi which is a hub for small scale industries, Kalwa has very little industry and production of its own. Almost every family is devastated by the reduced livelihood and many have no livelihood at all,” says Jacob Sztokman, co-founder of Gabriel Project that has been working in Kalwa for the past four years attending to health, nutritional and educational needs in the area. “Through public donations, the food packages we give are essential to prevent starvation, however, this is only a temporary solution. We are seeing families and children starving,” he adds. Distress is not new to Jamila Bano Sheikh but the pandemic has left her miserable and struggling to make ends meet. The 30-year-old is a tough young widow and a mother of five, who has been fending the house rent, food and school fees for her children, since her husband died two years ago in an accident. Struggling with both hunger and coronavirus, Jamila says: “Everyone living in the slum still uses the same few toilets and water points. I’m unable to sleep at night, petrified of catching the virus and leaving my children orphaned on the street,” she says. While there’s hardly any way that social distancing — crucial in the fight against the pandemic — can be a viable strategy in this dense settlement with 3x3 meter hutments, open sewage outside, and barely any sanitation and water facilities on encroached land, the Project has initiated what they call the Corona Virus Emergency Response program to educate the community on good hygiene practices, distribute soap and masks, and crowdfund resources that they need to survive. “With the country opening up, many of Kalwa's residents are hopeful that their old jobs will be available again soon. This optimism has encouraged around 5000 to return from their hometowns, while leaving their families behind,” says a hopeful Sztokman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalwas-1-5l-slum-residents-fear-hunger-more-than-covid-19/articleshow/76487586.cms||Mohua Das
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Artisans of iconic footwear stare at uncertain future||Kolhapur: Shopkeepers in the famed chappal lane in Kolhapur these days call out to anyone walking by, urging them to buy the iconic footwear brand of Maharashtra. Worn by commoners and fashionistas with equal aplomb, the Kolhapuri chappals are handmade using at least 16 different tools. The chappal lane in Kolahpur is lined with approximately 50 shops selling the handcrafted footwear. However, the three-months of lockdown have left hundreds of shopkeepers, artisans and small-scale manufacturers under severe duress. Throughout the summer, when their sales and manufacturing is at the peak, their small-scale and home units remained locked down. Mahesh Nangare, who owns a shop in the lane and crafts the chappals, said summer season is the peak season for our sales. “With the marriage season and thousands of tourists, our entire year’s earning is done in summer. This year, it couldn’t happen. Now, we are worried the chappals in stock will get damaged in monsoon due to the moisture.” Maruti Gawli, owner of Kala footwear, said though they had opened shops now, there are no tourists. “Locals won’t purchase Kolhapuri chappals during the monsoon now the leather gets spoilt due to moisture. We have started selling plastic chappals needed during monsoon to help us earn some income,” he said. Locals said the total business of Kolhapuri chappal is Rs 9 crore. The 10,000 artisans working in the manufacturing area of Subhash Nagar in the city make approximately six lakh chappals every year. Nearly 30% of the chappals are exported. Arun Satpute, chairman of Kolhapur Charmadyog Audyogik Samuh said “The lockdown and current situation has left hundreds of craftsmen without work and counting losses. Since March, the transport of raw leather from government approved factory in Chennai has stopped completely. With no sales and no raw material at hand, the craftsmen are worried of their future,” he said. Prakash Lokare, an artisan who binds chappals, said they have got no new or orders in hand. “The situation is such that we will have to borrow money to feed ourselves. The future is bleak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/artisans-of-iconic-footwear-stare-at-uncertain-future/articleshow/76488214.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Irrigation ministers to meet soon||Kolhapur: The irrigation ministers of Maharashtra and Karnataka will meet very soon to discuss ways in which water discharge from dams can be managed to reduce the chances of floods. State irrigation minister Jayant Patil announced the chances of a meeting after a meeting was held in Sangli to discuss the recommendations of the Vadnere Committee — a panel formed to study the causes and suggest measures to avoid floods in south Maharashtra. The experts of the committee, representatives of three districts, collectors, municipal commissioners and mayors attended the meeting. One of the experts said that the back water pressure of Almatti dam did not lead to flooding of rivers upstream. However, he reiterated the need for coordination between irrigation officials of Maharashtra and Karnataka since heavy downpour for a short period of time led to heavy flooding of Krishna and Panchaganga rivers. Patil said, “The meeting of irrigation ministers of both the states will be held soon in Kolhapur or Belgaum. We will focus on ensuring proper coordination for dam discharge management. Till then, I have asked local bodies and the district administrations to draft a plan for implementing the recommendations suggested by the expert panel.” “Some recommendations are long-term such as diverting excess water to drought-prone areas, building small dams in the upper catchment areas of the big dams. I will look into these issues. The short-term measures are related to relief and rescue. I hope all the agencies remain preparedin advance for a flood-like situation,” said the minister. The experts said that floods occured in Warna and Panchganga rivers due to the inability to drain out excess water logged during heavy rain. Experts suggested that small lakes be developed along the banks of rivers and free the riverbeds of all sorts of encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/irrigation-ministers-to-meet-soon/articleshow/76486837.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nashik||41 tankers provide drinking water to 81K villagers||Nashik: Despite a good start to monsoon in Nashik district, the administration has deployed 41 tankers to supply drinking water to more than 81,000 residents of 127 villages. The water is being provided despite the district receiving more than 80% of the monthly average rainfall in June. “There are 41 tankers, of which, 25 are privately-owned. A total of number 81,628 villagers are relying on these water tankers,” officials of the district administration said. According to officials, maximum number of tankers (19) have been deployed in Yeola taluka, followed by Surgana, Peth and Nandgaon talukas were six tankers each have been deployed. The district has received 95% of the monthly average rainfall so far with Sinnar receiving the highest of its monthly average rainfall at 257%. “The district has received maximum rainfall during cyclone Nisarg, followed with heavy rainfall last week. While other talukas received about 100% of their monthly average rainfall, Surgana taluka has received 58%, Peth received 38% and Nandgaon has received 54%,” an officer said. Yeola taluka has received 163% rainfall in June; however, the taluka still reels under water shortage. The administration has also acquired 68 wells for the villagers. “These wells are privately-owned. The villagers are allowed to draw water from them. At the same time, some of these wells are reserved for refilling of water tankers as well,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/41-tankers-provide-drinking-water-to-81k-villagers/articleshow/76488221.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Metro proposal reaches advanced stage||Nashik: The Nashik Metro project proposal is in the advanced stage of its approval as the detailed project report (DPR) has been forwarded to the Union ministry of finance and ministry of railways for their consent. Highly placed official sources involved with the project told TOI that the Union ministry of housing & urban affairs (MoHUA) has forwarded the DPR to the ministries concerned. “Once the two ministries examine the details of the project and approve it, the proposal will be placed before the Union cabinet for the final nod,” said the sources adding that it would take time for the two ministries to go through the DPR. The Rs 2100 crore project,known as Metro-Neo, is the first of its kind in the country as rubber-tyred AC bus coaches would run on two elevated corridors which is 32 km long, with overhead electric wires. The total number of station between the corridor will be 30. While part of the project cost would be borne by the Union and the state governments, the other part of the funding would be raised by borrowings. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation would be the implementing agency for the project. The state government has already approved the DPR before it was sent to MoHUA. There has been speculation in some quarters about the fate of the project due to the outbreak of Covid-19 which has impacted the economy. “We are hopeful that the Union government will approve this project after examining all aspects of the project minutely since the project is an innovative one ,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-metro-proposal-reaches-advanced-stage/articleshow/76488222.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural SP pitches for reforms in police dept||Aurangabad: Aurangabad Rural SP Mokshada Patil, writing a paper for the 47th All-India Police Science Congress compendium, has strongly pitched for reforms within the department.In the paper, titled ‘Reforms in policing: Challenges at the field level and required measures’, the IPS officer said the direct responsibility of the police leadership is to meet challenges in the field and to be the harbinger of reforms. She said the demands for reforms in policing must come from within the organisation as well as the society at large.The officer said use of technology in the execution of summons and warrants, like Maharashtra’s M-police app, can reduce police workload. Allowing larger participation of communities in their own traffic management will go a long way in creating more law-abiding citizens, she wrote. She also favoured continuous in-service training. Patil even pitched for functional autonomy for the police and need to enhance accountability.While highlighting the challenges faced by the police, in terms of occupational stress and health-related issues, housing, the safety of life while on duty, welfare-related issues, sensitization etc., Patil suggested a series of solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-sp-pitches-for-reforms-in-police-dept/articleshow/76485998.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Process to issue driving licenses to start tomorrow||Kolhapur: The process to issue temporary and permanent driving licenses will start from Monday at the regional transport office, Kolhapur, with a limited number of applicants called every day to ensure social distancing.Only the pending applications will be cleared first, until then no new application will be accepted.The RTO has rescheduled the appointments for the applications to get the temporary and permanent driving license till August 3. The applicants have been waiting for the last three months as most activities came to a standstill due to the lockdown..Stevan Alvares, the regional transport officer said, “The applicants have to check their date of appointments online. Schedule for the licensing process has been reshuffled. The limited number of applicants will be called for tests every day to ensure social distancing.” The applicants must wear masks and only one entry to the RTO is kept open.From the beginning of June, the RTO opened up first with vehicle registration and then started other activities such as documentation.Meanwhile, the RTO is slowly picking up revenue. During the lockdown, huge loss of revenue was observed. Now, with the relaxations, the vehicles are being sold. The officials said that the dealers are giving attractive offers to clear the vehicle stock. Also, the registration of BS-IV vehicles are allowed. The RTO earns around Rs 18 crore every month from different modes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/process-to-issue-driving-licenses-to-start-tomorrow/articleshow/76486887.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||PCMC areas’ pending cases push Pune’s tally over 15,000||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) shot up by 823 on Saturday on account of pending cases from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. This pushed Pune’s total tally over the 15,000-mark. The total cases in PMR soared to 15,004 on Saturday, following a record surge of 381 cases from the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. When contacted, the PCMC authorities said 381 cases were not recorded in the last 24 hours, but these were the pending cases from the last three to four days that were added by the district health office (DHO) in its report on Saturday night. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said, “We have been reporting cases to DHO on daily basis. However, there had been under-reporting of cases in DHO report in the last three to four days. This led to a sudden spike in cases in Saturday’s report,” Patil said. 15 more succumb to nCoV Fifteen more people, most above 50 years, succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 584. The deceased included a 48-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 56-year-old man from Nana Peth, an 84-year-old woman from the Fatimanagar area, a 56-year-old man, an 83-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 71-year-old man from the Hadapsar area, a 75-year-old man from Ganj Peth, a 59-year-old woman from the Ramoshi Gate area and an 80-year-old man from the Wadarwadi area. PMC health officials said 183 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after being declared cured. The tally of active patients increased up to 4,086 on Saturday. The health officials said collection of swabs of suspected patients remained over 2,500 even on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-areas-pending-cases-push-citys-tally-over-15000/articleshow/76487614.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Two cops rescue 30-year-old woman in suicide bid||NAVI MUMBAI: Two constables of NRI coastal police station on night patrol in Ulwe saved a 30-year-old woman who attempted suicide, after an emergency call from control room on Friday. Senior inspector Tanvir Shaikh said, “The control room received a call at 8.45pm that a child was crying in a first floor flat in Sector 5, and nobody was responding to the door bell. Beat marshals Kiran Swar (35) and Pandurang Kawate (36) informed the fire brigade and went to the building.” When they heard a child crying, they broke open the main door and found a four-year-old girl outside the bedroom, which was locked from inside. A fire brigade team broke open the door and found the child’s mother inside. Shaikh said, “Swar noticed slight movement of her toes. As she was unconscious, fire brigade staff gave her cardiopulmonary resuscitation and revived her. She has been hospitalized and is out of danger.” The woman’s husband was staying separately, and as she was a homemaker, she had no source of income, police suspected. Police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said the constables will be rewarded for alertness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/2-cops-rescue-30-year-old-woman-in-suicide-bid/articleshow/76487637.cms||George Mendonca
June 21, 2020||Pune||Endangered animals now on podcasts, with a cultural twist||PUNE: Wildlife Conservation: India claims to be the only dedicated wildlife podcast in the country, and is on every major streaming service, be it SoundCloud or Spotify. And for the podcast's runners, putting up the episodes come with significant work, even during such times. "These services are very particular about the content and the quality of voice and other musical effects on these podcasts. And they also need to be of the appropriate length. Fortunately, we have people who put in efforts to ensure the production quality is good, with proper sounds and interesting sound effects, including many natural sounds like birds chirping in the opening theme of the podcast," said Satish Pande, founder of the Ela Foundation, which creates the podcasts, in association with other groups and individuals, including The Wildlife People. The podcast is actually into its second season, with the first season running for more than a year and with 14 episodes. The second one has published three episodes till date. Pande hosted some of the episodes, with his wife Suruchi, both of whom study aspects of ethno-ornithology and ethno-biology. Others, like the Israeli zoology researcher Reuven Yosef, have also chipped in to host sessions on bird ringing, crucial to study populations of bird species. And the focus of the two seasons, while being focused on wildlife at large, have varied slightly, with more cultural and mythological relevance. "The first season was about our work in ornithology at the grassroots, be it at the Ela Habitat, or elsewhere. We spoke about the bird species we have studied, especially the owl and its place in Indian culture, including the superstitions surrounding them and their dwindling numbers. In the second season, we are focusing on a few species, which we are relating to Indian texts and mythology, so that people can relate to them. For example, our newest episode is about the monitor lizard, and its significance in Indian mythology," Pande added. Despite the local focus, the novelty of the podcast has drawn in curious listeners from across the globe. "We have 3500 listeners now, and they tune in from more than 47 countries," said Nivedita Pande, who introduces each podcast along with the topic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/endangered-animals-now-on-podcasts-with-a-cultural-twist/articleshow/76487609.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Cotton corp to buy from farmers till September 30||Aurangabad: In a major relief to cotton growers in the state, the Cotton Corporation of India has filed an affidavit before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court stating that cotton would be purchased from farmers till September 30. There are 85 cotton purchase centres in the state. The affidavit is the outcome of the division bench of HC turning a writ petition of Parbhani-based cotton farmer Tryambak Siral into a PIL. Poining out that over 50% of the cotton had not been purchased by the state, Siral, through his lawyer Vishant Kadam, moved the HC earlier this month seeking that directions be issued to the CCI and the Cotton Federation to purchase cotton from farmers as per guidelines. Cotton purchase in Maharashtra is usually completed by March. However, the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown that followed delayed the purchase process. By the time the lockdown ended, portions of the state started receiving rainfall and authorities allegedly stopped cotton purchase, causing losses to farmers.Taking cognizance of these facts, the HC sought details related to cotton purchase in the state. While assuring anonymity to the farmers, the HC asked them to put forth their grievance with respect to the policy adopted or the procedure followed by the state for purchasing cotton. While suggesting that the Cotton Federation and the CCI may explore the possibility of starting more cotton purchase centers, the HC ruled, “The Federation and the CCI shall take all the steps and efforts to curtail the delay in procurement of the cotton and see to it that farmers are not kept waiting for a long period. The Federation and the CCI may give proclamation in the local newspaper that they are purchasing cotton from the agriculturist.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cotton-corp-to-buy-from-farmers-till-september-30/articleshow/76486004.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Trip sheet must for city autos||Thiruvananthapuram: With more and more people turning Covid positive in the city, city police have made it mandatory for autorickshaw and taxi workers to maintain a trip sheet in which details of passengers are to be noted. This move is to make contact tracing easier. The decision has been taken in the wake of source of infection of several positive cases remaining unknown. “The rickshaw and taxi drivers must keep a diary or a notebook in their vehicle. The place from which they hail the ride and their destination must be entered in the trip sheet and must be shared with police or health officials when contacted in case any of their passengers later turning Covid positive,’’ said city police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay. Meanwhile, police have also intensified security in the five regions that have been declared as containment zones. They are Kalady, Attukal, Manacaud, Chiramukku and Iranimuttam. They have closed the roads leading to these zones using barricades. The locations that have been completely lockdown in these zones are Manacaud Junction, Bund Road, Manacaud-Kulakkada Road, Manacaud-Attukal Road, Manacaud Valiyapalli Junction, Bund Road-Padasseri region, Maruthoorkadavu Bridge, Konchiravila Temple Road, Kalladimukham Bridge, Rajiv Gandhi Library Road, Kuriathi Ammankovil Junction, Kuriathi Driving School Junction, Kurriathi LPS Road, Karthika Nagar Road 1 and 2, Karamana-Kaladi-Thalyil Road and Kaladi Soman Nagar. All shops in these regions, except those sell essential commodities and medicines, must remain shut. In another development, Cantonment police in the city on Saturday booked a person invoking Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance after he ran away from General Hospital after he was told to take a swab test. The 50-year-old man from Vandiperiyar had visited the hospital with symptoms of illness. Police tracked him down and booked him after getting alert from hospital authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/trip-sheet-must-for-city-autos/articleshow/76486898.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||SHRC takes up bribery case||Hyderabad: State Human Rights Commission took up the case wherein a village revenue officer had demanded bribe of Rs 10,000 to make corrections in the patta passbook. The complainant from Khammam said the VRO had demanded the bribe to change the photo after officials printed the wrong photograph. SHRC sought a report from district collector by July 10. In another case, a petitioner complained about negligence of authorities in taking action against an upper caste group for disturbing the irrigation canal leading to a scheduled caste farmer’s field. SHRC sought a report by July 20. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-takes-up-bribery-case/articleshow/76488223.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||City to witness greatest phase of solar eclipse at 11.56am today||Jaipur: Pink City will witness the greatest phase of annular solar eclipse (88% obscuration) at 11.56am on Sunday. “The astronomical significance of this solar eclipse is that this is happening on the summer solstice date - the longest day of the year. Second, the greatest eclipse phase will occur around 12 noon,” said Sandip Bhattacharya, assistant director, B M Birla Planetarium.“Due to Covid pandemic, there will be no arrangement at the B M Birla Planetarium campus for witnessing the solar eclipse,” he added. The sun will take the shape of a bracelet at the greatest eclipse phase. “In Jaipur, the obscuration will be 88% and in Gharsana (Ganganagar), it will be 99%. The solar eclipse will begin at 10.12am from Gharsana. The greatest phase will be around 11.56am and the eclipse will end at 1.44pm. This is the only solar eclipse to be seen from India this year,” said Bhattacharya. The solar eclipse shall move across southern Arabian peninsula and enter India at Gharsana (10.12am) across Rajasthan border. Travelling at 2,765km per hour northeast, it touches Suratgarh (10.14am), Sirsa (10.16am) and Kurukshetra (10.21am) in Haryana, Dehradun (10.24am) and Joshimath (10.27 am) in Uttarakhand in northern India, before entering Tibet. “The last similar annular solar eclipse was visible in south India in December, 2019. This time, in Gharsana, the maximum obscuration is for about half-a-minute. However, the duration was little longer last time (south India), which was for about 3-4 minutes. Minimum, there are two solar eclipses a year throughout the earth,” he added. During the 1995 solar eclipse the obscuration was total, i.e. 100 per cent. This time, the greatest obscuration will be 99%. “One should wear eclipse goggles and No. 14 Welder’s Glass to witness the solar eclipse,” said Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-to-witness-greatest-phase-of-solar-eclipse-at-11-56am-today/articleshow/76488218.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 102 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday||AURANGABAD: The district recorded 102 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to 3,340. As many as 18 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours and seven patients with comorbidity have died, said GMCH officials. The fresh cases have been reported from Palshi, Mandki, Kannad, Pisadevi and parts of Bajaj Nagar, Waluj. The increasing number of cases in rural areas has become the latest cause of worry for the administration, which currently is facing an uphill task due to the limited health infrastructure and the number of health workers. The administration said that though there has been a regular surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, so far almost half of them have fully recovered. As per the figures provided, 1,740 people have been discharged, while 189 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 including 140 at Government Medical College and Hospital, 47 at private hospitals and one at Chikalthana-based state-run covid care hospital. “Our ultimate aim is to zero down on every symptomatic and asymptomatic silent carrier of Covid-19, so that the graph could be flattened,” said district collector Uday Choudhary||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-102-new-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/articleshow/76486016.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 21, 2020||Pune||NDA pays rich tribute to Colonel Santosh Babu||PUNE: The National Defence Academy (NDA) on Saturday paid rich tributes to Colonel B Santosh Babu, who was killed in the line of duty in the clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of Eastern Ladkah on the night of June 15-16. “His undaunted courage, leadership and commitment in an unprecedented scenario is the trademark of an ex-NDA officer,” said a statement issued by the academy. His name was inscribed with full military honours on the sacred walls of the Hut of Remembrance in golden letters adding him to the elite league of ‘ex-NDA Bravehearts’. A wreath laying ceremony was organized where Commandant NDA Lt Gen Asit Mistry laid a wreath . Col Babu was an excellent sportsman and was from ‘November ‘ squadron of the academy. He had passed out from the academy in 2003. After his one-year military training at the Indian Military Academy ,Dheradun, he was commissioned into the force in 2004. “He was an excellent instructor at the academy. He had a decent rapport with cadets, who are now serving officers in the force,” said an officer, who had served with him at the NDA during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nda-pays-rich-tribute-to-colonel-santosh-babu/articleshow/76487640.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||No vehicles on cable stay bridge||Hyderabad: The GHMC has banned entry of vehicles on Durgam Cheruvu cable stay bridge on weekends. Vehicles will be not be allowed on Saturday’s and Sunday’s. According to officials, the engineering project is also a tourist attraction and the ban is imposed to ensure peaceful atmosphere for tourist. The bridge will be inaugurated by July end. According to officials the duration of ban has not been decided. The bridge will reduce the commute from Mind Space to Jubilee Hills by around 2 kilometres. The commute will come down to less than two minutes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-vehicles-on-cable-stay-bridge/articleshow/76488227.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: 40 infected in Solapur bazaar in one week||PUNE: The Solapur bazaar area of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has recorded 40 Covid-19 positive cases in a week. The area is congested and situated adjacent to a containment zone. It had managed to contain the spread of the virus effectively till last week, with only three positive cases reported from the area ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, told TOI on Saturday, "Post-lockdown, people from the area have been to containment zones. This is how the cases increased. We have declared the entire area a containment zone and restrictions have been imposed." The locality has congested lanes and bungalow areas. It also houses some defence establishments and schools. "We have launched active contact tracing in the area. Our team of doctors and staffers is collecting throat samples of people who have come in contact with patients in the last few days," Kumar added. According to the board, 60 samples were being collected on an average from different localities of the cantonment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-infected-in-solapur-bazaar-in-one-week/articleshow/76487633.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Differences within SSS resolved||Kolhapur: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti has managed to sort out the differences within the organisation over his possible appointment as MLC. Shetti claimed his name was unanimously suggested by the workers. Shetti’s clarification comes a day after some of his long-time associates, including Jainder Patil and Sawkar Madnaik, publicly expressed resentment over the decision. They felt Shetti should have given the opportunity to somebody else in the organisation. Prominent SSS functionaries met at Jaysingpur’s place late night on Friday. Sources said that some functionaries complained that few associates were deliberately spreading mischievous news on social media. They also argued that Shetti should have taken them into confidence before meeting Sharad Pawar. Shetti changed his stand within 24 hours after saying that he was not interested in a post if it caused bitterness within the organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/differences-within-sss-resolved/articleshow/76488224.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Sassoon General Hospital asks Maharashtra govt for additional PPE kits||PUNE: With an additional 80 ICU beds being readied, Sassoon General Hospital said it would require additional Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. At present, nearly 650 PPE kits are being utilized daily at the hospital. “More would be required once the new unit becomes operational,” Settlement commissioner S Chockalingam, who has been given charge of Sassoon, said. So far, Sassoon was able to make do with donations from Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, The hospital has sent a request to the government for more kits. So far, Sassoon has recorded 227 Covid-19 fatalities, a sizeable share of the 560 deaths in Pune. “Early admission and timely treatment have controlled the numbers. Corporations identifying co-morbid patients early has also helped,” Chockalingam said. Referring to death audit reports prepared by Sassoon, he said most of the patients who died had serious underlying conditions. He further added that he has urged Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad to intensify the drive to detect patients with co-morbidities via a house-to-house survey so that they can be treated in time. “It is necessary to aggressively identify, isolate and treat such patients,” Chgockalingam added. Abbot machines allotted Abbot machines, which can generate Covid-19 test reports in one hour, will be made available to Sassoon specifically to test trauma cases and pregnant women. The remaining tests will be conducted at the regular laboratories, Chockalingam said. Psychological helpline Sassoon has started ‘Man Samwad’, a psychological helpline, jointly run by Maharashtra Institute of Mental Health and the Department of Psychiatry of BJ Medical College. Psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers and nurses have been deputed to staff the 24x7 helpline (020-61277331).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-general-hospital-asks-state-govt-for-additional-ppe-kits/articleshow/76487664.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||3 Covid-19 cases each in Kolhapur & Sangli dists||Kolhapur: After a gap of several days, Kolhapur district recorded three new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Out of the three cases, two are from Bhudargad tehsil and one from Shirol tehsil. The tally of positive cases in the district has reached 734, of which 50 are active patients currently undergoing treatment. So far, eight people from the district have died due to the viral infection. The district administration has set up a centre where migrant workers can come and consult about various government schemes for jobs and livelihood. The district administration has given the task of consultation to the labour department and made assistant labour commissioner Anil Gurav as the in-charge of the centre. Meanwhile, three new Covid-19 cases were also registered in Sangli district on Saturday. One of the patient is a 10-year-old girl from Mandur village in Shirala tehsil. A 96-year-old woman from Vithlapur village in Atpadi tehsil of Sangli district, who had contracted Covid-19, has successfully recovered from the viral infection. She had no travel history and contracted the infection from one of her relatives from Mumbai who tested positive for Covid-19. The woman has become the first Covid patient of the highest age who has successfully been cured in the region. Currently, there are 101 active patients in Sangli undergoing treatment. Nine patients have succumbed to the infection and the condition of seven patients is said to be critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-covid-19-cases-each-in-kolhapur-sangli-dists/articleshow/76486914.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Pandemic fails to dampen charm of yoga||Jaipur: Being confined to homes during lockdown has not diluted the charm among yoga enthusiasts. Rather, many more have used this period to make yoga a daily habit and even involving their children as it became increasingly popular as an exercise to boost immunity during the pandemic. A study conducted by the city’s doctors last year showed that yoga has a positive effect on health. The integration of yoga with modern medicine in resource-strained public health systems play a vital role to provide people with holistic healthcare, the study said. The theme for the 6th International Yoga Day 2020 is Yoga for Health - Yoga at Home. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appealed for social distancing due to the pandemic and therefore the day will be celebrated at home and photos and videos will be shared on social media. The research on effect of yoga on physical and various hematological parameters was carried out by Dr Ashish Banerjee and Dr Lokendra Sharma among the general population of Jaipur last year. “Our study revealed a significant rise in haemoglobin post yoga. Also, a significant reduction in BMI was observed in our study among those who do yoga,” said Dr Lokendra Sharma, senior professor (pharmacology) SMS Medical College, who conducted the study. The study says individuals underwent various types of yoga exercises for 90 days under supervision of professional yoga trainer. Impact on body weight, blood pressure, white blood cell count and platelet count were taken under consideration before and after training. Significant reduction in body weight and BP, rise in hemoglobin was observed. Seven-year-old Soravi, daughter of yoga trainer Ranjita Maheshwari, kept practicing the art with her mother. She said that yoga keeps her fit and she never miss a single day without performing it. Despite being at home, people have not given up habit of performing yoga. “I used to go to a nearby park earlier on regular basis but due to lockdown, I kept practicing it at home. It keeps me energized when the life became dull due to lockdown,” said Munish Sharma, a resident of Walled City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-fails-to-dampen-charm-of-yoga/articleshow/76488232.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Somaiya hospital did no wrong, says charity commissioner||MUMBAI: The charity commissioner (CC) told Bombay HC that during lockdown, K J Somaiya Hospital (Sion) admitted four patients under a scheme to reserve 20% beds for indigent persons and weaker section patients. “Till this date, no complaint was received at this office about denial of admission at the hospital during lockdown,” said R N Joshi on an inquiry done under his supervision. On June 13, HC directed the inquiry on a plea by a family of seven from Bharat Nagar, Bandra (E) who were admitted from April 11-28 due to Covid-19. Their advocate Vivek Shukla said they were overcharged, including for PPE and anaesthetist fees. The CC’s reply said the inquiry concluded Somaiya fulfilled conditions of the hospital scheme, framed by HC, to earmark 20% of its operational beds for indigent and weaker sections, and credit of 2% of its gross bill to an Indigent Persons’ Account. “It provided treatment to three patients under the hospital scheme during lockdown, till end of May, and one patient in June,” it said, adding that 90 beds were reserved. The CC said principal secretary (health department) would be the proper authority to verify charges collected. He said the inquiry revealed that the seven petitioners’ names were not on the list of patients under the scheme. “They have not disclosed their income status, supported by documentary evidence which would make them eligible for benefits under the scheme,” he added. Stating that the seventh petitioner was discharged on May 2, the CC said the circular on controlled rates for Covid-19 treatment took effect on May 21. Hence, the petitioners were not eligible for concessional rates to Covid-19 patients by charitable hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/somaiya-hosp-did-no-wrong-charity-commissioner/articleshow/76487699.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Out-of-job auto drivers and building painters work at Covid-19 cremation centres||PUNE: Around three months ago, Nitin Pathare’s day would start giving a wash to his autorickshaw and readying it for the day’s trips. Now he starts his day carefully putting on a mask and gloves, as he leaves for a crematorium. Pathare is one of the 20-odd men hired by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on a contract basis to cremate people at dedicated facilities in the time of Covid-19. “I could not take out my autorickshaw after the lockdown was announced. I tried working at construction sites on a daily wage basis. But that too stopped. Now I am working at the crematorium and earning much more. I pray to God every day that this contagion ends. Once that happens, I will look for some other job. Till then, I will cremate bodies,” he said. The PMC has hired 20 men like Pathare to work at the cremation facilities at Yarawada and the one near Sangam bridge. The civic body provides each of them with a new personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for each cremation. A PMC official said the Yerawada and Kailas cremation centres had an operator each, working round the clock. “Before the outbreak of Covid-19, the family members of the deceased would remove the wrapped body from the ambulance and put it on the stretcher for the cremation. But after coronavirus, the situation changed and we needed more people for the cremation. Accordingly, we needed to hire the contractual workers,” the official said. Pathare said before removing the body from the ambulance, the corpse would first be sanitized. “The same procedure is followed for the entire crematorium after every cremation. I am not scared of the work, as the PMC has armed me with the PPE kits,” he said. Working at the dedicated cremation centres in Yerawada and Sangam bridge is no easy job for the contractual workers. The biggest fear for them was being socially ostracized. Ganesh Kalunkhe, who was a painter at a construction site, had to convince his mother before taking up the cremation job to ensure food for the family. “I lost my job once the lockdown was announced. I have to support two children, my wife and my elderly mother. When I told my mother about the job offer, she broke down. I had to convince her that working at a crematorium was a good option, instead of seeing the family going to bed hungry,” he said. A contractual staffer working at the Yerawada crematorium has not shared with his two children the details of his new job. “After the lockdown was announced, I had no job. Once I got to know about the PMC offer, I took it up. I have not told my children about it, as I did not want to scare them. They are too young to understand that the situation is grim. Before leaving for work, I tell them that I am going to a hospital to help the doctors,” he said. Another contractual worker said, “I spoke with my wife and we decided not to disclose my new job in the neighbourhood. We fear that we may be socially ostracized.” The civic body, too, has ensured certain measures to ensure hassle-free cremation. “This is the first time that we are issuing online death passes to families of people succumbing to Covid-19 or dying of other causes. The aim is to ensure that the families of the deceased are not forced to venture out,” said Sriniwas Kandul, PMC chief engineer (electrical) and head of the Covid-19 cremation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/out-of-job-auto-drivers-building-painters-work-at-covid-19-cremation-centres/articleshow/76487685.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Mother abandons newborn, gives fake name & address to hospital||AJMER: Authorities of the government women’s hospital registered a police complaint against a woman who abandoned her baby in the institute. When police launched a probe, it was found that the name, address and mobile number she gave were all fictitious. Child helpline and nurses are taking care of the newborn while police registered a case against the unknown mother under Section 317 of IPC. Senior doctor Nandlal filed the complaint with Christian Ganj police station stating that a woman on June 5 came to the hospital to deliver a baby. She was accompanied by an elderly woman. The elderly woman stated that her daughter’s name is Pooja and they are residents of Chanwardai Nagar. Next day, after the woman delivered a baby boy and was shifted to the general ward in the afternoon, both fled away. Police searched the address, but found that they had given false address. The hospital administration waited for the mother to return, but no one came and the hospital registered an FIR. Police are now trying to get her photo from CCTV cameras to identify her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mother-abandons-newborn-gives-fake-name-address-to-hospital/articleshow/76488226.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Rain likely in Marathwada, clouds to cover eclipse||AURANGABAD: With the forecast of rainfall and cloudy skies, the citizens of Aurangabad and other parts of the region are likely to miss the chance of seeing the first solar eclipse of 2020 to some extent on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cloudy skies and moderate rainfall for Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada over the next 24 hours. Meteorologist Kiran Johare said the solar eclipse will start at 9.15 am and will last till 2.58 pm. “The total timing of the celestial phenomenon will be of around five hours and 43 minutes. Residents of Marathwada can only observe a partial solar eclipse, while those from north India could observe it as a total solar eclipse,” he said. Johare also urged citizens to not believe any rumours associated with solar eclipse and the spread of Covid-19. “Rumours are being spread that solar eclipse will eradicate the effect of the pandemic. It has no scientific basis,” he said. Earlier, many parts of the region reported light to medium rainfall during the past 24 hours which ended by Saturday morning. The region has reported average rainfall of 132 mm, which accounts for 94% of expected showers, as per the official record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rain-likely-in-marathwada-clouds-to-cover-eclipse/articleshow/76486025.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Passengers choosing RSRTC buses over private carriers||JAIPUR: Even three days after the private bus operators started their services at various routes across the state, the passengers are still wary and preferring the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) buses. As many of the private buses are not following the SOPs suggested by the state government, many passengers feel they are not safe.  TOI on Friday visited various routes from where the private bus services are being operated including Polo Victory, Sikar Road and Transport Nagar and found that they had a negligible number of passengers. For many routes, the buses had to be cancelled due to lack of passengers. “I don’t know about the private players but yes we are the trusted operators since we are a government corporation. I think it is time that we build customer trust with our punctuality and services. This is the reason that we are thinking of extending our services to other areas,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. RSRTC authorities said that at many routes their occupancy is more than 70%. “Since the day we started our occupancy has increased. People have trusted our services,” said an officer. Some private buses that were waiting to ferry passengers to Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu, had few occupants. “Sawaari nahin aa rahi roadways main jaa rahi hai (passengers are not coming, they are preferring RSRTC buses),” said Hanumant Singh, driver of a private bus to Jhunjhunu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passengers-choosing-rsrtc-buses-over-private-carriers/articleshow/76488234.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Ayurveda cured me, says infected seer||SHIVAMOGGA: The seer of a religious institution has recovered within 10 days after testing postive for the novel coronavirus. While the seer claims it was ayurveda that cured him, the district administration has refuted his claims saying the central government has not recommended ayurveda as a treatment for Covid-19. The seer told STOI that doctors delayed ayurveda treatment for five days. "A patient has the right to practice any method to cure his or her illness. I request the central government to set up Covid treatment facilities at Ayush hospitals. I quote the PM’s recent speech about ayurveda concoctions, and Chavanaprash as an immune booster," the seer said. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said that thete is no proof that ayurveda alone cured the seer of Covid-19. "Doctors at the Covid hospital have been giving him prescribed covid medicines. As per the seer’s request, doctors used some ayurveda medicines which woud not clash with the allopathy medicines," he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ayurveda-cured-me-says-infected-seer/articleshow/76486917.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Follow strict norms in hotspots’||Aurangabad: Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has asked for strict implementation of lockdown norms in containment zones in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Marathwada. “The district administration should put a strict check on the movement of citizens residing in the containment zone. People are allowed to move out of homes only for essential activities.,” he said in the latest review meeting at Jalna. “Individuals with symptoms such as cough, cold and fever must be quarantined either at home or at the institutional level,” he said. The total number of Covid-19 cases has reached to 358 in Nanded and 304 in Jalna, by Saturday evening with a number of causalities rising to 11 and 14, respectively.Among other districts from the region, Latur has 226 Covid cases and 13 deaths, Osmanabad has reported 175 cases and six deaths by Saturday evening, Beed recorded 101 cases and three deaths. The latest statistics related to Parbhani and Hingoli districts was not available till late evening. Health authorities said rural areas of Marathwada have also witnessed a surge in Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/follow-strict-norms-in-hotspots/articleshow/76486033.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Police solve suicide case involving minor girl, youth in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Lathi police solved a suicide case involving a minor Muslim girl and a Bheel youth on Saturday. The incident took place on June 13 in which the girl died. Police said that the youth had planned to kill the girl who was creating hurdle in his marriage. The youth is undergoing treatment in Bikaner. Police have arrested one accused and detained a minor. “Lathi SHO Om Prakash and his team after detailed investigation revealed that the victim girl and culprit Beerbalram were having an affair for a long time. Beerbalram’s marriage was fixed on June 29, 2020. When the girl came to know about it, she asked Beerbalram to marry her and threatened to inform his family members and commit suicide if he marries someone else,” SP Kiran Kang said. So, Beerbalram along with his friends Prakashram and Lakshmanram Bheel made a plan. As per the plan, Beerbalram would take the girl to a secluded spot and both would consume poison. But, he would give more poison to the girl so that she dies while he would be saved by his friends. “On June 13, Beerbalram, Prakashram and Lakshmanram brought pesticide from the field. In the night, Beerbalram went to the girl’s house and took her to Jagdamba Temple where both consumed poison. Thereafter, Beerbalram called his friends. They came and found the girl unconscious while Beerbalram was writhing in pain. The friends went to Beerbalram’s house and informed his family members. They reached the spot and took the girl and Beerbalram to Mohangarh where doctors declared the girl dead and referred the youth to Bikaner,” SP Kang said. SP Kang said that Prakashram has been detained while Lakshmanram has been arrested under POCSO Act and Section 302. Beerbalram is undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital and will be arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-solve-suicide-case-involving-minor-girl-youth-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76488231.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Increase NREGA work days to 200: CM Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||JAIPUR: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the “Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan” on Saturday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family. Gehlot, who attended the launch of the scheme through video conference, said increasing the number of work days under NREGA would maximize the benefits generated through ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’ at the ground level. He also said the cost of material component (including state government’s share) for works carried under the NREGA should be provided by the centre. Under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, migrant labourers, who have returned from other states to their homes following Covid-19 crisis, would be provided the means of livelihood at nearby places. Rajasthan is among six states in the country where campaign has been launched. Of all 116 districts across the country where works would be carried out under the campaign, 22 are in Rajasthan. Any district receiving over 25,000 migrants from other states, has been listed for undertaking 25 different works to be completed in 125 days. Pali, Udaipur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Barmer, Bikaner, Nagaur, Sikar, Alwar, Karauli, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Jaipur districts have been selected for the campaign in Rajasthan. Gehlot wrote that providing additional 100 days under NREGA would benefit 70 lakh rural families in Rajasthan, including the families of migrant labourers, who have returned in large numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/increase-nrega-work-days-to-200-cm-gehlot-tells-pm/articleshow/76492749.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Udaipur||Increase NREGA work days to 200: CM Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||JAIPUR: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the “Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan” on Saturday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family. Gehlot, who attended the launch of the scheme through video conference, said increasing the number of work days under NREGA would maximize the benefits generated through ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’ at the ground level. He also said the cost of material component (including state government’s share) for works carried under the NREGA should be provided by the centre. Under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, migrant labourers, who have returned from other states to their homes following Covid-19 crisis, would be provided the means of livelihood at nearby places. Rajasthan is among six states in the country where campaign has been launched. Of all 116 districts across the country where works would be carried out under the campaign, 22 are in Rajasthan. Any district receiving over 25,000 migrants from other states, has been listed for undertaking 25 different works to be completed in 125 days. Pali, Udaipur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Barmer, Bikaner, Nagaur, Sikar, Alwar, Karauli, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Jaipur districts have been selected for the campaign in Rajasthan. Gehlot wrote that providing additional 100 days under NREGA would benefit 70 lakh rural families in Rajasthan, including the families of migrant labourers, who have returned in large numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/increase-nrega-work-days-to-200-cm-gehlot-tells-pm/articleshow/76492748.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ajmer||Increase NREGA work days to 200: CM Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||JAIPUR: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the “Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan” on Saturday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family. Gehlot, who attended the launch of the scheme through video conference, said increasing the number of work days under NREGA would maximize the benefits generated through ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’ at the ground level. He also said the cost of material component (including state government’s share) for works carried under the NREGA should be provided by the centre. Under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, migrant labourers, who have returned from other states to their homes following Covid-19 crisis, would be provided the means of livelihood at nearby places. Rajasthan is among six states in the country where campaign has been launched. Of all 116 districts across the country where works would be carried out under the campaign, 22 are in Rajasthan. Any district receiving over 25,000 migrants from other states, has been listed for undertaking 25 different works to be completed in 125 days. Pali, Udaipur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Barmer, Bikaner, Nagaur, Sikar, Alwar, Karauli, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Jaipur districts have been selected for the campaign in Rajasthan. Gehlot wrote that providing additional 100 days under NREGA would benefit 70 lakh rural families in Rajasthan, including the families of migrant labourers, who have returned in large numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/increase-nrega-work-days-to-200-cm-gehlot-tells-pm/articleshow/76492750.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Increase NREGA work days to 200: CM Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||JAIPUR: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the “Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan” on Saturday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family. Gehlot, who attended the launch of the scheme through video conference, said increasing the number of work days under NREGA would maximize the benefits generated through ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’ at the ground level. He also said the cost of material component (including state government’s share) for works carried under the NREGA should be provided by the centre. Under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, migrant labourers, who have returned from other states to their homes following Covid-19 crisis, would be provided the means of livelihood at nearby places. Rajasthan is among six states in the country where campaign has been launched. Of all 116 districts across the country where works would be carried out under the campaign, 22 are in Rajasthan. Any district receiving over 25,000 migrants from other states, has been listed for undertaking 25 different works to be completed in 125 days. Pali, Udaipur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jodhpur, Barmer, Bikaner, Nagaur, Sikar, Alwar, Karauli, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Jaipur districts have been selected for the campaign in Rajasthan. Gehlot wrote that providing additional 100 days under NREGA would benefit 70 lakh rural families in Rajasthan, including the families of migrant labourers, who have returned in large numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-nrega-work-days-to-200-cm-gehlot-tells-pm/articleshow/76488238.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Research sluggish as many stay at home||PUNE: Prominent research institutions in the city, including the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and others, are facing many hurdles in research projects as a result of the lockdown. Many doctoral students went home when the educational institutions shut down in March. Fields like humanities had little effect, but actual laboratory research has been hampered, heads of institutions said. IISER, Pune has written to the state government and the Union ministry of Human Resource and Development to allow PhD students to report to institutes to resume projects. Director Jayant Udgaonkar, said a common letter on behalf of all IISERs in the country has been given to the ministry to allow PhD students and fellows to get back to work. Udgaonkar told TOI that educational institutions can’t open, but they were both, education and research institutes. “We understand that classroom sessions cannot take place, but research activities cannot stop,” he said. The institute heads said to carry out any research project, the faculties bank on doctoral and fellows and a bulk of actual work is done by them. The research institutions require manpower to carry on their research and many of these institutes are in the forefront of research related to COVID-19. Udgaonkar said, “Our students involved in various projects are waiting to come back.” Several departments at the SPPU are carrying out research projects. Registrar Prafulla Pawar, said that students are the backbone of any research project in a national institute. “We bank on these doctoral students and they are more of an employee to each department than students and hence they are also paid a stipend. They are the real brains and if they are allowed to work in this situation, they will surely be able to contribute to the problem with solutions.” The situation at the National Centre for Cell Science is no different and officials said research work was hampered. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) has contributed with innovative products including masks, hand sanitisers, disinfectant mist system, cheaper swabs among others in the past three months despite unavailability of their research student strength. NCL director Ashwin Kumar Nangia said, “We have started with local students since last week. We will allow outstation students in stages depending on the situation next week and so on. We are trying to make decisions keeping all the factors in mind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-research-sluggish-as-many-stay-at-home/articleshow/76487725.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||7 commit suicide in 4 incidents in Barmer||Jaisalmer: Seven people, including two children, committed suicide in four different incidents in Barmer district on Saturday. In the first incident under Sadar police station area, Kamla, 24, wife of Deva Ram, jumped into a water tank behind her house along with her one-year-old son Mahadev. She was married for four years. Sadar SHO Moolaram Choudhary said prima facie it looked like a fight between husband and wife triggered the incident.In the second case under Beenjrad police station area, a minor girl who was said to be in love with a 22-year-old youth Gena Ram Bheel, hanged herself to death, while Gena Ram, too, jumped into a deep well and ended his life. On receiving information, Beenjrad SHO Kailash Das reached the spot and recovered the body from the well with the help of villagers. The third incident took place in Sarli village. Hansli, 28, wife of Bhaga Ram, jumped into the water tank and committed suicide along with her 2-year-old daughter Rukmani. SHO Lata Begar sent the bodies to mortuary. The case is being investigated by deputy SP, woman cell, Dhannapuri Goswami. Hansli’s brother Hanumanaram has lodged a dowry case against her husband, brother-in-law and mother-in-law. In the fourth case, Ramaram Jat, 50, committed suicide by hanging from a tree outside his house. According to sources, Jat was depressed over being allegedly ostracised from his community. According to Barmer SP Anand Sharma, police are probing all the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-commit-suicide-in-4-incidents-in-barmer/articleshow/76488229.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||2019-21 murder rate to be at 21-year-low: Nagpur cops||NAGPUR: The statistical analysis wing of city police’s crime branch has projected a total of 240 murders between 2019 and 2021 — which is the lowest since 1998-2000. As against 347 murders between 1998 and 2000, the projected murder rate for 2019-21 marks a drop by over 69%. State home minister Anil Deshmukh praised the city’s police force for bringing the overall crime rate during the lockdown phase of March-May 2020 down by 52%, in comparison to the corresponding periods in 2018 and 2019. Deshmukh’s comments followed a review of the crime statistics furnished by police commissioner BK Upadhyay and his team. The home minister said that Nagpur police managed to keep a check on serious crimes, despite the challenges of lockdown enforcement. In his press statement, Deshmukh also said there were 28 murders between March and May in 2019, which had come down to 16 in 2020 in the same time span. City police research on murder rate revealed that the rate is in sharp contrast with trend wherein a rise in population leads to a proportionate increase in crime. Murder rate has fallen even after three police stations of Old Kamptee, New Kamptee and Hingna were inducted into city police in 2016 from Nagpur Rural. Upadhyay attributed a number of factors for the decrease in serious crimes like murder. “There has been growth in economic activity in the city, with infrastructure development like MahaMetro. Lots of people got engaged in these developments and deviated from crime,” he said. “The inclusion of CCTV cameras and other technologies in policing has also led to better prevention and detections,” he added. Deputy police commissioner (crime) Gajanan Rajmane said city police’s research also showed there was an increase in preventive action by more than 35%, and arms seizure by around 76% between 2014 and 2019, leading to a fall in murder rate. “For calculating the projected murders, we have also highlighted the years when murders were fewer — like 2007 (73), 2018 (77), 2015 (79) and 2019 (83); and the years like 1999 (135), 1998 (114), while the figure was 112 in 2001, 2004 and 2011 each when they were more,” Rajmane said. Referring to the 10 murders that have occurred this month (till June 20), Rajmane said the senior officers have pulled up the concerned police station in-charges where loopholes were found. “A substantial number of criminals who were released from jail due to Covid threat, and also earlier than that through bail, were brought under surveillance through ‘operation crackdown-II’,” he said. Nilesh Bharne, the additional police commissioner, crime (who also holds the charge of joint CP), said criminals were now under intense surveillance due to the special anti-crime drive of operation crackdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2019-21-murder-rate-to-be-at-21-year-low-city-cops/articleshow/76487728.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru school suspends online classes on Zoom citing anti-China sentiments||MANGALURU: Rumour-driven campaigns on social media has turned parents in Dakshina Kannada district against the use of Zoom application as an online platform for the education of their children. Taken in by spurious claims of the application being a Chinese product, many parents, in what they believe to be an expression of solidarity with the martyred soldiers in Ladakh, have appealed to schools not to employ the tool for online classes. Interestingly enough, Zoom is actually a company based out of California in the United States of America. “Acting at the behest of the stakeholders and keeping in view the escalating tensions on the border, we decided to suspend virtual classes for students of classes nine and ten from Friday afternoon. Our technical team is looking at adopting alternative tools by Google and Microsoft. We have also been facing a few technical issues with Zoom. We have decided to give the students a break so they can prepare for tests,” said Joy Jeevan Rai, principal of Canara High School. Meanwhile, online classes for students of class eight that had only recently commenced have also been suspended. The school has, however, created YouTube videos for students of classes III and above. Bimba Manoj, a parent of a student at the school, welcomed the decision of the management, and appreciated the alacrity with which it had been arrived at. An American firm In his blog, chief executive officer of Zoom Eric Yuan clarified that it was a company founded and headquartered in California, United States of America, which is also listed on NASDAQ. “Like many multinational technological companies, Zoom has operations and employees in China, and our offices there are operated by subsidiaries of US parent companies,” his blog read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-school-suspends-online-classes-on-zoom-citing-anti-china-sentiments/articleshow/76486939.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Crop loan: Solapur collector warns banks||Kolhapur: Solapur district collector has warned banks that if they failed to comply with the state government’s decision on crop loan sanctions, they will face action under the Disaster Management Act. Addressing a meeting of agriculture department officials and bank representatives, Milind Shambharkar said the erring banks would be issued notices for corrective steps and action will be taken if crop loan formalities are not completed. Shambharkar’s warning assumes significance as cooperative and nationalised banks are finding it difficult to implement the state government order to sanction new loans to the farmers whose accounts are considered non-performing accounts (NPAs). Though the state government has said that these loan amounts would be paid by the government with interest, the bankers have been pointing to the RBI directives on sanctioning loans to NPAs. xShambharkar asked the banks to complete the formalities to approve crop loans within a week. He said that farmers, whose accounts are in the NPA category, should be given priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/crop-loan-solapur-collector-warns-banks/articleshow/76486929.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||BEST staffer’s kin complain of overcharging by Nerul hosp||Navi Mumbai: Relatives of a 52-year-old BEST employee, who died of Covid at DY Patil hospital (Nerul), complained of overcharging on Saturday. The hospital claimed the relatives had not attended to him in hospital. Jafar Choughule, (52), admitted on June 1 after complaints of heart problems, died on June 19. The hospital issued a bill of more than Rs 5 lakh to relatives, who expressed inability to pay it, leading to delay in release of the body. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya sought the intervention of Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner and police commissioner, and after relatives made part payment, the hospital released the body in the afternoon. Rafiq Pathan, a cousin, said, “The Mahim resident had gone to his native Chincholi village in Junnar taluka, Pune. After he developed a heart problem, he returned and was admitted to hospital, as his brother-in-law resides in Vashi. He had diabetes and tested positive for Covid. The hospital said treatment would cost Rs 4-5 lakh. But, we spent Rs 4.5 lakh. We paid a deposit of Rs 1.25 lakh. After he died they gave us a bill.” He added, “After intervention of senior officials, we paid Rs 1 lakh and they released the body after making us write that we had no complaints.” “The hospital issued a bill of Rs 5,07,277 to relatives, how can they refuse to release the body?” said Somaiya Hospital CEO Dr Rahul Pedawad said, “We provided all documents to NMMC. The patient was brought in a very serious condition, as he did not any bed in Mumbai. The rates provided by us were lower or within government bracket. It is our fault that we never forced them to clear the bill every two days on humanitarian grounds?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-staffers-kin-complain-of-overcharging-by-nerul-hosp/articleshow/76487741.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||BJP prez Nadda flays RaGa over Galwan Valley tweets||Jaipur: Slamming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remarks on the China-India tussle over Galwan Valley, BJP national president J P Nadda on Saturday accused him of lowering the morale of defence forces through his tweets while addressing a virtual rally for the party workers at Jodhpur and Bikaner division. “Some opposition leaders display their lack of understanding of issues of national importance. They ask why do soldiers go unarmed in the Galwan Valley which shows they didn’t know anything about the international rules and agreements between the two nations,” said Nadda. Further taking on Gandhi for his tweet that PM Narendra Modi has surrendered Indian territory to China, Nadda said that the kind of language being used for PM Modi is not part of the Indian culture. He recalled how Rahul Gandhi had caused disrespect to his party PM Manmohan Singh by tearing the copy of the ordinance in the full public view. He added that, “Forget respecting and honouring PM Modi you had dishonoured your own party PM.” This is the second virtual rally by BJP in the state to mark the first anniversary of the Modi government. Nadda was in no mood to spare Congress over its reaction that, ‘PM Modi has kept them in dark’ in the all-party meeting over Galwan Valley incident. He said, “Every political party stands united over the Galwan Valley but Congress’ questioning continues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-prez-nadda-flays-raga-over-galwan-valley-tweets/articleshow/76488237.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||56 oxygen supply pipes stolen from nCov facility||Pune: A worker (32) was arrested and the contractor employing him in the job was booked for stealing 54 copper pipes, collectively worth Rs1.08 lakh, purchased for supplying oxygen to the new Covid care facility at the Sassoon General Hospital between June 15 and 18. The arrested worker, Chandrashekhar Bhind (34), will be in police custody till June 24. Sub-inspector Ravindra Godse from the Bund Garden police said, “Bhind told the police that he had picked up the pipes as per his contractor’s instructions. He claimed that the pipes were in possession of the contractor. A police team has been fanned for arresting the contractor.” A private firm was given the contract for laying the oxygen pipeline at the facility. The firm’s supervisor, Shankar Jadhav (32), stated in his FIR, “A total of 56 pipes of 12, 13 and 22mm diameter were stolen from the facility..” The FIR read, “The hospital’s security helped the firm officials in establishing the identity of the worker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/56-oxygen-supply-pipes-stolen-from-ncov-facility/articleshow/76487722.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Laboratories in Pune to face action for delaying test results||PUNE: Private and government laboratories could face action if they delay Covid-19 test reports beyond 24 hours. There has been increasing number of complaints of delayed reports from many private laboratories — with some even sending samples to Mumbai for testing. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said notices have been issued to three laboratories in Pune. “They have to abide by the guidelines. If they don’t, we will initiate action,” Mhaisekar told TOI. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a video conference and deputy chief Ajit Pawar in Friday’s meeting with the district administration, had emphasized on more tests and early reports. District health officials said that delays in reports leads to a delay in contact-tracing and consequently in treatment. Maharashtra has 95 labs to screen for Covid-19 tests in the state, of which 54 are government ones and 41 are run by private firms. Mhaisekar dismissed claims of overburdening and staff crunch by private laboratories, saying they should have factored al of these in before submitting a proposal. “If they have staff issue or equipment-related problems, they need to make necessary changes and not delay results.” he said. Many private laboratories have been delaying reports beyond 72 hours. “Corrective measures have to be taken and the labs have been asked to submit reports in time,” a state health official said. At the moment, nearly 4,000 tests are done daily in Pune — 2,500 by 10 government laboratories and the rest at 23 private facilities. “Most of the burden is being borne by government laboratories. All laboratories have been strictly told to get their act together,” an official said. For instance, at the BJ Medical College attached to Sassoon General Hospital, reports are out in 8-10 hours. Settlement commissioner S Chockalingam, who is in charge of Sassoon, said, “The samples are sent out at 2pm and we get the reports by 10pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/laboratories-to-face-action-for-delaying-test-results/articleshow/76487709.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mylabs to unveil faster testing platform soon||PUNE: ICMR-approved Mylabs Discovery Solutions is all set to launch a new platform that will allow testing processes to be automated and performed with less involvement of manpower. TOI analysed the lab infrastructure in the country and why there was a huge backlog in test results in even the reliable RT-PCR test method. In reply to TOI’s question as to why testing is slow, the company tweeted, “And this is going to change. Very Soon. Stay Tuned!” The company’s managing director, Hasmukh Rawal, said the platform that the company will unveil, will allow diagnostics at a much faster rate. “There is a huge requirement of space and manpower to conduct the current tests and thus testing is low. It is a technical test and requires trained manpower. Antigen test is fast, but not as effective. So, we are bringing a platform which will accelerate the testing time without much reliance on manpower. We will launch the machine in 5-7 days,” said Rawal. Mylabs has, so far, supplied close to 15 lakh test kits to over 20 states. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, about 65 lakh samples have been tested so far and over 1.5 lakh samples are being tested daily. “Any lab that has been approved by ICMR can purchase our kit. We have supplied kits to labs in hospitals as well as stand-alone labs to ensure that the reach is optimum,” a Mylabs official told TOI. Mylabs also said the cost of each test has come down a bit but did not quantify the drop. Earlier, it had said a test could be done at Rs1,250 each. At the retail level, tests in government hospitals are free, whereas, in private ones it costs Rs4,500 per test. However, according to Rawal, the demand for these tests from labs is also coming down and the reason for the same was unknown. Asked if Mylabs tests are producing accurate results, the basis on which it was given an approval by ICMR, a spokesperson said, “Yes, the kits are producing accurate results. We have proactively collected feedback from clients. Not all have provided feedback but the feedback so far has been very positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mylabs-to-unveil-faster-testing-platform-soon/articleshow/76487736.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 1,000 Covid-19 patients recover in Pimpri Chinchwad||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 1,000 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. According to the live dashboard data compiled by the civic body, out of 1,676 positive patients, 1,037 patients from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have recovered from the contagion. In addition, a total of 110 patients that were not residents of Pimpri Chinchwad, but had got admitted in the Covid care facility there, have also recovered. The civic health department officials said that the number of infected youths in the age groups of 13 to 39 accounted for over 50% of the total positive Covid-19 cases, which also contributed to the recovery. The recent civic data from the health department showed that there were 682 cases in the 22-39 age group. The data added that 217 of the total cases in the 13-21 age group. The official added that there had been a steady surge in the cases as the civic body relaxed the restrictions during lockdown 4.0 and 5.0. However, the recovery rate too had remained steady in Pimpri Chinchwad, the official added. Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said that the cooperation of citizens was one of the major factors that kept the coronavirus contagion in check. “We have managed to keep most senior citizens and young children away from getting exposed to the contagion, which has helped in fewer fatalities as well,” he said. Patil said there had been a steady reduction of cases in the slum areas, which were in containment zones, for the last few weeks. “The introduction of new Covid care centres across various parts of Pimpri Chinchwad to treat asymptomatic patients and those showing symptoms akin to Covid-19 and awareness among citizens played a key role in keeping the virus in check,” he said. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s health department has recorded over 1,300 Covid-19 positive cases from May 20 to June 20 in the civic limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1000-covid-19-patients-recover-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/76487734.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Have got crucial leads on Papla Gujjar: Bhiwadi cops||JAIPUR/ALWAR: Bhiwadi police, investigating the escape of notorious criminal Vikram alias Papla Gujjar, has got substantial clues on his whereabouts. After the interrogation of people who were detained by the police from Papla’s native village in Haryana, police claimed that they are moving in the right direction. However, they also asserted that they are not going to take the help of Haryana police, since they believe that there are some moles in Haryana police, who are regularly updating the notorious criminal on the movement of Rajasthan police. On Friday, police had detained at least 18 persons including the father of Vikram Gujjar alias Papla Gujjar. “We have got many things including his chats on social networking platforms with some of the members of his village. Also, we have got some concrete proof which clarifies that in past nine months since he escaped, he has been given political shelter by some people. But we are moving in the right direction with some substantial information and are working on it,” said a senior officer of Bhiwadi police, who is close to the investigation of Papla’s escape. Also, senior officers of Rajasthan police maintained that whatever they have right now they are not going to share it with Haryana police. “It is a proven fact that there are many informers of Papla Gujjar in Haryana police, so we are careful and vigilant. Whenever we will get a concrete clue, we will not directly share it with Haryana police. We will first take him into custody and before leaving, we will inform them,” said an officer. When contacted, BL Soni, director general (crime) said, “Nothing much can be shared at this point of time. All that I can promise is that we are working on some clues that might fetch us results.” Meanwhile, Amandeep Singh Kapoor, superintendent of police, Bhiwadi, talking to TOI, said, “We are working on many things. But I can’t share the finer details right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/have-got-crucial-leads-on-papla-gujjar-bhiwadi-cops/articleshow/76488241.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 21, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL bills shock power consumers||NASHIK: A section of electricity consumers in Nashik city have received bill reflecting astronomically high units of power usage despite having cleared their dues in the past three months. The citizens, who have an average consumption of about 80 units per month and usually pay bills of around Rs 320, have been asked to shell out Rs 1,500 as power bill reflecting consumption of 300 units. “This is despite me paying the average bills for the entire lockdown period. If my average consumption is about 80 units, I can still reconcile with consumption of 160 units even. But 300 unit-use is too much,” said Arvind Patil, a resident of Indira Nagar. There are several consumers who claimed similar issues and visited the sub-divisional office. However, they returned empty-handed. “I had been to the sub-division office near my house. But I was told the energy consumption was to the mark,” Sanjay Kamble, a resident of Anandwalli, said. An MSEDCL officer, meanwhile, has urged people to understand the consumption pattern. He asked people to consider the fact that all electrical gadget were running overtime this summer because all family members were at home due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Television, fans, mobiles charger, induction cooktops remained plugged in for longer durations during the lockdown, he said. The authorities also pointed out that all the consumers should refer to the total units consumption that their meters reflect. “That is the best way to ensure the bills are correct. In case the billing units in bill are in excess over the actual readings, the officials will get the bills revised in no time. People can dial 1912 toll free number,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-bills-shock-power-consumers/articleshow/76486053.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Looking back, 1st +ve couple from Nagpur says fight it out||Nagpur: The first Covid-19 positive couple from city — Rajendra and Avanti Jodhpurkar (TOI has taken their permission to publish names) — not only defeated the novel coronavirus with their positive attitude but also set an example in front of hundreds of those who have been infected by novel coronavirus. It’s been over 100 days but the Jodhpurkars still remember every moment of the day — March 11, 2020 — when Rajendra tested positive. The month’s period that followed was full of struggle — on mental, emotional, physical and social front — for the entire family. Among the many things the couple wants to share with others, foremost is the support they got from family members, friends and “inner strength they derived from faith in almighty”. “Today, no one has to go through the kind of shock or trauma me and my family experienced. Lots of information and data is available now. Many hospitals, care centres, test labs are ready and protocols are known. Nothing of it was known to me when I tested positive. What I knew was only through some references from China,” said Rajendra, a software professional who got infected during his Atlanta tour between February 26 and March 6. Avanti was one of the first patients admitted in GMCH. Rajendra was the first patient at IGGMCH. “It was a shock, a depressing moment when I became the second patient to test positive. It was difficult for me to accept that I have to stay in isolation ward for 14 days,” said Avanti. With a local newspaper revealing their identity, the couple’s kids — a college-going son and a school-going daughter — also had to face trouble in their respective institutions. However, the family has left behind the trauma and struggle, and doesn’t want to blame anyone. “We are happy that we are the first patients who recovered in Vidarbha. Even after discharge from hospital, we were in home isolation for almost two weeks. Yoga, spirituality, exercise and good food was part of our routine,” said Avanti. She also thanked doctors, calling them as real Covid warriors. “They are working 24X7. Apart from timely medical care, I also got psychiatric counselling. It was the first experience for the doctors too but they handled it so professionally,” said Avanti. “When you get a support from family, friends and keep faith in almighty — every battle is won,” she said while lighting a traditional lamp in their drawing room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/looking-back-1st-ve-couple-from-nagpur-says-fight-it-out/articleshow/76488164.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Pak not helping India in controlling locusts||Jaisalmer: Pakistan refuses to cooperate with India on the locust issue as it skipped a bilateral meeting on locust control on Thursday. The external affairs ministry of Pakistan reportedly did not allow its officials to take part in the meeting.Meanwhile, a fresh warning was issued by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of more locust attacks in June along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. Locust incursion from Pakistan continues in Jaisalmer and Barmer. At present, the locusts have entered over 45 districts of five states including Rajasthan. More than 100 teams and 25 drones have been deployed by the Locust Control Department in the state. K L Gurjar, deputy director, locust control organization, said that to exchange information about locusts every year two bilateral meetings are held in June and November. One of the meetings is organized at Munabao in India and another at Khokharapaar in Pakistan. The June meeting was scheduled for Thursday at Munabao and Pakistan was informed about it well in advance. But they cancelled it at the last moment.Pakistan informed that their external affairs ministry did not give permission to take part in the meeting. Following this, India informed FAO about the cancellation of the meeting.Gurjar said that locusts are continuously coming from Pakistan border and are being destroyed. Total 25 drones have been deployed including six in Barmer and five in Jaisalmer. Apart from this, 60 sprayer machines have been ordered from London of which 15 machines have reached Rajasthan. Locusts have been destroyed in more than one lakh hectare area in the country. Pests are present in five states including Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh where 100 teams have been deployed. Few posts have been set up at Indo-Pakistan border too to destroy the pests entering into Indian side.Barmer district collector Vishram Meena said that so far locusts have been destroyed over 22,498 hectares in 15 tehsils. The information system in the district is being strengthened so that the pests are immediately destroyed. A control room has also been made at the tehsil level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-not-helping-india-in-controlling-locusts/articleshow/76488233.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Uproar in Chandrapur over Bander coal block auctioning||Chandrapur: Protests erupted in Chandrapur on Saturday, after TOI reported about the Union government’s plans to auction off the ecologically sensitive Bander coal block. The block is situated near the Navegaon and Kolara gates, on the periphery of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). While non-governmental organization (NGO) Eco-Pro staged a protest to flay the government’s move, Congress leader and former member of parliament Naresh Puglia dashed off a strongly-worded letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding immediate cancellation of the Bander coal block auctioning. Puglia, in his letter to PM Modi, claimed that any mining activity in the proposed coal block will affect the dispersal corridor of tigers from Tadoba towards the northern tiger abodes like Umred Karhandla and Bor sanctuaries, as well as Melghat Tiger Reserve. He said that the loss of 1,200 hectares of pristine jungle for the mine cannot be compensated by any kind of afforestation activity. The former MP pointed out the surging man-animal conflict in Chandrapur, with 17 deaths in tiger attacks this year, and claimed that five of them were killed in buffer area of TATR, where this coal block is located. There are residential tigers in the forest that covers the Bander coal block. Any disturbance in the area will further escalate the man-animal conflict, he warned. Puglia recalled the stiff opposition to Lohara coal block on southern tiger corridor to TATR back in 2009 in Chandrapur, and claimed that Jairam Ramesh, the then Union minister of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF), after his visit to Chandrapur had formulated ‘go’ zones and ‘no-go’ zones. The minister had then cancelled the allocation of Lohara as well as Bander coal blocks, and had them put into no-go zones. “The Bander coal block was cancelled in 1999 and then again in 2009, due to its geographical location in ecologically fragile and sensitive areas. The government has, however, once again put this block for auctioning, undermining ecological sensitivity of the area to internationally acclaimed TATR,” Puglia said. There was no alternative but to cancel the auctioning of Bander block to save Tadoba’s tigers, he added. Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre led the protest in the evening. The activists — a couple of them dressed in tiger props — held banners and posters calling upon the government to cancel the mining activity in Bander. “This route is precious for dispersal of Tadoba tigers in the north. Any mining activity will escalate the man-animal conflict in highly sensitive area and would also have a disastrous impact on the population of tigers in TATR,” Dhotre warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uproar-in-chandrapur-over-bander-coal-block-auctioning/articleshow/76487744.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||2 forest officials transferred||The state government on Saturday transferred two Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) officers. Sugna Ram Jat who is posted in Banswara has been transferrer to Chittorgarh. Hari Kishan will now be the DCF of Banswara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-forest-officials-transferred/articleshow/76488240.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Minister reacts pro actively to concerns of Covid-19 patients at Wenlock Hospital||MANGALURU: A late night WhatsApp message to medical education minister K Sudhakar by patients admitted at district Wenlock Hospital on state of affairs at the Covid ward helped assuage their concerns. Taking note of the messages, the office of the minister and the district administration went about addressing concerns that the patients flagged. A series of concerns raised by a patient through WhatsApp videos and pictures sent to TOI offices showed Covid-19 patients in general ward. The patient said 47 people – old and young alike shared a common ward with common bathroom and toilet facilities. Noting that the patients had not been given gloves, the patient added that the masks given to them were of poor quality. The patient said doctors were not visiting them. While Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner and Gayathri Nayak, in-charge of district Covid bulletin responded to the message by seeking details of the problems and an assurance, the minister’s office asserted that the concern will be communicated to the district health and family welfare officer and also to the district surgeon. “We are committed to their early recovery as per treatment protocol,” the officer said. DHO Dr Ramachandra Bairy said the Covid-19 positive patients are housed in general ward in three different floors of the new multi-speciality block of Wenlock Hospital. Priority is given to pregnant women, children and senior citizens during their stay at the hospital, he said. “It is difficult to give individual attention to every patient when they are over 200,” he said. On the concern that patients across all age groups are in one ward, Dr Bairy said since they are positive, it does not matter. Most of the patients are asymptomatic and all they need is medicine and rest, he said. “It is in this very facility that 209 patients were treated and discharged,” he said adding complaints pertaining to wash room and others are very minor issues in a pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/minister-reacts-pro-actively-to-concerns-of-covid-19-patients-at-wenlock-hosp/articleshow/76486958.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Sunday markets to remain shut till further notice||KOLHAPUR: Two most important vegetable markets in the city — Kasba Bawda and Lakshmipuri — will remain closed for indefinite period on Sunday’s, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said. Kalshetti said that the decision was taken to avoid overcrowding at mandis, especially on Sunday when farmers from the nearby villages set up their stalls at these mandis. In addition, local vegetable and fruit vendors, too, put up their stalls at these mandis. According to Kalshetti, this decision will help to avoid congestion at market places and will also ensure that social distancing is followed by people. “We have fixed timings for farmers so that tyhey can sell their produce in batches every day. The Sunday mandi’s are unique in the city. People from faraway places come to these mandis for buying vegetables at cheaper rates. Such market places are potential hotspots for coronavirus transmission.” “We will decide on resuming Sunday mandi's when Covid-19 cases in the district decrease and everyone abides by social distancing and other rules such as wearing masks,” he added. Kalshetti said that civic officials will visit these mandis every Sunday to check if the vendors are violating the orders. “Our teams will visit the mandis every Sunday and action will be taken against those defying the order. We appeal to people not to throng these markets which will remain closed for Sunday mandi's for indefinite period,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-sunday-markets-to-remain-shut-till-further-notice/articleshow/76486960.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||FTAP submits demands list to NCP chief Sharad Pawar||PUNE: Several members of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), representing various trade associations in Pune, recently met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to submit a list of demands to improve trade. FTAP secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said, “The demands include provision of space on the city’s outskirts to shift markets currently located in the core city areas. The thickly populated Peth areas and congested roads are leading to transportation issues and posing more difficulties in business. We have also sought a space to set up trade exhibitions.” He added that traders have also sought inclusion of at least one FTAP member in any committee formed to make or revise laws pertaining to traders. “Pawar assured us that he will cooperate and help ensure that trade in Pune flourishes,” the association stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftap-submits-demands-list-to-ncp-chief/articleshow/76487740.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Cong wants brakes on delimitation process||Vadodara: Even as a delimitation exercise to reorganize municipal corporation wards by including areas on the outskirts of the city in civic limits is on the cards, the Congress has asked the state government and the State Election Commission (SEC) to suspend the process in wake of a suit before the Supreme Court. Gujarat Congress spokesperson Narendra Ravat said that Samarsinh Parmar and others had moved the Gujarat high court (HC) ahead of the municipal corporation polls in 2015. The petitioners had demanded that the municipal corporation elections should be conducted as per the ‘one ward, one seat’ system. The petition had also argued that frequent delimitations also led to injustice to caste-based reservations on municipal corporation seats, said Ravat. The HC had rejected the plea following which an appeal was filed in the apex court. The appeal is yet to be decided even as the move for reorganisation of election wards is being considered again. “This is a tactics to ensure that each election is held with new ward limits and wards are carved out to suit the ruling BJP. The panel system also prevails only in Gujarat and favours the BJP,” Ravat said. He has written letters to the state government, SEC and other authorities asking them not to go ahead with the delimitation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-wants-brakes-on-delimitation-process/articleshow/76486832.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Single women farmers seek loan waiver from Maharashtra||PUNE: Nearly 1,000 single women farmers from across the state have sought loan waiver from the government, expansion of provsions under the universal public distribution system to include jowar, bajra, oil and sugar and compensation for loss of daily wages in the last three months. These concerns have emerged in a study of 946 women farmers from Vidarbha, Marathwada and Western Maharashtra conducted by Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch (Makaam), a group working for women farmers. The overall findings suggested that women farmers were in distress and needed immediate support by way of cash, agricultural inputs and nutritious food. They have placed their concerns before MLC Neelam Gorhe. The main objective of the study was to assess the impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on single women engaged in cultivation and to assess the access to measures under the government scheme and the challenges likely to be faced by them during the upcoming kharif season. "The key concerns that have emerged from our study relate to the difficulties faced by women farmers, such as hunger, lack of cash and inputs for economic activities, looming uncertainity of work etc. We will placing these concerns before the government," said Seema Kulkarni from Makaam. The study found that overall food consumption had declined due to shrinking of income, while about 45% of women did not get a single day off from work during the lockdown. Others who did get a few days' off from work received less than Rs 2,000 as wages in 50 days. About 91% of women, who participated in the study, were widows belonging to diverse caste groups and 28% were from farm suicide-affected households. While most of them received ration in April, those without ration cards were deprived of it. "We are hoping that the government ensures that income transfers are made, work on NREGS sites commence and free seed and other inputs provided with immediate effect," said Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/distressed-single-women-farmers-seek-loan-waiver/articleshow/76487737.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 21, 2020||Pune||Civic body signs deal with firm for pre-screening||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) signed an agreement on Friday with a private diagnostics firm for pre-screening of people suspected to have contracted Covid-19. The pre-screening vehicle, inaugurated last month, had stopped functioning because of some issues related to agreement signing and staff problems faced by the operating firm. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that they have signed a six-month agreement with the private firm and standard operating procedures (SOP) have been drafted. The bus, equipped with latest diagnostic facilities, will screen patients from slum areas for any symptoms of Covid-19. "An area-wise schedule will be drawn up so that citizens remain aware of the timings. The mobile diagnostic unit will also be used for screening suspects from Covid care centres," he said. Additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI that the mobile unit will resume operation from Monday in different parts of Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-signs-deal-with-firm-for-pre-screening/articleshow/76487749.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 21, 2020||Pune||Extend a helping hand to your newspaper vendor||Hail, rain, flood or sunshine, the newspaper vendor is there at your doorstep every morning without fail to deliver your daily dose of news and views through the newspapers you subscribe to at home or at your office. Unfortunately, the recent weeks of lockdown because of Covid-19 has also affected their livelihood, and many of them have fallen into financial hardship. As normalcy gradually returns to their line of work, newspaper vendors need all the help they can get. This is a humble appeal to our readers — to individuals, NGOs or companies — to help the newspaper vendors in Pune region with financial contributions, which will be coordinated and distributed by the Pune Union of Newspaper Vendors. Your contribution will be an immense source of support to your local newspaper vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extend-a-helping-hand-to-your-newspaper-vendor/articleshow/76487752.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Gang war: Collapse of law & order, says oppn||Panaji: The shocking incident at St Cruz, where a person died from gunshot wounds, prompted the opposition to question the law and order situation in the state. Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Congress expressed alarm over the suspected gang-related crime, with GFP president Vijai Sardesai suggesting that Goa was headed the Uttar Pradesh way. Reacting to the shooting incident, leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said that while safety and security in the state has deteriorated, the BJP government is in a celebratory mood. “The shocking incidence of the gang war at St Cruz with one death has sent a clear signal of complete collapse of law and order in Goa,” said Kamat. On the intervening night of June 19 and 20, unknown persons armed with rods and a firearm attacked the residence of Imran Bepari and damaged his vehicle. The assailants allegedly fired shots and during the firing one person identified as Sonu Yadav was shot and killed. “The CM must take serious note of this incident and take stern action against all the culprits,” said Kamat. GFP, an ally of the BJP in the NDA, was a bit more critical, blaming chief minister and the BJP for giving criminals a free run in Goa. “Armed gangs, supari killings, extortion...the slow poisoning of our beloved Goa has now reached alarming proportions,” said Sardesai. The GFP chief derided the BJP’s drive to bring Goa into the mainstream, saying that Goa was on the path of becoming “another UP”. The opposition said that the government has not been paying attention to the rise in crimes, drug trade, prostitution, rapes and murders and that if no action is taken, it would be too late. “St Cruz firing incident and lawlessness at Fatorda has raised several questions on Pramod Sawant’s capabilities as chief minister and home minister of Goa, turning our state into goonda raj,” Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte said. Khaunte and GFP vice president Durgadas Kamat said that the lack of a director general of police was hampering the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gang-war-collapse-of-law-order-says-oppn/articleshow/76488247.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||SC was clear on Covid report for patient: HC||Mumbai: Observing that Supreme Court on Friday made it clear that all concerned should supply a copy of a Covid test report to patients, Bombay high court on Saturday disposed of a challenge to a civic circular, holding that it did not have to pass further directions to the state or BMC. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra had challenged BMC’s June 13 circular as being “arbitrary and perverse’’. Anil Sakharae, senior counsel for BMC, said the petition “ought to have been filed as a PIL and placed before the appropriate bench (assigned to hearing PILs)’’. Mishra’s counsel Amogh Singh said his client was home quarantined after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient, so he did not need to file it as a PIL. He said as “BMC was not party to proceedings before SC, the June 19 order may not be binding on it’’. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and N R Borkar did not agree with Singh and said, “Since SC order records, we have no doubt that states and all concerned shall supply a copy of the report of the patient to him or his relatives and the hospital’’. HC disposed the petition, without going into the issue of whether it ought to have been filed as a PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-was-clear-on-covid-report-for-patient-hc/articleshow/76487763.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS gets advanced equipment to extract, preserve plasma||HUBBALLI: The Karnataka Institute Of Medical Sciences (KIMS), which successfully conducted plasma therapy on a Covid-19 patient, has now procured latest and advanced equipment needed to extract and preserve plasma. KIMS is now equipped with an automatic plasma extraction machine and a de-freezer to store plasma. Dr Ramalingappa Antartani, director, KIMS, said, “The district administration has considered our requisition and sanctioned an exclusive de-freezer to preserve plasma to be collected from those who have been cured of Covid-19. About 300 bags can be stored in a de-freezer which means plasma for a year can be preserved”, he added. Deepa Cholan, deputy commissioner, said that the latest equipment has been provided to KIMS from SDRF funds. “The hospital staff are working hard to ensure speedy recovery of Covid-19 patients. If KIMS needs more facilities we will try to provide them,” she added. “We have written to other hospitals to provide us plasma so that we can store it and treat more number of patients,” said Dr Ramalingappa.  According to sources, currently KIMS has preserved one bag of plasma donated by a cured Covid-19 patient from Dharwad and it has been preserved in a de-freezer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-gets-advanced-equipment-to-extract-preserve-plasma/articleshow/76486995.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Sarus cranes number up in Gondia and Balaghat||Nagpur: Despite threats like poaching and electrocution, the number of sarus cranes has marginally increased by 6 in Gondia in Maharashtra and its landscape spread over Balaghat district in the neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. As per the six-day estimation exercise conducted from June 13 to 18, 2020, 45 sarus cranes were recorded in Gondia district while 56 were found in neighbouring Balaghat and 2 and 1 each in Bhandara and Chandrapur districts respectively. During the 2019 estimation during the same period, there were 42 birds in Gondia, 52 in Balaghat and 3 in Bhandara and 1 in Chandrapur. In 2020, 104 birds have been recorded with a standard error of 4 birds. “We expect the birds to be 108, but due to the overlapping jurisdiction, we consider 104 to be maximum figure,” said Sawan Bahekar, president, Sustaining Environment and Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA), which is monitoring the tall birds since 2004, when their number was just five. At least 23 self-motivated teams of SEWA volunteers scanned the sarus habitats at 80 spots in Gondia and Bhandara and 21 teams in Balaghat districts for six consecutive days between 5am and 10am. Deputy conservator (DyCF) from Gondia S Yuvraj and South Balaghat DFO Anurag Kumar and forest staff from both states coordinated the estimation exercise. Gondia and Balaghat are divided by Bagh and Wainganga rivers and the sarus habitat is somewhat similar on both sides and hence the estimation is done on both sides. Gondia and Bhandara are the only two districts in Maharashtra where sarus cranes are found. A solo bird has also been recorded in Chandrapur. These birds are listed in Schedule IV of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. These birds are listed as ‘vulnerable’ species in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Bahekar called for a joint conservation action plan to save sarus. As of now, there is no special program or official awareness drives against the use of pesticides among farmers to conserve the bird species. Most of these birds are also poached by fishermen if caught in nets and electrocuted accidentally too. “Despite the death of birds, the number going up is a positive sign. In the last several years, we have been reaching hundreds of farmers to spread awareness about the use of the deadly pesticides,” says Bharat Jasaani, one of the coordinators of the exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sarus-cranes-number-up-in-gondia-and-balaghat/articleshow/76487769.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Babri mosque demolition case: L K Advani, M M Joshi, seven others to depose online||LUCKNOW: Nine accused in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani, former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, BJP leader M M Joshi and Ram Janmabhoomi Trust chairman Nritya Gopal Das will depose before special CBI court, Lucknow, through video-conferencing in a staggered schedule from Tuesday. On Saturday, special CBI court sent a directive to the director, National Informatics Centre (NIC), a government of India body, to make arrangements for video-conferencing from addresses furnished by these accused to record their statements under Section 313 of CrPC. Besides senior BJP leaders, others in the list include Acharya Dharmendra Dev, R N Srivastava, Jai Bhagwan Goel, Amar Nath Goel and Sudhir Kakkad. All accused would have to answer at least 1,000 questions based on evidence produced by prosecution agency CBI. “The special court informs accused about facts and evidence that came up during trial and directs them to give their statement,” said CBI counsel Lalit Singh. “Thirteen accused have deposed so far and the court may follow similar proceedings with others,” said Singh. While Advani is set to depose on June 30, Joshi on July 1, Kalyan Singh on July 2, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das on June 23, R N Srivastava on June 22, Jai Bhagwan Das on June 24, Amar Nath Goel on June 25, Sudhir Kakkad on June 26 and Acharya Dharmendra Dev on June 29. Earlier, their address details were furnished on court’s directive to their counsel. Earlier in the day, accused Ram Chandra Khatri was produced before special judge S K Yadav through video-conferencing from district jail, Sonipat, where Khatri is lodged in connection with another case. However, his statement could not be recorded because of poor connectivity. The court fixed July 7 for recording his evidence and asked NIC to provide better connectivity in Sonipat prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babri-trial-advani-joshi-7-others-to-depose-online/articleshow/76488252.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 21, 2020||Goa||Police detain Bangladeshi family at Chimbel for staying illegally||Panaji: Goa police apprehended six Bangladesh nationals in Chimbel for staying without valid travel documents. This is the second instance of Bangladeshis being found residing illegally in the state. Speaking to TOI. Superintendent of police, Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) Bosco George said that the FRRO has restricted their movement and have been directed to be home quarantined. During patrolling, the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) received information about the six-member Bangladeshi family, who include three minor children. The Bangladesh nationals were later detained upon further inquiry, police said. Police are probing the motive behind Bangladesh nationals entering Goa, the means through which they cross the border, and their duration of stay in the state. Authorities are closely monitoring those staying in Goa without valid documents, and regular intelligence is being gathered in this regard. Police said that as most of the foreigners have left the state due to Covid-19, the task of identifying people staying in Goa without documents has been simplified. Recently, six Bangladesh nationals working as scrap dealers in Ponda were detained by the police for staying in Goa without valid documents. Out of six, one woman was staying at Marcel. Prior to this, 18 Ugandan women illegally staying at Arambol were sent to the Mapusa detention centre for blacklisting and deportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-detain-bangladeshi-family-at-chimbel-for-staying-illegally/articleshow/76488250.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Landslide at Pilerne, locals demand wall||Saligao: A landslide occurred on Friday afternoon at Alto Savlem, Pilerne. Boulders fell onto the jogging track in the nearby park. No injuries were reported in the incident. The panch representing Alto Savlem, Amarnath Govekar, said he was unaware of the landslide. Villagers said that they have been requesting the panchayat to construct a retaining wall as they feared a landslide during the monsoon, which could pose a risk to the houses located next to the hill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/landslide-at-pilerne-locals-demand-wall/articleshow/76488257.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Akola adopts Nagpur’s door-to-door survey model||Nagpur: Concerned with the high death rate in Akola due to Covid-19, authorities here have now adopted Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) model of door-to-door survey and collecting swab samples of the vulnerable group. In the last three days, 496 swabs were collected from hotspots in Akola city, said resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. “Akola’s mortality rate is over 5% but most of the deceased had reached hospital in a critical condition. Many of them were brought dead and later tested positive. We don’t want to take any more chances,” said Khadse. Health officials are initially visiting hotspots like Akot Fail, Jetwan Nagar and Khadan to collect swab samples of senior citizens, people having comorbidities, and those having less oxygen levels. “Out of 496 samples, only 16 have tested positive. All of them are under treatment and stable. This proactive testing will stop further spread of virus because of these patients,” said Khadse. He appealed to people having low oxygen levels to come forward and get tested. “We are focusing on confidence building measures and keeping positive atmosphere at the Covid care centres. People should not hesitate to approach the centres and getting admitted here. Ensuring cleanliness, providing nutritious food, and organizing musical events and group activities for patients are our priorities. Hopefully, Akola will get out of the worst-hit tag very soon,” said Khadse. Akola’s population is just 30% of Nagpur’s but has second highest Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha. Akola has recorded 1,163 cases as on June 20, including 64 deaths which is highest in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-adopts-nagpurs-door-to-door-survey-model/articleshow/76488251.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 21, 2020||Goa||Set up industrial clusters, fish plants for creating jobs: Gadkari urges CM||Panaji: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said that the state government should set up industrial clusters and also opt for fish processing units to generate employment. He also urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to come forward to set up medical devices park in Goa. “We are setting six medical devices park in India. I am the MSME minister. You come forward,” he said. Addressing a virtual Jan Savadh rally from Nagpur to BJP karyakartas in Goa on the completion of one year of PM Narendra Modi 2.0, Gadkari said that the state government should go for industrial clusters, and at the same time ensuring that there is no air and water pollution. Referring to central government schemes, Gadkari urged the chief minister to form fishing produce companies to boost fish production in the state.  The Union minister said that new fishing trawlers have been constructed at Cochin Shipyard which can sail up to 100 nautical miles for fishing. “Till date, our fisherman can catch fish within fewer nautical miles,” he said. “The chief minister should form fishing produce companies and ask the members to invest Rs 25 lakh. The government of India will provide Rs 1 crore for purchasing trawlers to catch fish and increase the fish production by six percent,” he said. He also said that this will help fish processing in the state. “Trawlers will be given to small fishermen so that they can prosper,” Gadkari said. On road connectivity, he said that the construction of Mumbai to Goa four-lane concrete road of Rs 12,000 crore is under way. “Most of the work of the Mumbai to Goa road has been completed. We will soon start work on the Goa-Bengaluru highway,” he added. Gadkari also assured the chief minister to take up work on the road connecting Mopa airport to National Highway-66 at the cost of Rs 350 crore. “I am waiting for the approval from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Once I get the approval, I will take up the road work to connect Mopa airport to the national highway,” he said. Meanwhile, in view of the ongoing border dispute between India and China, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade urged people of the state to boycott Chinese products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/set-up-industrial-clusters-fish-plants-for-creating-jobs-gadkari-urges-cm/articleshow/76488255.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly woman killed, robbed by domestic help||Hyderabad: An 82-year-old woman staying alone was allegedly murdered by her domestic help in Chappal Bazar on Saturday. The help also stole four gold bangles and Rs 5,000 cash from the house and fled. The victim was identified as Sriramshetty Kamalamma, a resident of Chappalbazar near Kachiguda. “She was staying alone. And, domestic help Lakshmi, who started work only three days ago, used to stay with her. Her son, a retired executive engineer from Nagole, alerted us,” said Kachiguda inspector Mohammed Habeebullah Khan. In the wee hours of Saturday, according to police, Lakshmi smothered the victim with a pillow. The body of the victim was found behind a bed. “Her four gold bangles weighing around 10 tolas and cash was missing from home. The domestic help is absconding,” the officer added. The neighbours who went to her house observed the house was left unlocked. When they checked inside, they found her body and alerted her son. “The accused is absconding and we are checking CCTV footage of the nearby areas. We have launched a manhunt to nab her,” the inspector added. The body of the victim was shifted to Osmania Hospital mortuary for an autopsy, while a case has been registered under section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-woman-killed-robbed-by-domestic-help/articleshow/76488152.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus forces scrapping of Kanwar Yatra||LUCKNOW: The traditional kanwar yatra scheduled from July 6 won’t be held this year with governments of three states — Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand — deciding to scrap the annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees due to the covid-19 pandemic. This followed a meeting through video-conference between the three chief ministers, Yogi Adityanath, Manohar Lal Khattar and Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Saturday evening. Later, UP CM Yogi Adityanath directed senior police officials and divisional commissioners to inform religious leaders, kanwar associations and peace committees about the decision. “The CM said religious leaders and kanwar associations should in turn appeal to devotees not to take out the yatra this year in light of the pandemic. Also, Covid-19 protocols have to be strictly followed during rituals at temples. Not more than five persons will be allowed inside temples and assembly of more than five will not be allowed anywhere. Social distancing and masks will be compulsory,” said a government spokesperson. The kanwar yatra takes place during the Hindu month of Shrawan or Sawan, spread over July and August. Crores of Shiva devotees travel to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Garhmukhteshwar to take a dip in Ganga and fill pots with Ganga Jal, which is carried back home or to temples and poured on Shivlings. Over years, the number of kanwars, now identifiable by their saffron attire, have grown exponentially. In 2019, over 4 crore devotees visited Haridwar alone during the month of Shrawan. In view of their burgeoning numbers, states have begun making elaborate arrangements to facilitate the yatra by diverting traffic to allow safe passage to pilgrims, putting up tents for their stay and making arrangements for food. Their security is an additional concern, forcing states to deploy police and even drones. The chief minister also issued directions not to allow crowds to gather during the festival of Eid-ul-Adha, which is likely to be celebrated on August 1. He said, religious leaders should issue an appeal for not allowing congregation of more than five people. Till the pandemic ebbs, people of all religions should be sensitised about social distancing and Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-forces-scrapping-of-kanwar-yatra/articleshow/76488269.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||UoM to offer PG diploma, certificate courses in yoga||MYSURU: As Mysuru has emerged as the yoga hub of India, the University of Mysore (UoM) is seeking to capitalise on it. It has decided to introduce post-graduate diploma and certificate courses from this academic year to spread the good word on yoga. On an average, 20,000 foreign nationals visit Mysuru every year to learn yoga, and learn the techniques at over 220-plus schools, including some 20 reputed studios in the city. The city emerged as international yoga hub in recent years, after Rishikesh in Uttarkhand, Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Pune in Maharashtra in the country. The Wadiyars of Mysuru patronised this ancient India system of exercise, combined with meditation and pranayama. Around 3,000 foreigners arrive here every month between October and March to learn yoga and breathing techniques. While some stay for 3-4 months, others join classes for 15 days, according to sources at Yoga Federation of Mysuru. Speaking to TOI, UoM registrar R Shivappa said last year the varsity had launched a two-year ‘Applied Yogic Sciences’ PG course. But it received only seven applications as foreign nationals did not show much interest for the two-year course as it called for a long stay. Moreover, those who had applied for the course last year were not that serious to learn this ancient science. They may have applied merely to get the hostel facility. “As there is huge demand for short-duration diploma and certificate courses, the varsity’s academic council has given approval to offer this course from this academic year. We will begin the course after creating the necessary infrastructure, framing syllabus, and recruiting teaching non-teaching staff and yoga instructors,” he said. Mysuru Yoga Okkoota president B P Murthy welcomed the UoM’s decision on introducing the certificate and diploma courses. “Thanks to UoM, which is the first university to start this course. It not only helps promote healthy living, but also trains thousands of yoga instructors with recognised university diploma and PG certificates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-offer-pg-diploma-certificate-courses-in-yoga/articleshow/76487223.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||Specially-abled students struggle to find scribes||MYSURU: SSLC students requiring special care are struggling to find scribes to write the exams for them, which are starting from Thursday. It can be recalled the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) allowed such students to skip the remaining Class X and XII examinations, however, it is not so for the SSLC examination in Karnataka. The SSLC examination was earlier scheduled from March 23, but got postponed due to the lockdown. Meera, principal, Ranga Rao Memorial School for the Disabled, Mysuru, said the school has now asked its differently abled SSLC students to bring their own scribes. “In March, we had arranged for class IX students of a city school to be scribes for our differently abled students, but now they are saying that they can’t help, as they have online classes,” she said. So with no option left, differently abled students have to arrange for their scribes. Moreover, both students and scribes should wear masks, and they may find it tough to narrate the answer in an audible voice, due to the mouth being covered, which are a few challenges,” she said. According to the school heads, one of the tough tasks is to make scribes to come to examination centres. “Parents are not willing to send their children due to the pandemic. While going ahead with the examination proposal, the government should have thought about this. There are a lot of rules to be followed by scribes for special students,” explained the principal of another school. “All these years, we were holding preparatory examinations for special students along with their scribes. This year it is not possible. Adding to this, maintaining social distancing inside the examination hall is challenging. Students need someone to take them to examination centres also. These are the few practical challenges,” he said. Mahantesh G K, founder and managing director of the Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled, Bengaluru, said this problem cropped up in rural areas initially. “However, now it is resolved. We are grateful to the scribes and their families,” he said. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga said that all the necessary precautionary measures will be taken to help students. “In the examination centres, if any student with special needs faces any problem, we will relax the rules for them. They need not worry,” he said. “As class IX students are not available to be scribes for special students for this year’s SSLC examination, the students relatives will be their scribes. Many of them sought hostel facility, as they can’t travel every day,” said Meera, principal Ranga Rao Memorial School for Disabled, Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/specially-abled-students-struggle-to-find-scribes/articleshow/76487076.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Diesel price rise adds to cabbies’ woes in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Already reeling with income loss due to the lockdown, cab drivers are feeling the pinch with soaring diesel prices. Most cars operating on two main cab aggregator platforms - Ola and Uber - run on diesel, whose price has touched a new high record of Rs 75.91 on Saturday.  According to a recent survey by Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT), of 1.5 lakh cabs that operate under various ownership patterns, only 60,000 were plying in the city post lockdown. IFAT national general secretary Shaik Salauddin said: “Increasing diesel prices are affecting the cab drivers, who are already among the worst hit due to the lockdown. Most of them have to support their families, pay finance for their vehicles and spend most of their earnings on fuel. Despite the struggles, aggregators are collecting 20% commission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diesel-price-rise-adds-to-cabbies-woes/articleshow/76488104.cms||Moulika.KV
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu boy in UK cycles for Covid cause, raises Rs 2.6 lakh||HYDERABAD: Inspired by the actions of 100-year-old UK veteran Captain Sir Thomas Moore who raised over 30 million for UK’s National Health Service (NHS) to fight the coronavirus pandemic, a five-year-old Telugu boy in Manchester has started a campaign to raise funds to support similar efforts in India. Aneeshwar Kunchala, who started the campaign on May 27, has raised Rs 2.6 lakh till now. “India is a giant country where a lot of people like me live. The coronavirus has infected a lot of people and they need money to buy food and medicines. Doctors too need equipment to help patients which they do not have. That is why I am raising lots and lots of money for the country,” Aneeshwar told STOI. The campaign has been a feat for him too – he says he began cycling using stabilisers, but now does not need them. When Moore’s efforts were shown on TV, Aneeshwar asked his father Anil, a software professional, what the veteran was doing. “When I explained that he was raising money for healthcare workers, my son said he too wanted to do something similar,” Anil said. What followed was a cricket campaign for the NHS which raised Rs 3 lakh. But, Aneeshwar felt he had needed to do more as he began hearing of Covid-19 cases rising in India. Helped by his father, who hails from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, he began a fresh campaign ‘Little Pedallers Aneesh and His Friends’ on social media platforms. Almost 60 children have raised Rs 2,60,000. On Saturday, Aneesh completed cycling 100 km by himself. Together, the kids aim to finish 3,200 km. The campaign has spread across the UK, United States and India, with both children and donors joining in. His mother, Sneha said the cycling challenge seemed like a good way to alleviate the hardships of people back home while helping young kids connect to their homeland and improve their own mental and physical well-being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-boy-in-uk-cycles-for-covid-cause-raises-rs-2-6-lakh/articleshow/76488129.cms||Uttara Varma
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s daily Covid count crosses 500, 5 deaths reported||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s single-day Covid-19 case load shot past the 500-mark, for the first time on Saturday, as the state recorded 546 cases apart from five deaths. The total number of positive cases now stands at 7,702 in the state while the death toll has touched 203. According to the latest figures, 3,506 patients have recovered from the virus so far. The count of samples tested also increased from 2,477 on Friday to 3,188 on Saturday with 17.12 per cent of the samples found to be positive. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) areas continued to report over 83 per cent of the cases, Karimnagar too saw a steady increase in cases along with Ranga Reddy and Sangareddy areas, abutting GHMC limits. “In the last one week around 100 cases have been recorded in Karimnagar, which has previously been a hotspot. Also nearly 120 cases have been recorded in Sangareddy at the same time. We are in close touch with the district medical and health officers in these two districts to ensure that no suspected cases are missed out,” said a senior health official. Meanwhile, even as the 18 private laboratories approved for testing by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) started testing samples for Rs 2,200, the footfall of suspected patients turning up to give samples at the government laboratories, conducting the test for free, continued to be high. On Saturday over 1,200 samples were collected at the Gandhi Hospital and health authorities are hoping to reach 5,000 tests per day by the next week end. “We are seeing between 17 per cent and 23 per cent samples testing positive. If the tests increase further we can expect up to 1,000 positive cases a day by the end of next week end,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telanganas-daily-covid-count-crosses-500-5-deaths-reported/articleshow/76487806.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown shielded us, unlock to test: Doctors||NAGPUR: In spite of various measures, Covid-19 cases are rising nationwide, especially in Maharashtra. While the situation is comparatively under control in Vidarbha, cases and deaths are on the rise since the unlocking of the fourth lockdown. Vidarbha recently completed 100 days since the detection of first Covid-19 patient in the region. The question now is what’s next? “It’s the virus that is making all the decisions and we are just reacting,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association and a senior health activist. “It’s an evolving situation and nobody has rock solid answers. With uncertainty and unpredictability, it’s normal to feel sad, stressed, confused, scared or worried. But we need to pause and ponder,” he said. Studies have suggested that the transmission of Covid-19 is less likely in outdoor spaces than indoor settings. “That is why, under the sky events and activities will rise. Instead of clinics, doctors may check you in the front garden,” said critical care specialist and senior pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik, who is a member of the state Covid-19 task force. Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade said that the next phase is going to be crucial. “The positive part is that we have our own additional data for research. Clinical trials have already started on many drugs. Plasma therapy trials have been initiated and our testing capacity has grown multifold,” she said. “The negative side is that we are now getting more patients from different areas. The number of critical patients is also on the rise,” said Dr Tayade. Dr Sarnaik further said that hospitals are now better prepared to handle surge in cases. “During the last 100 days, we strengthened our medical infrastructure and made it quite robust. Doctors are more confident now. We have isolation beds, ventilators and oxygen supply. Our death rate is very low as compared to other countries,” he said. According to him, police were at forefront in lockdown phase, doctors are playing key role in unlock phase and citizens’ behaviour will decide fate in next 100 days. “How we behave as a community will decide the fate of our society and coronavirus in India,” he said. Community medicine specialist Dr Kalpana Deoghare said that awareness has increased significantly. “Wearing masks, observing Covid distancing is the new normal. This is going to be the situation for the next six months at least. So, life will be different for the next 100 days and even more,” she said. “How we deal with the unlock phase will be crucial. The government will permit various activities, gatherings and businesses to bring life back to normalcy. But, we are living with coronavirus now. So, it must be a new normal,” she said. In next 100 days, results are expected for clinical trials of medicines initiated by the World Health Organization (WHO) and partners to compare four untested treatments for hospitalized individuals with severe Covid-19 illness. The trial was announced on March 18 with over 100 countries participating. In May, the WHO announced an international coalition for simultaneously developing several candidate vaccines. “A vaccine is not going to be a reality soon,” said Dr Tayde, adding that it may take a year at least to develop a safe vaccine. Clinical trials for plasma therapy are under way and their results are likely to be out in the next 28 days. “The initial results are promising but we have to wait for further trials. It could prove to be a major life saver for critical patients,” said Dr Mohd Faizal, who is coordinating ‘Platina trials’ of plasma therapy in Maharashtra. Herd immunity is considered as the final remedy for any viral infection. But in the case of Covid-19, it’s not going to happen anytime in the next 100 or more days. “We are now unlocked, so people will get infected. But Maharashtra’s population is over 12 crore. For herd immunity, we need 7-8 crore to get infected. At present, we have around 1.2 lakh cases. By the time we will reach seven crores, even if at 1% mortality rate, we will lose 12 lakh lives, which is unacceptable,” said veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat. Telemedicine and the alternative system of medicine are going to be the new trend in the next 100 days. “Lifestyle change is going to be the buzzword. Yoga, naturopathy, ayurveda and homeopathy have already started gaining importance. Maintaining a healthy routine, having nutritious food will be the trend of the next 100 days,” said Dr Deoghare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-shielded-us-unlock-to-test-doctors/articleshow/76488259.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Martyr’s kin thank Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for ex gratia||HYDERABAD: Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi has expressed gratitude to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for the Rs 5 crore ex gratia announced for the family. She said she is even more grateful that the families of 19 soldiers who were killed by Chinese PLA forces on June 15 in Galwan Valley are also given ex gratia. Speaking to reporters at her residence in Suryapet, Santoshi said she would devote herself completely to taking care of her children after her husband’s sacrifice. Santoshi said she came to know about the CM’s announcement on Friday night. “It is keeping the interest of my children in mind that I am accepting the ex gratia. I will devote my time to bringing up my children and taking care of their needs,” she said. The couple have an eight-year-old daughter Abhigna and a four-year-old son Anirudh. Colonel Babu’s parents — Upender and Manjula — also thanked the chief minister for his gesture. KCR had announced Rs 5 crore to the family and Rs 10 each lakh to the families of 19 other soldiers belonging to different states, who were martyred in the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15. The last rites of Colonel Babu were performed at the family’s agriculture land at Kasarabad village on the outskirts of Suryapet on June 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/martyrs-kin-thank-kcr-for-ex-gratia/articleshow/76488203.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Cheating complaint filed against four cable operators||Vadodara: In an ongoing cable war that is being fought in the sessions court since February, city police have taken cognizance of a complaint filed on Friday and registered an offence of cheating and abetment against four persons. “We are yet to arrest the accused,” a police official said on Saturday.The cable war in the city refers to the allegations of fraud by a cable television distribution major and its joint venture (JV) company against a manager of a local cable television distribution company and three cable operators at Manjalpur area. In its allegations on February 8, Den Networks Ltd, has which has been distributing cable television in Manjalpur area through its JV company Fortune (Baroda) Network Pvt Ltd, had stated that Samit Khona of ACN Digital Pvt Ltd and cable operators Venus Patel, Kirti Patel and Rohan Shah removed Den’s 4,000 set-top boxes worth Rs 80 lakh and replaced them with ACN’s own set-top boxes. It also accused ACN of snapping cable lines of Den Network.TOI had reported in February that Den Networks and FNPL had approached the district court to restrain Venus, Kirti, Shah and six other operators from indulging in illegal competition in cable business. The trio and six other operators are also 49% stakeholders in FNPL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cheating-complaint-filed-against-four-cable-operators/articleshow/76486843.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Musicians turn entrepreneurs to keep the party going||BENGALURU: On June 7, Bengaluru hosted its first social-distancing party experiment: Safe&Sound. Close to 30 people got together at The Hub, a co-living space on Infantry Road, and partied, within circles, for 45 minutes. The brainchild of city-based DJ duo Answer (Arjun Nair and Nishanth Naidu), Safe&Sound is a one-stop-shop party model for post-Covid socialising. A week after that (June 13), the city saw rock band Perfect Strangers kicking off their first ticketed concert for this year. While it was streamed online, the concert was performed by the six-member band at Streamphony, a new venue kitted out with the best audio and video gear to enable quality live-streaming. A venture of Debjeet Basu (also a member of Perfect Strangers) and musician and music teacher RichardDudley, the concert had close to 170 people from across the world tuning in. FIRST OF THEIR KIND While one was a party and the other a concert, both were ideas of musicians looking for simple, doable solutions to restart an industry that coronavirus has put a halt to. They are among the first-of-their-kind projects in post-Covid India. According to Dudley, they wanted to do something that would support musicians, while adhering to mandated safety protocols. “Post-lockdown, Streamphony is the first project in the country that enables bands to come together to play and live-stream their gigs. Our venue has a professional set-up with multiple cameras and a digital mixer to produce high-quality videos of the shows. That makes our shows very different from the unplugged Instagram and Facebook concerts that you see,” says Basu. Arjun Nair says Safe&Sound too happened out of the need to do something for the DJ fraternity. “We decided to come up with a model that would not only prioritise safety but would also instil confidence in people to come out and dance. And we put it all together in under seven days,” he says. ENCOURAGING RESPONSE Easing of restrictions in Bengaluru helped these musicians implement their ideas. And they are thrilled with the response from across the country and the world — Streamphony is booked for both music concerts and private events till mid-August, Basu and Dudley reveal. “While bands in the city are happy, we even got enquiries from bands in Chennai who are ready to drive down to perform after the lockdown ends there,” says Audrey, adding that viewers are readily paying the ticket price of Rs 300. The Safe&Sound party was live-streamed on Facebook and had 14 venues in India as partners, including The Park Chennai, Antisocial in Mumbai, Soho in Delhi and Vh1 Supersonic. Within five hours of the event, the video had received 10,000 views on Instagram. Today, it has crossed 1.2 lakh views and has been shared some 12,000-14,000 times. “All this without any publicity,” says Nair. The duo is getting enquiries from event companies and venues about their party experiment. “We even have brands interested in sponsoring, and that's because everyone wants to socialise now,” Nair says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/musicians-turn-entrepreneurs-to-keep-the-party-going/articleshow/76487429.cms||Mahalakshmi P
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parks can open from 5am-9pm; municipal bodies to take a call||BENGALURU: Want to unwind, take a stroll or breathe in fresh air? You will now have better access to public parks with the government allowing them to stay open from 5am to 9pm. However, children aged below 10 and seniors above 65 won’t be permitted inside, and those with chronic diseases have been advised to stay away. The government on Saturday authorised municipal bodies across the state to fix park timings between the 5am-9pm slot. While parks were opened to the public on May 30 after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, citizens could visit only from 7am-9am or/and 5pm-7pm. Parks in containment zones will remain shut. The move is in keeping with easing of curbs under Unlock 1.0, despite the spike in number of Covid-19 cases across the state, mainly in Bengaluru. N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary, revenue department, who’s also member-secretary of the state disaster management authority, said in an order that local bodies can set their own timings depending on the situation in their jurisdiction. They have been asked to follow directives issued by the Union home ministry to contain spread of Covid-19. Visitors will have to use masks and follow social-distancing norms. Use of open gym equipment and swings is banned. So are group yoga and exercise sessions. Some corporation officials said the decision to extend the timings came following requests from several resident welfare associations and others, who wanted parks to be open for longer. Many residents are happy with the move. “Many of us were not able to visit parks due to the rush witnessed during the limited hours. It’s good that the government has finally decided to extend the timings,” said some regular park-goers in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parks-can-open-from-5am-9pm-municipal-bodies-to-take-a-call/articleshow/76487292.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Daily increase in fuel prices leaves commuters fuming||SECUNDERABAD: Consumers across the twin cities have expressed disappointment over the rising fuel prices. With the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown resulting in a decline in salaries, many have called for the Centre to cap fuel prices. “The everyday price rise ranges between Rs 0.4 to Rs 0.6 but we have no other option. Companies are minting money by collecting excess tax on every litre,” said RK Janardhan, a resident of Ameerpet. Throughout the various phases of lockdown up until the first week of June, fuel prices had remained unchanged. However, since the lockdown curbs have been relaxed, prices have seen a steady rise. The price rise has also been attributed to a rise in prices of crude oil in the international market. “Daily fuel consumption is barely touching 40% (of what it was before lockdown). The main reason is the decline in use of transportation as employees have mainly been working from home due to the rise in coronavirus cases,” Greater Hyderabad Petrol Diesel Dealers Association former general secretary, TC Goel told STOI. Cong & CPI protest hikeCongress and CPI on Saturday demanded the Centre to take immediate steps to ensure that oil companies rolled back the hike in fuel prices. AICC secretary Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy said the hikes were “insensitive” as many people had lost their incomes during the course of the lockdown. Meanwhile, police foiled CPI’s Chalo Raj Bhavan march against the rise in fuel prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/daily-increase-in-fuel-prices-leaves-commuters-fuming/articleshow/76488021.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Forest department meets villagers over Caranzol tree felling||KERI: Caranzol village in Sattari has been in the news after it was found that villagers were involved in clearing large areas of the Mhadei forest. Officials of the forest department on Saturday met with locals to discuss the matter of cutting of trees in the protected region. “It is important to protect forests and wildlife as the sanctuary is protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The forest department is eager to solve the genuine problem of the villagers. We are ready to cooperate with the villagers and will allow them to enjoy traditional rights as per the prevailing law. No further felling of trees and clearing of forests should be initiated in the sanctuary,” assistant conservator of forests associated with the wildlife division, Damodar Salelkar said. The department has appointed Salelkar to investigate into the tree felling incident on Hulan Hill in Caranzol. He has also been assigned the task of planning a strategy to ensure that such incidents are not repeated. “We are involved in protection of forests since ages. We follow the slash and burn practice (Kumeri sheti). The forest department should allow us to carry out agriculture and horticulture in Caranzol,” president of the Sattari Bhumiputra Sanghatana, Harichandra Gawas from Caranzol said. On May 31, the Sanghatana held a meeting at Valpoi where a decision was taken to restrict movement of forest officials in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. “We are the owners of the forest in Caranzol and have been protecting it since generations. The forest department has been unnecessarily harassing villagers for tree felling on the Hulan Hill,” Gawas said. Despite the Western Ghats being declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1999, villagers in areas within the sanctuary have continued to claim ownership of the land without producing any documents. “By involving the local community, we want to protect the environment and forests,” deputy conservator of forests, wildlife, North Goa, Jabestin Arulraj told TOI. “Whatever issues of rights and privileges locals are bringing to our notice, we will make an attempts to solve, by adhering to the laws,” he said. “As no final notification has been issued by the Goa government, some villagers are taking benefits and are involved in clearing forests by felling trees and setting fire to the undergrowth,” president of the Animal Rescue Squad Amrut Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-dept-meets-villagers-over-caranzol-tree-felling/articleshow/76488270.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 21, 2020||Goa||Seafarers sign off from MPT, sent home for quarantine||Panaji: Around 1,000 stranded seafarers who arrived on Celebrity Infinity at MPT and tested negative for COvid-19 were signed off on Saturday morning and sent home. The seafarers who were stranded in Europe and Miami, USA and who arrived in India on two vessels, were taken in buses to various pickup points at Chicalim, Margao, Panaji and Mapusa on Saturday morning from where their families could pick them up. Families of the crew were not permitted to pick them up directly from the port, and were informed that private vehicles wouldn’t be allowed at the port gate, around the port and in Vasco town. Around 400 seafarers from the same vessel were sent home a day earlier on Friday, after they tested negative. After testing negative the seafarers have been sent on 14 days home quarantine, under the new SOP for seafarers. Celebrity Infinity that arrived on Thursday, is the first and only vessel to date to bring stranded seafarers directly to the port in Goa. In the record sign off of 1,450 crew at one go at MPT, meant that the crew didn’t have to undergo institutional quarantine while they awaited their test results. Their swab samples were taken for testing on the afternoon they reached Goa in an exercise that lasted around six hours due to bad weather. They were brought in batches to the docks where around ten teams of health workers took their samples. They were then sent back on board the vessel and after all tested negative on Friday, they were sent home in batches on Friday evening and Saturday morning. Goa Seamen’s Association of India president Frank Viegas appreciated the efforts of MPT, health services, ports secretary and NRI director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-sign-off-from-mpt-sent-home-for-quarantine/articleshow/76488279.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Panel to be set up to expedite slum rehabilitation||Pune: The state housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Saturday announced a committee would be set up in a month to expedite slum rehabilitation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The committee, which will comprise retired bureaucrats, former city engineers, experts and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) officials, will seek the opinions from all stakeholders on slum rehabilitation. It will work on a model for rehabilitation on the basis of the suggestions, Awhad said. The minister had held a meeting to review the status of SRA projects in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad on Saturday. The Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, CEO of SRA Pune Rajendra Nimbalkar, representatives of traders’ organization and Credai were present for the meeting. As per the estimate, around 40% of Pune’s population lives in the slums. The SRA projects have been facing delays in execution, while many projects have remained on paper because of technical issues. Awhad said that various suggestions were made during the meeting on how slum rehabilitation projects could move forward. “Based on the initial feedback, it has been decided to constitute a committee that will look into all aspects in detail. We expect this expert committee to come out with a model for rehabilitation that will help expedite the execution of projects. The committee will be set up in the next one month,” he said. It was also decided to distribute ID cards to slum dwellers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “The SRA has details of the slum dwellers and will start issuing the ID cards soon,” Awhad said. Meanwhile, the SRA said it would sanction the project proposals put forth by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to execute slum rehabilitation projects on its own land instead of giving them to private builders. Nimbalkar said the PMC had been working on this proposal to execute the projects on its own. “There are 23 such plots owned by PMC that have slum pockets. The PMC will have to submit the proposals to develop the projects on these plots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panel-to-be-set-up-to-expedite-slum-rehabilitation/articleshow/76487799.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to woo rice millers with land and other sops||HYDERABAD: The state government is offering land to set up new rice mills as paddy production crossed one crore metric tonnes and anticipates it will increase further in years to come. New rice mills are required as the existing 2,200-odd rice mills would not be sufficient to mill the increasing production of paddy in the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked district collectors, in coordination with Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, to identify suitable land. The Telangana Rice Millers’ Association has said land should be near agricultural fields so that transportation cost could be saved. At least five acres would be required to set up a small rice mill. “The rice mills are land and water-intensive as such the land should have ground water availability in abundance or water supply from Mission Bhagiratha or other sources,” a rice miller said. The 2,200 rice mills have a capacity to mill nearly one crore metric tonnes of rice per year. The paddy production in yasangi-2020 (rabi-2020) alone had crossed 1.05 metric tonnes and another 55 to 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy coudl be expected from ‘vanakalam’ (kharif) season. “The chief minister has decided to not only encourage setting up of new rice mills, but also support rice millers in enhancing the capacity of existing mills. A comprehensive policy, which includes land offer and other incentives to those coming forward to establish new rice mills and also enhance the existing ones’capacity, is being prepared. The policy will come out with guidelines and facilities for marketing of paddy as well as rice,” an official said. Interestingly, before the formation of Telangana the existing mills could not get paddy commensurate to their capacity. “Now, the production of paddy has increased and the government is also supplying round-the-clock power supply. There is water availability too from various irrigation projects,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-to-woo-rice-millers-with-land-and-other-sops/articleshow/76487798.cms||Roushan Ali
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||42% of surveyed say admns don’t want to report higher no. of cases||Nagpur: At a time when over 3.50 lakh Covid cases have been detected in the country, unlock phase-I is leading to increase in people-to-people contact, but ironically testing in most districts in several states remains limited.To better understand the state of testing and risk of Covid spread, LocalCircles, one of the leading social media platforms, conducted a survey and received over 24,000 responses from 218 districts across the country, including 6,500 from Maharashtra. Results of the survey were declared on Wednesday.On Covid-19 cases being understated, 16% of the respondents said their district doesn’t have enough labs, testing staff or testing kits, while 42% said administrators don’t want to report higher numbers and hence proactive testing is missing or minimized. Besides, 13% said people just don’t go out to get tested because most are asymptomatic and 19% said many people aren’t disclosing unless symptoms are severe.“Some of this can also be attributed to the publicly shared negative experiences of people with Covid-19 testing and hospitals thereby leading to many with mild symptoms staying at home. Citizens have also shared cases wherein individuals with Covid-like symptoms are under home quarantine, taking tele-medicine and in some cases even services of hospital nurse. Neither has a test been done in some of these cases, nor are they in any government counts,” says Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles.Even Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) survey has cited Covid-19 infection is widespread and approximately 80% of those infected could be asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and hence could be spreaders of the virus.Even as India has ramped up its Covid-19 testing to about 1.5 lakh tests a day, most still believe their states are not testing enough which is primary reason for low number of diagnosed cases. Citizens have also reported on LocalCircles about private labs not giving early appointment. In addition, several complaints have been received about test results taking 48-72 hours, the survey reveals.India has a testing rate of 3.8 tests per 1,000 people which is much lower than Russia’s 95, America’s 66 and the United Kingdom’s 54. The test positivity rate (TPR) in India is also slowly climbing which points towards the fact that only the ones who show definitive symptoms are being tested and a large number of infected persons are remaining untested.In June itself, Delhi has been recording a TPR of 25-40% lately, showing there is an immediate need for increased testing. Delhi and Maharashtra are two states which have consistently been showing a TPR in double digits.On the risk of Covid-19 spreading through social contact, people were also asked since June 1 (when unlock-1 was announced), on average how often are they and members of their household coming in contact with individuals outside their home. In response, 24% said they came in contact with 20-plus individuals each day, 12% said 6-20 individuals a day, 24% said 3-5 individuals each day while 32% said 1-2 individuals a day.The people’s responses indicate that since unlock-1, with offices, markets, malls, rail and air travel, religious places of worship and several other activities etc now open, majority of the people may be coming in daily contact with 6-10 individuals outside their home. Therefore, the risk of virus spread could be extremely high and it will only increase.Survey Demographics* Over 24,000 responses from citizens in 218 districts of India* 6,500 responses came from Maharashtra* 58% respondents were men while 42% women* 57% respondents from tier-I, 32% from tier-II and 11% from tier-III & IV and rural districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/42-of-surveyed-say-admns-dont-want-to-report-higher-no-of-cases/articleshow/76488272.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 21, 2020||Goa||Wet spell: After Pernem, Old Goa crosses 1,000mm rainfall mark||Panaji: After Pernem crossed the 1,000mm mark on Thursday, the rain gauging station at Ela, Old Goa crossed the 1,000mm limit on Saturday, after the India meteorological department (IMD) recorded a seasonal total of 1010.8mm for Ela from June 1 till date. Pernem recorded 1169.8mm for the same period. The areas of Panaji, Canacona and Mormugao have crossed the 900 mm mark so far and are slowly racing towards the milestone of 1,000mm.  The state had witnessed very heavy rainfall in most parts from June 13 to 16 due to wind circulation that prevailed over the north Konkan coast. The circulation dissipated on Friday after which the intensity of the rains decreased slightly. IMD has issued a “heavy rainfall” warning at isolated places for five days from June 20, which correspond to the normal southwest monsoon rains, experts at the department said. “Now there are no significant systems. There is only a pressure gradient which is a normal feature during the monsoon. As of now, there are no severe weather systems around Goa as a result of which most of the stations are likely to get light to moderate rain. Only one or two stations might get heavy rain, which is a usual feature of the monsoon,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. He, however, said that ghats and hilly regions will experience more rainfall. “Pernem, Valpoi and Sankali will also observe more rainfall,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wet-spell-after-pernem-old-goa-crosses-1000mm-rainfall-mark/articleshow/76488283.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Shivneri fort, Bhimashankar temple closed to tourists||PUNE: The Junnar forest division has closed the wildlife areas under its limits to tourists in an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19. The division inludes four tehsils Junnar, Ambegaon, Khed and Shirur. It is home to forts, ghats, pilgrim places, waterfalls and tourists destinations. As a result, it sees a rise in tourists in the monsoon. Jayram Gowda, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar division, told TOI, “All forest areas under our division have been closed to tourists till further notice. We had to take the decision considering the influx of tourists from big cities during the monsoon.” The famous pilgrim location Bhimashankar temple will also remain closed. “The areas in and around the temple is frequented by tourists in large numbers hence there is a need to keep it shut. Our village-level committees have been activated and they will work in tandem with our staffers and respective police stations. We will act against violators,” Gowda added. The famous forts like Shivneri will also remain shut. Local villagers haven’t taken to the decision since most are involved in the tourist business, particularly during the monsoon months. “Monsoon is the prime season for us to earn some money. Last year, the heavy rainfall hampered business so we had big hopes this year. Thousands of tribal villagers earn their livelihood in this period,” said Shankar Shengale, who runs a stall near Bhimashankar temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivneri-fort-bhimashankar-temple-closed-to-tourists/articleshow/76487803.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police question 16 till now in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case||MUMBAI: Police till Saturday have questioned 16 persons and recorded their statements as part of a probe after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34) was found dead in his sixth floor flat at Bandra’s Mount Blanc. Police also recorded the statement of Rajput’s friend Rhea Chakraborty, who left his flat on June 8, after he allegedly told her to leave him alone. Police on Saturday received contract papers from a production house that had signed him for three films earlier but they did not work out after only one released. Police are awaiting the forensic science laboratory report of blood and other samples collected from the flat, and retrieval of call and data records from his phone and laptop. They also recorded the statement of Rajput’s legal advisor. A Bandra police officer said they will call production house staff for questioning, if needed. Deputy commissioner of police (zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said they had recorded statements of his managerial staff in the accidental death report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-question-16-till-now-in-actor-sushants-death-case/articleshow/76487804.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man missing from Gandhi Hospital had severe Covid symptoms?||HYDERABAD: The curious case of Narender Singh is the latest in a string of similar faux pas, that’s come to light in recent times. The discovery of the ‘missing’ man’s body, 21 days after he set foot in Gandhi Hospital allegedly with ‘severe Covid-19 symptoms’, has raised many pertinent questions. Why was Singh not attended to on time? Why was no Covid-19 test conducted on him? What led to his death? If he had symptoms, why was his body shifted to the general mortuary? And most importantly, despite having severe breathlessness, why was the patient not admitted at two of the designated Covid-19 hospitals of the government? As in turns out, Singh was first taken to King Koti Hospital with severe symptoms of Covid-19 on May 30. From there he was redirected to the Gandhi Hospital. None of the two admitted him. “At King Koti we administered oxygen to stabilize his condition. But on seeing the severity of his case we redirected him to Gandhi Hospital, as it wasn’t possible for us to manage him,” said a senior official at the King Koti District Hospital which has asymptomatic as well as mild to moderate Covid-19 patients. The doctor added, “Gandhi Hospital has more specialist doctors to manage severe cases. Since he wasn’t admitted here, his samples were also not taken.” While Gandhi now admits only confirmed Covid-19 patients (those who have already tested positive), at the time of this incident, even suspected patients were being admitted at the government facility. But while King Koti authorities confirmed that the patient was sent to Gandhi and police officials too concluded that Singh had visited the outpatient department there and that his body was shifted to the mortuary from the casualty ward, the hospital’s records show no such information. When questioned, Gandhi Hospital said he was never admitted. “He (Singh) had visited the Gandhi Hospital a day before May 30 and had an OP slip with him. However, he was not a Covid-19 patient and was not admitted here. It was a medico legal case and he was brought by the police. Also the body was found in the general mortuary and not the Covid mortuary,” said Dr Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. Repeated attempts to reach the Director of Medical Education and other senior health officials, for a comment, failed to yield any result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-missing-from-gandhi-had-severe-covid-symptoms/articleshow/76488053.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 21, 2020||Goa||20-Nida-Night squads for emergency situations during the monsoon||Night squads for emergency situations during the monsoon 300 words Panaji: The heavy rainfall situation over the week has urged the corporation of the city of Panaji to finally pull up its socks and form night squads for emergency situations. Under the disaster management cell, the night squad members are supposed to coordinate with the local municipality for to rescue residents from incidents like tree falls, landslides, breakage of drainage system etc. The corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) already has its municipal commissioners and ward officers looking into rain related matters through the day. However, their duties of most of its staff end by 6pm. Due to this, when there are issues after 6pm, the problem would have to wait until the next day to be resolved. “To ensure that there is a team ready to spring into action, after hours, the CCP has formed a team of six workers that will take care of emergency situations. This night squad in Panaji will mainly cater to rain-related matters that occur after 6 pm in the city,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. During this season, there is a risk of malaria and dengue. The CCP has therefore appointed a nodal officer to monitor the situation to ensure that there are no instances of water stagnation that could lead to an outbreak. “Residents that have unused water tanks or buckets lying on terrace tops or in balconies must overturn them. Open tanks must be covered. Otherwise, such spaces can become a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” Madkaikar said. The heavy rains which lashed the city last week, left many spaces clogged and streets inundated. The problem only worsens with the high tide leaving the roads flooded for hours. “It is about time that there is a permanent solution to this. The matter is not in the hands of the CCP alone and we will have to work along with the PWD, GSIDC, and experts of the Smart City Panaji to come up with a solution.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-nida-night-squads-for-emergency-situations-during-the-monsoon/articleshow/76488292.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Three ‘musketeers’ from Unnao who fired country’s imagination||LUCKNOW: A group of three migrant workers quarantined at a primary school in a nondescript village Narayanpur of Unnao district is an inspiration behind the launch of Rs 50,000 crore scheme for lakhs of workers. While launching the 'Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana' on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he came to know about this village school which had been painted by migrants who had come from south India and been quarantined there. The school was one of the quarantine centres of the district and a group of three workers from Hyderabad who were experts in painting and whitewashing work thought of utilising their time to give back to the place where they had been taken care of so well. After some persuasion, they got permission from the authorities and painted the entire school in vibrant colours. TOI had reported about their good deed in April. The PM said it gave him the idea about a vast number of skillful workers who have gone back to their roots. So, why not give them an opportunity to choose the profession of their liking in their villages themselves, he said. "Their nationalist feeling and skill gave me an idea to do something good for them and thus this scheme was born," the PM aded. UP's 31 districts are part of the scheme. Unnao is one of them. Quarantined on April 22 at Narayanpur Primary school after coming from Hyderabad, Vinod, Arun and Kamlesh were feeling odd with the schedule of just eating and sleeping. So, they asked the village head if they could utilise their time in some activity. But they were denied perission as engaging them in any task would have meant violation of quarantine rules. “Then one day, they offered to paint the school building where they were staying. Since it didn't require going out, I allowed them and provided the necessary raw material,” said village head Raju Yadav. His initiative now has brought some good news for Unnao which has of late been making headlines for wrong reasons. “After a long time, I saw Unnao making headlines for a good reason. Though we have mentioned their contribution in a wall writing outside the school but the village committee will be felicitating the three after the PM formally acknowledged it,” Yadav stated. Vinod, of Nawazkheda area in Narayanpur village, is a happy man after the PM's reference. “His appreciation is a medal in itself. The better part is that it became an inspiration for a big step towards the well-being of faceless migrant workers who otherwise don’t even get a look,” said the worker who earns through small-time contracts to run his family of five in the village. He came back to Narayanpur after working for 17 years as a construction worker in Hyderabad. Stating that the story gave a role model, village development officer, Dhirendra Rawat said: “I remember that the whitewash and wall painting activity was already planned for the school building but had missed the schedule on account of the lockdown. So, when they offered we agreed and they also finished the work quickly.” Senior officers of the division are impressed. Lucknow division commissioner Mukesh Meshram said: “Instead of sulking over the trying times they came up with a constructive solution that benefited the society at large. And now the PM’s mention has sealed the model. It is encouraging for all of us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-musketeers-from-unnao-who-fired-countrys-imagination/articleshow/76488291.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 21, 2020||Goa||City corp forms night squad for emergency needs||Panaji: The heavy rainfall situation over the week has urged the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to finally pull up its socks and form a night squad for emergency situations. Under the disaster management cell, the night squad members are supposed to coordinate with the local municipality to rescue residents from incidents like tree falls, landslides, breakage of drainage system, etc. CCP already has its municipal commissioners and ward officers looking into rain-related matters through the day. However, their duties of most of its staff end by 6pm. Due to this, when there are issues after 6pm, the problem would have to wait until the next day to be resolved. “To ensure that there is a team ready to spring into action, after hours, the CCP has formed a team of six workers who will take care of emergency situations. This night squad in Panaji will mainly cater to rain-related matters that occur after 6pm in the city,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. During this season, there is a risk of malaria and dengue. The CCP has therefore appointed a nodal officer to monitor the situation to ensure that there are no instances of water stagnation that could lead to an outbreak. “Residents who have unused water tanks or buckets lying on terrace tops or in balconies must overturn them. Open tanks must be covered. Otherwise, such spaces can become a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” Madkaikar said. The heavy rains which lashed the city last week, left many spaces clogged and streets inundated. The problem only worsens with the high tide leaving the roads flooded for hours. “It is about time that there is a permanent solution to this. The matter is not in the hands of the CCP alone. We will have to work along with PWD, GSIDC, and experts of Smart City Panaji to come up with a solution.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/city-corp-forms-night-squad-for-emergency-needs/articleshow/76488296.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Can’t govt set up Rs 10 crore fund for 8 lakh disabled, asks Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state government to inform it by June 24 whether it would create a Rs 10 crore fund for welfare of nearly eight lakh persons with disabilities. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a public interest petition filed by Shiva Ganesh Karnati of Hyderabad who sought directions from the court to the state on the ground that state machinery has never been sensible enough towards the needs of the disabled. The bench asked advocate general BS Prasad as to why the state is taking so much time to take a decision in favour of the disabled. “This is not our mandate. This is the mandate of the Constitution that tells all states to reach out to the weak first,” the bench said. Referring to one of the counters filed by the officials, the bench said that the state machinery is calling upon donors to help the people with disabilities whenever they seek help from the state. “Do not leave them to the mercy of donors. Instead you go to their rescue,” the bench said and posted the case to June 24. Ganesh’s counsel Kowturu Pavan Kumar told the court that the state has been ignoring the welfare of the physically challenged people. Their woes got worsened during the lockdown period with no one ready to assist them to gain access to medical help, supply of groceries, technical assistance to their devices like wheelchairs, hearing aids etc. “Worse still, there was no one to help them to gain road pass from police to reach medical stores and doctors. Though the lockdown is over, the need for creating a separate fund for them along with sensible machinery is still there,” Pavan Kumar said. Upon persistent requests, the state increased the allocation from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh to be kept at the disposal of each district welfare officer to look after the needs of the disabled. The bench sought to know from the state as to how this meagre amount would fulfil the needs of the poor disabled. For instance, it said, Warangal has a population of 45,000 disabled people and this Rs 1 lakh fund cannot meet any of their needs. Except Rangareddy and Medchal, which were given Rs 5 lakh each, all other districts were given only Rs 1 lakh each.  The bench referred to a letter written by B Sailaja, director of disabled welfare wing, requesting the government to create a Rs 10 crore fund for disabled persons. The bench asked advocate general BS Prasad as to why the state is taking time to take a decision in favour of the most weakest and vulnerable sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-govt-set-up-rs-10-cr-fund-for-8l-disabled-asks-court/articleshow/76487811.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra to allow marriages in grounds, halls||NAGPUR: Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the state government will allow marriage ceremonies on open grounds and non-AC halls soon. Sources from his office said a notification will be issued on Tuesday. In a video statement, Wadettiwar said, “With rainy season on, people are finding it difficult to hold marriages inside own houses. Many have small houses too. Therefore, the government has decided to relax the rules. However, only 50 guests will be allowed and all will have to comply with Covid guidelines.” Wadettiwar added that the decision will also help owners of grounds and halls. “A large number of people are financially dependent on their functioning,” he said. From June 1 after the lockdown was lifted, the government had allowed marriages with 50 people in attendance but disallowed in halls, hotels and grounds. Wadettiwar said citizens, owners of wedding venues and “former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar” had sought relaxation of rules. On June 10, Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakre had written to principal secretary of disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department seeking permission for marriage ceremonies in grounds, hotels and halls. He is yet to receive a reply. Welcoming the decision, hotelier Jasbir Singh Arora said, “Many had postponed marriages scheduled in April and May. After dates in last week of June, next mahurats are only in November.” Arora also said the government should also allow booking of rooms at hotels. “Those coming from other districts and states are finding it difficult to find accommodation,” he said. On June 13, TOI had reported about Thakre’s letter. Many owners of grounds and halls had started accepting bookings. Some are even functional in rural parts of Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-to-allow-marriages-in-grounds-halls/articleshow/76487821.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 40 child labourers rescued from homes, factories in June||HYDERABAD: Instances of child labour seem to be on a rise in the city as at least 40 children have been rescued from their employers in three cases in June alone. One of the child rescued was as young as five years old, who was working as a domestic help in Chaderghat during the lockdown. The child was beaten up, harassed and was crying to go back home, according to authorities. On Tuesday, nine children from Bihar were rescued by the Balapur police from a bangle manufacturing unit. The children were kept confined in a room during the lockdown. CWC Member, along with other officials and cops, had earlier raided a seed industry at Medchal Industrial area and found 30 children working as bonded labourers. “The traffickers usually take advantage of socio-economic conditions of the family to lure them and hire the children as labourers. Many of these children were not given wages and denied an education. The traffickers should be traced and booked for criminal charges,” said Achyuta Rao of Balala Hakkula Sangham, a child rights NGO. He added that the employers should be detained under the PD Act. According to the activist, as schools have remained closed, many children are turning vulnerable to be victims of begging. “With no mid-day meal, the parents are struggling to feed their children and many children are forced to be victim of child labour or begging,” Rao said. Cyberabad police in January had rescued 178 children under Operation Smile. “We are still contemplating whether to conduct Operation Muskaan due to the pandemic. While usually the drive is conducted every year in July, we are yet to take a decision about this year,” said a source from the Women and Child Department. According to child rights activists, as schools are closed, some children may be forced to go to work and some may even take to begging||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-child-labourers-rescued-from-homes-factories-in-june/articleshow/76487825.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘We should act on what Gandhi would have done in Covid-19’||Nagpur: Social activist and founder of Gadchiroli-based NGO SEARCH Dr Abhay Bang has come up with a nine-point programme in which he invokes Mahatma Gandhi's thought "freedom from fear" among others on overcoming challenges posed by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Bang’s article was published online in the world’s oldest journal Lancet, which is best-known for publishing peer reviewed general medical researches, on Friday. Having spent his childhood in Sevagram during the Gandhian movement, Dr Bang told TOI that today’s global situation is multi-layered with the corona pandemic, economic recession and climate change and compounding these is the void of political and moral leadership. “Gandhi would not merely preach but lead by action. He would begin action locally and not chase the world. He would begin with action that initially looked small and silly. For example, picking a fistful of salt that eventually changed history,” he said. The idea about imagining Gandhi’s actions in today’s scenarios emanated from the belief that “In such a crisis, you go back to great leaders”. “I have tried that kind of an experiment. What he (Gandhi) may have done today. As I grew up in Sevagram Ashram, I got a long exposure to the Gandhian thought. Gaining from that thought, I imagined what Gandhi would have done. It really guides all of us, including the civil society and government,” he said. Dr Bang is known for his profilic work in community health in the tribal belt of Gadchiroli through his Society for Education, Action and Research in Community Health (SEARCH). His work on child pneumonia and newborn care has influenced global policies. Besides ‘Freedom from Fear’, the nine points comprise ‘Care of the sick’, ‘New Dandi March’, Inter-faith and social unity’, My neighbourhood is my responsibility’. ‘Gram Swaraj, the economy of small’, ‘There is enough on this Earth’ and ‘Prayer’. Under ‘Freedom from fear’, he writes, “We are gripped more by the virus of fear than by the coronavirus, and this fear of the pandemic has paralysed the whole world. Gandhi would ask us to first shed this fear, as he asked the Indians to shed the fear of the British. The fear, being unreal, would begin to melt away.” Overcoming fear, we need ‘Care of the sick,’ he states. “Hundreds of people sick with Covid-19 need physical care, nursing and medical care. Gandhi, without fear, would personally nurse them. He would be fastidious about hygiene, cleaning, hand washing, and mask use.” Dr Bang comments on communal passions ignited even during the pandemic in the country. “This communal division would be the foremost cause for Gandhi. He would try to unite Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Untouchables and Tribals by living with them in their colonies, serving the sick among them, and sending them as volunteers to serve in each other’s areas, even if such efforts to unite would risk his second assassination.” Dr Bang concludes the article with “We should not be waiting for Gandhi. We should be acting on what he would have done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-should-act-on-what-gandhi-would-have-done-in-covid-19/articleshow/76487826.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 21, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 muzzles UP-112, HQ shut till Monday||LUCKNOW: The headquarters of the statewide citizens’ emergency helpline (UP-112) was shut for 48 hours to sanitize its premises at Gomtinagar Extension after five technical staff members tested positive for covid-19 on Saturday, taking the infection count at the private-run call centre to six in two days. The shutdown will impact services of the 24X7 emergency number, commonly used for making SOS calls to police, fire and ambulance, besides urgent requirements. It handles over 75,000 calls every day and plays a major role in helping people during lockdown. This is the first time since launch of the dedicated emergency helpline that its headquarters would be temporarily closed down. The dedicated emergency helpline was started in November 2016, then known as UP 100. Additional director general (ADG), UP-112, Asim Arun, said UP-112 headquarter has been closed till Monday noon and this will have a major impact on services. “At least 210 telephone lines are open for calls per shift at the call centre. We managed to arrange 63 additional lines at other places, including a centre at Prayagraj, while mobilising work-from-home staff. This means we will be functioning at 30% capacity. Now, people dialing the emergency number may have to bear with inconvenience of a long wait before their calls are attended. In case of urgency, people can reach out to us on social media through Twitter or Facebook,” the ADG told TOI. The officer also appealed to those in distress to call at 1073, which is the district control room number for seeking a police response vehicle. The virus first struck a staff member of the system integrator section on Thursday, following which 30 employees who came in contact with him were tested. On Saturday, five of them were found to be infected. Two of them are residents of Neelmatha, while others live in Alambagh, Gomtinagar Extension and Kalyanpur. All are in the 30-40 age-group and are asymptomatic. They have been admitted to ESI Hospital, Sarojini Nagar. Eight family members of the first infected UP-112 employee, who resides in Krishnanagar, have also been diagnosed with the disease. The first case in the family was reported on Tuesday. The area around their residence has been declared a containment zone. Chief Medical Officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Family members of all infected employees are being tested for the virus. If we receive a request from UP-112 officials, we can do a swab test of all employees at the call centre.” The chief minister's helpline is closed since June 10 after several staff members were diagnosed with Covid-19. So far 102 Covid-19 cases — 88 employees and 14 of contacts — have been reported from helplines across the state. (With inputs from Vivek Singh Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-muzzles-up-112-hq-shut-till-monday/articleshow/76488304.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: RGPV students to write online exam from July 7||BHOPAL: Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, engineering students across Madhya Pradesh will write online exams from their homes for the first time. A six-member committee headed by RGPV vice chancellor Sunil Kumar has decided to hold online exams for final semester from July 7 and the results would be declared before July 30. The university has sent the recommendations to the state government for its approval and it will be also put in the next executive council meeting on June 23. The biggest challenge for RGPV is how to keep tabs on students using unfair means during online exams.  RGPV is the engineering university that holds exams for all technical courses in the state. TOI in its June 19 edition had carried a story ‘RGPV plans to hold online exams for the final year students’. Instead of a three-hour exam, it will be two -hour test. As per the recommendations of the committee, the online exams will only be for students of bachelor of engineering (BE) and bachelor of pharmacy (BPharma). RGPV is all prepared to hold the online theory exams from July 7 to July 15, while practical exams will be organised from July 16 to July 22. Students will be given the weightage of 50% of the semester grade point average (SGPS), based on their seventh semester. It has also been recommended that at least two mock tests should be organised before the final exams to help students get familiarise with the online test process. The platform to be used for the exam should be compatible with desktop, laptop, tablet and smartphones. Only one question should appear on the screen at a time during the exam. Sources said that specific time could be decided for the students to attempt each question. For keeping tabs on the students attempting unfair means during the exam, it has been decided to record each student. However, the committee has not made any specific recommendation on how to record each student. Issuing the guidelines, RGPV stated that each paper will be of two hours and questions will be of multiple choice. Students will not be given a revaluation facility for the online exam. Those students who are not able to appear in the July exam, will be given another opportunity to appear for the same in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rgpv-students-to-write-online-exam-from-jul-7/articleshow/76487833.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||29 infected in Himachal, 17 discharged from hosp||Shimla: The Covid-19 tally of Himachal Pradesh is rising consistently and so is the recovery rate, which has gone up to 61.5%. Since Friday night, 29 new cases have been reported in the state while 20 patients have been cured. On Saturday, the state had 650 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 232 are active, 405 have recovered, 11 have migrated out of the state and six have died of Covid-19. Two patients died of other causes. Eleven of the fresh cases reported are from Hamirpur, four each from Kangra and Shimla, three each from Soland Una, two from Sirmaur, and one each from Kullu and Bilaspur districts. Patients who recovered include 14 from Kangra, and two each from Shimla, Una and Bilaspur districts. In Shimla district, a man and woman who were in institutional quarantine have tested positive. The third case has been reported from Rampur where an ITBP jawan who had returned from Rajasthan tested positive. A total of 53,125 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Saturday. Of them, 33,237 have completed 28-day surveillance, while 19,888 are under active surveillance. So far 62,590 persons have tested for Covid-19, of which 60,759 have tested negative while results of 1,181 samples are awaited. In Hamirpur district, a 31-year-old man from Sule village of Hamirpur tehsil who had come from Delhi on June 12 and was in institutional quarantine tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/29-infected-in-himachal-17-discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/76488305.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||If citizens cooperate, cases can be brought down: Mundhe||How do you look at the past 100 days? Proactive measures, planning, innovative ideas, effective leadership and proper execution led to early tracking and treatment. This resulted in less cases and deaths. We started door-to-door survey across the city in March and completed it in April. Strategy of institutional and mass quarantine, and testing helped isolate infected people. It led to a break of chain in transmission. Special camps for pregnant women, high-risk patients like cancer, TB, COPD and SARI were held in April. The effort continues in containment zones. Our staff is using pulse oximeters and infra-red thermometers to identify suspected patients. When compared to other cities, Nagpur has fewer positive cases and deaths. Who gets the credit? The citizens should decide. Everyone is aware of the strategies and work done by the civic team right from the start. What is your projection for the next 100 days? Cases will increase if people will not cooperate, follow Covid distancing, wear mask in proper manner and follow all guidelines. Public participation is important to end the chain. The civic team is working with renewed enthusiasm even though the members have not taken leave since more than 100 days. We have ended chains in Gaddigodam, Satranjipura and slowed the spread in Naik-Talao containment zones. All are slums and congested areas. We have been changing strategy as per the need, taken suggestions from experts and are continuously introducing proactive measures. What will be topmost plan now? Along with containing spread, we will continue to observe zero tolerance for deaths. Our aggressive containment zone system and mass quarantine model will continue as it has proved beneficial in keeping cases and mortality low. Are there any shortcomings? What needs to be improved? No. We have created institutional quarantine centres with 12,000+ capacity. A new Covid Care Centre has been developed. A good system of collection of samples and testing is existing. Five hospitals with state-of-the-art facilities have come up in quick time. Do you think cases will increase with the end of lockdown? Yes, it cannot be ruled out. Much depends on people’s cooperation. If all take precautions, there will be no spike in cases. Do you think lockdown should continue? We will go by whatever decision is taken by the government. Do you think other civic works got affected during this period? No. The NMC has rejuvenated three rivers, improved solid waste management drastically, ensured no water shortage in summer, cleared choking of storm water drains, removed garbage and mud on roadsides and taken care of other works. We ensured shelter to migrants and homeless during the lockdown period. Food and foodgrains was distributed to all needy people. Major projects and new works could not be undertaken due to shortage of funds and huge liabilities. (Tukaram Mundhe is the Nagpur Municipal Corporation commissioner)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/if-citizens-cooperate-cases-can-be-brought-down-mundhe/articleshow/76488308.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sub-inspector arrested for accepting bribe of Rs 5 lakh||PUNE: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) late on Saturday evening arrested a sub-inspector of Chikhali police station for demanding and accepting bribe of Rs5 lakh from a man. A senior ACB officer said the sub-inspector was probing a complaint application against the man and demanded the bribe, stating that no action would be taken if the money was paid. Deputy superintendent of police, ACB, Shrihari Patil, told TOI, “We have arrested the sub-inspector, Farooq Solapure, for demanding and accepting the bribe.” Patil said the victim in the bribery case was a builder and he had issued some cheques to his clients. The cheques bounced and the victim’s clients approached the police seeking legal action against him. But Solapure decided to settle the issue against the bribe of Rs5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sub-inspector-arrested-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/76487836.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Murder case filed against dead couple||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Saturday booked the couple found hanging in their rented house in Waghjainagar on Thursday night on the charge of murdering their two children. Senior inspector Vasant Kunvar, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police in-charge, said, “The victim’s family members and others have given statements stating that the couple were in deep financial trouble because the husband, Atul Shinde (33), had no source of income after the lockdown was enforced. Shinde was running the business of printing digital cards.” The other deceased include Shinde’s wife Jaya (32) and their two children, Rugved (6) and Antara (3). “The couple had written on the wall that they were ending their live because they were frustrated with the situation. The circumstantial evidence shows that the two children did not end their lives on their own. Their parents killed them before taking their own lives,” Kunvar said. Deputy commissioner of police (zone II) Shirish Sardeshpande said, “We will complete the investigations and file a report before the court.” The police have registered an offence under section 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC against the couple. A preliminary post-mortem finding has stated "death due to hanging" as the cause in all four cases. Police are investigating the “situation” referred to in the note to establish what drove the couple to take the drastic step. Police said the probe will cover whether there was financial distress due to loss of business on account of the lockdown over the last three months or whether there was any other reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/murder-case-filed-against-dead-couple/articleshow/76487834.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana tally up from 2,356 to 10,223 in 20 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Covid count on Saturday reached 10,223 cases and 149 deaths, as 480 cases and five deaths were reported in past 24 hours. As many as 239 persons were also discharged from hospitals on Saturday, which took the recovery rate to 50.16%, with overall 5,128 recoveries. Haryana has seen more than 400% increase in new cases, and over 700% increase in the deaths in past 20 days. On June 1, the state had recorded 2,356 coronavirus infection cases and 21 deaths due to the pandemic. On the other hand, after struggling for 15 days, the recovery rate has jumped back to 50%. As of now, 68 persons are critical and out of them 48 are on oxygen support in Covid care centres across the state, revealed the bulletin, adding that four deaths took Gurugram toll 59, and one death in Faridabad took its death toll to 52. According to information, Gurugram topped the table once again on Saturday with 171 new cases detected. This took the NCR district’s total to 4,307. Gurugram was followed by Faridabad, which recorded 97 new cases and the district’s total reached 2,100. Sonipat continued to be another hotspot in the state, as it saw 71 cases. The district tally went up to 826. In addition, 23 fresh cases took Rohtak’s total to 421. While 21 cases were reported from Karnal. With 20 new cases, Bhiwani total reached 201. Similarly, 15 cases were reported from Hisar, while 13 each have come from Panchkula and Yamuananngar and 10 cases have been reported from Palwal. Six cases each have come from Jhajjar and Ambala, followed by four more from Nuh. Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Jind, all reported three new patients each, while one case was reported from Fatehabad district. According to the state health bulletin, the testing rate in Haryana went up to 8,380 tests per million, as total 2,12,430 persons have been tested so far. A total 1,96,836 of them were found to be negative. With a major surge of 21 fresh cases of coronavirus, Karnal district crossed the mark of 200 infected persons. The total number of Covid-19 infected persons went up to 217 from 196 cases on Friday. Among the new patients are a 25-year-old man from Kheri Mann Singh, who is working in a bank at Trarori; a 35-year-old man from Nawal Commando Complex; a 44-year-man from Bhim Nagar Karnal; a man (40) and her daughter (6) near Namaste Chowk; a 21-year-old woman from Sector 13; a 12-year- old girl from Anand Vihar Part-2; a couple, aged 44, from Sector 7, who had returned from Delhi. (With inputs from Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-tally-up-from-2-3k-to-10-2k-in-20-days/articleshow/76488845.cms||Manvir Saini
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana tally up from 2,356 to 10,223 in 20 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Covid count on Saturday reached 10,223 cases and 149 deaths, as 480 cases and five deaths were reported in past 24 hours. As many as 239 persons were also discharged from hospitals on Saturday, which took the recovery rate to 50.16%, with overall 5,128 recoveries. Haryana has seen more than 400% increase in new cases, and over 700% increase in the deaths in past 20 days. On June 1, the state had recorded 2,356 coronavirus infection cases and 21 deaths due to the pandemic. On the other hand, after struggling for 15 days, the recovery rate has jumped back to 50%. As of now, 68 persons are critical and out of them 48 are on oxygen support in Covid care centres across the state, revealed the bulletin, adding that four deaths took Gurugram toll 59, and one death in Faridabad took its death toll to 52. According to information, Gurugram topped the table once again on Saturday with 171 new cases detected. This took the NCR district’s total to 4,307. Gurugram was followed by Faridabad, which recorded 97 new cases and the district’s total reached 2,100. Sonipat continued to be another hotspot in the state, as it saw 71 cases. The district tally went up to 826. In addition, 23 fresh cases took Rohtak’s total to 421. While 21 cases were reported from Karnal. With 20 new cases, Bhiwani total reached 201. Similarly, 15 cases were reported from Hisar, while 13 each have come from Panchkula and Yamuananngar and 10 cases have been reported from Palwal. Six cases each have come from Jhajjar and Ambala, followed by four more from Nuh. Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Jind, all reported three new patients each, while one case was reported from Fatehabad district. According to the state health bulletin, the testing rate in Haryana went up to 8,380 tests per million, as total 2,12,430 persons have been tested so far. A total 1,96,836 of them were found to be negative. With a major surge of 21 fresh cases of coronavirus, Karnal district crossed the mark of 200 infected persons. The total number of Covid-19 infected persons went up to 217 from 196 cases on Friday. Among the new patients are a 25-year-old man from Kheri Mann Singh, who is working in a bank at Trarori; a 35-year-old man from Nawal Commando Complex; a 44-year-man from Bhim Nagar Karnal; a man (40) and her daughter (6) near Namaste Chowk; a 21-year-old woman from Sector 13; a 12-year- old girl from Anand Vihar Part-2; a couple, aged 44, from Sector 7, who had returned from Delhi. (With inputs from Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-tally-up-from-2-3k-to-10-2k-in-20-days/articleshow/76488312.cms||Manvir Saini
June 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress forms special teams for bypolls on 24 seats||BHOPAL: Congress called a meeting of leaders and MLAs at the residence of former chief minister Kamal Nath to chalk out a plan for the assembly bypolls in 24 constituencies. Nath and AICC general secretary in-charge of state affairs Mukul Wasnik have deputed a team for every constituency going to bypolls. Every team will be led by one former minister of the erstwhile Congress government and three to four sitting MLAs, apart from the local leaders. Addressing the meeting, former chief minister Kamal Nath, said: “Although this is a bypoll, I regard it as the elections to determine the future because it will be a slap in the face of those who brought down a democratically elected government through betrayal and conspiracy. I never saw such betrayal in the history of this democracy.” “Our former chief minister and PCC chief Kamal Nath has sent strong teams to the constituencies that will go for bypolls. In the interest of democracy, Congress will fight the elections with full preparation and groundwork,” state PCC spokesman Durgesh Sharma told TOI. It was decided that former minister Lakhan Singh would lead the team in Jaura assembly seat, Jaivardhan Singh would be in-charge of Agar constituency, Dr Vijaylaxmi Sadho in Dabra, Bala Bachchan in Badnawar, Sachin Yadav in Mungaoli, former Speaker N P Prajapati in Annuppur, Brijendra Singh Rathore in Sumawali, Sajjan Singh Verma in Haatpipaliya. Sanver seat in Indore is expected to be a tough fight. Minister for water resources Tulsi Silawat, who won 2018 assembly elections as Congress candidate, will now be fielded by BJP. Congress has put former minister and MLA from neighbouring Rau constituency, Jeetu Patwari in-charge of the party’s campaign team in this constituency. Former minister Lakhan Ganghoria will be in-charge of Surkhi, another important seat won in the last elections by Jyotiraditya Scindia aide Govind Singh Rajput. He is now a minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. Former minister P C Sharma will be heading the party’s team in Gwalior, and another ex-minister Sukhdev Phanse will be in-charge of Sanchi. In Subasra assembly seat, the party has put senior MLA Ravi Joshi as in-charge. Sources in the party said that these teams of former ministers and MLAs have left for the assembly seats where their work is to reconstruct the party organization from booth level. Out of 24 assembly seats going for bypoll, 22 have been vacated after Jyotiraditya Scindia followers quit the party. These seats have suffered damages at the organization level as supporters of the sitting MLAs have also left the party. The first concern for the Congress now is to rebuild the organization in these constituencies. Candidates for the polls will be determined from three surveys conducted by PCC chief Kamal Nath. Names will be declared only a few days before fling of nomination, sources in the party added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-forms-special-teams-for-bypolls-on-24-seats/articleshow/76487857.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 21, 2020||Pune||Indians stranded in UAE return, 151 Yemeni fly back||PUNE: A total of 168 people from Sharjah landed in the city on Saturday in a chartered flight of Air Arabia. Aami Parivar, a social welfare group based in the UAE, coordinated and arranged the flight. It landed in Pune around 5.30pm. The flight was slated to land in the city last Saturday but could not because of technical issues. “We were very anxious, but the group (Aami Parivar) continuously coordinated with the Indian Consulate and the authorities here. It is good to be back home finally,” a passenger said after landing in the city. Santosh Karande, the founder of Aami Parivar, said, “There were some technical issues, but we kept our hopes high and continuously followed up with the authorities. It is a relief that the flight has landed in Pune.” Sharavan Pawar, a passenger in the flight, said “My mother-in-law passed away and I needed to come back. I stay in Mumbai, but I think I shall not be able to go home for another fortnight as the administration will take us to an institutional quarantine hub. Many people in Sharjah have lost their jobs. Several companies told employees that they would not be paid salaries for three-four months. I shall try to go back after a month or so.” Chand Abdul said, “I got stuck in Sharjah and my visa expired. I am a resident of Mumbai. The flight didn’t take off last Saturday and it was a major problem. I had no money and lived at a friend’s place during the week. I am relieved to be back home.” An aircraft of Yemen-based Yemenia Airways landed in Pune in the afternoon to ferry 151 Yemini nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indians-stranded-in-uae-return-151-yemeni-fly-back/articleshow/76487850.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||HMDA sanctions Rs 2.95 cr to clean up Ramannakunta||Secunderabad: Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) has sanctioned Rs 2.95 crore for laying sewerage network abutting the century-old Ramannakunta Lake at Bowenpally in Secunderabad Cantonment to prevent sewage from entering the water body.  HMDA authorities on Saturday deposited the aid into the account of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board to take up laying of sewer trunks and other infrastructure too. “Responding to MA&UD minister K T Rama Rao’s instructions, the HMDA deposited the fund for completion of sewerage network, to keep the lake free from pollution. The Water Board will take up work, soon,” SCB ward no-VI member, Pandu Yadav told TOI. The lake is located in the jurisdiction of his ward. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmda-sanctions-rs-2-95-cr-to-clean-up-ramannakunta/articleshow/76487839.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cloud shadow over Kolkata’s date with solar eclipse||KOLKATA: The buzz in the city over Sunday morning’s solar eclipse was unmistakable. A celestial event such as this is a spectacle anytime, more so in the current pandemic gloom. However, the excitement was somewhat dampened by the cloud cover on Saturday that threatened to be a killjoy on Sunday as well. Last December, too, a cloud cover had made it difficult for Kolkatans to enjoy the solar eclipse. Visible for a few minutes, the view had been cut short by a grey sky and light drizzle. MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research director (research & academic) Debiprosad Duari, who had camped in Coonoor to view the eclipse, recounted the experience as “magical”. This time, though, he is stranded in the city owing to the pandemic and is hoping for more than a slice of luck to view the annular solar eclipse that will be partial over Kolkata. Members of the Sky Watchers’ Association of North Bengal (SWAN), too, had planned to travel to Suratgarh to view the total eclipse, but cancelled the plan in view of the pandemic and will now have get only a partial view from Siliguri. The path of annular solar eclipse will enter India through Gharsana on the India-Pakistan border around 10.12am But the Met office didn’t have an encouraging forecast. The sky could remain cloudy through the morning since a low-pressure trough is already triggering showers in south Bengal. Monsoon currents, too, remain active in the region. But there was a silver lining. “Kolkata is likely to receive light to moderate showers throughout the weekend. So, while we are likely to have intermittent rain, there could be dry periods when the sky clears up. Since the eclipse will continue for five hours, the event could be visible at least for some time,” said deputy director-general of meteorology Sanjib Bandopadhyay. “I am hoping to catch the partial eclipse from here and that the cloud cover doesn’t play spoilsport,” said Duari, warning enthusiasts not to try and take a peek without proper gear as even a few seconds exposure can cause severe eye damage, including blindness. “One must use a certified aluminized Mylar filter in solar goggles or No. 14 welder’s glass to observe the eclipse directly. The easy way is to make a pin hole on a cardboard and project the image of the Sun on a white paper or on a wall and observe the progression of the eclipse. One can use a solar filter on a telescope to observe it also,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cloud-shadow-over-citys-date-with-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76487146.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 21, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 claims 38 more lives in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: As Chennai and three neighbouring districts remained under an intensive lockdown for the second day on Saturday, the number of Covid-19 positive cases continued to soar across Tamil Nadu. The state’s case tally now stands at 56,845 with 2,396 fresh cases reported, 1,254 of them in Chennai and 398 in Thiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram. Thirty-eight deaths were reported taking the official toll to 704, which does not include more than 200 casualties in Chennai that are yet to make it to the state register. While strict enforcement by civic agencies and police forced people in Chennai to stay indoors after 2pm, authorities in the districts complained that people from Chennai were taking the infection into the amber and green regions. District authorities and local bodies across south, central and western districts stopped, screened and sometimes tested people from Chennai. Earlier in the day, a video of a man walking around a village beating a drum and warning people against hosting people from Chennai went viral. Barring three districts – Erode, Namakkal and Nilgiris – all others reported cases on Saturday. In the north, Tiruvallur logged 131 cases, Kancheepuram 87 and Chengalpet 180. Besides this, Tiruvannamalai reported 130 cases, Ranipet 68 and Vellore 35. In the South, Madurai reported 90 cases, Ramnathapuram 49, and Sivagangai 32. Salem had 47 cases and Tiruchi 23. In the west, Coimbatore reported 11 cases. Although Tirupur did not have a case from within the district, one of the returnees tested positive on Saturday. Among the 38 deceased, five people did not have any comorbidities and six of them died within 24 hours of admission. The youngest was a 26-year-old man admitted to Vellore Medical College Hospital on June 14. He died on Friday following respiratory failure. Doctors said the patient had no comorbidities. A 45-year-old woman with high risk pregnancy admitted to Rajaji Government Hospital in Madurai died on Friday. Twenty-four of the dead were above the age of 60 and 12 of them between 40 and 50 years of age. The state tested 32,186 people in the last 24 hours compared to 25,902 people on Friday. In Chennai, the number of samples tested increased by 5,092 since Friday. So far, 1.7 lakh samples have been tested in Chennai, 31,019 in Salem, 28,453 in Kanyakumari and 27,284 in Tiruvannamalai, the government media bulletin said. Of the 2.3 lakh people who have returned to the state by air, road, rail and sea since the pandemic struck, 2,495 have tested positive. At least 1,045 people were discharged from hospitals taking the total number of people cured to 31,316. On Saturday, the state had 24,822 people undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-claims-38-more-lives-in-tn/articleshow/76487871.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai company to launch oral drug for Covid-19 treatment||MUMBAI: City-based Glenmark will launch an antiviral drug for treating mild-to-moderate Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Called FabiFlu, it will be the first oral Favipiravir-approved medication in India, after the company obtained manufacturing and marketing approval from India’s drug regulator on June 19. Favipiravir is an early-use antiviral, which has shown promising results in Japan, China and Italy, and has also recently been approved for treatment of Covid-19 in Russia. Global clinical trials on over 3,000 subjects are underway in countries including India, US, Canada, Italy, China, France, UK and others, the company said. The antiviral drug was approved by India’s drug regulator under “restricted emergency authorisation” for accelerated approval process. Emergency use authorization is a provision that allows countries to use drugs urgently needed in an emergency situation or healthcare crisis. Under the restricted use, every patient must have a signed and informed consent before treatment initiation.The company has priced a packet of 34 tablets at Rs 3,500 (approximately Rs 103 per tablet). It will start rolling out the batches from next week, and ramp up production of raw materials and formulation “as much as possible”. Glenmark is also conducting trials of a combination of two antiviral drugs, Favipiravir and Umifenovir (approved drug for influenza). Covid-19 patients show a high viral load at time of symptom onset, which suggests treatment with a combination of antiviral drugs, a company official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-company-to-launch-oral-drug-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/76487944.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||90% health care workers against coal mining: Survey||Nagpur: About 90% of health care workers in the country are against the expansion of coal mines, reveals a social media survey.Clean Air Collective, which is a coalition of civil society groups working on air pollution and health-related issues, conducted the survey on social media. According to the survey, 90% of the health care workers were of the view that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should focus on unleashing renewable energy.Nearly 95% of the respondents opined that burning of coal causes air pollution which in turn causes respiratory ailments. Around 258 respondents comprising of doctors, nurses pharmacists and other health care workers participated in the survey. “While all the respondents were aware of PM’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan, only 40% knew that the plan also included coal mine expansion,” stated a press release by Clean Air Collective.As per the survey, 88% of health care workers stated that fighting pandemics such as Covid-19, which affect the respiratory system, becomes all the more difficult if the air pollution increases.The Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan was announced as part of the Covid-19 economic recovery package. On May 16, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the opening up of the coal mining industry to the private sector. The plan also included auctioning 50 new coal mines with an average lifespan of 50 years.Expressing disapproval over the Centre’s decision, experts stressed on the need for clean energy transition. “While countries like Sweden, Belgium, Austria and now Germany go coal free, India, during the pandemic, is set to auction 50 coal mines that will have an adverse impact on forests and indigenous communities. The only chances for India to have a bright future is when we stop investing in coal, reduce emission from the existing coal and shut them down in a phased manner, making energy transition to renewable energy,” said Bhavreen Kandhari from #MyRightToBreathe.Stating that the objective of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan was to be self-sufficient and to increase the country’s ability to deal with pandemics, director of Climate Trends Aarti Khosla said, “Coal should not be included in that plan since it will most certainly lead to increased air pollution and a host of troubles locally as well as in India’s broader energy policy.”At a time when the entire world is moving away from coal, the country seems to be moving backwards, stated activist Rinchin. “The adivasi community is the most impacted by coal mining since a long time. They have been struggling to save their land. They have also been raising the issue of their health. It’s time we hear them out,” he added.IN A NUTSHELL* 90% of health care workers against expansion of coal mines* Want PM to focus on clean energy* 88% feel fighting pandemics to become difficult if air pollution increases* Experts say country moving backwards* Adivasi community to be most impacted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/90-health-care-workers-against-coal-mining-survey/articleshow/76512199.cms||Manka Behl
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC demolishes 31 dilapidated buildings||HYDERABAD: As many as 31 dilapidated buildings were demolished by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in Somajiguda on Sunday. A family living in an old building was also vacated. As per GHMC records, a total of 377 structurally unfit buildings have been marked for demolition. “We are verifying the structural stability of buildings to initiate further actions,” a GHMC official has said. Demolitions had also taken place on Friday in Serilingampally circle (4) followed by Khairtabad (3) and Malkajgiri (3). The civic officials have been notifying people and vacating them from dilapidated buildings. “People residing in dilapidated structures or in huts nearby sloppy terrains are hereby cautioned to vacate the premises or get it repaired in order to protect and safeguard human lives,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. According to officials, the demolitions have been peaceful until now and the residents are cooperating with the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-demolishes-31-dilapidated-buildings/articleshow/76487893.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Search for missing mariner ‘called off’||KOLKATA: The family of Sambit Majumder, the 50-year-old seafarer who went missing from a crude tanker in the South China Sea, has been informed by Dynacom Tankers Management Pvt Ltd (DTM) that the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centres in Hong Kong and the Philippines have called off the search for him as 72 hours have already passed since his disappearance. Sambit was second engineer on the Liberian-flag tanker MT Serengeti sailing from Singapore to South Korea. The company had informed the family that he went missing sometime during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile, Sambit’s wife Jayati got in touch with the ITF Seafarer’s Union in Busan, South Korea. Ever since she was informed about her husband’s disappearance on Thursday, Jayati has maintained that there was something amiss. She has been informed by the Union that an inspector will take up the matter as soon as the ship reaches Daesan port in South Korea. The tanker is expected to reach the port on Sunday. The Kolkata Police has also got in touch with the family in Bansdroni and assured all assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/search-for-missing-mariner-called-off/articleshow/76487161.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Pune||MSRTC buses start outside Pune limits||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has started its services on the outskirts of the city with 50 buses. MSRTC Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi said the buses have been started on six routes outside the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits on an experimental basis. “The passenger response has been low and we will assess the situation for a week with 50 buses. The number of buses will be increased or decreased based on the response. The buses will travel between Hadapsar and Baramati, Wagholi and Shirur, Chakan and Alephata, Indapur andBaramati, Saswad and Kapurhol and from Rajgurunagar to Bhimashankar,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-buses-start-outside-city-limits/articleshow/76487866.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||No. of Covid deaths in Pb near 100, cases 4k||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded six deaths due to Covid-19 and 120 new cases on Saturday. The number of positive cases in the state has reached 3,952, of which 1,176 are active cases under institutional isolation. Similarly, the number of fatalities in the state has reached 98. Amritsar reported four deaths, and Ludhiana and Kapurthala districts one each. The highest number of positive cases, 47, were from Jalandhar, followed by 21 in Amritsar, 14 in Sangrur, 11 in Mohali, seven each in Ludhiana and Patiala, four in Kapurthala, two each in Pathankot, Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib, and one each in Moga, Mansa and Barnala. Of the 120 new cases, seven had history of inter-state travel from Delhi and Gurgaon and 31 are contacts of positive cases. A staff nurse also tested positive in Moga. In all, 42 patients were discharged from hospital. These include 17 in Sangrur, 12 in Amritsar, five in Pathankot, three in Hoshiarpur, two in Fatehgarh Sahib and one each in Gurdaspur, Barnala and Mansa districts. Out of the total active cases in the state, 307 are in Ludhiana, 224 in Amritsar, 220 in Jalandhar, 74 in Mohali and 73 in Patiala districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-of-covid-deaths-in-pb-near-100-cases-4k/articleshow/76488324.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Girl shot, stabbed to death by former boyfriend in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 20-year-old woman was shot dead inside her residence by her ex-boyfriend while she was asleep on Saturday morning. The incident was reported from the Anandapally area near Purba Putiary under Regent Park police station area around 8 am. The victim, Priyanka Purkait, a third year student of a girls’ college in Kalighat, was also stabbed by the assailant even as her aunt, aged above 70 years, watched the crime unfold in front of her eyes in utter shock. Barely seven hours after the crime, police arrested a 26-year-old man — identified as Rakesh Halder alias Jayanto — for being allegedly involved in the murder. A driver by profession, Jayanto — Priyanka’s former boyfriend — was always the prime suspect after at least one family member of the victim identified him while he was fleeing. “We are questioning him to ascertain his motive. We have also seized the country-made gun,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The accused reportedly told cops that he had made the gun by following videos online. Police are verifying his claims. “The girl’s mother, Ratna Purkait, and another aunt, Sashibala, work as domestic help and caregiver, respectively. Her mother Ratna left around 7.50 am through the rear door leaving Priyanka and her other aunt Debrani in the room,” said an investigating officer. Investigators suspect Jayanto was waiting for his chance and hiding nearby. “As soon as Ratna left, Jayanta went inside the house and headed straight to Priyanka’s bedroom. He allegedly shot Priyanka on her head and then stabbed her on the neck while she was sleeping. The accused fled after the incident. Her aunt, who suffers from multiple illnesses, could not stop him. The neighbours heard the gunshot and rushed in. Priyanka was shifted to Bagha Jatin Hospital where she was declared brought dead,” said DC (South Suburban) Pradeep Kumar Yadav. Priyanka was in a relationship with Jayanto — a resident of Chakdah Panchanantala that’s located barely 10 minutes from the her residence — for the past four years. But the relationship between them had turned sour recently and Priyanka was reportedly trying to come out of it. Jayanto, police said, had married about a year and a half ago but continued to meet Priyanka, whose family claimed that they came to know about Jayanto’s marriage barely two months ago. Jayanta had allegedly been pressurizing Priyanka to marry him, saying he was not happy with his marriage. “Jayanto also allegedly told her that he was ready to divorce his wife. Priyanka had refused telling him that she wanted to complete her education first. But when Priyanka came to know that Jayanto’s wife was pregnant and her delivery was scheduled for next week, she asked the accused to stay away. Also, there are reports that Jayanto had threatened her that he would harm her and her family if she dared to walk away,” said police. “I had left with my sister-in-law for work. We came to know about the incident within a few minutes of stepping out for work,” said Ratna Purkait, the victim’s mother. She said that her husband, Gopal, who worked with a top studio in Kolkata, had passed away about two years ago. “Since then, it’s me and my sister-in-law who are running this house,” she said. Ratna claimed that her daughter was threatened earlier. “We should have contacted the police earlier,” she said. “The postmortem has been conducted and a forensic examination of the spot is likely soon. We are taking statements of the kin of the accused. We have posted cops at the houses of both the victim and the accused,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/girl-shot-stabbed-to-death-by-former-boyfriend-in-s-kol/articleshow/76487157.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||No evaluation likely in universities based on terminal semester||KOLKATA: A week after holding a meeting with state university vice-chancellors and proposing a 50-50 format for the final semester examinations, sources in higher education department said the government is considering scrapping all evaluation methods based on the current session or terminal semester. Instead, they may award the best score among the past semesters or an average percentage received in the last semester to terminal semester students in both undergraduate and postgraduate programs. In the last meeting with the VCs, the state-run universities in Bengal were advised to hold all terminal semester (UG – Sixth semester and PG – Tenth semester) examinations in a “contactless” mode by education minister Partha Chatterjee. On June 13, it was unanimously decided to hold the final semester examinations in a 50-50 pattern where 50% weightage was to be allotted to an average of their cumulative grade points in the past semesters and the remaining 50% to the present (sixth for UG and fourth for PG) semester. It was also suggested that the candidates be evaluated on internal projects, viva-voce, end-semester interview, online interaction, end-semester assignment, teacher interaction and seminar presentations. “Different universities have been adopting different modes of evaluation at terminal stage. The life and health of students, teachers, staff and officers are of utmost importance. Keeping this in mind, it won’t be feasible to award any weightage to the internal evaluation mechanism in the current semester,” said the source. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday confirmed that it is unlikely to hold any internal assessment since results will have to be published by July 31, keeping in view the requirement to join jobs for those who have found placements. “We will send an advisory after discussion with chief minister Mamata Banerjee,” Chatterjee added. Among the reasons behind the move cited by the higher education department is the inadequate online infrastructure in most colleges. “Looking at the growing number of Covid cases, the physical appearance of candidates or teachers is impossible,” pointed out the senior higher education department official. “Holding viva-voce over the telephone or another online platform is a distant dream for colleges in the suburbs and outskirts of Kolkata. Most of the students are not used to the online systems except for filling up of the forms and admission process. The terminal semester students may later complain about the glitch and errors in connection,” said the source. The entire lockdown period will be treated as “deemed to be attended” by all the students or research scholars. For professional courses like engineering, law and teacher training, suitable decision will be taken considering the approach of similar institutions at the national level and directives of the national regulatory bodies. But, universities in the state running professional courses should have parity among themselves regarding the mode of grading or evaluation. Jadavpur University’s engineering faculty, though, has already decided to give 70% weightage to internal assessment and remaining to the best score from earlier semesters. “Regarding the other two faculties, we are yet to set the criteria,” said a senior JU official. Presidency University has also decided to follow the 50-50 weightage pattern and received project assignments from the majority of the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-evaluation-likely-in-univs-based-on-terminal-semester/articleshow/76487167.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||HP patient traced to Uttarakhand||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh police on Saturday brought back a Covid-19 patient, who had gone missing after collection of his sample in Bilaspur. He was traced to Roorkee in Uttarakhand after he tested positive on Friday. A case of negligence has been registered against him. The man's sample was taken on June 17, but instead of waiting for the result, he travelled to Uttrakhand secretly without informing the Himachal authorities. The Himachal government has been claiming strict enforcement of quarantine rules, but the Bilaspur incident has exposed chinks in the system. The patient, who belongs to Badagaon village in Jhanduta sub-division of Bilaspur district, was residing in a rented accommodation at Raura. On Friday, when a team visited his residence to shift him to hospital, they were shocked to find him missing from there, after which a hunt was launched to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-patient-traced-to-uttarakhand/articleshow/76488326.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Parents approve board exam appearance||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have received approval from parents who want their wards to appear in the remaining ICSE (class X) and ISC (class XII) examinations. While some have reasoned that the marks secured by students in the pre-boards – that are to be considered in case a student does not appear in the remaining papers — have not been up to the mark, others felt that their children are now well-prepared for the board examinations. At St James’ School, principal T H Ireland has secured approval letters from students eager to sit for the exams. “We have 135 students who have opted to appear in ICSE while the number in ISC is 70,” Ireland said. Rajyasree Ahmed, mother of Aayan Ahmed, an ISC candidate from Rammohan Mission School, plans to allow her son to take the examinations. “Aayan has only one subject left — biology. He plans to study medicine later. Over the past few months, my son has been constantly preparing for the subject. We are expecting him to secure a good score which in return will improve his aggregate,” she said. School principal Sujoy Biswas said while 90% in ISC has opted to sit for exams, the percentage for ICSE is 75. Ahmed added, “The school has taken adequate precautions and we also ensure that Aayan is wearing a mask, carrying sanitizer and maintain social distancing. The other option to choose pre-board marks will put Aayan under stress. In most cases, the marks in pre-boards are relatively lower than the board examinations.” At Don Bosco High School, Park Circus, all parents have agreed to let their wards appear in the ISC examinations while in ICSE, the percentage is around 90. “Students feel that they are better prepared for the board examinations than the pre-board,” said Fr. Bikash Mondal, the principal. At La Martiniere for Boys School, there are 223 takers for ICSE and ISC has 219 candidates. At La Martiniere for Girls School, 185 students will appear in ICSE and 144 candidates will appear in the ISC examinations. “Till now, almost 80% have agreed to sit in the remaining papers,” said secretary Supriyo Dhar. He added that the time has been well-utilised by the students to prepare for the examinations and thus, many are confident to secure good marks.” John Bagul, principal of South City International School said the school has a total 87 students in ICSE, among whom 67 responded and 53 have opted to appear in the test. The remaining candidates have refused to sit in the test and 20 students are yet to inform the school with their choice. For ISC, all the 57 candidates are ready to take the remaining papers. Director of Modern High School for Girls, Devi Kar, however, wants to wait till the weekend before revealing number of students who want to appear for the examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-approve-board-exam-appearance/articleshow/76487171.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP seeks arrest of Maharashtra foresters to probe ‘dumping of tiger carcasses’||BHOPAL: Has a section of forest officers in Maharashtra dumped tiger carcasses across the border in Madhya Pradesh to keep their toll low? The MP forest department may reopen investigation into whether some tigers found dead close to the Maharashtra border, especially in Pench Tiger Reserve in Seoni, were dragged over from the other side, like Sharmilee’s carcass allegedly was. Tigress Sharmilee was found dead on December 11, 2019, under mysterious conditions near Khandasa village, a few hundred yards from the Maharashtra border. On January 31, a forest employee from Nagpur, Dhamsingh Khandate, was arrested on intelligence inputs for allegedly moving the carcass from Deolapar range (Maharashtra) to Khawasa range in MP’s Seoni. It was a first-of-its-kind case, which strained relations between the two states as investigators believe it was done to shift the onus of the death of the tigress. Khandate has reportedly named three forest officials of Nagpur, including a deputy ranger, claiming he had only followed their orders. The MP forest department has written to their Maharashtra counterparts to help in their arrest to further the investigation. Seoni chief conservator of forest (CCF) R S Kori has written to STF (wildlife) to expand the probe ambit. “Investigations could not proceed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. We are working on it,” Kori told TOI. “This can't be the first time. Now that this case has surfaced, we really need to check other deaths too,” said an officer at the MP wildlife HQ. “Once we get the deputy ranger and his team, we will question them on other dead tigers too,” he added. The officer mentioned one of these cases. “Four months ago, we found a tigress with two paws missing. It had drag marks and was just 300 metres from the Maharashtra border. It remains unsolved,” he said. Sharmilee was counted as the 22nd tiger death of Madhya Pradesh. But since it had died in Maharashtra, MP’s toll will change. As per official records, Pench recorded seven tiger deaths in 2019-2020. After Khandate’s arrest, Seoni forest department had issued a statement on how its investigations reached across the border. What gave rise to their suspicion were marks of a bullock cart on the spot where Sharmilee's carcass was found. “There were no signs of any injury and no froth. This led too suspicion that the tigress had died elsewhere,” said the forest officer. Seoni officials had a tip-off about the presence of some forest staff from Deolapar on the spot on December 11, which led to Khandate’s arrest. His accomplice fled the spot. According to officials, Khandate has admitted that he shifted the carcass on the night of December 10 and dumped it in Khawasa range after being ordered by the deputy ranger. The cause of the tigress's death remains a mystery. Its viscera report is awaited. Talking to TOI, P Kalyan Kumar, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Nagpur Circle, refuted the allegations by MP officials. “Based on allegations by Seoni CCF, we had set up a committee, headed by Nagpur deputy conservator Prabhunath Shukla. The team visited Seoni and talked to the investigating officer and verified the papers but we did not find any concrete evidence to show our men were involved in the act. The MP officials did not share papers with our team,” he said. “The entire allegation is based on a statement of a plantation watcher from Deolapar. MP officials did not seize the bullock cart in which they say the tiger carcass was shifted towards MP. Besides, the cart owner has not been arrested. We took call details records of our staff but did not find any suspicious discussion. Due to lockdown there were no further talks on the issue," Kumar added. Reacting to statements from Maharashtra, a senior officer in MP said that the arrest was made only after collecting ample evidence against those involved. “We have arrested eight of our own people under Wildlife Protection Act. Crime is crime, no matter who does it. It’s significant that the court hasn’t given bail to the one we arrested. Let the court decide the matter,” he said. (With additional reporting by Vijay Pinjarkar in Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-seeks-arrest-of-maha-foresters-to-probe-dumping-of-tiger-carcasses/articleshow/76487897.cms||P Naveen
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||6 held over fake land documents||Hyderabad: Six persons were nabbed by Hayathnagar police on Saturday for impersonating and creating fake land documents. The offenders mortgaged fake documents to take a loan of Rs 10 lakh. The accused were identified as Yamjala Kishan of Abdullapurmet, Korralapu Veeraswamy and Porandla Ravindar of Hayathnagar, Anam Mallikarjun of Uppuguda, Pasunuri Yadagiri and Dabbikar Veeroji of Saoornagar. The owner of the 566 Square yards land in Pedda Amberpet village in Hayathnagar limit purchased it in 1985. The main accused, Kishan who runs a puncture shop, close to the complainant’s land noticed the plot and hatched a plan to sell it by creating fake documents. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-held-over-fake-land-documents/articleshow/76487936.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Business wheels begin to creak as fuel prices gallop north||VIJAYAWADA: Continued rise in fuel prices for the past two weeks have worsened prospects for the transport sector. While the price of petrol in Vijayawada has reached Rs 82.27 per litre, diesel is selling for Rs 76.30 per litre on Saturday, with 51 paisa and 61 paisa increase respectively. Fuel prices in Andhra Pradesh are one of the highest in the country and the highest among southern states. Fuel prices have risen by about Rs 8 per litre in the last two weeks in the state. While the lorry owners’ association has already lodged its protest against the price hike, the debt-ridden APSRTC is struggling to make ends meet as it has been operating with low-occupancy rate as per Covid-19 protocols. The Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association (APLOA) contended that the Union government did not transfer the benefit to consumers when international crude prices were plummeting. Rather it imposed additional excise duty. The general secretary of APLOA, Y V Eswar Rao, observed that the price of fuel rise in tandem with that of crude oil in the international market but the same principle is not followed when crude prices fall. Rao said it is unfortunate that the Union government continues to impose higher taxes on fuel when the entire transport sector is suffering huge losses because of Covid-19 lockdown. “We expected some kind of relief from the government like capping diesel price at Rs 45 for at least six months, waiving toll fee and quarterly taxes. Instead of getting a helping hand we remain on the receiving end with increase in fuel prices putting additional burden on us” he said. The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is also facing similar problems. The APSRTC consumes 30 crore litres of diesel per annum and an increase of even a rupee in fuel prices puts an additional burden of Rs 30 crore on it, said a senior official. The APSRTC resumed limited operations after lockdown restrictions were eased. But although it managed to sell 70% of its tickets when the services resumed, its income has dipped. Covid-19 protocols have forced the corporation to limit occupancy, resulting in the the APSRTC finding it difficult to meet match their expenditure with their income. Now, with the fuel prices on the rise, the gap between revenues and expenditure is only widening further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/biz-wheels-begin-to-creak-as-fuel-prices-gallop-north/articleshow/76486299.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Kalighat temple to reopen on July 1||KOLKATA: Visits to Kalighat temple will restart on July 1 but no one will be allowed to enter the ‘garba griha’ or the sanctum sanctorum. For the time being, devotees will have to be satisfied with darshan and pranaam from the dol-mancha, outside the garba griha. This was decided at a meeting of the temple committee on Saturday evening. A slew of other restrictions have been brought in by the committee, keeping in view the space constraint inside the temple. According to the new SOP framed on Saturday, only 10 devotees will be allowed on the temple premises at a time. They will have to enter via Gate number 2 and exit via Gate 4. The timings have been revised from 6am to noon and from 4pm to 7pm. Police protection has been sought from Kalighat police station. They will help manage the queue outside the temple. “We shall not allow any prasad offerings/exchange, sindoor tika, flowers or charanamrit in the temple,” said committee vice-president Bidyut Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-temple-to-reopen-on-july-1/articleshow/76487178.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 21, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar seeks tax discount in Bihar to promote industries||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday urged the Centre to provide certain discounts in goods and services tax (GST) and income tax as special assistance to promote new industries in Bihar. Speaking at the launch of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan (GKRA) by PM through videoconferencing, Nitish said his government wanted to provide employment opportunities to the migrant workers who returned to Bihar by setting up new industries so that they should not go back outside for a job. “There is a dearth of industries in Bihar. The Centre should provide certain discounts in the GST and income tax as special assistance to the state. It will ensure employment opportunities to maximum people in their home state,” Nitish said. He also sought increase in the Centre’s allocation from Rs25,000 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) so that the MSMEs should be promoted in states like Bihar. Nitish said the state government took care of all its returnee workers during the lockdown. “We will ensure their proper care in the state even in future,” he said. Nitish also thanked PM Modi for launching the GKRA from Khagaria in Bihar for the poor and disadvantaged people. The CM said he spoke to the returned workers at the quarantine centres through videoconferencing. “During the conversation, they revealed their hardships after the lockdown at their places of work. Now, they do not want to go outside Bihar. The state government is making all possible efforts to ensure that no one needs to go outside under compulsion. We are making efforts to arrange sufficient employment opportunities for them here only,” Nitish said. Referring to his recent interaction with senior bank officials at the state level bankers’ committee (SLBC) meeting in Patna, Nitish said the credit-deposit ratio in Bihar is just 43%. “There is a need to increase it. The money deposited by people of the state in the banks of Bihar are being invested in other states,” he said. Nitish said he had also suggested to the banks in Bihar to increase their annual credit plan to make a positive rise in the C-D ratio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-seeks-tax-discount-in-state-to-promote-industries/articleshow/76487185.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chennai||78kg meth worth Rs 100 crore lands in Chennai fishers’ net||CHENNAI: When fishermen of Mamallapuram found a barrel with Mandarin markings in their net, they knew something was fishy. It turned out to be 78kg of methamphetamine worth Rs 100 crore on the street. The fishermen of Kokalimedu hamlet, who broke open the barrel in search of diesel after reaching the shore, alerted police when they found the packets of white powder. Police who seized the contraband said it was packed in 1kg plastic bags with English and Mandarin writing that labeled it “refined Chinese tea”. Police coastal wing superintendent Chinnaswamy and the Mamallapuram police seized the sachets and sent them for testing. The forensic lab in Chennai confirmed it was crystal methamphetamine. Police suspect the barrel might be part of a consignment landed along the coast south of Chennai by drug smugglers who operate from Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia and Vietnam. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/78kg-meth-worth-rs-100cr-lands-in-city-fishers-net/articleshow/76487925.cms||A Selvaraj
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Orders to deploy teachers to check mining withdrawn||Phagwara: Phagwara sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Pavitar Singh has withdrawn his orders issued on June 11 deploying teachers of government schools at different points to check vehicles carrying mined material. The duties were from 9pm to 1am and the police personnel were also to be deployed with them. After Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) and teachers’ organisations criticised the orders, SDM withdrew his orders. He said till new teams will be constituted, tehsildar, naib tehsildar, block development and project officer, SDO (mining), SDO (PWD) and industrial development officer will man the check-posts along with police personnel and will send report to deputy commissioner Kapurthala daily. The SDM said he issued the orders as Punjab government had issued orders due to exceptional circumstances amid pandemic that government employees over 5,000 grade pay could be given powers of executive magistrate. “We are already short of manpower, with government departments working over time and human resources over stretched due to pandemic. Idea was to deploy the teachers with powers of executive magistrate at specified points for a few hours on rotation basis. Maximum government employees above the specified grade pay are with education department. However, following the controversy, I withdrew the orders,” he said. Around a month ago, government school teachers were asked to inspect distilleries in Gurdaspur district, but after it led to strong criticism from opposition parties and from teachers these orders were also withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/orders-to-deploy-teachers-to-check-mining-withdrawn/articleshow/76487969.cms||IP Singh
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Haritha drive: Telangana govt to plant 30 crore saplings||HYDERABAD: With the sixth phase of Haritha Haram tree plantation programme scheduled to commence from June 25, the State administration is gearing up to plant over 30 crore saplings across the State ahead of the rainy season. As against 20 crore saplings expected to be planted during the sixth phase, the highest number of 5 crore saplings will be planted in HMDA jurisdiction followed by 2.50 crore saplings in GHMC and 118.143 sapling in Kothagudem district. Around 182.74 crore saplings were planted in the State since 2015-16. The target of plantation has been increased from 20 crores to 30 crores with main focus in urban areas after the chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao held a meeting with collectors recentl0y. In a meeting conducted by the forest department officials on Saturday, the authorities informed that the plantation drives will be conducted taking all precautions as per Covid-19 guidelines including physical distance during plantation works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/haritha-drive-t-govt-to-plant-30-cr-saplings/articleshow/76487952.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP govt to launch e-platform for handloom, handicrafts||VIJAYAWADA: The government plans to start an e-marketing platform for handloom and handicrafts to give a boost to products of local weavers and artisans. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who released the second round of YSR Nethanna Nestham for the weaver community on Saturday, said the e-platform would be launched on Oct 2. “To market handloom and handicrafts on the e-platform, we need to cross three bridges. First is the quality which needs to be maintained by the artisans, second is the logistics bridge which involves marketing, while the third is the payment bridge. The officials concerned would be working on this. We plan to launch the e-platform on Oct 2,” the chief minister said. He further said that his government has already released Rs 600 crore for weavers during its first 13 months in office. Nethanna Nestham was launched on Dec 21, coinciding with Jagan’s birthday, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the second round of the scheme was advanced by six months. Under the scheme, every weaver who has a loom in his or her house would get Rs 24,000 annually. The scheme, which will benefit nearly 80,000 weaver families in the state, will cost the exchequer around Rs 200 crore per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-launch-e-platform-for-handloom-handicrafts/articleshow/76486315.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||People aged over 45 make up 79% of casualties in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Deaths due to Covid-19 in Haryana have seen a huge spike in June —from 21 deaths on June 1 to 130 deaths on June 17. The Haryana health department data on deaths in the state till June 11 has revealed that the deceased were above 45 years in around 79% of the total deaths reported in the state due to Covid-19 and around 59% deaths were reported in the age group of above 55 years. An analysis of the data of the 64 deaths revealed a majority of deceased had history of hypertension, kidney or heart-related ailments or diabetes. The gender divide in the deaths, which medical experts ascribe to males being more mobile outside their homes during the pandemic, is stark as around 61% of the Covid-19 deceased were male and 39% female. Around 25% of the people who died had a history of hypertension or heart-related ailments and those who died young had history of tuberculosis (TB). Around 17% of the deceased had no history or symptoms of any known medical condition and they had severe respiratory problems before their death. In a large number of cases, the cause of death was cardiac arrest. Around 15% of those who died were diabetic. Data shows that 16 of the deceased had history of hypertension or heart-related ailments, 10 were diabetic and 11 suffered from advanced age-related ailments, respiratory problems or had no medical history. Six of them had history of kidney-related ailments and six were detected with TB. Importantly, the majority of the deceased, less than 44 years of age, were found to be having history of TB. As per data, not a single death of persons with less than 14 years age has been reported in the state. Around 64% of the total deaths were reported from two districts — Gurugram and Faridabad. Similarly, around 78% of the total deaths reported till June 11, were from four districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, which shares boundaries with Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/people-aged-over-45-make-up-79-of-casualties-in-haryana/articleshow/76488332.cms||Ajay Sura
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1.0: Punjab gets 53 deaths, 1,689 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has witnessed a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the first 20 days of Unlock 1.0 in June as the state recorded 1,689 positive cases and 53 deaths. As the total number of positive cases reached 3,952 on Saturday from 2,263 on May 31, the total number of deaths also increased from 45 to 98 in the last 20 days. The case fatality rate has increased from 2% to 2.4% during this period. Punjab recorded six deaths on Saturday and 120 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday. At the same time, the doubling rate which was 52 days on May 31 has now fallen to 19 days on June 20. The doubling rate is the number of days it takes for the Covid-19 cases to double based on the last seven day growth rate. Punjab had recorded the highest doubling rate of 102 days on May 24 but after that the doubling rate started dropping continuously. During the last 20 days, the Punjab health department has collected as many as 1,47,848 samples. Similarly, the recovery rate of patients has also dropped from 87% on May 31 to 70% on June 20. Like major shifts in other parameters, cases per million population also increased from 77 to over 142.4 persons during the first 20 days of the Unlock 1.0. The Punjab health department is collecting on an average 9,000 samples per day. Test reports of 8,400 Covid-19 samples had come on Saturday. Dr KK Talwar, the Punjab government’s adviser on health issues and former director of PGIMER at Chandigarh, said, “There is a surge in the cases in the last 2-3 weeks in Punjab after lifting of the lockdown. Our priority now is to catch the patients early, test them at the earliest and do our best.” He said that now more symptomatic patients are coming and mortality has also risen. “Initial 4-5 days are very crucial. If you miss that period then there are limitations of the doctors with what they can do,” he added. He said that testing capacity has been increased over the past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unlock-1-0-pb-gets-53-deaths-1689-cases/articleshow/76488333.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi LG rolls back his institutional quarantine order for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has rolled back his order making five days of institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 positive cases under home isolation — even if mild or asymptomatic — mandatory. The decision follows strong opposition from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The CM had said it would create chaos and people would avoid testing, leading to further spread. He explained the government’s position to the LG and clarified all the doubts the latter had about home isolation. Covid-19 positive cases have crossed the 53,000 mark in Delhi and have claimed more than 2,000 lives. According to the amended order, all individuals who are positive will be referred to Covid care centres for assessment of clinical condition, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities. LG seeks plan for managing home isolationSimultaneously, a physical assessment will be carried out to determine whether adequate facilities for home isolation, like a minimum of two rooms and a separate toilet, exist so that family members and neighbours are protected and no cluster comes up in the area. All the districts have Covid care centres where people who test positive can go for a clinical assessment. The LG’s office said in a statement that if the facilities for home isolation were adequate and the person did not require hospitalisation, s/he would be given the option of staying at a Covid centre or a paid isolation facility like a hotel, or go for home isolation. All those under home isolation will be required to strictly follow the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare and stay in touch with healthcare providers so they can be moved to Covid hospitals if their condition deteriorates. The LG announced his decision first in a tweet. "Regarding institutional isolation, only those Covid positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation," he tweeted. Meanwhile, the services of a private agency managing those under home isolation have been restored till Monday, said the Delhi government. The LG has asked the health department to prepare a detailed presentation and submit a concrete proposal to the DDMA on Monday about managing the entire process in-house or propose an alternative plan for managing home isolation. He had discontinued the services of the private agency in his Friday order. Earlier, at the DDMA meeting, which he attended through video-conferencing, Kejriwal had pointed out the challenges in implementing the LG’s Friday order and urged him to roll it back. He had raised the huge problem of making arrangements for a large number of people because most of those infected are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. After the rollback, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: "We express our gratitude to the LG for the decision. Under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, we will not let the people of Delhi suffer." The AAP government had termed the LG’s order as a big blunder in the fight against Covid-19 and expressed the apprehension that it may cause the healthcare infrastructure to collapse. On Saturday morning, party functionaries, including MP Sanjay Singh, mounted huge pressure on the LG and the Centre for a rollback. Calling the order dictatorial, Singh had said while the rest of the country was allowed home isolation, a different rule had been made for the people of Delhi. He wondered if people would be put inside railway coaches. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said the order will discourage people from undergoing tests. At present, the Delhi government has only 6,000 beds in all its institutional quarantine facilities while the number of people currently under home isolation is over 10,000. New facilities are being created — 8,000 beds in railway coaches and 10,000 beds at a religious institute in south Delhi. Watch Compulsory quarantine: Delhi LG amends order after AAP govt's opposition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-lg-rolls-back-his-institutional-quarantine-order-for-covid-19/articleshow/76488507.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Month later, cops file Warangal murder case chargesheet||WARANGAL URBAN: Exactly a month after the incident, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Mamnoor, Shyamsundar, on Saturday filed a chargesheet in the district court in connection with the sensation Gorrekunta murder case in which nine people, including a three-year-old boy were killed allegedly by Sanjay Kumar Yadav. The ACP also tabled the FSL along with it. On May 20, the bodies of four members from Md Maqsood’s family were found in a well at Gorrekunta village under Geesugonda mandal in Warangal Rural district. The day after, another five bodies of including two of Maqsood’s sons, two Bihari youths and one Md Shakeel were found from the same place. Following this, the police formed several teams to probe the case and arrested Sanjay Kumar Yadav on May 25. The accused confessed that he had murdered all the nine people. According to CP Ravinder, police recorded the statements of all witnesses, collected medical evidence, FSL report and technical evidence in the case and filed the chargesheet in the district court. The FSL report states that the victims were given sleeping pills and they were thrown in the well while they were alive. “We will also request the judiciary to trial the case on a fast-track basis and ensure maximum punishment for the accused,” the CP said. It is alleged that Sanjay Kumar Yadav had murdered the nine people to cover up another murder of one Rafiqa with whom he had a live-in relationship. While Geesugonda police registered the case, ACP Shyamsundar was the Investigating Officer in the case. Police recorded the statements of all witnesses, collected medical evidence, FSL report and technical evidence in the case and filed the chargesheet in the district court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/month-later-cops-file-warangal-murder-case-chargesheet/articleshow/76487990.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Son held for woman’s murder||Hisar: Satbiri Devi, 64, who was killed in Urban Estate about five days ago, was murdered by her younger son Rajesh Kumar and his accomplices. Police have arrested two brothers, Rahul and Sunny, residents of Tibba Danashar and Akshya alias Bachi, a resident of auto market in Hisar in the case. Hisar superintendent of police (SP) Gangaram Punia said a team was formed under the leadership of CIA I in-charge, inspector Bijendra Sihag to investigate the case. The accused were arrested after clinching evidence was found against them, the SP said. On June 15, a case was registered at Urban Estate police station on the complaint of Ramesh Kumar, elder son of the deceased, against his younger brother Rajesh and others for the murder of his mother over a property dispute. During interrogation, Rajesh said he works as a contractor in Faridabad and Rahul works with him. He confessed to have conspired with Rahul to kill his mother. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/son-held-for-womans-murder/articleshow/76487987.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur, Maharashtra’s 3rd populous city, 14th to reach 1,000 Covid-19 cases||NAGPUR: The third-most populated city in Maharashtra, Nagpur has become the 14th municipal corporation to register more than 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases, much later than cities having less population than the state’s second capital. It took 102 days for Nagpur’s tally to reach the 1,000-mark. With 11 deaths so far, the city is at 20th position in the state in terms of mortality rate. This indicates that the city has succeeded in slowing down spread of Covid-19 and preventing fatalities. The cases have seen a spike mostly after relaxation in lockdown, with 60 registered on Saturday, taking the total to 1,071. Mumbai and Pune are the two biggest municipal corporations in the state. Mumbai had registered 64,139 positive and 3,425 deaths as on Friday while Pune Municipal Corporation had 12,255 positive cases and 545 deaths. Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan Dombivali, Mira-Bhayandar, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Nashik, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Aurangabad and Akola, 11 cities with less population than Nagpur, have registered more Covid-19 positive cases. Nagpur has also registered fewer deaths than 19 municipal corporations including Akola, Amravati, Jalgaon etc. The city’s mortality rate is 1.05% while it is 4.74% for state, 3.28% for India and 5.37% for world. The Central government’s Rapid Response Team had credited the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar for fewer cases and deaths in the city. Also, experts in epidemiology had appreciated the NMC’s mass quarantine and testing model, followed by innovative measures. Bulk of the cases in city — 77.4% — have been reported from just three containment zones — Mominpura, Naik Talao-Bangladesh and Satranjipura. Mominpura has registered 356 cases, Naik Talao-Bangladesh 335 and Satranjipura 138, for a total of 829 cases. A large number of cases from these three containment zones were detected due to contact tracing by NMC Satranjipura zone team led by Dr Minakshi Mane and NMC Gandhibagh zone led by Dr Khwaja Moinuddin. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Proactive measures, firm strategy and effective implementation led to early detection of cases. It helped in providing treatment from initial stage itself, leading to less mortality. It also helped in isolation of patients to contain spread of Covid-19.” Among the innovative measures, the civic chief said door-to-door survey, monitoring and testing of high-risk patients proved beneficial. The district’s positivity rate is also better when compared with others in the state. Positivity rate is below 6% whereas it is 17.43% for state. The steep rise in cases since beginning of June is a matter of concern. The city had total 495 cases in May end. It means 576 cases have been registered in 20 days of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-states-3rd-populous-city-14th-to-reach-1k-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76488341.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD blames Cong govt||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has condemned the Punjab government’s move to deploy government schoolteachers to check illegal sand mining. Former minister and SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said teachers should not be involved in non-teaching activities. He added instead of putting teachers on such duties, the state government should break the alleged nexus between sand mafia and Congress leaders. Cheema condemned the Kapurthala district administration’s order of posting 40 teachers on duty at prominent check points in Phagwara to check illegal mining. “The move is illogical. The police department alone should be used for this task accompanied by duty magistrates if needed,” added Cheema. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-blames-cong-govt/articleshow/76487982.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb education dept trains teachers in advanced IT||Chandigarh: The Punjab education department is utilising the closure of government schools in the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity to update teachers and its staff with the advanced resources of information technology. “Our dedicated teachers have been doing a commendable job in making the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme successful. It is the need of the hour that all officials and teachers come out of their inhibitions regarding use of latest information technology applications as the new innovative methodology will continue to be fruitful even after the pandemic is over,” said school education secretary Krishan Kumar. He exhorted the education department officials and teachers to become tech savvy to further strengthen the qualitative improvement in school education system. The state education department has launched a “capacity building” programme for its officials and teaching staff. Under it, the department has started imparting training through webinars to equip them with the know-how of latest information technology applications. One such training webinar was conducted on Saturday, in which 495 officials including district education officers (secondary and primary), deputy district education officers (secondary and primary), in-charges and members of the Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams, principals, district mentors and block mentors of different subjects participated. The education department has deputed resource persons at the district level to impart training to the teachers in their respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-education-dept-trains-teachers-in-advanced-it/articleshow/76488334.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Bhopal||Meter on: Discoms start rectifying power bills in Bhopal||BHOPAL: In a spot of good news for city consumers who had complaints regarding higher power bills during the lockdown, the discom had started rectifying the bills, that too without the consumer doing anything. Irregular energy bills had been a major issue for consumers during lockdown in the city. As there was no meter reading, average bills were issued by the discom. Some, who had less consumption this year, were also charged with higher bills based on previous consumption. Now, since actual meter reading has started in the city, actual consumption is being added to the system and software is automatically rectifying previous bills as per consumption in the past two months, said sources. “The work has started all across the city and meter reading has already started,” general manager, city circle, Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited, AP Singh, told TOI. Sources said that once the meter reading is done, bills would automatically be revised for those who have paid bills and if the bill is higher, it would be automatically adjusted in forthcoming bills, said sources. A consumer from Katara Hills, who wished anonymity, said, “I was billed Rs 1,300 for May. It has now been automatically reduced to Rs 300.” Another consumer from Rajat Vihar Colony said, “I had a power bill of Rs 9,000 for May though, on an average, it is around Rs 2,500-30,00 in summer. My bill has not been rectified yet, but I rushed to the discom office on Saturday and I was told that I should wait for a couple of days as meter reading in my area has not been done till now and bill will automatically be rectified. Let’s see.” Sources said those consumers who believe that their bills are not correct even after meter reading can approach the discom office and get the bill checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/meter-on-discoms-start-rectifying-power-bills/articleshow/76487989.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||NGO offers to fly in people stuck in Dubai||Patiala: Dubai-based NGO Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust has said it would hire four chartered planes to bring back Indians who are stuck in Dubai and are unable to come back due to suspension of flights during the Covid crisis. Trust chairman S P S Oberoi said they had approached the Indian embassy in Dubai and sought a list of Indians stuck in Dubai. He said Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla had got in touch with the minister of external affairs and Union ministry for aviation, seeking required permission to operate the chartered flights. Each chartered plane will cost around Rs 40 lakh and the trust has decided to fly in two planes each to Amritsar and Chandigarh airports. tnn He said other than the list which will be received from the embassy, the staff at the Dubai-based office of the trust was also working to prepare a list of Indians stranded there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ngo-offers-to-fly-in-people-stuck-in-dubai/articleshow/76488336.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar district police, Anti-Naxal squad initiate combing operation in MM Hills||MYSURU: Along with Chamarajanagar district police, personnel of the Anti-Naxal Squad on Saturday commenced combing operations near Gopinatham, which lies on the Tamil Nadu border along the Male Mahadeshwara (MM) Hills. The operation has been launched after the internal security department traced satellite phone signals inside the forests on Thursday, and immediately alerted Chamarajanagar superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar. Cops subsequently descended on the area and have since been keeping a close watch on anyone, the movements of whom appear suspicious. “We have been able to confirm the use of satellite phones by individuals, the identity of whom yet remains to be ascertained,” SP Kumar told TOI. He added that, along with members of the Anti-Naxal squad, two teams had been constituted to comb the area between Hogenakal and Gopinatham, which is where signals from the phones had been traced to. “We are not taking any chances. Hogenakal Falls is a very popular tourist destination, with visitors even from foreign nations going there. It is possible that a foreign tourist used a satellite phone. We are also probing the possibility of the phone being in the hands of vested interests looking to foment disturbance in the region,” Chamarajanagar district’s top cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-district-police-anti-naxal-squad-initiate-combing-operation-in-mm-hills/articleshow/76487237.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 21, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra professor seeks insurance cover for 46-ft tall rose plant||VADODARA: Not wanting to be pricked by an unforeseen thorn, a professor in Godhra has accounted for all the risks to safeguard his prized possession — a rose plant that stands tall at 46 feet and growing! Prof Arunsinh Solanki is, therefore, eyeing an insurance cover for his rose plant that he has nurtured as a sapling in his compound since 2006. Vying fame for his rare floral treasure, Solanki in 2019 had sent an application to a prominent national record book for the inclusion of his plant, when it was 39 feet tall. It was granted the certificate as the tallest rose plant in the country earlier this month when it has grown seven feet taller. Solanki, who teaches accountancy, said he had already contacted a nationalized general insurance company for insurance of the plant. “They have said that they will contact their higher-ups and get back to me,” said Solanki, adding that several people visit his house just to see the plant and he doesn’t want to leave it insecure. Each branch of the rose tree bears around 20 to 35 flowers in March. “They are pink in colour and have mild perfume,” said Solanki, who now wants the essence of his achievement to spread globally. Planning to seek entry in the Guinness Book of World Records too, the professor said he will approach the authorities soon. Talking to TOI, the professor recounted the interesting story behind how he ‘met’ the plant. “I bought the sapling from a street vendor who visits our society regularly in 2006 to mark my marriage anniversary. I took great of it since day one, watering it every morning without fail,” said the proud owner who added that he also kept trimming the higher branches of the plant regularly for thicker growth. “But once a branch grew long and somehow I did not feel like cutting it off. Then it just kept growing,” Solanki recalled wistfully, a decision that now has risen higher than the entire height of Solanki’s three-storeyed house. Eventually, Solanki had to erect steel supports on his terrace to ensure that the plant didn’t stop growing for lack of support, literally. Several temples and individuals have taken stalks of the plant for implantation. “They have been successful in growing the rose plants, but these have never grown beyond six or seven feet,” said Solanki, adding that he never took any major steps to nourish the plant. “In fact, it was planted in the only small open space I had in the paved compound. I only water it regularly,” he added. According to prominent botanist and director of Vadodara-based Community Science Centre, Dr Jitendra Gavali, such growth of rose plants was unusual. “Rose plants are usually pruned and never allowed to grow. It is possible that the main stem of the plant may have remained intact and its growth was supported,” he said. Watch Godhra professor seeks insurance cover for 46-ft tall rose plant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-prof-seeks-insurance-cover-for-46-ft-tall-rose-plant/articleshow/76487041.cms||Sachin Sharma
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: In infected heart patients, cause of death a mystery||BENGALURU: Of 275 patients who visited Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICSR) in Bengaluru since the pandemic broke, three died within two days of admission. They tested positive for Covid-19, but doctors cannot say whether they died of heart ailments or the virus. This is because autopsies are banned on Covid-19 fatalities, say doctors at SIJCSR. All three deaths -- a 74-year-old woman from BTM Layout who died on June 12, a 64-year-old man who died on July 15 and a 56-year-old man who died on June 17 -- occurred in the past one week. “None of these patients had travel history or exposure to positive patients,” said Dr CN Manjunath, director, SIJSCR. “X-rays of their lungs showed shadows, suggesting an acute infection. So it’s very difficult to say whether they died due to Covid-19 or of a heart attack.” The woman’s husband also died a day after she passed away, but his Covid-19 status was unavailable. Since SIJSCR has its own TrueNAT Covid-19 lab, test results are available in just a couple of hours. Prior to getting its own TrueNAT lab, two more patients had consulted at SIJSCR, but they were sent to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases where they died. They too had tested positive. Early in May, the state government had written to Indian Council for Medical Research seeking permission to conduct lung biopsies and clinical autopsies on Covid-19 fatalities. The government argued that it would help provide better care for critical patients and reduce mortality rates. But ICMR and World Health Organisation protocols ban autopsies. Medical data published so far shows an infection can lead to thrombosis (clotting of blood) a condition that has occurred in multiple patients leading to heart attacks, says Dr Adil Sadiq, head, cardiac surgery, Sakra World Hospital. “SARS-CoV-2 infects the lungs, which work in tandem with the heart,” said Dr Sadiq. “When lung function dips, the heart gets choked. There is no clarity yet on the progression of the virus in a human body, but autopsy reports from abroad suggest the heart and lung infections are caused by Covid-19. Only time will provide clarity.” Citing the case of a 52-year-old man in May, who came to Sakra with a complaint of chest pain and asked for an angiogram, Dr Sadiq said, “He wanted to use the toilet and collapsed there following a massive heart attack. At that time, government SOP did not permit testing on all, so he wasn’t tested. He wasn’t from a containment area and we don’t know whether he was infected or not. Now, such patients are tested for Covid-19, which provides more clarity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cause-of-death-in-covid-19-positive-heart-patients-still-vague/articleshow/76487390.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 21, 2020||Amritsar||Behbal Kalan police firing: One more held||BATHINDA: Four days after arresting advocate Suhail Singh Brar in the Behbal Kalan killing case on charges of fabricating evidence, the Special Investigations Team (SIT) on Saturday arrested a car agency owner from Faridkot. The SIT claims that Pankaj Motors owner Pankaj Bansal was actively involved in fabricating evidence like Suhail. The escort vehicle of former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma is learnt to have been taken to Pankaj Motors after firing at protesters at Behbal Kalan village on October 14, 2015, in which two persons, Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh, were killed. It is being investigated as to where the shots were fired at the escort vehicle — at the motor agency or Suhail’s residence. The weapon used, however, is said to be owned by Suhail. Pankaj Bansal has been arrested following the confessions made by Suhail during his four-day police remand, said the police. Pankaj is said to be a close friend of another SP also named in the case. The SIT, investigating the Behbal Kalan firing case, has gone active, as it is after a long time that two arrests have been made in quick succession. Earlier, Charanjit Singh Sharma was arrested on January 27, 2019. The challan has already been filed in the court, but a supplementary challan would be presented after completion of probe, the police said. According to cops, some shots were fired from a .12 bore gun at the escort vehicle after the killing of two protesters to show that the people protesting against the act of sacrilege first fired at the police vehicle and the police fired only in self-defence. But, driver of the vehicle in his confessional statement recorded that no protester had fired any shot on the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/behbal-kalan-police-firing-1-more-held/articleshow/76487993.cms||Neel Kamal
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||R Ashoka’s tweet asking Bengalureans to ‘stay indoors’ trolled||BENGALURU: Revenue minister R Ashoka on Friday was trolled for a tweet in which he appealled to Bengalureans to stay indoors due to a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. “Covid-19 positive cases are rising in Bengaluru. Don’t step out unnecessarily. Go out only if there is a need. Make sure you wear masks and maintain social distance,” Ashoka tweeted early on Saturday. It immediately drew criticism with twitterati calling it “double standards”. Some wondered why the government opened up economic activities in the first place when cases have been rising by the day. “On the one hand you have been opening up shops, parks and other businesses and on the other you are requesting people to stay indoors. Why these double standards?” one user asked. Another said, “When you allowed malls and liquor shops to open, how can you expect people to follow lockdown norms and social distancing?” One also said, “Sir, first ask your health minister and home minister (Basavaraj Bommai) to follow social distancing norms. WE have been religiously following it but ministers are taking it for granted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ashokas-tweet-asking-blureans-to-stay-indoors-trolled/articleshow/76487435.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: 27 held for sending youths abroad illegally||Chandigarh: Haryana police have arrested 27 immigration agents for sending youths abroad illegally. Police have recovered Rs 35.33 lakh from their possession. Home minister Anil Vij said the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government is investigating cases registered in previous years as well. A few travel agents sent youths to the US illegally in 2018-19. After spending a long time behind bars, the youths were deported by the US government. Police registered 254 cases against such agents. Now, 156 new cases have been registered. SIT is investigating these. SIT chief Bharti Arora said 11 accused were arrested till June 8 and 27 accused have been arrested so far. She said Om Prakash, accused in 12 cases registered in Karnal, has been arrested and Rs 1.90 lakh has been recovered from his possession. Om Prakash sent many youths abroad illegally. He is also accused of human trafficking and a case has been registered against him. Accused in five such cases, Deepak Narwal was arrested in Panipat and Rs 1.48 lakh was recovered from his possession. Arora said accused Somnath Gaba was arrested in Nigdhu village of Karnal district and Rs 22.50 lakh was recovered from him. Accused Amit Vashisth has been arrested from Madhuban, Arora said, adding that Ravindra Kumar and Hardeep have been arrested from Kabulpur. Accused Ram Singh, Sube Singh, Jagdish, Amit, Rajendra, Vikram from Bhiwani, Balwan Singh and Mahesh, Kiran wife of Shinderpal from Jalandhar, Aman Verma, Sukhdeep Singh, Rammehar and Vishal have also been arrested, Arora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-27-held-for-sending-youths-abroad-illegally/articleshow/76487992.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Event for VVIPs amid curfew||Kurukshetra: Even as a curfew has been imposed in Kurukshetra district up to 4pm on Sunday to prevent gathering of devotees during the solar eclipse, preparations are near-complete to host an event at 10.20am at Brahamsarovar here, where some VVIPs will offer prayers. The solar eclipse will start from 10.20am and last up to 1.47pm, and its complete shadow will also be seen in Kurukshetra. To prevent any congregation, Kurukshetra DC Dhirendra Khadgata has imposed a curfew in the entire district starting 9pm on June 19 to 4pm on June 21, with some relaxations to open shops from 7am to 12pm on June 20 and for emergency services. Various political parties have raised objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/event-for-vvips-amid-curfew/articleshow/76487995.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 21, 2020||Agra||After TOI report, man who broke leg while saving child from train finally gets treatment at SNMC||AGRA: A day after TOI reported that an auto-rickshaw driver risked his life to save a four-year-old child from a speeding train and in the process ended up with a fractured femur bone, the man was finally admitted to the emergency ward of SN Medical College (SNMC). The 40-year-old had earlier claimed that neither was he provided treatment nor was he given any food to eat at the hospital. Manoj Parashar, resident of Itmad-ud-daula locality, got so distressed that he got himself discharged on Wednesday. For the last two days, he had been living in an auto-rickshaw in the Nunhai industrial area. On Saturday, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala took cognizance of the TOI report highlighting the plight of the man. He made sure that an ambulance was sent to bring the patient to the hospital. He was admitted to the emergency ward where he is undergoing treatment currently. Manoj said, “I was in severe pain and thought that I would die within a couple of days. I am feeling much better after being admitted to the hospital. The doctors have said that I will recover soon. I have been provided good food and mineral water. I am thankful to TOI and SNMC administration for helping me.” Manoj was hit by Jodhpur-Howrah express on June 4 while he was trying to save a child who was playing on the tracks. Later, he was admitted to SNMC by the railway police. On Friday, he had told TOI, “I have been suffering for about 14 days. The medical staff did not give me proper treatment and whenever an announcement for food distribution was made in the ward, there was no one to fetch me a plate of food. I am an orphan. I had no one as an attendant in the hospital. My distant relatives too refused to come to the hospital in fear of contracting Covid-19.” Head of department (HOD) of orthopedic Dr CP Pal said, “Earlier, Manoj had left the hospital on his own will. His relatives refused to help, making him stay on the road. Following the TOI report highlighting the patient's poor condition, an ambulance was sent to bring him back to the hospital. We have admitted him in the emergency ward. He is being provided required treatment. After testing him for Covid-19, we will shift him to the orthopedic ward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-toi-report-man-who-broke-leg-while-saving-child-from-train-finally-gets-treatment-at-snmc/articleshow/76486336.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Animal rescue group faces financial woes||Hyderabad: An animal welfare organisation that is known for carrying out some of the most technically challenging rescues in the city is now facing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 enforced lockdown. Animal Warriors India (AWI), which rescuses over 1,000 animals every year, has been struggling to arrange money for transporting animals to shelters and veterinary care. Speaking to TOI, the organisation’s president, Pradeep Nair, said: “The equipment which we have currently has been used to its maximum limit. Since we do a lot of tactical rescue where our team members are involved in rescuing animals from borewells and treetops, good safety equipment will help us save a lot of lives.” In the last 14 years, Nair has single-handedly rescued 70,000 animals. In addition to the need of safety equipments, the team is also looking to buy a rescue vehicle to relocate animals to safety. “We are currently dependent on hiring private vehicles, which is tough to afford on a regular bases. If it is a large animal, then it costs us at least Rs 3,000 per rescue. It is also becoming increasingly difficult to find vehicles due to lockdown restrictions. We need to buy a rescue vehicle to shift injured animals to shelter,” said Sanjeev Varma, general secretary of AWI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/animal-rescue-group-faces-financial-woes/articleshow/76487998.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Agra||2 FIRs lodged against Agra mayor's family construction firm||AGRA: Hours after four concrete girders of an under-construction flyover collapsed at NH-91, killing two men near Chachena village in Etah district, police have lodged two FIRs against Agra mayor Naveen Jain’s family construction firm, PNC Infratech Limited, and officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Police have charged unknown officials of PNC, a hydra crane operator, Maanveer, and NHAI under IPC sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees). Pradeep Kumar Jain, the chairman and managing director of the construction firm set up in 1999, is the elder brother of Agra mayor Naveen Jain. According to police, one FIR was lodged by a septuagenarian man identified as Munna Lal of Mirhachi (Etah). He lost his two sons-in-law -- Naresh Prajapati (35) and Pushpender (30) -- after four concrete beams of the under-construction flyover collapsed on the pick-up truck in which they were ferrying fodder from Malawan towards Etah. The other FIR was lodged by Etah police. In the FIR, it was pointed out that no precautionary measures were followed at the construction site. The accused PNC infra men had been negligent and careless while putting up the concrete girders on a bridge pillar. Pravin Kumar, SHO of Malawan station, said, “Two persons were killed and at least two labourers were injured, including the accused hydra crane operator, Maanveer, and another labourer, Naresh. We are investigating the case and trying to ascertain why no safety measure were taken at the construction site.” The accident occurred on Friday evening under Malawan police limits on NH 91, which is being expanded from the present single lane to four lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bridge-beams-collapse-2-firs-lodged-against-agra-mayors-family-construction-firm-nhai-officials/articleshow/76486345.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai top cop gives policemen dying of Covid-19 ‘martyr’ status||MUMBAI: A daily despatch by Mumbai police, mainly for internal circulation, has begun describing policemen dying of Covid-19 while on duty as “martyrs”. The move, aimed at improving the morale of the force, is to be backed by financial aid for this “supreme sacrifice” by cops. “They have laid down their lives in this fight,” Mumbai police chief Parambir Singh said. However, the decision is yet to be cleared by the state government, which may raise questions of propriety — under existing norms, the status of a “martyr” is reserved for those killed in the line of duty during a war or in a terror or Naxal attack. So far, 31 serving policemen in Mumbai have died of Covid and they have been portrayed as “corona warriors”. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said he was not aware of the proposal to change the classification. “We have not taken any official decision. But sooner or later, we will have to take a call on whether they should be called martyrs. If we give them this status, then along with them, we will have to grant it to medical professionals and paramedical staff who have died on duty,’’ the minister told TOI. The state grants a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the families of policemen who die on Covid duty. In addition, the commissioner has allocated Rs 25 lakh from the police welfare fund in such cases and promised a job in the force to a family member. Singh has also said that the family would be allowed to stay on in their official quarters till the date of retirement of the deceased cop. “We are also going to make a martyrs memorial for Mumbai police Covid martyrs,” said the commissioner. “The force will never forget them. And I’m sure the city will also never forget their supreme sacrifice,” he added. Mumbai police, which Singh described as a “brave, dedicated and professional force”, numbers roughly 43,000. A senior bureaucrat on Saturday said the home ministry will have to take a final decision on whether police personnel who die on duty owing to Covid-19 can be called martyrs. “Our understanding that a police or military personnel is called a martyr if they are killed in line of duty during the war.” Policemen on duty who died of Covid-19 were until now described as ‘corona warriors’. The official cited the prolonged debate around a forest official, who was not on duty, but was killed in Gadchiroli district while out in the market. Two years after his death, the state accorded him the status of a “martyr”. A high-ranking IPS officer said the debate was a futile exercise, The fact remains that police personnel have died in the line of duty, he said. “Their death is not under normal circumstances, it is a sacrifice of the highest order. But it would have been better had the Mumbai commissioner brought it to the notice of the government before granting them the status,’’ he said. Watch Covid-19: Mumbai top cop gives policemen dying of disease ‘martyr’ status||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-top-cop-gives-policemen-dying-of-covid-martyr-status/articleshow/76488346.cms||V Narayan
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||MVT agitation intensifies in T||Hyderabad: The transport operators of Telangana on Saturday decided to intensify the agitation demanding waiver of Motor Vehicle Tax for two quarters in view of the lockdown. The waiver is being demanded for carriage vehicles and maxi cabs. Briefing about the decisions taken during the meeting, TSCBOA President Syed Nizamuddin said that the transport operators have expressed serious concern over the silence of the state government on the problems being faced by the industry. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mvt-agitation-intensifies-in-t/articleshow/76487999.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Migrant workers’ exodus dries up rental income for house owners in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The departure of migrant workers for their home states has led to a sharp drop in the demand for rented houses. Boards advertising rooms for rent have become a common sight in the city as those dependent on rental income have started to feel the pinch. With the lockdown, several migrant labourers working at Jawahar Auto Nagar, in the construction and small scale industries lost their jobs and returned to their home towns. Houses at Gulabi Thota, Ajith Singh Nagar, Pasupu Thota, Bhanu Nagar, Madhuranagar and Kandrika have remained vacant for two months and to-let boards have also been hung in front of houses in slums. “We would give two portions of our three-storeyed building out on rent. We had rented them to the families of carpenters from Rajasthan. They left for their home towns after the lockdown was imposed. These portions have remained vacant for the last two months. We are in a terrible situation as my husband is a senior citizen and rentals are the only source of income for us,” said M Sagaramma from Bhanu Nagar. At Prasadampadu, Enikepadu, Gollapudi and areas on the outskirts of the city, the number of houses taken on rent have come down by 30 per cent in two months. “House owners in Vijayawada doubled the rents after Amaravati was declared the capital city in 2015. The middle-class and the poor faced problems in paying rents. Demand for rented houses in the city again reduced after the three capital cities proposal was made. Covid-19 lockdown has resulted in a further fall in rent. We used to pay Rs 12,000 as rent for a 3 BHK flat in Ramavarappadu and have now shifted to a similar flat with a rent of Rs 9,000,” said K Janardhan, a private employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-workers-exodus-dries-up-rental-income-for-house-owners/articleshow/76486367.cms||Venu Lanka
June 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Now, Covid-19 patients can have attendants with them in hospital||PANAJI: The state government said on Saturday that admitted Covid-19 patients will be given the option of having one willing attendant stay at the hospital with them. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that this is pursuant to a Supreme Court order to states and Union territories issued on Friday. She said the attendant will have to stay in a dedicated area earmarked by the hospital. “It is the duty of the state government to identify an area within hospital premises or closest possible to hospital premises to allow patients’ willing attendants to stay,” she said. “An undertaking will be taken from such willing attendants.” Mohanan also clarified that the attendant could be either family member or friend. She said that the SC order has clear instructions for management of Covid patients and to form a team of experts. The Goa government, she said, has already formed the team, and the order is likely to be notified before Monday. “All states have been asked to constitute a team of experts to visit dedicated Covid hospitals and give recommendations to the government,” she said. Some of the other directions of the apex court include maintaining CCTV footage and setting up a help desk at the Covid hospital that is physically and telephonically accessible to people. She said that these two facilities are already available at the hospital. Meanwhile, Goa’s active Covid-19 tally shot up to 625 on Saturday after 29 new cases were detected. A part of Shiren in Chimbel, which has 25 cases so far, was declared a containment zone. Mohanan said that people from the area will now be tested as per suggestions of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) teams. Inputs from ward members and deputy collectors will be considered too, she said. One of the three persons who were shifted to ICU on Friday has since stablised, and has been moved back to the ward. The other two continue to be in ICU and are receiving non-invasive treatment. A doctor at the ESI hospital described their condition as “okay”. The Mangor Hill containment zone on Saturday reported nine new cases on Saturday, and one more was linked to it. Other cases were reported from Margao, Curtorim, Chimbel and New Vaddem. One traveller, too, tested positive for Covid-19. The day also saw 11 persons cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-covid-patients-can-have-attendants-with-them-in-hosp/articleshow/76488006.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Tihar Jail records first Covid death||NEW DELHI: In the first Covid death reported from Tihar Jail, a 62-year-old inmate serving life term at the Mandoli complex died on June 15. Kanwar Singh was asymptomatic, but the test results confirmed on Sunday that he was suffering from Covid-19. After the results were handed over to the jail authorities, the inmates of the cell where Singh was staying and the jail officers whom he had interacted with were sent on quarantine. A Tihar officer said that Singh was found dead in his sleep. As a part of the jail manual, an inquest proceeding was conducted in the supervision of the metropolitan magistrate during which swabs were collected and sent for Covid examination. “We have initiated a contact tracing exercise to find out who all had come in his contact during the fortnight before his death,” said a jail officer. Jail sources say that Singh was convicted in 2016 for a murder he had committed in the Aman Vihar area of outer Delhi. He had been in Mandoli Jail since July 2018 after the court sentenced him for life imprisonment. On June 14, he had gone to bed as usual. After sometimes, the inmates in his cell found that he had stopped breathing and informed the jail authorities about it. Singh was then shifted to the hospital in the jail complex in an unconscious state, where he was later declared dead. There was no apparent cause of death found by the doctors who had examined him a few days before the incident. Singh was sharing the barrack with 28 other inmates. “We conducted Covid-19 test for all 28 inmates who were sharing the barrack with the deceased. So far, health of all the inmates is fine,” said a Tihar spokesperson. The total number of Covid-19 positive inmates as of Sunday is 23, out of which 16 have recovered and one person has died. As many as 45 prison staff have also been infected with the disease and seven of them have recovered Watch Delhi: Tihar Jail records first Covid death||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mandoli-prison-inmate-tests-ve-after-death/articleshow/76500312.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||As supply of drugs dries up, peddlers sell veggies, masks in Goa||PANAJI: Lockdown has created different difficulties for different people. While migrant labourers, for example, have been left without work and forced to return home, halt in tourism activities in Goa has prompted drug peddlers and addicts to look at alternative sources of income. These are bad times for most. Those who peddled drugs on the coastal belt for a living, or made money through tourism-related activities for their own needs, including consumption of drugs, are now doing odd jobs. Some have taken up jobs at car washing centres, few have started selling vegetables and fruits, while some have started doing menial jobs like labour at construction sites, according to Dr Ravindra Patil, medical officer at Mapusa district hospital’s Drug Treatment Centre (DTC). “Two brothers who have been regular at the centre have started making face masks,” Patil told TOI. The Mapusa district hospital operates an opioid substitution therapy (OST) which helps in the rehabilitation of addicts and the last three months of lockdown were the most difficult for everyone. “During lockdown there was neither money nor drugs. Those who earned through hard work lost their jobs due to stop in tourism. It was a difficult time for everyone,” said Dr Patil. Most of the patients, according to Dr Patil, are linked to the tourism industry. Many of them work at the hotels in different capacities, while others make money working as tourist guides. Not surprisingly, the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown put a stop to all activities. “I am glad they took up whatever alternative source of income came their way. Some are even working as construction workers. We are happy to see that they are happy with their work,” said Dr Patil. Since inception, the trend at the drug treatment is clear. During monsoon, the number of people enrolling for OST increases, while numbers take a major dip once the tourism season is up and running. The trend, according to Dr Patil, is directly linked to the flow of drugs in Goa. It’s always higher when the tourism season is at its peak. “In April and May when the centre saw number of patients on the rise, while those who visited the centre irregularly became regulars, we were not surprised,” he said. According to numbers provided to TOI, the centre had 25-30 persons regularly visiting the centre prior to March. The number touched 60 during April and May when a national lockdown was in place. For now, there are 68 persons on Methadone Maintenance Treatment (MMT) for abuse of heroin, while another 40 to 50 persons are undergoing a different programme implemented through the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO). “In May, we ran out of medicine as the number of persons opting for MMT increased. We also saw some dealers visiting us during lockdown obviously because the supply of drugs had dried during that period,” he said. The lockdown created difficulties for the centre too as at least one patient was found to have sold his doses of MMT to others. His name was subsequently struck off the list. “Persons enrolled for OST need to visit the centre every day and take the prescribed dose under supervision of a nurse. During lockdown, this arrangement was disturbed,” said Dr Patil. With the lockdown now eased, normal activity has resumed at the centre. Elsewhere, most continue with their lockdown jobs and seem happy, despite earning less than what they did during their regular duties. For those thriving on tourism-related activities, though, the wait continues. Watch Lockdown: Drug peddlers turn to selling face masks, veggies in Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-supply-of-drugs-dries-up-peddlers-sell-veggies-masks/articleshow/76488001.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Meat stalls work overtime as orders come to shut today||MADURAI: The Madurai district administration on Saturday announced that meat and fish stalls will remain shut on Sunday (June 21) to prevent overcrowding in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. As soon as the directive was issued, shops selling meat products online extended their sale till 8pm on Saturday. S Muthukrishnan, president of the Madurai city mutton stall owners association said that about 2,000 goats are slaughtered to be sold in nearly 400 shops throughout the week. Sundays record the highest sales, while on weekdays these shops find it difficult to earn even half their regular revenue. During the lockdown, many shops like Krishnan Mutton Stall, moved to the online platform. As soon as the collector issued orders to close shops on June 21, the owners decided to keep open online sales till 8pm on Saturday. Owner of Hassan meat stall said he called up some of his regular customers and supplied them meat a day in advance to make up for the loss in sales on Sunday. A fish stall, which offers free home delivery for online bookings throughout the city, sent out WhatsApp messages to its customers informing them that they would be delivering till late in the night on Saturday. Meanwhile, some stall owners like Ayesha and Pandian said that this particular Sunday would not be a big loss, as it is a New Moon day and they had already anticipated poor sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meat-stalls-work-overtime-as-orders-come-to-shut-today/articleshow/76488007.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Minister’s gunman booked on assault charge||ELURU: The gunman of Andhra Pradesh women and child welfare minister, Taneti Vanitha, Tellam Chandra Rao was arrested for assault on Saturday. As per the charges, Rao with the help of two others attacked his daughter and son-in-law at Ameenapet on Saturday. Rao’s daughter Sai Gayatri married Gudipudi Kiriti in February this year at the Arya Samaj in Hyderabad against his wishes. Her father wanted her to give up the marriage that Gayatri refused. Failing to make his daughter obey, Rao and his friends attacked and assaulted the couple at Ameenapet. Following a complaint from the couple, West Godavari SP K Narayan Nayak directed Two-Town CI Adi Prasad to book a case against the culprits. The three have been booked under sections 323, 341, 506 read with 34 IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mins-gunman-booked-on-assault-charge/articleshow/76486378.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Patna||213 new cases take Bihar Covid-19 tally to 7,503||PATNA: Altogether 213 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Saturday, including 24 from Patna, taking the total number of registered cases to 7,503 in the state. With 5,367 recoveries and 49 deaths, active cases stand at 2,086 here which account for around 72% of the total cases. One death was also confirmed by ANMMCH superintendent from Gaya. However, it has not been officially reported by the health department. Superintendent Dr NK Paswan said the 58-year-old man from Gaya tested positive for the virus on Friday. Patna civil surgeon Dr RK Choudhary said of the 24 cases in Patna, eight are from Buddha Colony, including six from the same family. “Six other cases are from Khusrupur, four from Patna City, two from Meethapur Bus Stand and one each from Rajendra Nagar, Rukanpura, Danapur and Paliganj areas,” said Dr Chaudhary. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 202 new cases were registered in the past 24 hours and 269 people have recovered from the virus in the same time period. Lokesh said 1,51,148 samples have been tested so far, including 5,586 on Friday itself. Of the total positive cases, 4,844 are migrants who had returned to the state after May 3. As per information shared by the health department, Covid-19 cases were registered from 27 districts on Saturday. Aurangabad had the maximum cases with 22 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Banka with 18 cases. Madhubani had 16 positive cases, followed by Samastipur and Supaul which registered another 15 cases each and Darbhanga which registered 11 new cases. As per data shared by health department on Saturday evening, so far, maximum cases have been registered in Patna with 377 people testing positive for coronavirus. However, with 223 recoveries and two deaths, there are 152 active cases in the state capital. Other districts which have registered large number of Covid-19 cases include Bhagalpur with 348 cases, followed by Begusarai with 347 people testing positive, Madhubani with 325 cases and Rohtas with 309 cases. However, Siwan has the highest number of active cases at present. Though the district registered 302 cases so far, with 115 recoveries and two deaths, active cases stand at 185 in Siwan. On the other hand, East Champaran has 16 active cases, which is the lowest in Bihar. Though 163 cases were registered here, 146 have recovered and one has died. Kishanganj and Lakhisarai have 17 positive cases each as of now. (With inputs from Abdul Qadir in Gaya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/213-new-cases-take-bihar-covid-tally-to-7503/articleshow/76487242.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: One shot dead as gang attacks house in Santa Cruz, 7 arrested||PANAJI: One person was shot dead and several cars damaged in a shootout at Santa Cruz in the wee hours of Saturday morning. Goa police said that a gang went to attack a person they had a previous rivalry with, but a member of the group itself succumbed to injuries after being shot in the chest. Goa police said that the incident, which was captured on CCTV cameras, involved around 10 masked men. North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said that seven people have already been arrested, and two minors have been lodged at Apna Ghar. He said that the attack was a planned one. The deceased person has been identified as Sonu Yadav, resident of Camrabhat, and native of Uttar Pradesh. Prasoon said that Police Control Room received a call early on Saturday morning, regarding an attack at a house near St Thomas chapel in Santa Cruz. Subsequently, a wireless message was received about person dead with a gunshot above the abdomen. Police, after probing the nature of the case, said that some unknown persons had earlier attacked the house of one Imran Bepari in Santa Cruz, in the course of which some bullets had been fired. Prasoon said that Bepari had an argument a week ago with the group, which on Saturday led the attack on his house. Prasoon said that a total of nine persons, including two juveniles, were apprehended. Those arrested are Marcelino Dias of Curca, Ronny D’Souza of St Inez, Samuel D’Souza of St Inez, David Araujo of Santa Cruz, Minguel Araujo of Santa Cruz, Francis Nadal of Santa Cruz, and David D’Souza of Camrabhat. A country-made revolver was recovered from Marcelino Dias. Two separate offences were registered at Old Goa police station, and a team from Forensic Science Laboratory, Verna, was taken to the crime scene.  “The facts and circumstances of the case have so far revealed that the deceased was with the above-mentioned (arrested) persons who attacked the house in Santa Cruz, but during the incident, received a gunshot injury to which he later succumbed,” Prasoon said. Meanwhile, IGP Jaspal Singh has sanctioned a reward of Rs 25,000 to the investigation team for their efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-shot-dead-as-gang-attacks-house-in-santa-cruz-7-arrested/articleshow/76488008.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Delay in test results, poor facilities irk travellers in temporary quarantine||Madurai: Returnees from Chennai and other places entering Madurai by road, and made to stay in the temporary quarantine facility on the premises of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural College in Othakadai, have alleged that there was a delay in obtaining the results of their Covid-19 screening tests. They also complained of unavailability of drinking water and poor quality food. About 335 people had arrived at the Chittampatti and Vadipatti toll gates on June 17, of which 129 opted to stay in hotels and lodges, while the others were sent to the college. Ragu (name changed) one of those quarantined said the supply of drinking water was not regular and the food supplied to them was bad. “They told us that we would get the results in just over a day, but we are waiting for two days,” he said. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, said that all the results were given on Saturday, and they were allowed to go home. A similar situation arose in Srivilliputtur in Virudhunagar district, where about 100 people who had come with valid e-passes were made to stay in the temporary quarantine facility few days back. After they protested, they received their results on Friday evening after four days. “We had a huge number of samples to process from quarantine facilities as we had a sudden inflow of people. We tried our best to manage by even sending samples to Theni to be processed faster. However, there were delays. Now, the lab in Madurai is better equipped as well and test results will not take more than 24 hours,” said a senior district health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/delay-in-test-results-poor-facilities-irk-travellers-in-temporary-quarantine/articleshow/76488010.cms||---
June 21, 2020||India||LG rolls back his institutional quarantine order for Covid||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has rolled back his order making five days of institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 positive cases under home isolation — even if mild or asymptomatic — mandatory. The decision follows strong opposition from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The CM had said it would create chaos and people would avoid testing, leading to further spread. He explained the government’s position to the LG and clarified all the doubts the latter had about home isolation. Covid-19 positive cases have crossed the 53,000 mark in Delhi and have claimed more than 2,000 lives. According to the amended order, all individuals who are positive will be referred to Covid care centres for assessment of clinical condition, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities. Simultaneously, a physical assessment will be carried out to determine whether adequate facilities for home isolation, like a minimum of two rooms and a separate toilet, exist so that family members and neighbours are protected and no cluster comes up in the area. All the districts have Covid care centres where people who test positive can go for a clinical assessment. The LG’s office said in a statement that if the facilities for home isolation were adequate and the person did not require hospitalisation, s/he would be given the option of staying at a Covid centre or a paid isolation facility like a hotel, or go for home isolation. All those under home isolation will be required to strictly follow the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare and stay in touch with healthcare providers so they can be moved to Covid hospitals if their condition deteriorates. The LG announced his decision first in a tweet. "Regarding institutional isolation, only those Covid positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation," he tweeted. Meanwhile, the services of a private agency managing those under home isolation have been restored till Monday, said the Delhi government. The LG has asked the health department to prepare a detailed presentation and submit a concrete proposal to the DDMA on Monday about managing the entire process in-house or propose an alternative plan for managing home isolation. He had discontinued the services of the private agency in his Friday order. Earlier, at the DDMA meeting, which he attended through video-conferencing, Kejriwal had pointed out the challenges in implementing the LG’s Friday order and urged him to roll it back. He had raised the huge problem of making arrangements for a large number of people because most of those infected are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. After the rollback, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: "We express our gratitude to the LG for the decision. Under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, we will not let the people of Delhi suffer." The AAP government had termed the LG’s order as a big blunder in the fight against Covid-19 and expressed the apprehension that it may cause the healthcare infrastructure to collapse. On Saturday morning, party functionaries, including MP Sanjay Singh, mounted huge pressure on the LG and the Centre for a rollback. Calling the order dictatorial, Singh had said while the rest of the country was allowed home isolation, a different rule had been made for the people of Delhi. He wondered if people would be put inside railway coaches. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said the order will discourage people from undergoing tests. At present, the Delhi government has only 6,000 beds in all its institutional quarantine facilities while the number of people currently under home isolation is over 10,000. New facilities are being created — 8,000 beds in railway coaches and 10,000 beds at a religious institute in south Delhi. Watch Compulsory quarantine: Delhi LG amends order after AAP govt's opposition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lg-rolls-back-his-institutional-quarantine-order-for-covid/articleshow/76488519.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Rath Yatra cancelled this yr||Hyderabad: The Rath Yatra will not be held this year due to the Covid-19 spread. Purshottam Malani, founder family trustee, Shree Jagannath Swamy Ramgopal Trust said, “Due to the current situation of Covid-19 pandemic, this year the Rath Yatra and darshan that was supposed to be held on June 23 is being cancelled for the public at large. We request all devotees to kindly seek the blessings of the lord from their own residences and help the authorities restrict the spread of the coronavirus.” The Trust has been conducting Rath Yatra regularly from last 130 years from Sri Jagannath Swamy Temple,General Bazaar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rath-yatra-cancelled-this-yr/articleshow/76488015.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai corporation, government show different testing figures||Chennai: The state government and Greater Chennai Corporation have started publicly releasing day-wise sample testing numbers for the city, but disparities have been noticed by many. At a press meet on Friday afternoon, corporation commissioner G Prakash said 2.1 lakh people had been tested in the city so far. However, just a few hours later, the medical bulletin released by the state government showed that the total number of samples tested in Chennai was 1,65,609. On Saturday, the bulletin put out by the health department put the total number of samples tested for the city at 1,70,701. Jayaram Venkatesan, social activist and convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, has demanded an explanation for this. “There is a big difference of 45,000 tests between Greater Chennai Corporation’s claim and health department claim. The TN government should explain the difference and if so, what is the result of the 45,000 tests,” Venkatesan said. There is another data mismatch in the TN government bulletins as well. Saturday’s bulletin put the number of samples tested across the state in the past 24 hours at 33,231, but when the district-wise testing figures of Friday and Saturday – 7,33,744 and 7,11,678 – were compared, the difference was 22,066, TOI has found. This mismatch, a senior Greater Chennai Corporation official told TOI, was due to a reconciliation issue as huge volumes were handled. “This has been confirmed by the health department also. It is indicated in a footnote in the daily bulletin,” the official said. As per official corporation statistics, 2.1 lakh samples have been tested in the city until June 19, as indicated by Prakash. The TN medical bulletin, while giving out testing figures, states that the figures are based on entries made by ICMR-approved RT-PCR testing labs on the ICMR web portal. It also states that the entry of remaining records into the ICMR portal is in progress. Also the district-wise tagging of tests is based on residential address given by individuals, the bulletin states. Chennai has around 45 testing labs of which 10-12 are private labs. According to the daily bulletin, across Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 tests are done in 45 government and 40 private labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-govt-show-different-testing-figures/articleshow/76487246.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Four city students drown in Bhavani river in Erode||Four college students, all aged 20 years, drowned in a 20ft-deep well in the Bhavani riverbed near Bhavanisagar dam in Erode on Saturday evening while bathing.The Bhavanisagar police identified the deceased as M Pranesh, his friends R Yashwanth, M Kathiresan, and D Raguram, all residents of Annur in Coimbatore district.A police officer said three of them were pursuing BE in a private college in Coimbatore, while the remaining one was a BPharm student. “The four, along with P Sureshraj, 20, of Annur, came to Bhavanisagar dam on three bikes. After sightseeing in and around the dam, they headed to Siddhankuttai area, 16km away from the dam, for bathing.”The four entered the river, while Sureshraj stayed on the river bank. “Suddenly, Pranesh started drowning. On seeing him struggling for life, the remaining three went to his rescue, but only to be drowned,” said K Prabhakaran, inspector, Bhavanisagar police station.Sureshraj immediately alerted the Bhavanisagar police and local fire and rescue services personnel, who recovered all the four dead bodies from the river. The bodies were sent to the government hospital in Bhavanisagar for postmortem.Preliminary inquiry revealed that local farmers had dug a 20-ft well in the riverbed for irrigation purposes. “Only local people and farmers were aware of the well, which can’t be easily seen. The students drowned in the well,” the officer said.The Bhavanisagar police have registered a case and initiated inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-city-students-drown-in-bhavani-river-in-erode/articleshow/76488017.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant kills Irula woman||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A wild elephant killed a 52-year-old tribal woman in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai tiger reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Saturday. The victim, Madhevi, an Irula woman and a resident of Undi Moyar hamlet located in Masinagudi range of forests, had gone to collect firewood from forest on Saturday afternoon. Forest department personnel who launched a search for her found her body around 5.30pm near Avarallah beat, close to the hamlet. “Madhevi was trampled by an elephant,” MTR buffer zone deputy director L C S Srikanth said. The Masinagudi police shifted the body to the Gudalur Government Hospital for postmortem. A 25-year-old man from Bennai village in the core area of the reserve was trampled by an elephant in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-kills-irula-woman/articleshow/76488014.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Private firm manager found murdered, Rs 22 lakh missing||MADURAI: A 35-year-old man was found murdered under suspicious circumstances in Theni on Friday night. A sum of Rs 22 lakh he was carrying was missing. The deceased has been identified as S Arunkumar of Suppanchetti Street in Theni. He was working as a manager in a private firm for the past 10 years. On Friday, Arunkumar told his wife, Nagalakshmi, 28, that he was going to the bank on some urgent work and said that he would reach home late. Later in the evening, Nagalakshmi received a call from Arunkumar’s boss Sannasi, who informed that her husband was found dead on the Bypass Road. He said Arunkumar went to the bank to withdraw Rs 22 lakh for the company’s expenses. Since Arunkumar did not reach the office on time, Sannasi went out in search of him and found the latter’s body. Sannasi informed the Allinagaram police, who rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Theni district superintendent of police E Sai Charan Tejasvi also visited the spot. A police officer said that he could have been followed by the murderers from the bank after seeing him withdraw the money. CCTV footage was checked for any clues. An inquiry with employees of the firm was also underway to find out whether someone had leaked the information on the withdrawal, he said. A case was registered under IPC sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt). The body was sent to Theni Medical College Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-firm-manager-found-murdered-rs-22-lakh-missing/articleshow/76488013.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||15,725 cases against liquor, sand mafia||Vijayawada: Since the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) was set up a month ago, it has booked 14,200 cases of liquor smuggling and arrested 18,961 in relation to them and lodged 1,525 cases against 2,837 sand smugglers till June 16. Senior officials reviewed the bureau’s one month-performance on Saturday. In terms of seizures, the SEB confiscated 75,731 litres of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor and destroyed 1,285,512 litres of fermented jaggery wash and recovered 45,969 kilograms of black jaggery. Besides, SEB seized 5,916 litres of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) (non-duty) and 1,957 litres of non-duty-paid beer and 24,617 litres of duty-paid beer. During the lockdown, they also managed to recover 10,530 kg ganja and seized 544 litres of toddy. Around 4,872 vehicles have been seized from the alleged smugglers. SEB officials said some of the notable cases during the month, included the seizure of 145 boxes of NDPL liquor from Punjab which was being smuggled into Andhra Pradesh at Kankipadu area in Vijayawada. Later, they also seized another 242 boxes of NDPL liquor from Punjab at a mango orchard in Mylavaram police station limits. In terms of sand, officials seized 3,82,636 tonnes of sand from smugglers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/15725-cases-against-liquor-sand-mafia/articleshow/76486395.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Number of tests up in Madurai as more people coming: Minister||MADURAI: The number of Covid-19 tests has increased in Madurai as several people have entered the district from other places, said revenue and disaster management minister R B Udayakumar on Saturday. The minister said this while taking part in an event organised by the Madurai Corporation to distribute immunity boosters to around 2,000 households. “We have increased medical tests since a large number of people are travelling to Madurai from other states and districts. Emphasis has also been given to rural areas. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has also appreciated the increase in the number of testing,” the minister said. He also said that Covid-19 could be contained if people cooperated. “Countries that have successfully controlled the spread of the virus did so because of the cooperation extended by the people,” Udayakumar said. He asked people not to panic about another lockdown and asked them to be more vigilant. “There is curfew. Some relaxations were given by the government. People should make use of the relaxation responsibly,” he said. The minister lauded the corporation for taking efforts to distribute immunity boosters to 1.5 lakh households free of cost. About 1.10 lakh houses were covered so far, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/number-of-tests-up-in-madurai-as-more-people-coming-min/articleshow/76488019.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||No coronavirus fears for this scribe who wrote four exams||Bengaluru: The second PUC exam last week, right in the middle of the pandemic, was different in many respects for students. Students were thermally checked and had to use santisers before entering the hall and had to wear a mask throughout – all things they have never done before for an exam. While wearing a mask and writing an exam is a difficult task, it was doubly so for Pushpa Preeya, a scribe who helped Deepa V, a partially blind student, take the English paper exam. What made it difficult for Pushpa was that she had to communicate wearing a mask. However, while many other scribes, who had promised to help needy students, failed to turn up, Pushpa cheerfully lent aid, while taking every safety precaution. “I had no fear since I took all precautions,” Pushpa told TOI. “I wore a mask and used a sanitiser often. To ensure physical distancing, I sat on one end of the bench while the student sat on the other end, but this made listening to the student difficult.” A resident of BTM Layout and an employee in an MNC, Pushpa first sat in as a scribe for a visually impaired SSLC student in 2007. So far, Pushpa has helped about 850 students write exams. “It gives me immense pleasure and satisfaction,” she said when asked what prompted her to help needy students. “They are able to pursue their education and land their dream jobs,” said Pushpa, who was awarded the Nari Shakti Puraskar award (for people who work towards women empowerment) by the Government of India. The same day she helped Deepa, Pushpa also helped another student who also took the exam with the help of a scribe. “Another student’s scribe left early as he was fearful of sitting in the exam hall for a long time because of Covid-19. The student was worried and I helped him write one last answer after I completed writing for Deepa,” Pushpa said. Prior to this, she helped a cerebral palsy student pursuing MCom write three exams a week ago. “A private college had conducted MCom exams for a student with cerebral palsy recently. I assisted the student,” Pushpa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-coronavirus-fears-for-this-scribe-who-wrote-four-exams/articleshow/76487250.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||49 Raj workers stranded in Kuwait seek help to return||Jaipur: For the last five months, 49 workers from Rajasthan are stuck in Kuwait without work. The company which hired them has cancelled the contract leaving the workers without any money in a foreign country.All the workers hailing from different parts of Rajasthan were hired to work as drivers. Workers paid an agent in India between Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000 to get a job in Kuwait. However, when they arrived in Kuwait, the company revealed that they are not been able to employ them anymore and asked them to arrange their tickets back home.Javed Ali, one of the workers, narrated his plight. “Since the day we arrived, none of us went for job. The company provided us lodging and for a while food was supplied but then they stopped. It informed us that we won’t be paid any salaries. We are forced to ask money back home. We want the government to help us get back.”Some people do not have any helping hand to get financial support and if the fellow workers haven’t provided them with essential items, they would have been on streets.Rakesh Kumar, another worker, informed that many workers are having medical problems but they do not have resources to purchase medicine. “We are on the verge of starvation. Many people are sick but don’t have money to purchase medicine. Our company at present is providing us with lodging but it won’t be long when they would ask us to vacate. Before that we want some help from government of India,” said Kumar.Amjad Tuglaq district head of India Pravasi Legal Aid Cell who is constantly in touch with these workers said, “We have written to Indian High Commission in Kuwait and are trying to get in touch with them. The workers are in poor condition and they need immediate attention.”Out of those 49 workers, six people from Churu district, 19 people from Sikar district, 13 from Nagaur district and 11 people from Jhunjhunu district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/49-raj-workers-stranded-in-kuwait-seek-help-to-return/articleshow/76488016.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||1-2% air tickets sold are for return from Mumbai: Travel sites||MUMBAI: In the first three weeks since domestic aviation resumed on May 25, only 1-2% of domestic air tickets sold on online travel portals for journeys till mid-July were return tickets. In the pre-Covid-19 days, the share of return tickets ranged between 25% and 30%. Still, 1% is a marked improvement over the 0.2% share return tickets had in the first week of domestic flights after resumption, an indicator that the domestic air travel market is limping back to normalcy from the setback of the Covid-19 lockdown. From 30,000 passengers on May 25, the first day of resumption of domestic flights, to 67,000 on Saturday, intra-country passenger traffic is on the recovery path, though it traces a peculiar path. For instance, apart from Delhi, peak domestic demand currently is for travel to cities like Patna, Lucknow, Varanasi and Kolkata and not to the metros, shows data from airports, travel companies and the civil aviation ministry. “Since domestic flights’ resumption, 99% of our total bookings have been for one-way travel,” travel app Ixigo said. Ixigo studied data for tickets booked between May 25 and June 14 for travel up to July 14. The top three routes for one-way travel were all from Delhi to Varanasi, Patna and Srinagar. The top three for return bookings were Delhi-Patna, Delhi-Varanasi and Mumbai-Varanasi. The popular Delhi-Mumbai route, the third busiest domestic air route in the world last year, came in at number four, showed the Ixigo data. Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) and Bengaluru International airport data put Delhi as the top destination, which is not surprising given that it is the busiest airport in the country. What is new post-lockdown is that the top five sectors out of Mumbai are Delhi, Kolkata, Varanasi, Patna and Lucknow. In the pre-Covid-19 days, it was Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai and Kolkata. Similarly, the top five routes currently out of Bengaluru are Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Patna and Lucknow, while in pre-Covid-19 days it was Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chennai. Passenger loads on most flights have been low, though. The ministry of civil aviation data for June 18 shows 62,850 passengers flew on 749 flights, an average passenger load factor of about 46% if only 180-seaters are considered. On the first day one of restart of domestic flights, the passenger load was 39%. Aloke Bajpai, CEO, Ixigo, said the company had seen a tenfold growth in bookings since domestic flights resumed. “Our booking data shows a rise in travel from non-metros to metros week on week and bookings across key routes in June have increased by 45% to 50% as compared to May last week. This has given us hope that travel bookings will bounce back to pre-Covid levels sooner than expected,” Bajpai said. Today, among the low-demand flights routed through a metro are arrivals into Mumbai. Air fares reflect the poor demand. The cheapest fare on Friday for travel on Saturday on Delhi-Mumbai route was Rs 3,600. For Mumbai-Delhi, it was Rs 7,000. Given that the fares are capped and the ministry of civil aviation has ordered airlines to sell 40% seats below the midpoint of the fare band — it is Rs 6750 for Delhi-Mumbai sector — it could be concluded that less than 40% seats have been sold on the Delhi-Mumbai flight that is scheduled to depart in less than 24 hours. But the difference in departure and arrival passenger volumes for Mumbai, the Covid-19 hot spot of the country, is closing in. In the week leading up to June 19, MIAL handled 16,000 arrival passengers against 38,000 who boarded departure flights, which is 2.3 departure passengers for every arriving passenger. Compare that to the last week of May, when for every arriving passenger about four departed Mumbai. Makemytrip (MMT) said that over the past few weeks one-way trips contributed about 98% to their overall fight bookings. “Given that a large percentage of people have already returned to their base, and with the rest eagerly waiting to fly back before 30th June, we have noticed a marginal dip in one-way trip bookings since flights resumed on 25th May. We expect this trend to continue as people who were stuck due to the lockdown will be back to their respective destinations in the coming weeks,’’ Saujanya Shrivastava of MMT said. MMT said Delhi-Patna was the top sector in bookings for one-way and round-trips. Other high selling sectors on MMT were Bengaluru–Kolkata, Mumbai–Varanasi, Bangalore-Patna and Delhi-Imphal. “In terms of advance bookings, patterns indicate that 80% of the bookings are made for travel within 14 days from the date of journey,” Shrivastava said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-2-air-tickets-sold-are-for-return-travel-sites/articleshow/76488355.cms||Manju V
June 21, 2020||Chennai||Government chooses to go knocking on doors to give Rs 1,000 dole when Chennai is a hotspot||CHENNAI: For five days from Monday, foot soldiers from the civil supplies department will knock on the doors of more than 1.8 million homes in the Greater Chennai Corporation limits to distribute the Rs 1,000 dole to each cardholder. Why do they and the beneficiaries have to run the risk of catching the Covid-19 infection when direct benefit transfer (DBT) would ensure the money is distributed electronically, which also ensures zero pilferage? This is the second solatium being paid out this pandemic. The first effort in April saw crowds around ration shops. So why not use the DBT, built on the Aadhar platform to which all ration cards in the state are linked?  “There will be a rush to withdraw money from the banks. Also, we do not have bank account details of all the card holders. So, we decided on door-to-door delivery of cash,” said Sujjan Singh R Chavan, civil supplies and consumer protection commissioner. Use of DBT would definitely be considered, he added. There are 2.08 crore card holders across the state of whom 18 lakh are in Chennai, which has 1,800 PDS outlets. Even larger cash payouts by the central government are done at the click of a button using Aadhar Bridge, a facility that UIDAI offers for cash transfer using Aadhar numbers.  Former Chennai mayor Ma Subramanian of the DMK sees a political motive behind the government insisting on physical distribution of the dole. He says the ration shop employees will be accompanied by AIADMK workers when they go to distribute the money. “They are risking everyone’s life. The purpose of the lockdown will be defeated. The PDS employees will not be able to cover many households in a day. So they will call all the card holders in an area to a particular street to collect the money. They will not follow any social distancing and the risk of infection is high,” he alleged.  Many cardholders do not accept the cash dole, but they don’t inform the government. As a result, that money makes its way into someone else’s pocket. Zakir, a resident of Parrys, said he took the money last time and donated it to an NGO. V Kuppan, a retired public servant and resident of Adambakkam, said he collected the cash though he didn’t need it as otherwise it would be pilfered. “The government should revise the cardholders data and ensure that those who do not want free ration are omitted. I will collect the money as I am aware if I don’t, the employees will take it in my name,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-chooses-to-go-knocking-on-doors-to-give-rs-1k-dole-when-the-city-is-a-hotspot/articleshow/76487255.cms||Komal Gautham
June 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Serial killer Cyanide Mohan convicted in 20th case||Mangaluru: The sixth additional district and sessions court judge Sayeedunnisa on Saturday held serial killer Cyanide Mohan, 56, guilty in the murder of a victim from Kasaragod. This is the 20th and the last case to be tried in this court, which will hear arguments on the sentence on June 24. Providing details, public prosecutor Jayarama Shetty told STOI that the 25-year-old victim from Kasaragod, a cook at a women’s hostel, got in touch with Mohan, a teacher. He visited her house thrice, on the promise that he would marry her. On the pretext of visiting a temple in Sullia on July 8, 2009, she left home, but never returned. They had travelled to Bengaluru. When her family called her, Mohan took the call and told them that he was answering because she had gone for a bath. He also told them that they were married, and would come back home soon. But the very next day, Ramakrishna, a constable from Upparpet police station, found a woman lying unconscious outside the washroom of KSRTC bus stand and rushed her to a hospital. But she was declared dead on arrival. Like in all other cases, he is said to have had sex with the victim at a hotel room. After taking her to the bus stand, he asked her to consume a cyanide-laced tablet, claiming that to be a contraceptive pill. He later made away with her jewellery that he had asked her to leave behind at the hotel room. An unnatural death report was registered. As none of her relatives turned up for the identification of the body, it was buried on July 15, 2009. The case came back to life after the family identified the serial killer through media reports on his arrest by Dakshina Kannada district police on October 21, 2009. Police also recovered the victim’s jewellery from the house of Mohan’s second wife. The jeweller from whom Mohan had purchased cyanide also identified him. Meanwhile, CID took over the case and filed a chargesheet. The public prosecutor said the report from the Forensic Sciences Laboratory is crucial in this case as cyanide was found in the victim’s viscera. “Mohan, who fights his cases on his own, had sought two adjournments,” Shetty added. Mohan is currently lodged at Hindalga central jail in Belagavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/serial-killer-cyanide-mohan-convicted-in-20th-case/articleshow/76485664.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||High alert on district borders||COIMBATORE: A team led by collector K Rajamani checked vehicles entering the district through the Thekkalur checkpost on Avinashi Road on Saturday evening and seized 16 vehicles, including a private bus, for violating lockdown norms. “We are strictly implementing prohibitory orders to control spread of Covid-19 and have intensified vehicle check at the inter-district checkposts. A team of doctors from the health department is collecting samples from people from Chennai and surrounding districts for Covid-19 test at Thekkalur checkpost,” Rajamani said. The officials seized a private bus carrying 60 passengers from Tirupur for not maintaining social distancing norms. The collector ordered police to register a case against the bus driver and conductor. Case was registered against an Omni van driver for carrying nine people. A large number of people are coming to Coimbatore by air, train and road, Rajamani said. Meanwhile, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan and deputy commissioner of police L Balaji Saravanan visited the checkposts on Saturday. The commissioner instructed cops to be alert while verifying e-passes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/high-alert-on-dist-borders/articleshow/76488023.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||50-year-old arrested for raping minor girl||KANYAKUMARI: The Kanyakumari all-women police arrested a 50-year-old man for raping a 17-year-odl girl. According to police, the accused P Appanraj of Pootchivilakam in Pazhavilai post, took pictures of the girl and sexually abusing her by threatening her to circulate them. Police said following a complaint was lodged by the victim’s family on Friday, the accused was arrested on Saturday morning. The accused was booked under sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 11(v) (threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or fabricated depiction through electronic, film or digital or any other mode, of any part of the body of the child or involvement of a child in a sexual act) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/50-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/76488025.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest department turns saviour for injured lone tusker||COIMBATORE: Forest department personnel are taking care of an injured elephant that was found on a private land at Jambukandi in the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Saturday. Villagers had informed the officials about the lone tusker. “The elephant has suffered injuries in its mouth and is struggling to eat. Looks like it has spent a week without food,” said an official. The officials began treating the animal based on the directions of district forest officer D Venkatesh. “The injury might have occurred due to tooth infection or while accidentally chewing a stick along with food,” said department’s veterinary doctor Sukumar, who is treating the elephant. The elephant is 8-10 years old, Sukumar said. “We have given it painkillers, antibiotics and other medicines for speedy recovery after mixing them with fruits, especially banana. We also gave it fodder. It is recovering well.” Treatment will continue for three days. A team has been formed to monitor it. The tusker is expected to make full recovery return to the reserve forest on its own, Sukumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-turns-saviour-for-injured-lone-tusker/articleshow/76488028.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: MeeSeva operator found dead||VIJAYAWADA: A MeeSeva operator was stabbed to death at his workplace in Adigopula village, Guntur district, on Saturday morning. The deceased, identified as Ganta Srinivasulu (50), was the in-charge at the village MeeSeva centre. Durgi police said at around 10 am other staff members and locals found his body in a pool of blood. They immediately called the cops, who reached the spot and examined the crime scene and found multiple stab wounds on Srinivasulu’s chest. Speaking to media, Srinivasulu’s family members accused some of their relatives, including his brother-in-law Thota Vasu, for murdering him over a property dispute. They claimed that the two parties have been fighting over it for the past few years and even had a heated argument in the last few days. Cops recorded their statements and are on the lookout for Thota Vasu. They registered a case under section 302 of IPC (murder) at Durgi police station. Meanwhile, Srinivasulu’s body was sent to a local government hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/meeseva-operator-found-dead/articleshow/76486412.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP launches its mass contact drive||Ludhiana: District unit of the BJP has kicked off its campaign to reach out to the masses at every booth in the city citing the achievements of the Modi government. On Saturday, office bearers of the party also released a poster to start the drive. The Punjab office bearers, who reside in the city, also participated in the campaign. With the Modi government completing first year of its second term and a total of six years in power, the Centre had taken several key decisions like removal of Article 370 from J&K, Citizen Amendment Act, and starting of the Kartarpur Corridor. BJP district president Pushpendra Singal said party’s Ludhiana unit had started a public relations campaign citing these achivements of the Union government. “Under this drive, the BJP leaders will reach out to the general public in different parts of Ludhiana. In 2014, the people had voted for a major change in the country’s policy and manner. In those five years, India has seen systems coming out of the quagmire of inertia and corruption.” The BJP district president added, “In the last term, there was a surgical strike to avenge our slain soldiers and at the same time, we also worked to fulfill the age-old demands of One Rank One Pension, Digital India, Ujjwala Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, One Nation One Tax – GST and MSP issues of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-launches-its-mass-contact-drive/articleshow/76487254.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers continue to throng Central rly stn||Chennai: The Chennai Central railway station and roads leading to it continue to be the hub of guest workers influx, leaving authorities perplexed. Many of them from neighbouring districts are arriving at the railway station hoping that travel will be arranged for them to their natives, though they have no confirmed tickets. A senior official with Chennai corporation said they have formed a team to fast track moving the guest workers to shelters. “The team is also supplied with information from our social media team, which tracks related developments,” the official said. TOI had earlier reported about guest workers from as far as Tada in Andhra Pradesh walking towards Central in hopes to find a way home. Chennai being the nearest city to Tada, the workers had said they come here so they can hire private buses to reach their villages. City corporation officials say the recent influx seems to be motivated by vested interests, in some cases, who push the guest workers towards the city. “We do not have a problem accommodating them. But there seems to be some miscommunication where the guest workers who arrive expect to be put on trains the next day,” said a senior official. According to the official, on an average, 500-700 guest workers have been arriving at the city for the past 10 days from areas outside Chennai. So far, the civic body in co-ordination with police and railway authorities, has managed to send back 1.17 lakh people to other states in 87 trains. There are 45 shelters in the city, in which more than 3,000 others are accommodated till date. Police personnel on the ground too are lost as to how to guide the stranded workers. “They come and complain to us that they have not eaten. It is a sad situation, but there is a communication problem,” said a police constable on duty near Central station. “Since many of them are from villages, they believe that the collector is the highest authority and either walk towards the Chennai collector’s office on beach road, only to be redirected to the corporation headquarters. Some are even fleeced by auto drivers in the process,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-continue-to-throng-central-rly-stn/articleshow/76364348.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Payout to Cheruvally Estate can sabotage govt’s claim||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as the criticism over the government decision to acquire 2263.18 acres of Cheruvally Estate for Sabarimala airport project has gathered steam, the revenue department has clarified that the compensation cited in the order in this regard does not include the land cost and is only the cost of improvements made by the private group on the land. “The government has issued the order to deposit the compensation cost of the improvements made over the land. Those who have been holding the land are entitled for the improvements made in the land. It does not involve land cost. We stand by our claim that the ownership of land rests with the government and have already filed a civil suit in court, on the basis of the Supreme Court order,” revenue minister E Chandrasekharan said. However, the order issued by the government in this regard contradicts the claims of the minister. According to the order, Kottayam district collector has been asked to acquire of 2263.18 acres of Cheruvally Estate by invoking provisions of land acquisition act, subject to the condition that the entire cost of compensation will be deposited before the court having jurisdiction over the area. “The government’s move to deposit the cost of compensation for acquisition before the court till the case over the ownership dispute on the estate is decided by the court is likely to sabotage its claims over the ownership of land. If the government is actually committed to take over the land, the government should have come up with an ordinance to take over the land as recommended in the report of the former special officer M G Rajamanickam, instead of invoking the land acquisition act,” government sources said. It is not the first instance when the government has made a move that could come up as a setback to its claims over land ownership. When a similar dispute over the ownership of 833-acre Karuna Estate in Nelliampathy was at its peak during the previous UDF government, the government’s decision to grant the order permitting the group to remit basic tax had created a huge uproar from the LDF as well as from within the UDF. The opposition then, had claimed that the permission given for remitting the land tax tantamount to declaring that government has no claim over the land, since section 2 (1) (1) of the Land Tax Act, 1961 says that all government lands are exempted from remitting basic tax. After the LDF came to power, the order was cancelled citing that the permission given to remit the land tax was intended to help the private group with which the dispute was going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/payout-to-cheruvally-estate-can-sabotage-govts-claim/articleshow/76486448.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||MC fined, gets notice for not supplying info||Ludhiana: The carelessness of the municipal corporation in supplying information can be gauged from the fact that Punjab State Information Commission has imposed Rs 3,000 penalty in one case while in another case a show-cause notice has been issued for delaying the information. Both applications were files by city-based activist Baljit Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, and in both cases information was not supplied to the applicant. While giving details about the cases Baljit Singh said, “I had demanded information regarding certified copies of application by the coloniser of Barewal Awana near Magnat resort Sua Road, including approval, etc. and receipt for amount paid. This colony was being developed illegally and plots were cut out and roads constructed without MC approval.” He said he did not get the information, so he had to approach the Punjab State Information Commission. Despite several warnings neither the public information officer was present for hearing nor anybody was deputed by him, so the commission issued a show-cause notice to him. Besides, he has been asked to answer why the commission should not impose penalty. He further shared that in the second case he had asked for information about legible copies of all challans of buildings of area in block 32 and 32 A of zone A from January 1, 2018 till date. He said even in this case the information was not supplied and the civic officials in repeated hearings took the plea that information was voluminous, so they need more time to provide the same. He said the Commission took note of this case and imposed a penalty of Rs 3,000 to be paid to him as he had even visited the office of public information officer as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-fined-gets-notice-for-not-supplying-info/articleshow/76487261.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Prison department’s name changed to reflect its correctional services||COIMBATORE: The Tamil Nadu Prison Department will henceforth be known as the Department of Prisons and Correctional Services. The post of the post of additional director general of police (ADGP) (prisons) has also been re-designated as the director general of prisons and correctional services. Officials and NGOs have welcomed the state government’s move of renaming the department. The state home department had issued a government order on June 8 in this regard stating that the additional director general of police/inspector general of prisons was of the view that the prisons were an integral part of criminal justice system, offering punitive and correctional services to people who were in conflict with the laws of the land. The punitive facet, it said, was to make them realize and repent for the offences, while the correctional services provide an opportunity for assimilating them into the society’s mainstream. The order said reformation and rehabilitation of prison inmates was the core objective of both the state central governments. Pointing out that once the focus was on deterrence (deterring people from committing crimes) it said, when the objective was changed reformation there was a decrease in prison punishments and increase in welfare activities and introduction of the system of encouraging good work and conduct in the form of remission, review of sentences, wages, treatment in open air prisons, leave and prison canteen facilities. This was in addition to basic necessities such as good food, clean drinking water and clean environment. Prisoners, it said, were treated with humane approach and dignity, and provided education, skill development training and free legal aid, among others. As per the government order, the Supreme Court had already directed to adopt uniformity in all the states as per the model prison manual 2015. “Therefore, it would be appropriate to change the nomenclature of the ‘Tamil Nadu Prison Department’ as ‘Department of Prisons and Correctional Services’ and re-designate the post of ADGP(prisons) as director general of prisons and correctional services. This order shall come into force with immediate effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prison-depts-name-changed-to-reflect-its-correctional-services/articleshow/76488035.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Notorious sex racketeer Balaji detained under Goondas Act||COIMBATORE: City police commissioner Sumit Sharan detained notorious sex racketeer N Balaji, 46, of Dindigul district, under the goondas Act on Saturday. More than 10 cases were registered against Balaji under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1986, police sources said. The Saravanampatti police had arrested five people, including partners of a lodge, on May 24 for running a prostitution racket. Inquiry revealed that Balaji was the mastermind behind the racket. Inspector V Selvaraj and team arrested Balaji from Nagal Nagar in Dindigul on June 3 and also seized five kilograms of ganja from him. “He is an associate of gangster Mohanram, who was involved in a triple murder case in August 2015. He was arrested by the Vadavalli police for possession of an unlicensed gun. He is running prostitution rings across the state. He is now facing ganja cases and trafficking cases at RS Puram, Peelamedu, Kovilpalayam and Vadavalli. He is facing more than 20 cases across the state,” a police officer said. Balaji is now lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/notorious-sex-racketeer-balaji-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/76488033.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Smart project to spruce up Kurichi lake at Rs 52 crore begins||COIMBATORE: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated restoration and beautification work at Kurichi lake under the Smart Cities Mission on Saturday. The lake, spread across 334.92 acres, will be spruced up at a cost of Rs 52.16 crore. “To create recreational space for the public, cycling track and walkers’ track will be created around the lake for 5.50 kilometres. As many as 47 eateries and other shops will be set up near the lake. Two community halls, three play areas, seven security points and viewing decks will be set up at 23 places. Benches, toilets, purified water stations and workout areas will also be set up,” a statement from the minister said. After the minister announced the project in the assembly in June 2018, the city corporation had taken the lake from the public works department (PWD) on a 90-year lease. Sewage water let into the lake through 14 outlets will be arrested and measures will be taken to improve waste management, said a corporation official. “A 2MLD sewage treatment plant will be constructed to treat water before letting it into the lake,” he said. The city corporation is speeding up renovation work in other lakes including Ukkadam Periyakulam and Valankulam, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/smart-project-to-spruce-up-kurichi-lake-at-rs-52cr-begins/articleshow/76488031.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||After Visakhapatnam, Kakinada to get TU-142 aircraft museum||KAKINADA: Andhra Pradesh is set to get its second TU-142 aircraft museum in Kakinada. The state government on June 19 accorded its approval to the Godavari Urban Development Authority (Guda) to convert the aircraft into a museum with about Rs 6 crore. Visakhapatnam got the first aircraft museum in the state in 2017. The aircraft is positioned opposite to the Kurusura Submarine at RK Beach. Developed by the-then Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority with about Rs 14 crore, the aircraft museum has become a must-see attraction of the city. Now, the East Godavari officials want to repeat the same feat with the aircraft museum. The Indian Navy de-inducted the last three operational workhorse long-range maritime patrol aircrafts TU-142M in March 2017. Since then, the Navy has been handing over the aircrafts to the tourism department of various states, who showed proactive interest in relocating the aircraft to the potential tourist sites. State officials believe that the aircraft will also augment the tourism activity of the area and create awareness in the younger generation on the activities of the Indian Armed Forces and its service to the nation besides encouraging the youth to choose them as career option. Guda vice-chairman Amarendra Kumar said they have to bring the aircraft by road from INS Rajali in Arakkonam, Tamil Nadu. “Today, we have called tenders to dismantle the aircraft, transport and reassemble it. The museum will be developed in nearly three acres on the beachfront in Vakalapudi. Several additional attractions such as a drive-in restaurant, open-air theatre, fruit park, mini-auditorium and others will be added to increase the footfalls to the museum. We have already installed Deepak aircraft in the same premises,” said Dr Kumar. The TU-142M brought in the era of dominant maritime reconnaissance and anti-submarine warfare for the Indian Navy and has always been counted as among the best and the most feared long-range maritime air operations platform in the world. The TU-142M participated in all major exercises and operations including Operation Cactus in Maldives and Operation Vijay in 1998. It also participated as the first Indian Naval aircraft in the Republic Day flypast in 1999 in New Delhi. The aircraft is a four engine turbo prop heavy aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-vizag-kakinada-to-get-tu-142-aircraft-museum/articleshow/76486439.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 21, 2020||Madurai||55,785 tonne coal unloaded in a day in VOC Port||TUTICORIN: A week after handling a record high coal in a day, the V O Chidambaranar (VOC) Port in Tuticorin has broken it by handling 422 more tonne in a day, on Friday. On June 12, the port unloaded 55,363 tonne of coal from the vessel M V Green K Max S. On Friday, the port unloaded 55,785 tonnes of coal in 24 hours from a Marshall Island flagged Panamax class vessel M V Myrsini that arrived from the Port of Tanjung Bara, Indonesia, with 76,999 tonne of coal. The vessel has a deadweight tonnage of 82,117 measuring 229m long, beam of 32.26m and draft of 14.12m . It was consigned for Chettinad Cements. Three harbour mobile cranes were used for unloading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/55785-tonne-coal-unloaded-in-a-day-in-voc-port/articleshow/76488034.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Woman, 45, dies of Covid-19 after giving birth to twins||MADURAI: A 45-year-old woman from Madurai died of Covid-19 on Friday, three days after giving birth to twins at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The woman was admitted on June 16 to GRH after being referred from a private hospital on testing Covid-19 positive. “The woman is a known diabetic for 10 years and had a twin gestation. She also was Covid-19 positive with pneumonia. Despite there being a lot of complications, a C-section delivery was carried out by our team of doctors post which a healthy girl and a boy were born,” GRH dean Dr Sangumani J told TOI. Both the babies tested negative for Covid. However, the mother died at 9.20 am on Friday. The woman already had two daughters and is said to have conceived for the third time seeking a male child via Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) treatment after 13 years. “The woman was brought to us only after being diagnosed with several complications, so it was difficult for us. Though the woman’s age is officially mentioned as 45, she is likely be 49 years old, making age also a risk factor. She developed fever and respiratory distress post the delivery after which she died in three days,” said Dr N Sumathi, head, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, GRH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-45-dies-of-covid-19-after-giving-birth-to-twins/articleshow/76488041.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Online counselling launched to help entrepreneurs||MADURAI: To help entrepreneurs who are undergoing mental stress and depression during the lockdown, Thendral - an initiative to provide psychiatric counselling - was launched on Saturday. The initiative, jointly organized by Nativelead Foundation, an NGO working for the development of entrepreneurs from smaller towns, and CareMe, a digital healthcare platform, was inaugurated by C K Kumaravel, CEO of Naturals Salon and Spa through video-conferencing. More than 100 entrepreneurs, budding entrepreneurs and business people took part in the event. R Sivarajah, founder of Nativelead, said the programme has been designed to alleviate stress levels and eliminate mental barriers that are adversely impacting the productivity and well-being of these individuals. Just a WhatsApp message to 9035766 766 will do to initiate the process, he added. Manick Rajendran, director of Thendral and founder of iMMi Life, said entrepreneurs are taken through a carefully curated process of initial online assessment to identify mental health issues, followed by three free telephonic one to one counselling sessions with mental health experts, and follow-up interactions according to their necessity. Addressing the entrepreneurs, Dr Kannan Gireesh, a psychiatrist, said he has been receiving a large number of calls from small businessmen to well established ones seeking help. “People should open up to friends, relatives and colleagues to get perspectives and help to get out of a problem. Keeping the mind diverted from negative thinking, developing a couple of habits as a stress buster and being grateful for what they have, instead of thinking what they have lost will help a lot. Business people should set up a long-term vision to get away temporary setbacks,” he added. Management consultant Aruna Subramaniam and Shanmuga Priya, founder of Unique Threads Sarees, also took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-counselling-launched-to-help-entrepreneurs/articleshow/76488037.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Parents demand waiver on school fees||JAIPUR: Over 150 parents from different private schools gathered at the Central Park demanding on Saturday demanding fee waiver for the first quarter. They warned that they would stage an indefinite protest outside the CM residence if the government failed to intervene. They claimed that they suffered huge financial losses during lockdown making it difficult to for them to pay fees for of the first quarter. The meeting was held under the banner of All Rajasthan Private Schools Parents Forum (ARPSPF) formed recently to bring all parents on one platform. Forum member Lovin Godha said they had been raising the issue since March, but it fell on deaf ears. “Initially, schools assured of considering their pleas, but from April, they started harassing us by calling every second day for depositing fees. It is causing a mental trauma for most of us who are worried about restarting our businesses and establishments in a scenario with no demand,” said Godha. Some parents who turned up for the protest came prepared to mobilise more support for their cause. Vijay Sharma, a bank employee in a private company, explained that none of the schools has incurred variable cost since the lockdown. “Reports said that most of the schools have slashed salaries of its teachers by 10%-30% which has reduced expenses. Expenses on power, water and maintenance is zero. It is likely the schools will not open in the entire session. Every school maintains a corpus fund for meeting such an emergency situation. I am wondering how many schools have utilised that fund to meet the present situation. As per calculation, every school can easily waive 50% of fees for the first quarter,” said Sharma. Another argument parents are relying on is online classes introduced by schools which they claim is cost-effective. During the meeting, almost all parents argued that they are bearing the cost of online classes. “The cost can be calculated in terms of monetary, physically and psychologically in every household. In order to conduct online classes, a child must be equipped with a computer/laptop, hi-speed internet connection, separate room, constant monitoring of a parent during conduct of classes, which is not possible,” said Shruti Singhal, a parent at the meeting. The body has started mobilising parents studying in every school to exert pressure on the government. So far, they termed tche response from the government ‘insensitive’ and ‘insufficient’ as they have not issued any directions to schools. The panel has prepared a list of 10 schools which has raised fees during or before the country was hit by the pandemic. They will submit the list to the government asking them to roll back the revised fees else they will run a campaign against them on all fronts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-demand-waiver-on-school-fees/articleshow/76488043.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||District sees 11 more Covid-19 cases||COIMBATORE: The RG Pudur cluster on Saturday showed signs of relenting as it reported just two of the 11 new Covid-19 cases in the district. Residents of Dhanam Nagar in Mylampatti, the two were in contact with the 40-year-old textile shop owner and his 35-year-old wife, who were tested positive for the virus a few days ago. The couple were also residents of Mylampatti. The new cases from the cluster comprise a 31-year-old woman and a 58-year-old woman. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases at Dhanam Nagar has gone up to four, the number required to make it a containment zone. A senior health department officer said, “Any area with more than three patients has to be made a containment zone. Dhanam Nagar has four cases now. So, officials with the Sulur block development office have started sealing the entry and exit points to the area.” The new cases also include an 18-year-old girl and 25-year-old man from Annur. They do not have any travel history and their source of infection is yet to be traced. The remaining seven patients have travel histories. Two of them are returnees from Chennai who landed at the city airport on Friday, while another two are from Gandhipuram who had travelled to Wallajahbad to attend a funeral on June 16. A 60-year-old man from Madurai who came to the city for a hernia surgery and a 24-year-old man from Raja Street are also among the new cases with a travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-sees-11-more-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76488042.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Fuel price hike will put undue burden on people, says CPI||COIMBATORE: The Communist Party of India (CPI) members on Saturday protested the petrol and diesel price hike. Pointing out that the fuel price was hiked nine times so far this year, the party representatives said that was when crude oil prices were falling. The central government, they said, has not passed on the benefits (of falling crude oil prices) to the people. M Arumugam, a district representative of the party, said the crude oil price was lower than that of the pre-Covid period, but the Centre was not passing the benefits onto the people. “At this time of pandemic and economic crisis, if petrol and diesel prices are hiked, truck fares would go up and that would make almost every other essential commodity costly. This would put undue burden on people, whose livelihoods are already hit by the crisis.” They demonstrated at the district party office on Syrian Church Road, AITUC Mill Workers’ Union office, Ganapathi, Avarampalayam, Hope College, Perianaickenpalayam, Narasimhanaickenpalayam and Annur. “In every place, five people participated in the demonstration. They followed all the safety precautions and maintained personal distancing,” Arumugam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fuel-price-hike-will-put-undue-burden-on-people-says-cpi/articleshow/76488036.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Yoga centre to offer online programmes||COIMBATORE: On the occasion of the International Day of Yoga on Sunday, founder of Isha Yoga Centre Jaggi Vasudev said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the organisation will offer only online programmes on yoga. “The centre usually observes the day with worldwide programmes. But, with Covid-19 pandemic upending affairs all over the world, no programmes have been scheduled this year,” a statement said. Instead, the organisation will release videos online, which will offer simple yogic practices that are said to have a profound impact on the human system. The release quoted the spiritual leader referring to studies that say during the pandemic and post-pandemic situation, psychological crises would be a big challenge. “The simple yogic processes that we are offering on this International Yoga Day have the power to liberate you from this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/yoga-centre-to-offer-online-programmes/articleshow/76488040.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||10 flying squads formed after Madurai district records single day spike of 90 cases||MADURAI: As many as 90 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Madurai on Saturday, taking the district tally to 636, the highest among southern districts of the state. At present, the number of active cases in the district is 261. According to district health officials, the cases included one pregnant woman, 13 frontline workers, 14 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 12 Chennai returnees, one person each with travel history to Bengaluru, Nagercoil, and Trichy and a person admitted to hospital with chest pain. However, 44 cases were local people, all with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. The high number of cases is also a result of the increased number of tests. As per the state medical bulletin on Saturday, the total samples tested in the district are 23,092 and the number of total tests per million is 6,510. “The public need to be more aware of the situation and follow all precautions with utmost care. Movement of people has led to local spread of Covid-19. Public should co-operate with health officials and police to prevent the spread,” said a senior health official. There is a significant rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district in the last few days, and while it crossed the 50 mark on Friday, 90 fresh cases were reported on Saturday. This has sent shock waves among the public. Madurai district administration is taking many steps to prevent the spread of the disease in the district. The Madurai district administration has constituted 10 flying squads to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the district, and these squads were flagged off by district collector Dr T G Vinay on Saturday. The squad, comprising revenue, corporation and police officials, will monitor wearing of masks and social distancing norms in public places besides creating awareness on the ways to prevent the spread of the disease. These flying squads will be on the prowl from 7am to 12pm and from 4pm to 9pm every day. The flying squads would also ensure that all shops are maintaining social distancing. Any shop found to be crowded or not following norms would be sealed on the spot. It will ensure that all shops are closed by 8pm. Erring, shop owners will be booked under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005. They would also have to monitor overcrowding in public places, and ensure that only permitted number of people travel in vehicles. Hotels and eateries will be monitored for maintaining social distancing and regular disinfection of the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-flying-squads-formed-after-madurai-dist-records-single-day-spike-of-90-cases/articleshow/76488044.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Jaipur||Govt helpless, schools say fee justified||JAIPUR: The state education department is in a fix over providing relief to parents demanding waiver or reduction in school fees due to the pandemic. Since the lockdown, parents have been demanding a waiver and rollback of fees. TOI repeatedly called education minister Govind Singh Dotasra for his comments, but his phone was reachable. Experts said the department was using all its limited options to build pressure on schools to voluntarily reduce the fees or provide relief to parents. The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016 mandates every school to form a fee committee of 10 members including five parents for fixing the fees. However, some schools have got the relief from the court taking the state on the backfoot. “The matter is pending before the court,” said Sourabh Swami, director, secondary education in Bikaner. It makes it clear that state options are very limited to interfere in the case of fee hike until the matter is reported to them. For parents demanding waivers in school fees, the department has advised that they have opened Mahatma Gandhi English Medium schools in every district providing an opportunity for parents to chose these schools over private ones. Pvt schools defend position Facing backlash from parents, private schools stand firm on either charging fees based on the last year or revised ones. TOI called up school principals who claimed that they have been explaining their concerns to parents that fees are required to fulfil the bare minimum needs, not for expansion plans. “Our school had to increase fees by 10% this year, but due to pandemic, we deferred it till the next year. We are in no position to grant a waiver to all parents, which will reduce our revenues. We are not charging for transport, dress and other miscellaneous expenses like annual sports, annual day, etc,” said a principal of a private school in Jaipur. Flexi-fee by missionary schools Even Christian Missionary Schools, which charge nominal fee, have refused any waiver, but have announced that they will allow the parents to pay the first quarter fee till the the end of the last quarter. “We understand that humanity is going through a crisis and we can’t be a mute spectator. But we can manage the delay in taking fees for the first quarter as incurring expenses have gone down,” said Susai Manickam of Christian Missionary Schools. 4th grade staff in crisis Most of the third and fourth-grade staff in schools engaged in jobs like driver, cooks, guards, plumber, electrician and cleaning staff hired from agencies on a contractual basis are facing the wrath of a pandemic. Most of the schools have reportedly not paid to their contractor due to no work in May. “Schools have expressed inability to take our services till the classes resume. In such a scenario, I have to tell our employees to head home for some months,” said Subhash Singh, who provides contractual staff to schools. Unlike teachers, schools are under no legal binding to pay them salaries is a reason that most of the schools are not charging transport fees from the free components. The drivers who ply school buses on a contractual basis have been told not to return until they were called||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-helpless-schools-say-fee-justified/articleshow/76488038.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana residents abandon social distancing over walk & talk in parks||Ludhiana: After opening of public parks like Rose Garden and Rakh Bagh, people have started coming there for jogging and exercise between 5am and 9am while in the evening these areas are not open for public movement. Due to Covid-19, there is lesser number of the elderly as well as kids coming there, but the caretaker and staff at Rose Garden claim that visitors coming to the park sometimes forget to maintain social distancing. Even in Rakh Bagh some people were seen violating the social distancing norms and were found sitting close together. Open gyms in these parks are not yet reopened for the public. TOI team made a visit to Rose Garden and Rakh Bagh on Saturday morning where people were seen exercising, jogging and doing yoga. While some were with a group of friends, others had come alone. A group was doing yoga on one side of Rose Garden and when TOI reporter and photo journalist reached there and asked them why they were not following social distancing and other safety norms like wearing masks, they requested public parks should not be closed. One of them said, “Only we know how we had spent two months of lockdown without coming to the Rose Garden. The government should not close down the parks again.” In other parts of the park it was found that some had come with their kids as vacations are going on in schools and children have nothing to do at home these days. Many were also seeing playing badminton. Situation was not much different in Rakh Bagh. While many were jogging inside the park, a group was seen sitting near the entrance where people feed the pigeons on daily basis. Though cycling has been allowed in Rakh Bagh, many are not interested in doing the same. Vijay Kumar, a daily visitor to Rose Garden, said, “We come here for morning walk and to enjoy fresh air. We are also aware of coronavirus and take all precautions while visiting a public place.” Junior engineer of the Ludhiana civic body and in charge of Rose Garden Kripal Singh said they keep on asking people to leave if they had completed done their exercise or walk as it was not safe for several people to gather at one place especially when Covid-19 cases were increasing. He added that while some people listen, others ignore and even argue with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-abandon-social-distancing-over-walk-talk-in-parks/articleshow/76487266.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid negative certificate must for patients from other districts||COIMBATORE: From next week, people from other parts of the state have to get tested for Covid-19 in their place of origin and bring the certificate if they want to get admitted to a hospital in the district. Only those who test negative will be allowed in. In emergency cases, hospitals have been asked to perform Covid-19 test immediately after performing the life-saving procedure and keep such patients in isolation until test results arrived. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said on Saturday they have issued a notice to a Thanjavur-based patient, who despite knowing he was positive for Covid-19 obtained an e-pass, entered the district and got admitted to One Care Hospital in the city. “The patient did not declare his Covid-19 positive status at the check post or to the hospital earlier.” The health department has also asked VG Hospitals on Mettupalayam Road to disinfect the facility completely after one of its patients tested positive for the virus. While most of the multi-speciality hospitals have already adopted the Covid-19 protocols, the public health department has again reminded private hospitals of the need to follow them strictly. Dr G Ramesh Kumar said, “If a patient is coming for an elective surgery, they have to undergo Covid-19 test 48 hours prior to the admission. This also applies to people from other districts. We want them to undergo Covid-19 test in their home district and bring test results when they come for hospitalization.” Emergency patients, meanwhile, have to be tested for the virus after the medical procedure. “The patient must be kept in isolation. If the patient tests positive for the virus, the hospital must immediately identify the staff who were in contact with that person, test them, keep them in quarantine for 14 days and disinfect the areas where the patient was kept. Hospitals that get staff from another district should strictly quarantine them for 14 days, before letting them join duty,” the deputy director of public health said. Besides this, the hospitals have also been asked to report every fever, cold and cough cases, and disinfect their entire campus periodically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-ve-certificate-must-for-patients-from-other-districts/articleshow/76488047.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris seals borders to outsiders||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris has intensified vehicle check to ensure that only local residents are entering the district. Besides the regular checking at Burliar and Kunjappanai check posts on the district border and at Kakkanallah on the state border, Ooty municipality on Saturday introduced vehicle check at Lovedale Junction, Indu Nagar and Kodappamund. Saraswathi, Ooty municipal commissioner, said, “It is just to fine tune the vehicle checking exercise, as we hear that some people are evading scrutiny at the check posts on the district and state borders. It will take another two to three days to know the effectiveness of the initiative.” Only people with local address proof are allowed to enter Ooty town, which has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases. Kuzhisolai area in Ooty has seven cases, while Kandal area has four cases. Of the 18 active cases in the district, Ooty accounts for 11 cases. Five imported cases, mostly from Chennai, have transmitted the virus to at least 13 of their contacts in the district in the past four days. Within two hours of implementing vehicle check in the town, the municipal officials caught two vehicles from other states at Lovedale junction without e-passes. “One vehicle was from Karnataka and another from Andhra Pradesh. They didn’t have e-passes. But they somehow managed to enter the district through Kakkanallah check post,” Saraswathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-seals-borders-to-outsiders/articleshow/76488045.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VPT plans to set up new conveyor system||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) is mulling plans to construct a closed conveyor facility for handling coal and to avoid the movement of vehicles carrying coal near Jnanapuram Bridge as part of pollution control measures. The estimated cost of the conveyor is between Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore. A committee headed by the VPT chief mechanical engineer has been formed to carry out a feasibility study for the construction. If deemed feasible, the conveyor system will be constructed by the VPT or handed over to another operator under the BOT (build-operate-transmit) system. As per the plan, the belt will be constructed at the western sector of the VPT towards the airport road close to the Essar establishment. “We have around 60 acres to 70 acres of land in that area. We are planning to construct a 7-km-long conveyor belt for the handling of coal to minimise pollution levels further. We have formed a feasibility committee to get the details,” VPT chairman K Rammohan Rao said. Vizag Port has three conveyor systems, including two for coal and one for iron ore. The iron ore conveyor belt of 5 km was maintained by VPT but handed over to Essar Vizag Terminals (EVTL). Vedanta’s Vizag general cargo berth maintains a 2.5-km-long coal conveyor belt and another one-km-long belt operated by Adani Vizag Coal Terminal at EQ1 berth, VPT sources said. The VPT handled around eight million tonnes of coal through closed conveyor systems last fiscal and around 13 million tonnes of iron ore through the conveyor system. It handled 72.72 million tonnes of cargo last fiscal including 14 million tonnes of iron ore, 18 million tonnes of crude oil, and 16 to 18 million tonnes of thermal, coking and steam coal.  “This conveyor belt is one of our major plans and we will act upon the feasibility report,” Rammohan Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vpt-plans-to-set-up-new-conveyor-system/articleshow/76486461.cms||Siva G
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active cases going up in western parts||Ahmedabad: The city registered 301 new cases on Saturday taking the overall Covid-19 cases to 17,285 in the city. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) claimed that 193 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after they got well, while 21 people have died during treatment. The total number of deaths within Ahmedabad municipal limits has gone up to 1,266 while there were 3,691 active Covid-19 cases. The highest number of active cases are in West zone with 840 cases, principally covering areas of Paldi, Navrangpura, Stadium, Juna Vadaj, Sabarmati, Chandkheda and Motera. The posh areas of South-West and North-West zones have collectively reported 635 cases, which is the second highest number, followed by the North zone with 694 cases, clearly depicting that the transmission rates in these areas is increasing rapidly. "Social distancing and the simple activity of wearing masks is being avoided in these areas because of which transmission rate is increasing,” said a senior AMC official.  Of the 21 deaths reported on Saturday, nine were reported from Civil Hospital, one was reported by GCRI hospital, while 11 deaths were reported from private tertiary hospitals. AMC's SVP hospital did not register a single death on Saturday. Some 12,629 people have been discharged from various hospitals and Covid care centres since the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-going-up-in-western-parts/articleshow/76488363.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court stays Rath Yatra processions across Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Saturday stayed Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra procession keeping in mind the current Covid-19 pandemic in the city of Ahmedabad. The HC also cited the Supreme Court order restraining the procession in Puri town in Odisha. After making it clear that no activity relating to Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra procession should be carried out anywhere across the state, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala questioned the state authorities for keeping mum over various applications seeking permission to take out processions. The judges were of the view that given the delicate situation in cities, where the pandemic is relatively severe, the authorities should have immediately taken a decision on requests for permission so that the situation could have become clear earlier. The HC has sought a report from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the home department and the city police commissioner by July 6 on why they did not take any decision on applications seeking permission, said advocate Nandish Thackar. There were two PILs filed demanding that the Rath Yatra procession should be restrained during this Covid-19 pandemic, particularly when Ahmedabad is badly affected. The petitioners contended that the procession route passes along major containment zones, where nearly 5,300 Covid-positive cases were detected and some 490 persons have lost their lives to the pandemic. The PILs also highlighted the plight of security personnel – police, SRPF and others, who are likely to get infected due to such gatherings in Walled City areas. They urged the HC to direct the government to reject the permission for the procession so not only police personnel, but civic and other government officials, who act as frontline workers during the procession, can be spared of their plight After hearing the PILs, the judges opined that such processions cannot be permitted across the state particularly in light of the apex court’s observations by which it has stayed the Rath Yatra in Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-stays-rath-yatra-processions-across-state/articleshow/76488373.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Jewellery showroom brings 30 workers from Chennai, sealed||COIMBATORE: The district administration sealed a multi-storeyed jewellery store on Crosscut Road on Saturday after it allowed 30 workers from Chennai to join work the very next day after they illegally entered the district, without keeping them in the mandatory 14-day quarantine. The shop owners hadn’t also alerted the health department about the arrival of the workers from Chennai. Meanwhile, officials are also probing how the 30 crossed the border without being detected by police personnel at the check post. Tehsildar Magesh Kumar said, “We received a tip from the public in the area that 30 people from Chennai had joined GRT Jewellers’ store on Crosscut Road the very next day after their arrival, without being tested for Covid-19.” Inquiry revealed that the 30 had entered the district without e-passes on Thursday, when they were accommodated in a private lodge in the area, and joined work on Friday. On Saturday, a team of revenue and health department officials inspected the store and found the 30 were working at the systems section of the building. They immediately sealed the building, stopped all customers, and started testing the employees. “They said the workers from Chennai hadn’t mingled with customers. Besides the 30, we are testing nearly 200 of their employees. Since we have deployed a private laboratory to collect the samples, the jewellery store has been asked to bear the expenses of testing, which will cost Rs 3,500 per person,” the tehsildar said. Sanitary inspectors were pressed into disinfect the entire building, including the basement. Officials said they haven’t decided on the duration to keep the store sealed. “All the workers have to quarantine for two weeks. And their test results have to come. District collector K Rajamani will decide on when they can reopen,” Magesh Kumar said. The revenue department is, meanwhile, looking into how they crossed the district border without e-passes. “The store authorities say they were brought in a car in batches of six. The car had an e-pass, but only to move freely within Chennai. So, we don’t believe their version. We are investigating how they entered the district and how they escaped detection at check post,” he said. The Kattoor police have registered a first information report against GRT Jewellers’ store manager and 39 other staff under Section 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jewellery-showroom-brings-30-workers-from-chennai-sealed/articleshow/76488046.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||Partial solar eclipse today, musn’t view sun with your naked eyes||MADURAI: The residents of Tamil Nadu, including Madurai, can witness a partial solar eclipse on Sunday morning, which will begin at 10:17 am and end at 1:24 pm. “The partial eclipse in Madurai will be at its peak at 11:46 am and as much as 29% of the sun will be eclipsed. A minimum of two solar eclipses and a maximum of five solar eclipses can happen in a year,” said Dr T V Venkateswaran, scientist ‘F’, Vigyan Prasar. The next full solar eclipse can be witnessed in Theni region only by 2031. While usually, people gather in open public spaces to witness celestial events like eclipses, this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Madurai-based science organisations like Galileo Science Centre have urged the public to safely witness the eclipse from their homes. “People should never look at the sun directly during a solar eclipse. Solar filter glasses or home-made pinhole cameras can be used to safely witness this celestial play of shadow between earth, sun and moon,” said A Sathyamanickam, director, Galileo Science Centre. The centre has also organized an online photography competition, where participants can submit photos taken of the eclipse, either the shadow or the sun by use of solar filters. The entries can be sent via WhatsApp to 9842595536. Further, scientists also dispelled any myths about the solar eclipse and rumours on how it will affect the coronavirus. “Solar eclipse is not a phenomenon happening within the sun so there is nothing of the sort like mysterious rays coming from it. Also, there have been studies conducted, which clearly show that a solar eclipse cannot affect any microorganisms in any manner,” explained Dr Venkateswaran. He also added that people can eat during the time of eclipse without fear and that it won’t have any detrimental impact on pregnant women. Meanwhile, north India will witness the complete annular solar eclipse on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/partial-solar-eclipse-today-musnt-view-sun-with-your-naked-eyes/articleshow/76488048.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 292 new Covid-19 cases, central districts 60||MADURAI/ TRICHY: With 292 new Covid-19 cases, including nine imported cases, the total cases in in south Tamil Nadu crossed the 3,000 mark on Saturday. For the second day in a row, the region has crossed 200 cases in a single day. The region tally touched 3,228 as several districts reported their highest ever single-day increase in Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 60 Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the toll to 1,579. Trichy remained on top with 23 new cases as the total cases have touched 230. But, the district bulletin mentioned 24 cases as reported on Saturday. Madurai saw a record 90 Covid-19 cases in a single day taking the tally to 636 surpassing Tirunelveli to become the district with the most number of cases in the southern region. Tirunelveli reported 28 new cases on Saturday, including six imported cases. The total number of cases in the district is 612. Ramanathapuram too recorded its highest ever single-day spike with 49 cases taking the district tally to 269. Tuticorin district reported as many as 46 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and remains the district with the third highest number of cases in the region, with 575 cases. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam recorded 10, two and four cases bringing the total to 223, 188 and 195. As many as 10 people including a 12-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19 in Pudukottai district on Saturday. All of them were Chennai returnees. With this, the total number of people tested positive for Covid-19 so far in the district is 69. In Ariyalur, seven cases were reported, all of them returnees from hotspots including Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram. The district is also awaiting the results of 257 samples. Total cases reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur as on Friday stands at 414 and 150. Sivagangai district remains the only district having less than 100 Covid-19 cases. However, the district reported 32 cases on Saturday, which is its highest ever single-day increase so far. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Kanyakumari (15), Virudhunagar (10), Theni (8), Tenkasi (8), Dindigul (6), and Perambalur (3) and Karur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-292-new-cases-central-districts-60/articleshow/76488049.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Pre-monsoon may hit city today||Ludhiana: There is good news for resident grappling with hot conditions as the met department has predicted pre-monsoon showers to arrive in the city as early as Sunday while the monsoon is likely to hit Ludhiana in the next 4-5 days. “Conditions are favourable for the arrival of pre-monsoon showers in the city in the next 48-72 hours starting Sunday. During this period light to moderate rainfall is expected in Ludhiana and the same may be recorded between 10-20 mm. On these days temperature may witness fall, but humidity levels will increase,” Chandigarh met department director Surender Paul said, adding, “After that monsoon is likely to reach Ludhiana by June 24-25. This year the monsoon is likely to remain normal.” Elaborating about the favourable conditions, the met department director said south-easterly winds will start blowing over the city and there will be rise in relative humidity to 80% or more. Weather experts at Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) say pre-monsoon is assumed if it rains for 2-3 days consecutively and the same holds true for monsoon, but for that rain has to be heavy. They added that normal value of rainfall for the monsoon, spread between June to September, for city is around 580mm and this year the rainfall is expected to be around --%. Meanwhile, residents are anxiously waiting for the pre-monsoon and monsoon showers to occur in the city. “Even as monsoon brings high humidity levels and one does sweat a lot during the rainy season, I love the rain. It feels so nice to get drenched in the rain during monsoon,” said Harpreet Kaur, a resident of Pakhowal Road. however, many believe that monsoon also brings diseases with it. “In this season mosquitoes breed and cause diseases like malaria and dengue, we need to take extra precautions during the monsoon. Also, many complain of gastro-intestinal problems, especially after eating out. Hence, it is better to avoid eating outside during the rainy season so that one doesn’t fall ill,” said Ashok Kumar, a trader from Chandigarh Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pre-monsoon-may-hit-city-today/articleshow/76487269.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: SSLC exam results likely before June 30||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Results of SSLC examinations concluded on May 28 are likely to be announced by the state general education department before June 30. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, the original schedule for SSLC examinations had to be revised by the government. As per the original schedule, the SSLC examinations were to be held from March 10 to 26. However, following the health crisis, three of the last examinations had to be postponed to May last week. “Efforts are on to collate the marks and combine the results as early as possible so that result could be ready before June 30. However, no specific date has so far been fixed as to when the result should be finally announced,” said sources close to the developments. Since majority of examinations had concluded in March itself, the evaluation process was also carried out in a staggered manner. “Collation of marks are being done in evaluation centres itself. So it won’t take too many days to prepare the result once the evaluation is over,” said another source. Close to 4.25 lakh students have attended the examination this year. Evaluation of SSLC answer books are being held in 54 camps. Following the social distancing norms and travel restrictions, SSLC examinations were held under strict vigil. Elaborate arrangements were made to ensure that health aspects of students are not compromised. In the second phase of the examination, students were given permission to change examination centres and around 2,000 students had availed this facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sslc-exam-results-likely-before-june-30/articleshow/76486473.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||After TikTok, Uttarakhand Police mulls banning other Chinese apps for personnel||Dehradun: A day after Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) banned 52 Chinese mobile apps for its staffers over security concerns, Uttarakhand Police is also thinking of taking similar action. A copy of the advisory (of UP STF) has been sought from the neighbouring state and after going through legalities and other aspects, top brass of the state police will take a call, officials said. “We have already banned TikTok for any kind of official work and Zoom video conferencing platform is not being used by the state police. We have asked for a copy of the UP STF advisory and after going through it, we will take a decision on the matter,” said DG Law and Order Ashok Kumar. He pointed out that it was not an order issued by the UP government, but an internal circular issued by the STF. Uttarakhand, which has around 25,000 police personnel, shares international borders with China and Nepal. “In the past too, we have discouraged the use of mobile applications, through which personal data can be shared or stolen. Uttarakhand police never used the Zoom app and TikTok too has been banned for the state police,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-tiktok-uttarakhand-police-mulls-banning-other-chinese-apps-for-personnel/articleshow/76485716.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC readjusts containment zones||AHMEDABAD: Almost 19 days after declaring 46 micro-containment zones in the city, the civic body has readjusted them depending on the number of new Covid cases. The overall micro-containment areas have gone down to 36. Five clusters have continued from the previous list, nine micro-containment areas have been struck off the list, and there are currently 30 new residential societies on the list. Only housing clusters, from where 5 to 10 Covid cases have emerged in the last two weeks have been included in the latest list. The latest list clearly depicts how the new cases are now concentrated in the West, North, New West and East zones of the city. Many societies and clusters of houses in the Walled City have witnessed a drastic drop in the number of cases. Also, a new strategy of using cycle threshold (Ct) values of Covid patients, to segregate patients with high viral load is being implemented in the city for the first time. This value is generated when laboratories perform the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test on samples to test for Covid virus presence in a person. “A person with high viral load is likely to spread the virus eight times higher than a person with low viral load. We have now designed a patient isolation and containment strategy for areas based on Ct value,” sayd a senior AMC official. The strategy was suggested by a team at the ICMR-National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad. Another relaxation in containment areas is that if a particular building in a residential society has one to two cases, the whole building is not declared as containment area. “The containment restriction is limited to just two floors in a building,” added the AMC official. Aarogya Setu app data is being mined to reach out to patients. “People update their health status in Aarogya Setu app and the moment they suspect there is a fever or cough our 104 service approaches them upfront. Some 990 Aarogya Setu app updates were traced and 400 people were approached,” added the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-readjusts-containment-zones/articleshow/76488370.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s much-lauded contact tracing model falters in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: While Karnataka has been lauded by the Centre for its contact tracing model, the process has been a failure in Bengaluru. Of the 554 cases reported in the city in the past 10 days, authorities have not been able determine how about 100 of them caught the virus. In fact, the state health department’s daily bulletin over the past fortnight, gives a general explanation under the case history column for many Covid-positive patients. It simply says ‘contact under tracing’ instead of specifying a possible source of infection. “Initially, most cases were either primary or secondary contacts of flyers from abroad and they were easy to track and test,” a senior official said. “We could also determine if a person has a history of influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). But now it is difficult to pin-point how a person contracted the virus.” Of the 94 positive cases reported in the city on Saturday, authorities were yet to trace the source of infection in 12 cases. And of 138 cases reported on Friday, authorities listed 33 cases as ‘contact under tracing’. While it does suggest chinks in data collation, officials put it down to patients being tightlipped. “Most people are shocked when told they have tested positive and go into a cocoon,” an official said. “At first, they refuse to divulge if they met any person with Covid-like symptoms and also do not reveal names of all the people whom they met. This delay in revealing names is making contact tracing difficult.” Officials say people who test positive feel like they have received a death sentence and hesitate to talk to doctors. Most patients go into depression and feel a sense of defeat. “We need to get them talking about their movements, which is the biggest challenge of contact tracing. There are cases where people did not speak for a whole day or gave false information,” said Dr B Vijayendra, BBMP chief health officer. He went on to say, “A patient who is optimistic of fighting the virus shares all details within 10 minutes, but many do not. They give false information to protect their families and friends without realising they are causing bigger damage.” A senior medical officer at a Covid-19-treating hospital said they rope in psychologists to source information from those who are hard to crack. “Only a psychologist can say when a patient is hesitant to talk or is giving false information,” said an official. “They counsel patients for an hour and extract information from them. They show date cards, talk about each day and track primary and secondary contacts.” Health officials make an average 260 phone calls a day to identify primary contacts of a positive patient. Then, another 200 calls are made to identify secondary contacts. These calls each last for about an hour, said an official. “We are forced to put ‘contact under tracing’ in such cases because it takes time to collect the data and pass it on to the government,” said Vijayendra. “Once details are available we inform health officials and update the information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-much-lauded-contact-tracing-model-falters-in-bluru/articleshow/76487290.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 21, 2020||Agra||Salons to operate in Agra district from Sunday||AGRA: After over three months of shutdown, citizens will be able to get services of salons in the city from Sunday onwards. The district administration has issued eight-point guidelines to be compulsorily followed by the salons. The orders issued by the additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi and superintendent of police Botre Rohan Pramod mentioned that not more than two customers will be allowed to enter inside the salon at a time. Also, arrangements have to be made for the thermal screening of the customers at the entrance. In the air-conditioned salons, the hairdresser will have to wear a PPE kit and in an apron in airproof salons. The salons owners have been mandated for using the use and throw towels. Besides, the salon owners will have to follow the odd and even plan of the market to operate. All the salons in the city will remain closed on Thursday. The district administration has directed salons to record the Aadhaar number or mobile number and address of the customer. Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Following required precautions, salons can be operated in the Agra from Sunday onwards. Salons found not following the guidelines will be sealed. In case, any customer or staffer is found tested Covid-19 positive than the salon will be immediately shutdown”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/salons-to-operate-in-agra-district-from-sunday/articleshow/76486488.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Doctor injured in attack, clinic vandalised||Ludhiana: A group of miscreants attacked on an Ayurvedic doctor, who also works as a scribe, in broad daylight on Kailash Nagar Road, Jodhewal area on Saturday. The accused wearing masks struck at his clinic and tried to hit his head with a sharp-edged weapon. However, the man saved his head using his arms. When he raised an alarm, the accused escaped from there after vandalising the clinic. The man has sustained injuries on his arms and hands. Rajiv Sharma (42) said, “The time was around 12.45pm when I was attending patients at the clinic. As soon as patients left the clinic, two masked miscreants entered the clinic and attacked me. They were trying to hit me on my head with sharp edged weapons but I manage to cover my head with my hands. Thereafter, four more miscreants entered the clinic and they all attacked me.” When Sharma raised an alarm, the miscreants manage to escape from there. However, before leaving, they vandalised his clinic. Thereafter, some residents living nearby rushed the injured man to a hospital. Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, SHO at Jodhewal police station, said the accused had come on two bikes and a scooter, which had been captured in CCTVs installed in the locality. According to the victim he does not have any rivalry with anyone. Meanwhile, the investigations have been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doctor-injured-in-attack-clinic-vandalised/articleshow/76487276.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||During Covid times, yoga a stress buster||Ludhiana: To boost the morale of corona positive patients, yoga and recreation activities have been started at various places like Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) Vardhman isolation facility and Meritorious School. These sessions will help patients come out of stress and anxiety and make them start a healthy living with increased immunity level. This has been done following recommendations by the government. Navraj Brar, faculty in charge of MCH Vardhman, said, “We have arranged recreational indoor games to boost the morale of Covid-19 patients, so that they can pass their time in stress-free atmosphere. Counselling is also needed at this juncture where senior medical officer Dr Amita Jain and her team of doctors have presented these recreational games to patients.” An international yoga guru, Sanjeev Tyagi, who has planned to celebrate the 6th International Yoga Day as a virtual event on global level said, “There was a need to develop a combination of traditional and modern yoga. “In the current scenario of Covid-19 when the entire world is facing the fear of death, yoga has come up to the rescue of mankind from anxiety and stress and enhance immunity of the body.” He adds, “Covid-19 is an infectious disease and causes respiratory illness with symptoms such as cough, fever and in more severe cases, difficulty breathing. For the same, yoga asanas, pranayama and meditation, when practiced regularly can balance organ stimulation, induce deeper respiration, enhance immune defence and aids destruction of viruses and parasitic organisms. It brings positivity and balance in the physical body and non-physical mind.” Amrit Kalsi, deputy director, training and counselling, CT University, said, “Nowadays, we are promoting laughter yoga, facial yoga. Laughter therapy will increase patience level.” Some other yoga experts said, “In life, daily practice of yog asanas for 15 minutes, followed by pranayama for 5 minutes and then dhyana for a few minutes is sufficient for a healthy body, mind and soul. The duration of the practice can be increased gradually. Yoga is not just associated with physical well-being. It plays an integral role in mental, emotional, psychological and spiritual wellbeing specially in this time distress.” Dr Ashwani K Malhotra, former senior medical officer, said, “The pandemic which led to an over two month long lockdown made many of us anxious and stressed. Though the easing of restrictions has led to opening up of shops, business establishments , factories and offices, work has not really picked up and it may not for a while. Meanwhile, our anxiety persists and the stress levels continue to be high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/during-covid-times-yoga-a-stress-buster/articleshow/76487273.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ten injured as violent buffalo runs amok||Kollam: Ten persons were injured when a buffalo brought for slaughtering at Kundara turned violent on Saturday. The incident occurred at 10:30am at Chathinakulam when the buffalo tried to break free and escape. After damaging some motorbikes parked on the wayside, it ran along the road. When the buffalo reached Chandanathoppu, Mammoodu junction, Kundara police and local residents tried to block it. Police placed two jeeps across the road. But they couldn’t contain it. Later, a quick response team from Kadappakkada fire and rescue station used a net and rope from the top of the rescue vehicle to neutralize the animal. Since the buffalo was earlier hit by vehicles while it was running along the road, it succumbed to its injuries. Senior fire and rescue officer Johnson, civil police officer Gireesh Kumar were injured seriously on the legs. Fire and rescue services station officer Sali led the fire and rescue team. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ten-injured-as-violent-buffalo-runs-amok/articleshow/76486501.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Posh Ahmedabad areas least bothered||Ahmedabad: One of reasons for the sudden spikes in Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad because of citizens not wearing masks. At most places social distancing norms are also not being followed. The AMC has collected fines of Rs 25.76 lakh from 12,880 individuals who could not follow these simple observances as part of their civic duty. The Covid-19 transmission rates can be cut up to 80% according to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Delhi, if people wear masks, say health authorities at the AMC. The maximum number of people fined were 2,602 in the posh North West and South West zones including areas of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Jodhpur Gam, and West Zone which saw 2,395 people fined. The zone includes areas like Navrangpura, Paldi and Stadium areas. "People loosely wear handkerchiefs around their necks and pull it up when AMC officials try to catch them. What such people do not understand is that they are risking someone's life with such carelessness," sayid a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/posh-ahmedabad-areas-least-bothered/articleshow/76488374.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Covid curbs set meat prices soaring in Doon||Dehradun: The unavailability of fresh stock from Ghazipur market in New Delhi and other restrictions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic have set meat prices soaring in the city. While the price of chicken has gone up by around Rs 100, the rates of mutton have almost doubled. According to traders, the unavailability of fresh meat from Ghazipur, restrictions by civic bodies and closure of several poultry farms due to the lockdown have all contributed to the rise in prices. While poultry items like chicken are being sold at rates between Rs 300 to 350 in city shops, the price for mutton is between Rs 800 to 900. They added that the shortage of fresh meat has also forced many to sell frozen meat. Ashish Kumar, a meat shop owner, said “We are mostly selling frozen meat as there is hardly any supply from the big markets of Delhi. Frozen chicken is available at around Rs 220 per kilogram. However, customers are not very keen to buy frozen meat due to which we are forced to procure fresh stock from local farms at higher prices.” Vinay Nautiyal, a resident of EC Road, said, “I have tried to buy fresh meat but it is simply not available. The problem is that frozen meat does not taste good and people buy fresh meat even if it is at a higher rate.” Sunil Lama, a trader at Ghazipur meat market in Delhi, said, “There is hardly any business as hotels and restaurants are still closed. Earlier, we used to supply around 100 kg of meat daily which is now far less. Once the restrictions on slaughterhouses and transportation are lifted completely, the supply is expected to streamline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-curbs-set-meat-prices-soaring-in-doon/articleshow/76486511.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Meerut||Mobile on a matka: Covid concerns chalk out creative classrooms||MEERUT: The move to virtual learning has thrown up challenges for educators — keeping the class engaged, ensuring learning is easy -- and all of this armed with just a smartphone or a laptop. Many teachers TOI spoke to said blackboards — the ubiquitous teaching tool in classrooms — were integral to collaborative learning. That’s why they are coming up with creative hacks to reintroduce the blackboard while taking digital classes. Household items like books, glasses and pen stands are being used to mount and support phones while teachers replicate classroom learning, solving problems on paper, cardboards and chalkboards. Moumita Bhattacharjee, a chemistry teacher at a Pune school, set up a makeshift ‘tripod’ that would allow students to watch her solving equations on the board. Her photo — showing a mobile phone hanging from the ceiling fan, placed carefully on a cloth hanger and tied to a chair using spare bits of cloth — went viral on social media this month. Since then, several netizens have approached her, offering to buy her a tripod that would make her job easy, Bhattacharjee told TOI. “It was difficult to teach chemistry without a board since it requires a lot of explanation. My children held the phone initially, but they would get tired quickly so I came up with this hack of sorts. I had no idea it would get this kind of response,” she said. Chandi Prasad Kothiyal’s DIY project includes an old cellphone box attached to a ruler. The box has a large hole so when the phone is placed inside, its camera is not obstructed. The ruler is wedged in between a stack of books at a height, allowing the camera to focus on the paper placed below on the table. “This allows students to see whatever I’m writing on the paper and helps them understand it better,” said the science teacher at a government school in Tehri Garhwal. In Meerut’s Lalkurti slum, a smartphone atop a matka (earthen pot) propped up by bricks makes for a strange sight, but for kids of the area it’s their “classroom”. Every evening, a dozen children gather in an open space outside their houses to listen to their teacher — Shantanu Sharma — as he appears on the smartphone screen, his voice echoing on a Bluetooth speaker connected to the phone. “I have been part of a volunteer initiative — Udgam Classes — to teach underprivileged kids for over a year now. But our lessons were disrupted during the lockdown. We talk of online classes, but many families don’t have access to internet or mobile devices. How do you make sure such students don’t suffer?” said Sharma. The 22-year-old then approached one of the families in the area which had access to a smartphone and they agreed to lend their device for two hours every day. Sharma then arranged for a speaker. With the help of bricks, planks and pots, the smartphone was then set up at an angle from where it was visible to the children, allowing them to resume classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mobile-on-a-matka-covid-concerns-chalk-out-creative-classrooms/articleshow/76486504.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||He has papa’s shoulders to carry him||AHMEDABAD: The world of Naresh Sharma, a resident of Vastral, revolves around his younger son Dhiren, who has muscular dystrophy (MD), a genetic condition that makes the person gradually immobile. “I am into the business of marble cutting and engraving. I also travel to other cities – but on one condition that I would leave home only after Dhiren’s all needs are taken care of,” says Sharma. “He doesn’t like to be carried around by others. So I help him in his daily activities and ensure that he never feels alone.” Dhiren, now 19, started developing symptoms of MD at the age of seven. “Like many families, we were also clueless about what was happening to him. We went from one doctor to another and finally got to know about his condition. As my wife also developed severe arthritis, for the past several years, I primarily take care of him,” says the doting father. But it’s not all. Sharma is the part of a close-knit group that spreads awareness about the condition. “Gujarat has about 850 such individuals. We conduct awareness camps and medical check-ups for such individuals and tell them that they are not alone. We also get the genetic test done for free in collaboration with the state government,” says Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-has-papas-shoulders-to-carry-him/articleshow/76488378.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Jose snubs UDF ultimatum on Ktym dist panchayat post||Kottayam: Giving a shock to the UDF leadership, Jose K Mani dismissed the ultimatum served by UDF convener Benny Behaman on Saturday. Behanan had asked Jose group to step down from the post of president of Kottayam district panchayat to allow the candidate of the Joseph group to become president for the remaining period. Behanan on Saturday wrote to Jose K Mani regarding this. However, Jose dismissed the direction and is ready to face any eventuality due to his stand. Now, with Jose group unwilling to quit the post, Joseph will have to move no-trust motion along with Congress. If CPM supports Jose group, then Joseph group will lose the no-trust motion. There is already a history in the panchayat where Kerala Congress (M) had received CPM support. Congress candidate Sunny Pampady was defeated by the KC(M) candidate with CPM support. It was following this that KC(M) left the UDF earlier. Jose had put forward some conditions to quit the president post. He wanted to get a confirmation on the number of seats his group will get to contest in the next assembly elections. On the contrary, UDF wanted Jose to quit the post abiding by the agreement for power sharing. According to the agreement, Jose group will hold the post for the first 8 months and Joseph group to follow in the next six months. However, Jose is in no mood to agree to this. Meanwhile, Jose K Mani said that there was no such agreement. “There was an agreement made before the death of K M Mani. We are not quitting based on that agreement. It is not fair of the UDF to ask us to quit based on an agreement which never exists,” he said. He also slammed Joseph saying that he created problems for the UDF by fielding a rebel candidate in Pala bypoll. “No action was taken against Joseph by the UDF,” he said. Joseph expressed happiness with the UDF leadership for approving his stand. “Truth will prevail. The UDF took a just decision by dismissing the lie of Jose K Mani that there was no agreement,” he said. Now it is up to the UDF to decide what should be done if Jose does not step down from the president post, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jose-snubs-udf-ultimatum-on-ktym-dist-panchayat-post/articleshow/76486519.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain stable, does not need oxygen support||NEW DELHI: The condition of Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who developed pneumonia after contracting Covid-19 recently, is stable. Sources at Max Smart in Saket, where he is admitted, said the 55-year-old minister doesn’t have fever and he is not requiring oxygen support also. “He is stable and doing well. He might be shifted to a private room from the ICU soon,” the source said. Jain was administered plasma therapy on Friday, hours after being shifted to Max Smart from Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty (RGSS) hospital. Sources said the plasma collected from Covid-19 patients who have already recovered and kept in the hospital’s blood bank was used for the purpose. Doctors at RGSS hospital, where he was earlier admitted, on Thursday said he had been diagnosed with pneumonia and his oxygen saturation level had also dipped, prompting hospital authorities to shift him to an intensive care unit. Union home minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to wish Jain a speedy recovery on Friday. Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, a day after he was admitted to RGSSH after running high-grade fever and suffering sudden drop in oxygen levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jain-stable-does-not-need-oxygen-support/articleshow/76488068.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Declare health emergency in Hyd: Cong||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Saturday demanded the state government declare a health emergency in Hyderabad and surrounding districts having high number of coronavirus cases. “There has been a huge increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Telangana, especially GHMC and neighbouring districts in the last 15 days,” Shabbir Ali said. “With state conducting another 50,000 tests and tests by private labs, the overall number of positive cases might witness a huge jump. Therefore, the government should declare a health emergency,” he demanded. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/declare-health-emergency-in-hyd-cong/articleshow/76488069.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Rising mercury, paddy sowing fuel power demand||PATIALA: Power demand in Punjab has crossed 12,000MW with an increase in temperature and paddy sowing in full swing. Power supply on Saturday was 2,780 lakh units (LU), with a maximum demand of 12,253MW. The Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. (PSPCL) is maintaining an eight-hour power supply to tubewells. Thermal generation in the state is around 977 LU per day as all thermal units of Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib plants in the private sector are running in state sector. All units of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat plants are also running. As on Saturday evening, the power demand was 1,183 megawatts, while gross generation was 5568 megawatts. The two units of Ropar thermal plant were generating 398 megawatts of power, while two units at Lehra Mohabbat were chipping in with 390 megawatts. The state power corporation was drawing 429 megawatts from Ranjit Sagar Dam, while the three major thermal power plants in Punjab by the private sector were together generating a total of 3,685 megawatts of power. The two units of Rajpura thermal plant were operating to full capacity and contributing 1,335 megawatts. The three units of Talwandi Sabo were generating 1854MW. The two 270MW capacity units of Goindwal thermal power plant were generating 496MW. Total hydro generation stood at 933MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rising-mercury-paddy-sowing-fuel-power-demand/articleshow/76488065.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Two men strike fatal blows on youth's head||MEERUT: A 21-year-old youth succumbed to severe head wounds on Friday, two days after he was fatally struck by two men over a certain dispute. The entire act was caught on camera. But, it was only after the man's death that the police began to act. At present, the two accused are on the run. The incident occurred on Wednesday when one Mani Kumar called Lucky Kumar out of his house in Jagrati Vihar locality. Mani was later joined by another friend Pankaj and during a conversation one of them picked up a rod and struck at Lucky. The latter immediately collapsed. In the camera footage, the accused could be seen trying to revive Lucky. Two days later on Friday night he died. Station officer of Medical police station, Kulbir Singh, said, "Lucky fell unconscious after being hit by the attackers. They hid the matter and only told his relatives that he fell and hit his head on the ground. He was taken to several hospitals, but couldn't survive. During police investigation it came to light that the man was hit by two others who fled. The exact motive behind the murder will be clear only once they are arrested."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murder-caught-on-camera-2-men-strikefatal-blows-on-21-year-old-youths-head/articleshow/76486513.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After long wait for a bed, last rites also a challenge||NEW DELHI: After a caretaker at a shelter home for the mentally challenged succumbed to Covid-19, 20 others have tested positive for the novel coronavirus after the first detection on June 2. The family of Jaishankar had a traumatic time after his death and his wife, Lalita, told TOI that she had to pay Rs 8,000 for the cremation at a time when she had just Rs 1,500. Staff employees at Asha Kiran in Rohini are now fearful of infection, though not all of them have undergone tests. The ordeal for Lalita began in last week of May when her husband developed fever. “I visited Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and doctors prescribed medicines for five days. I went back to the hospital on June 3, by which time the hospital was been made a Covid facility,” recalled Lalita. “My husband felt fine, but later got an upset stomach. On June 5, which was also our 18th wedding anniversary, I rushed him to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where they carried out some investigation but referred him to AIIMS since there were no beds here. The same night I was told he had tested positive for Covid. For five days, he was in the hospital and on June 10 he passed away.” When Lalita went to claim her husband’s body on June 11, she was told the paperwork wasn’t complete. The next day, she was asked to reach the crematorium in Uttam Nagar. “There, the people said I would have to pay Rs 8,000. I had only Rs 1,500 with me, but luckily some crematorium staffers contributed and we carried out the cremation,” she said. “My 10-year old son then tested positive and he is in home isolation, while my daughter and I stay in another room.” Lalita who works as a cook at the shelter home said she absented herself during the period, but her work-conscious husband never said no if he was asked to report for work. “I wish the government would provide safety equipment like PPE kits and gloves to people are working in a suspect environment,” she said. Sources said that the first Covid case at the shelter was reported on June 2 after a housekeeping staff tested positive. Soon after, a doctor, peon and Jaishankar were also infected. Testing was carried out among some staffers, and a 19-year old male inmate, three house “aunties” and a health worker tested positive. On June 19, another seven male inmates and four staffers tested positive. A number of inmates are yet to be tested. TOI contacted government officials about the situation in Asha Kiran several times, but there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-long-wait-for-a-bed-last-rites-also-a-challenge/articleshow/76487312.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Rising mercury, paddy sowing fuel power demand||PATIALA: Power demand in Punjab has crossed 12,000MW with an increase in temperature and paddy sowing in full swing. Power supply on Saturday was 2,780 lakh units (LU), with a maximum demand of 12,253MW. The Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. (PSPCL) is maintaining an eight-hour power supply to tubewells. Thermal generation in the state is around 977 LU per day as all thermal units of Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib plants in the private sector are running in state sector. All units of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat plants are also running. As on Saturday evening, the power demand was 1,183 megawatts, while gross generation was 5568 megawatts. The two units of Ropar thermal plant were generating 398 megawatts of power, while two units at Lehra Mohabbat were chipping in with 390 megawatts. The state power corporation was drawing 429 megawatts from Ranjit Sagar Dam, while the three major thermal power plants in Punjab by the private sector were together generating a total of 3,685 megawatts of power. The two units of Rajpura thermal plant were operating to full capacity and contributing 1,335 megawatts. The three units of Talwandi Sabo were generating 1854MW. The two 270MW capacity units of Goindwal thermal power plant were generating 496MW. Total hydro generation stood at 933MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rising-mercury-paddy-sowing-fuel-power-demand/articleshow/76490452.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Dehradun||Kanwar Yatra called off this year due to Covid concerns||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has called off the Kanwar Yatra this year after consultations with the home ministry and neighbouring states. This was done in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, The fortnight-long pilgrimage, during which -- as per government estimates -- around 5 crore pilgrims were expected to visit Haridwar this time, was scheduled to be held between July 6-July 20. The highest footfall of devotees is usually from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana. During a telephonic conversation with home minister Amit Shah, chief minister TS Rawat apprised him of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state after which the former advised him to go ahead with the decision of cancelling the yatra. Rawat also held a video conference with his UP and Haryana counterparts Yogi Adityanath and Manohar Lal Khattar. In a statement, Rawat expressed gratitude to the CMs of UP and Haryana “for extending their cooperation in the matter”. He is scheduled to hold a video conference nowwith the CMs of Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan in the coming days where he is expected to apprise them of the issue. State government spokesperson Madan Kaushik told TOI that “although kanwarias won’t be able to come to Haridwar, gangajal -- water from the Ganga -- can be supplied to other states in tankers if the modalities work out.” The decision to not hold the yatra this year was welcomed by residents of Haridwar and priests. Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmaya Vashisth said, “Saving lives should naturally be our priority. Kanwar mela attracts crores of pilgrims and holding it will mean exposing them to the threat of Covid-19.” (with inputs from SS Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kanwar-yatra-called-off-this-year-due-to-covid-concerns/articleshow/76486524.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 21, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Rising mercury, paddy sowing fuel power demand||PATIALA: Power demand in Punjab has crossed 12,000MW with an increase in temperature and paddy sowing in full swing. Power supply on Saturday was 2,780 lakh units (LU), with a maximum demand of 12,253MW. The Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. (PSPCL) is maintaining an eight-hour power supply to tubewells. Thermal generation in the state is around 977 LU per day as all thermal units of Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib plants in the private sector are running in state sector. All units of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat plants are also running. As on Saturday evening, the power demand was 1,183 megawatts, while gross generation was 5568 megawatts. The two units of Ropar thermal plant were generating 398 megawatts of power, while two units at Lehra Mohabbat were chipping in with 390 megawatts. The state power corporation was drawing 429 megawatts from Ranjit Sagar Dam, while the three major thermal power plants in Punjab by the private sector were together generating a total of 3,685 megawatts of power. The two units of Rajpura thermal plant were operating to full capacity and contributing 1,335 megawatts. The three units of Talwandi Sabo were generating 1854MW. The two 270MW capacity units of Goindwal thermal power plant were generating 496MW. Total hydro generation stood at 933MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rising-mercury-paddy-sowing-fuel-power-demand/articleshow/76490453.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Make accused bathe after arrest, says Bengaluru top cop||BENGALURU: Detaining a suspect or arresting a habitual offender? Ensure the accused has taken a bath and changed his/her clothes before picking him/her up. This is a directive from Bengaluru city police commissioner Bhaskar Rao to his force following a surge in the police personnel testing positive in recent weeks. The Bengaluru city police force, numbering around 16,000, is under tremendous pressure after 38 personnel tested positive. Two have died in a span of four days and 350 are in quarantine. Rattled, Rao has directed his force to follow all precautionary measures, especially while handling suspects. “When you detain a suspect, make sure s/he has a bath immediately. This is not possible in all cases, but it should be done if there is an opportunity,” Rao said. “If an arrest is being made at home, ask them to bathe there or take them to the nearest public bathroom. Ensure s/he changes clothes and subject them to proper sanitising before taking them into the station. Subject them to a Covid-19 test immediately and make sure the suspect is kept at a distance until results are out. Staff who come in contact with the suspect must sanitize themselves.” He went on to say, “It is a tough situation, but we have to work and there is no alternative other than precautionary measures.” Many small-time criminals have been carriers of the virus and have infected cops, who also spread it to colleagues and family members, while some stations have had to be shut and sanitised. At least 40 police deployed in Padarayanapura were quarantined after four who were arrested for indulging in violence tested positive. And 11 from Jayanagar police station were quarantined after an accused they arrested in a theft case tested positive. “Despite such incidents, crime teams are probing cases and still visiting neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. However, we are staying away from Maharashtra for now,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bathe-change-clothing-of-accused-after-arrest-says-top-cop/articleshow/76487306.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
June 21, 2020||Kochi||CM rips into KPCC chief for ‘sexist’ remarks on Shailaja||Thiruvananthapuram: Hours after KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran refused to apologize for his “sexist” remarks against health minister K K Shailaja, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan unleashed a scathing attack on the opposition’s “destructive style of politics”. The CM also assured all support to the family of Lini, the nurse who lost her life to Nipah, as he slammed Congress workers for staging a march on Saturday to the hospital in Kozhikode where Lini’s husband, Sajeesh, works. The march was to protest the statement made by Sajeesh in support of Shailaja. “We see the family (of Lini) as one of our own. The whole of Kerala views them like that. They (the opposition) don’t need to appreciate that. But can’t they at least not haunt them? said Vijayan during a news conference here. “What is wrong in the reaction of Lini’s family? It is well known that the health minister was in the forefront of the fight against Nipah and Covid-19. When such a person was verbally assaulted with labels such as ‘Nipah princess’ and ‘Covid queen’, it is only natural for the family to react. Lini is Kerala’s asset,” he said. Earlier in the day, Ramachandran defended his epithets by trying to draw a parallel with UK daily Guardian’s use of the moniker ‘rock star’ minister in an article about Shailaja. “I don’t know much about modern dance methods. But, London Guardian described her as a rock dancer,” he said. Ramachandran said he stood by what he said and asked what was wrong in using terms like queen and princess. On whether he would apologize following the widespread criticism over the remarks, Ramachandran said, “What are you talking? Apology? Me…? No way.” He, however, claimed that he had always valued women’s contributions in society. He said his criticism was only against the health minister’s attempts to take credit for everything. “The KPCC president has become a prisoner of his own ecstatic mindset. He gets disturbed when the world speaks good of Kerala. When our small state is setting a model on many counts, here is a leader trying to prove how not to become a model for a public servant. The attack on Shailaja teacher is sexist. Do you treat women like this?” said CM Vijayan, mincing no words. The CM listed several recent instances, including the opposition’s dithering on opening places of worship and the joint demand by Ramachandran, Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala to postpone school exams, to allege that the opposition has only tried to sabotage the government’s attempts to manage the Covid-19 crisis. He said opposition leaders who are vocal against state government are silent about Centre’s neglect of the state. “Let the people realize how they use even a pandemic for selfish political gains,” he said. “The only issue that haunts the opposition is who gets the credit. I have only one answer. Whether that is Nipah or Covid, credit is for our state,” the CM said. Meanwhile, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan asked Ramachandran to withdraw his remarks against the health minister and tender a public apology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-rips-into-kpcc-chief-for-sexist-remarks-on-shailaja/articleshow/76486527.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab docs up in arms over CE Act||Patiala: Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) is planning to shut down all healthcare operations on Tuesday to protest against the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA). The law is all set to come in force on July 1. IMA (Patiala) president Dr Ajata Shatru Kapoor and secretary Dr Harsimran Singh said there are 43 laws imposed on private nursing homes, apart from a regulatory body, Punjab Medical Council. The duo contended that implementation of a similar Act in 11 other states had not produced desired results and it was totally uncalled for. New rules under CEA had led to a rise in patients’ bills, they claimed, adding that all requests raised by IMA for regularisation of nursing homes and clinics had been brushed aside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-docs-up-in-arms-over-ce-act/articleshow/76488073.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kochi||Monsoon weak in first half of June||Kochi: While there are spurts of rainfall in some places in the state, the southwest monsoon has not shown its characteristic rainfall pattern even in the third week of the month. Central Kerala has not received much rains as per the rainfall pattern since India meteorological department’s (IMD) declaration of monsoon onset. Hilly regions too have not received the expected rainfall. Only northern districts of Kerala, including Kasaragod, Kannur and Kozhikode received some amount of rainfall largely triggered by Cyclone Nisarga. However, this year, two cyclones it the shores of the country during the advancement of southwest monsoon. Atmospheric scientists say that it is a normal for cyclone formations to affect the monsoon pattern if they are in the same region. “One of the reasons for no monsoon revival could be that there has been a split of the monsoon winds in the regions. In normal conditions, one branch of the monsoon gets into central India from the Arabian Sea while the other turns southwards along the west coast to the Bay of Bengal via Comorin,” said S Abhilash, associate director, Advanced Center for Atmospheric Radar Research (ACARR), Cochin University. Amidst solar eclipse on Sunday, yellow alert has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/monsoon-weak-in-first-half-of-june/articleshow/76486540.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid doctor is virtual hero for his kids||AHMEDABAD: On May 24, Dr Sanjay Kapadia, the resident medical officer (RMO) of the 1,200-bed Covid hospital, managed to attend his son’s birthday celebration — but only though a video call. His son had turned three and was cutting the cake. All Dr Kapadia could do was to blow a kiss at the screen and send a silent prayer. “Since March 23, my wife and children have been with her parents. I had no idea that the pandemic will prevail for so long,” said Dr Kapadia. His daughter is 12. “They are still away from the city and I make video calls whenever possible,” he said. Dr Kapadia along with Dr Sanjay Solanki and Dr Sumeeta Soni were among the Civil Hospital staff members brought in from their departments in March to convert the 1,200-bed hospital into a Covid-19 facility. The trio had earlier overseen operational aspects of the building and knew what is required where. “Our primary responsibility is coordination — between authorities and the hospital and between departments,” Dr Kapadia said. “We keep track of staffers, and ensure that supplies are smooth. And above all, we ensure that treatment protocols issued periodically are implemented.” He has missed his marriage anniversary during the Covid-19 outbreak. “But my children and family understand the work we do and are proud of it,” he said. “It will surely be a memorable Father’s Day for me and them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-doc-is-virtual-hero-for-his-kids/articleshow/76488387.cms||Parth Shastri
June 21, 2020||Meerut||Video of clinic staff turning away patient from minority-dominated area goes viral||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A video purportedly showing staff at a private nursing home in Muzaffarnagar refusing to treat a patient from a minority-dominated area has earned the ire of netizens. In the clip which went viral on Thursday, the staff at a prominent clinic can be heard claiming that they have instructions not to treat patients from Khalapur — a minority-dominated area. As netizens called out the facility for discrimination on religious grounds, the doctor told TOI that the only directions he had issued to the staff were to seek Covid-19 certificates from patients coming from containment zones. Khalapur has been declared a containment zone. “I have been treating patients regardless of what community they belong to. I had only asked staff to ensure that those hailing from containment zones should first get Covid-19 certificates from the district hospital,” he said. District chief medical officer (CMO), Parveen Kumar Chopra, said he was aware of the video that was widely shared but no formal complaint had been filed in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/video-of-clinic-staff-turning-away-patient-from-minority-dominated-area-goes-viral/articleshow/76486529.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pre-monsoon shower to intensify||NEW DELHI: Parts of the capital woke up to a spell of strong pre-monsoon showers on Saturday, accompanied with gusty winds ranging between 30-40 km/hr.  The showers brought down the temperature during the day with Delhi recording a maximum of 38.1° Celsius. IMD said the pre-monsoon showers would continue till June 23, with its intensity increasing on June 24.  Met officials believe the mercury will remain below the 40 degree mark this week with temperatures falling to a maximum of 34 degrees Celsius by June 24. Instances of trees getting uprooted due to the rain and gusty winds were also reported during the day, officials claimed.  IMD has forecast monsoon to hit Delhi by June 25. The weatherman said light showers are expected to continue over the next few days with gusty winds blowing alongside. "A spell of pre-monsoon showers will continue from until June 24 and June 25 when the monsoon officially hits Delhi," a Met official said. Humidity levels, meanwhile, remained on the higher side, oscillating between 56% and 96%.  Forecast for Sunday shows another light spell of rain with gusty winds blowing during the day. The maximum temperature should hover around 39 degrees Celsius, officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-pre-monsoon-shower-to-intensify/articleshow/76488537.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand may not see this yr’s 1st solar eclipse today, thanks to overcast skies||Ranchi: Celestial enthusiasts in Jharkhand are unlikely to witness this year’s first solar eclipse on Sunday, courtesy prevailing overcast conditions which will continue for the next three days, coupled with thundershowers, the Met department said on Saturday. Talking to TOI, India Meteorological Department director (Ranchi) S D Kotal said, “Heavy overcast conditions are likely to continue in most parts of the state for the next three days and thunderstorms can’t be ruled out either. In all likelihood, people in Jharkhand may not be able to witness the solar eclipse tomorrow.” The first solar eclipse of this year will be an annular solar eclipse, where the sun, moon and the earth will be aligned in a straight line. While the moon will be away from the earth’s elliptical orbit, it cannot cover the sun completely, which will result in the creation of a ‘ring of fire’. JSP Gupta, director of the state-owned Ranchi Science Centre in Chiroundi, said that if conditions permit, Jharkhand may witness partial eclipse. Gupta, who is also the executive director of the Jharkhand council of science, technology and innovation, added, “The total eclipse will be there for about three hours and 33 minutes, starting from 10.39am on Sunday.” He further said that though lots of phone calls poured in him throughout the day to check the availability of their planetarium. “We can’t do much as the entire science centre is closed due to the pandemic.” Shalini Gupta, a post-graduate student in the department of physics in Ranchi University, said, “Ever since the science centre came into existence, I often used to visit it on every eclipse. This time, I will try to see the eclipse with the help of my telescope in my house, provided the skies get cleared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-may-not-see-this-yrs-1st-solar-eclipse-today-thanks-to-overcast-skies/articleshow/76487421.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant questions Centre’s rush to auction coal blocks||Ranchi: A day after the Jharkhand government moved the Supreme Court challenging the Centre’s move to initiate the auction of coal blocks for commercial mining, chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said knocking at the apex court’s door was in the interest of his state and its people. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the auctioning process of 41 coal blocks in the country, 20 of which is in Jharkhand. On Friday, the Mahagathbandhan government moved a writ petition in the apex court contending against the auction, arguing that the move will not benefit the state in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to journalists at the Project Building in the afternoon, Soren said, “Mining is a sensitive issue for Jharkhand. Any major policy decision cannot be made in haste without taking the state into confidence. I had written to the PM a few days back seeking deferment of the auction for six to nine months giving him the reasons. But I don’t understand why the Centre wants to rush things.” Soren added that for him and his government, the priority is to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure jobs and food to all those who are affected by lockdown. He said, “We have to feed people, give jobs to our migrant brothers, help local industries revive and so on. That is my priority at the moment. Moreover, we also need time to deliberate with all stakeholders before giving a nod to the Centre’s decision.” Notably, Soren had hailed the Centre’s decision to privatise mining and termed it as historic. He said, “Mining is important for our state. Let us first tackle the global pandemic crisis and provide livelihoods. There are already several unsolved issues of displacement and unrest due to mining activities in the past, besides damage to the ecology. So before any big policy shift, we must consult everyone concerned for sustainable development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-questions-centres-rush-to-auction-coal-blocks/articleshow/76487438.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Parents protest against fee demand by pvt schools in Bokaro||Bokaro: Flouting norms of Section 144, parents of students studying at private schools blocked the entrance of Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar’s residence and demanded a fee waiver for the period of lockdown. Most of the protesters were women who sat on a dharna holding placards ‘no school-no fees’. The protest was held under the banner All Parents Association. Notably, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto had earlier, after separate meetings with parents and school authorities, asked the institutions to waive fees for two months if online classes were not held. However, an official order is awaited from the government. On Saturday, initially the protesters had gathered at the collectorate building, but as the DC was not available there, they moved towards his residence. The protesters dispersed only after Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh came at the gate and warned them of action under Section 144. Singh also asked five of their representatives to come to his office on Monday to hear them out. “Our demand is genuine as most of us hail from middle and lower middle classes and have suffered loss of employment and salaries. Schools are demanding three months tuition and other fees which is illogical. The online classes introduced by schools turned out to be stressful more than any help,” said Vinay Kumar, a parent, who was leading the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-protest-against-fee-demand-by-pvt-schools-in-bokaro/articleshow/76487472.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP adopts a focused testing strategy||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to further reduce the Covid-19 mortality rate in the state, the state health department has set itself a target to daily test at least 7,000 people from high-risk groups, 4,000 symptomatic cases, 2,000 primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients and 2,000 tests as part of community surveillance. Further, people coming from outside the state will also be subject to testing. Currently, the state’s mortality rate stands at 1.2 per cent, significantly lower than the national average of 3.3 per cent. The vulnerable or high-risk category includes people above 60 years of age and those suffering from chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, asthma and kidney-related ailments. Screening for people in the vulnerable section will include blood sugar and pressure testing, SpO2 (blood oxygen saturation levels), temperature and Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, cough, diarrhoea, loss of smell or taste, sore throat and difficulty breathing. According to state health officials, the two-fold testing strategy—for reducing mortality and for community surveillance— will help manage Covid-19 better. In one way, this would help early detection of the disease in vulnerable groups so as to provide better treatment and give doctors at least a seven-day window. On the other hand, testing for community surveillance will help identify the virus’s spread pattern and help avoid a major outbreak and prevent any area to become a major cluster. People belonging to vulnerable groups, if tested negative, will be supplied free medication for their underlying health conditions for 15 days, the health department has decided. For community surveillance, people from across the board will be tested to understand disease transmission patters. These include people suspected to have been in close contact with Covid-19 positive patients as indicated by the Arogya Setu app, people working in wholesale markets, construction workers, agricultural labourers and vegetable or fruit vendors. To contain clusters, health officials will identify 10 to 15 primary contacts of every Covid-19 positive patient in clusters and all of them will be tested. For people being hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections, respiratory distress syndrome and influenza-like symptoms, arrangements will be made to test them daily so as to protect health personnel from being exposed to the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-adopts-a-focused-testing-strategy/articleshow/76486550.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Rims director gives terse reply to health min’s order to stop recruitments, transfers||Ranchi: Responding to state health minister Banna Gupta’s order to put on hold all recruitments, promotions, transfers and tender extensions at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), institute director Dr D K Singh, on Saturday said Rims is an autonomous institute he will not be able to implement the directive. He said any partisan action would be a violation of the regulations. In a letter to Gupta, Singh said provisions under Rims Act, 2002, Rims Rules, 2002, Rims Rules of 2002 and Rims Regulations of 2014 empowered the governing body of the institute to take such decisions. Singh said the Permanent Selection Committee (PSC) of Rims is authorised to make appointments of teaching as well as non-teaching doctors and the current recruitment is being done keeping the pandemic in consideration and to complete the shortcomings of the Dental Institute, highlighted by the Dental Council Of India during its last visit. On promotions, Singh said it is a continuous process and only the PSC is authorised to take decisions on the matter. The dean of academics, Dr Manju Gari, has received applications for promotions for scrutiny on the minister’s earlier directions, he said. Singh also asked for clarity on the issue of promotion, saying it was the minister who directed the dean to expedite the process and complete it within a week. “Asking me to put the promotions on hold leaves me in a state of confusion,” he said. Pointing out that Rims is an autonomous institute and none of its employees can be transferred to any other department, Singh said the question of putting a transfer on hold is completely unwarranted. He also clarified that the extension of tenders and fresh work orders have been done only towards testing, treatment and upgrade of intensive care units and other facilities as per the guidelines of the state health department and the ICMR to fight Covid-19. “Rims being the lone tertiary care centre for Covid-19 in the state, treatment of positive patients needs an upgrade and if we do not carry out the necessary work, then who will take responsibility for any kind of slack in patient care during the pandemic?” Singh said. In his order on Friday, Gupta said the director should not take decisions as his tenure in the institute is about to end. Singh, however, said, “Till the time I am working as Rims director, I am authorised to take administrative decisions as vested in me under Rims rules and regulations. The Centre has already given its assent to the state government’s request to extend my tenure here before joining AIIMS Bathinda as its executive director till the Covid situation normalises. I can, however, withdraw my application for extension of service, if the state government wants.” Singh has forwarded copies of Gupta’s letter and his response to all members of the Rims governing body and has written a separate letter to the state health secretary, requesting him to expedite the process to hold a meeting of the governing body in the wake of the minister’s order. Responding to the issue, Kanke MLA and Rims governing body member, Samri Lal, said, “It is very unfortunate that the health minister issues such a letter which will create hurdles in-patient care to the poor and the downtrodden. If all kinds of work orders and tenders are stopped, how will the cath lab which has suffered a technical fault a few days ago be repaired? How will equipment be procured for the nephrology ward which was inaugurated by the minister himself? If he has to sort out issues of Rims, he should immediately call a meeting of the governing body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-director-gives-terse-reply-to-health-mins-order-to-stop-recruitments-transfers/articleshow/76487322.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant welcomes privatisation of coal mines, but seeks delay of auctioning by six months||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren has welcomed Union government’s decision to privatise the coal sector for even as trade unions of coal companies in Jharkhand have intensified their protest against the decision. Last month, the officers’ association and trade bodies of BCCL staged massive protests in the state’s coal capital Dhanbad over the issue. Soren, however, sought six months’s time for the auction process, citing the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure equitable distribution of the mineral in the state. In a letter to the Union minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs, Soren said, “The decision to open up India’s coal sector is indeed a historic and bold step. It has a lot of significance to Jharkhand which is blessed with lots of mineral resources. Despite very attractive policies, we have not been able to woo investments worthy of our mineral endowments.” Soren had written on June 10 and was released officially on Saturday. “Coal and iron ore are the two significant minerals that would come up for competitive auction. However, both these minerals are found in the districts that have significant forest cover and significant proportions of the state’s population belongs to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes and backward caste. Hence, it will be in the interest of the state if the new policy is able to attract best foreign and domestic investors who are known for scientific mining to minimise adverse impact on the forest wealth. The distribution of wealth arising out of such activities should reach marginalised sections of our society,” he said. Soren stressed that his government is not at all averse to the proposed competitive and level playing field in the auctioning process but demanded that it should be put on hold for next six to nine months due to the global pandemic. He added, “Due to Covid-19 and several national and international restrictions, many domestic and foreign players may not be able to participate in the auctioning. Several domestic players are also facing issues of liquidity. Moreover, we want to ensure sustainable mineral development in sync with social and environmental practices which require time on our part for proper deliberations with all stakeholders for striking a conducive policy framework. In view of these, we demand moratorium on auctioning process for six-nine months at the moment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-welcomes-privatisation-of-coal-mines-but-seeks-delay-of-auctioning-by-six-months/articleshow/76364435.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Jharia rehabilitation prog gains pace amid monsoon scare||Dhanbad: The stalled process to shift families from areas affected by underground fire in the coalfields of Jharia seemingly once again gained pace on Saturday after the Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA) wrote letters to six managers of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) seeking documents and NOCs of 2,008 families who will be shifted. The letter by JRDA, the implementing authority of Jharia Master Plan (the rehabilitation programme), came after Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar ordered for it during a review of the progress of the rehabilitation process on Friday. Dhanbad DC, who is also an ex-officio managing director of JRDA, instructed the officials to immediately initiate the process to shift 2,008 families in the subsidence-prone areas to the newly-developed quarters in Jharia Vihar Colony of Belgarhia as per the master plan. The process gained momentum after monsoon hit Jharkhand a little more than a week ago, raising the scare of land subsidence in Jharia. Rehabilitation and resettlement in-charge of JRDA, Kumar Badhu Kachhap, said, “Of the 2,008 families, 703 belong to Bastacola area, 636 of Lodna, 441 of Putki Balihari, 199 of East Jharia, 25 of Barora and four of Block-II area.” Kumar added JRDA has asked for documents of the families from the general managers of BCCL and will initiate the process to shift them soon after getting a clearance. Kachhap said the quarters in Jharia Vihar Colony, situated in the non-coal bearing areas, are ready with all amenities. The fear of subsidence and consequent loss of life and property haunts more than 1 lakh families living in the 595 underground fire-affected areas of Jharia coalfields. Only 4,000 families have so far been rehabilitated to safer places ever since the rehabilitation programme began on March 25, 2010. The delay is due to a lack of coordination between the state and central governments, paucity of land for carrying out rehabilitation, lack of clarity over eligibility of beneficiaries and frequent changes in the master plan. Subsidence and loss of life and property is a continuous phenomenon in underground fire-affected areas and a 40-year-old welder, Bablu Khan and his 13-year-old son Rahim Khan were buried alive in a crater that developed in Surratand More locality of Jharia on May 24, 2017. An octogenarian woman of Moribandh locality of Jharia was also killed in land subsidence in August 19, 2017 after her house, among 20 others, collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharia-rehabilitation-prog-gains-pace-amid-monsoon-scare/articleshow/76487207.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Tech helps state top national testing rate||Vijayawada: Even as positive Covid-19 cases increase, the state continues top in the number of tests per million in the country. Latest figures show that Andhra Pradesh is testing 11,798 samples per million on average, much ahead of the national average at 4,633. Officials explained that prioritising the infrastructure for testing helped increase testing rate. A robust testing network at key locations was set up across 13 districts. Even before the state received rapid antibody testing kits from South Korea in April, it had tested 48,034 samples, the highest in the country. A contributing factor to the high testing rate was the health department adopting another testing mechanism alongside the ICMR-approved RT-PCR tests. Around 240 TrueNat machines, conventionally used to test for tuberculosis, were roped in. When the samples tested by TrueNat machines were run through the RT-PCR procedure for validation, the results turned out to be consistent. The health department also recently launched a fleet of 53 customised buses offering free tests to the public. Mobile Covid-19 testing, termed Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine (I-MASQ), currently serves Krishna and Srikakulam districts..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tech-helps-state-top-national-testing-rate/articleshow/76486570.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Yanam town reports first Covid-19 case||VISAKHAPATNAM: Yanam reported its first case of the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The small town, which so far had been safe from the virus’s ravages, reported its first case after the Indian Railways began operating special trains since June 1.  Sources said a man from Hyderabad, Telangana, dropped his son at his grandparent’s house at Yanam soon after trains services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh resumed from June 1. Confirming this to TOI, Shivraj Meena, Yanam regional administrator, said a 12-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “The boy came from Hyderabad recently. He was quarantined. Swabs were collected that tested positive. The boy is presently undergoing treatment at a Covid hospital in Yanam” Meena said. Yanam district, which is part of the discontiguous Union territory of Puducherry, is a small enclave within East Godavari. Yanam town is located on the bank of river Gautami, one of the tributaries of river Godavari. It is 870 kms away from Puducherry and has a population of 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/yanam-town-reports-first-covid-19-case/articleshow/76486580.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Experts caution against uncertified PPE kits||VISAKHAPATNAM: Several local PPE manufacturing units have mushroomed across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana over the last few months. However, experts caution that most of these PPE manufacturing units may not have required certifications from the nodal agencies appointed by the Union ministry of textiles. These manufacturing units are selling PPE kits at a lower cost than certified manufacturers, but experts worry that that there is no guarantee that the PPE kits manufactured by these uncertified units can resist the virus from penetrating bodies. Scientists and researchers involved in the certification process said that during certification they look at quality of material (cloth) used, stitching quality and finishing. This is done to ensure that the virus finds no way to enter the body through the different accessories of the PPE kit. Speaking to TOI, Sajjan Rao, scientist and administrative officer of Coimbatore-based South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) said, “The certification process is really stringent. There has been a spurt in applications since March. Unfortunately, we have been able to certify only 25 per cent of applicants. The remaining 75 per cent got rejected because the samples were not full proof.” SITRA and Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE), Gwalior are the two traditional nodal agencies for certification of PPE kits in India. However, since March, the Union ministry of textiles has appointed seven more agencies— mostly defence establishments— to certify PPE manufacturers. Local PPE manufacturers in both states claim that they are bypassing the certification process not because of funds but time constraints. “The certification process does not cost much. But it’s time consuming. Since the demand for PPE kits increased since June, people are now looking for kits for daily use at low costs. Under such circumstances, we cannot wait for certification,” said Adnan Sabuwala, a PPE manufacturer in Visakhapatnam. SITRA officials admit that the certification process turned out to be rather time consuming. In fact, they have stopped testing samples and certifying applications for new manufacturers temporarily. “The problem is, we test random samples of certified units to ensure that they are not compromising with the standard. In fact, the ministry has ordered us to prioritise random testing of certified units over testing samples of new manufacturing units. Otherwise, it would take only three to four days,” Sajjan Rao of SITRA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/experts-caution-against-uncertified-ppe-kits/articleshow/76486596.cms||Arpit Basu
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||51 new cases in Krishna district, tally reaches 982||Vijayawada: A total of 51 new Covid-19 positive cases were registered in Krishna district on Saturday. With this latest spike, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Krishna district reached 982. The district administration is on its toes to manage the virus’s spread. Consequently, ten new mobile Covid-19 testing buses will start operating from Sunday. Since Friday (June 19), Krishna district has seen 133 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. The number of patients coming to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and testing centres has increased all of a sudden. Meanwhile, a medical officer who used to work at the ART centre in Old Government Hospital has died of Covid-19. Staff at the hospital is confused about how they should continue work as the doctor who passed away was attending to duties till Thursday. The ART centre has been closed down for sanitation. New cases have been found in nearly 45 electoral divisions in Vijayawada city and officials have continued declaring areas as containment zones. In Nuzividu revenue division, a total of 22 new cases have been reported in the last three days. Officials have decided to continue containment measures at Nuzividu town. Testing for Covid-19 has been intensified in various parts of Vijayawada city. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz on Saturday requested people with Covid-19 symptoms to voluntarily come forward and get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/51-new-cases-in-krishna-district-tally-reaches-982/articleshow/76486611.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Half of Tirupati turns into containment zone||Tirupati: The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases has forced the district administration to declare nearly half of the temple city as containment zone. Tirupati recorded 90 new cases in the last 48 hours. “We appeal to the public to be in self-lockdown and not venture out of their homes unless it is absolutely essential,” Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha said, while adding that Chennai and Mumbai returnees may have led to the rise in cases. He said the next two months would be crucial, and foolproof measures would be enforced in the containment zones. “Police and municipal staff will slap fines on anyone found loitering on the streets without wearing masks. Co-morbid sample survey is underway to screen all elderly people so that early treatment can be initiated if someone tests positive,” he said. Meanwhile, 51 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Chittoor district in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 511. Anantapur district also reported its highest single-day spike of 97 positive cases. A YSRC functionary, who was believed to have contracted the virus from the gunman of a local MLA, passed away while undergoing treatment on Saturday morning. Kurnool reported 15 new cases to take the overall tally in the district to 1,247. In chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy’s home district Kadapa, the overall caseload rose to 1,330 after 15 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/half-of-tirupati-turns-into-containment-zone/articleshow/76486631.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Palasa town open only from 6am to 1pm||Visakhapatnam: Lockdown curbs in Palasa town in Srikakulam district have been revised. Palasa, a containment zone, will remain open for business only between 6am and 1pm. People have been asked to remain indoors beyond these timings. The decision has been taken after a number of migrant workers who returned to the area tested positive for Covid-19. District collector J Nivas told TOI, “Traders have voluntarily come forward and said that they will maintain the timings.” The collector further said that the district administration may think of a lockdown if the number of cases continues to increase. He said that there are indications of the virus spreading rampantly and that there are already 400 cases in the area. “Everyone should be alert. The next two months are crucial,” the collector added. He further said that people found to be not wearing masks will be fined. If people get tests done at the right time, then lives can be saved, the district collector maintained. If people have symptoms such as cough and fever they should go to the nearest health centre, J Nivas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/palasa-town-open-only-from-6am-to-1pm/articleshow/76486644.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: After YSRC’s Rajya Sabha victory, focus shifts to empty cabinet berths||VIJAYAWADA: The election of deputy chief minister Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to the Rajya Sabha has raised questions over their replacements in the state. Both ministers will have to resign from the cabinet before taking oath as RS members. As chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy now wants the YSRC to play a bigger role at the national level, he would like to have his trusted lieutenants in New Delhi. In the event he decides to be a part of the NDA government at the Centre, one of them is likely to be elevated to a higher position. The YSRC was earlier offered the post of deputy speaker in Lok Sabha after it swept both the assembly and Lok Sabha elections in the state in 2019. But the CM didn’t take up the offer. Now, having completed one year in office, he is believed to be looking to play a bigger role at the Centre. If Jagan’s praise for the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the all-party meeting on Friday is any indication, the YSRC could assume a more important role at the national level soon. Back home, the debate is on the possible replacements of Bose and Ramana. As both are from the BC community, it is likely that their replacements too would be from the same community. It also remains to be seen whether the two districts – East Godavari and Guntur – the ministers represented in the cabinet would be part of the consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-ysrcs-rajya-sabha-victory-focus-shifts-to-empty-cabinet-berths/articleshow/76486671.cms||Gopi Dara
June 21, 2020||India||PM launches 125-day mission to create jobs for migrants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said a great store of talent had returned to villages with migrants and it will now be tapped to develop rural areas as he launched the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan — a 125-day mission to generate employment through implementation of 25 government works in 116 migrant returnee-heavy districts in six states. Virtually launching the BJP-JDU combine’s election campaign in Bihar, Modi unveiled the scheme in Tilhar in Khagaria district in the presence of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Before the launch, Modi said, "The country is proud of the sacrifice made by our braves in Ladakh. Today when I speak to the people of Bihar, I will say the valour was of Bihar Regiment, every Bihari is proud of it. I pay tributes to the braves." Elections in Bihar are due in October. Modi said he found inspiration for the scheme among migrants from news reports on how some migrants lodged in a school-turned-quarantine centre in Unnao in UP had used their expertise in painting buildings to change the face of the school. TOI had reported this development. The function was held via video-conferencing in which Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, chief ministers Yogi Adityanath (UP), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan (MP) besides officials of Odisha and Jharkhand were present. Lauding rural India, Modi said around 85 crore people, more than the population of Europe, America and Australia, had effectively tackled the corona pandemic. He said if it had happened in the West, there would have been stories written about it. The PM chided that "some people" in the country were reluctant to praise this accomplishment of villages. Modi said the government had done its best to help migrants during the lockdown and even provided Shramik trains to transport them. He said around Rs 1.75 lakh crore has been spent on the "Atmanirbhar" campaign which includes financial, food and infrastructural help to the poor. "Your skills are being mapped by the government so that you can get work (in your villages) and don’t have to borrow money… This abhiyan will safeguard your self-respect and also use your labour to develop your villages," Modi said. He said things had changed now unlike earlier years when money was sanctioned for the poor but it never reached them. Speaking about migrants, Modi said, "When skill and labour, which motor the growth of cities, work in rural areas like Khagaria, it will also power the development of Bihar." He said the scheme will provide faster internet in villages which was required for the education of children. At the start of the function, Modi interacted with some returnee migrants of Khagaria, listening to their experiences and asking them questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-launches-125-day-mission-to-create-jobs-for-migrants/articleshow/76488547.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Rs 60 lakh central aid for schools to create Covid awareness||Panaji: The biggest challenge yet for the state in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic will come when schools eventually reopen for students. To help prepare for this, Goa is set to receive nearly Rs 60 lakh to create awareness about safety measures for students among parents and community members. The state has been sanctioned the funds under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan programme and has been asked to involved school management committee in helping students and parents get accustomed to schooling during the pandemic. Teachers will also get a monetary incentive to act as counselors for students to help them adapt to the new circumstances. “Parents should be sensitized and encouraged to play the role of a facilitator in their child’s learning activity and safety, through SMCs, parent teacher meetings, Whatsapp or telephonic sessions by the teachers. Awareness about fake information/myths must be ensured. The information should be from reliable sources like Ministry of Human Resource Development, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, ICMR, WHO and UNICEF,” the state has been told by the HRD. Goa education officials have also been told that parents should be sensitized to respond to child’s reactions in a supportive way and explain to them that they are having normal reactions to the present situation. “Students to be guided to undertake activities like painting, reading story books, writing stories, poems along with academics so that they can learn new skills or enrich their present skills. Take break from watching, reading, or listening to social media news. Take care of themselves by doing stretching, deep breathing exercises meditation and yoga. Improve immunity by eating healthy, well-balanced meals, exercise regularly, getting plenty of sleep. Spend time with family members,” the HRD ministry officials have said, in a meeting held earlier this month. The state has been sanctioned around Rs 25 lakh to train 740 SMCs and make the members aware about the precautions to be taken by schools for safety and security of children in schools for prevention of spread of any infection. Another Rs 12 lakh has been approved for Goa as funds to make members of the community aware about the safeguards required at the time of opening and running of schools to prevent any spread of COVID-19. “The SMCs will hold quarterly meetings that will also help in generating awareness about the interventions under the scheme and COVID 19,” the state has been told. GFX Teachers will get Rs 1000 each to encourage them to function as the first level counsellors for dissemination of basic information about Covid- 19. Online NISHTHA training modules will be prepared for teacher training by NCERT. Teachers will be sensitized and oriented about the safety measures such as social distancing norms, sanitization requirements, tracking of students’ health etc. States have been told to provide teachers with a platform to share their experiences, ideas, best practices, issues and concerns related to e-learning. Schools will also get a minor grant to ensure basic wash facilities like hand washing stations and safe drinking water facility and ensure availability of essentials like soap, alcohol rub/hand sanitizer or chlorine solution, disinfection and cleaning material in the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-60-lakh-central-aid-for-schools-to-create-covid-awareness/articleshow/76488205.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 21, 2020||Goa||Govt asks CII for strategy to pull in investment||Panaji: The state government has asked the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for help in attracting foreign investments to Goa, industries minister Vishwajit Rane said on Saturday. The industries department has also asked CII to prepare a report on the best practices on single window clearances adopted by other states, particularly Punjab and Telangana, said sources. The decision was taken at the first meeting of the joint task force committee constituted to improve the ease of doing business in Goa and to bring in new investment for MSMEs and for the pharmaceutical sector, said officials. “Further, we requested CII to help us create a platform to attract foreign investments in the state,” said Rane. “The government wants to create a roadmap to provide ease of doing business and create new avenues for the industries.” The meeting was attended by chairperson western region Sunil Mathur and industries secretary Nila Mohanan along with industrialists and other state officials. “We discussed the need for having skilled people and adding more courses for the ITIs to work closely with the industries,” said Rane. The state constituted the joint task committee with Rane named as the chairman of the committee. The committee consists of officials from the CII-Goa council and the industries department. The committee will chalk out a strategy to make Goa an attractive location for investment and employment, while also making recommendations to improve the ease of doing business scenario in Goa. As a start, CII has been asked to collate data on how the single window mechanism functions in other states. “CII will prepare a proposal for the Goa government on the best practices on Ease of Doing business and single window systems in other states. The proposal will also prepare a strategy to attract investment,” said a source. The industries department has also asked CII to explore if CII’s international branches can help promote Goa and bring in investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-asks-cii-for-strategy-to-pull-in-investment/articleshow/76488217.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||At 20, Gujarat’s daily death tally lowest in 22 days||AHMEDABAD: In 24 hours ending 5 pm on Saturday, Gujarat recorded 539 new Covid-19 positive cases. It was the second highest daily tally for the state after recording all-time high of 540 on Friday. In the last two days, Gujarat has added 1,079 cases. On a slightly positive note, the state recorded 20 deaths in 24 hours, which is the lowest daily death toll in the past 22 days. On May 30, the state had recorded 20 deaths. After that the death numbers have always been high, over 20, and sometimes over 30 too. With the update, the state’s Covid-19 death toll has reached 1,639. In 24 hours, Gujarat recorded discharge of 535 patients, taking the total to 18,702. Of the 20 deaths recorded, 16 were from Ahmedabad and four from Surat. For Ahmedabad, this was the lowest daily death toll since May 29 when the district had recorded 18 deaths. In the interim period, the district – having the highest number of deaths in Gujarat – had not posted below 20 deaths daily. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 6,396 (23.9%) active patients, 70% discharged patients and 6.1% deaths. Number of active patients in state has gone downAs on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 6,396 (23.9%) active patients, 70% discharged patients and 6.1% deaths. To put the figures in perspective, 30 days ago, the state had 51.5% active patients, 42.5% patients discharged and 6% of the patients succumbed to the infection. Thus, the number of active patients has gone down from nearly half to less than a quarter in 30 days. On June 2, Gujarat had discharged 1,114 patients in 24 hours, including 1,019 from Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-20-gujarats-daily-death-tally-lowest-in-22-days/articleshow/76488549.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Scrap exam for Class IX, XI pupils: Cong||Panaji: Instead of conducting supplementary exams for Class IX and XI students, the state government must consider directly promoting these students who are already under mental stress, the Congress party’s state unit said. Congress called on the government to ensure that the department of education frames uniform guidelines for online teaching while also taking into account students who cannot afford gadgets or lack proper internet. “The uncertainty of schools reopening and conducting supplementary examinations have caused mental stress to both students and parents alike,” said Congress media convenor Trajano D’Mello. The state Congress also said that the ongoing online classes are being conducted in “the most haphazard manner” without specific guidelines. Many students who lack appropriate devices are left out of online classes and have to undergo embarrassment because of this, the party said. He said that the online classes are being conducted as per “the whims and fancies of every school”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scrap-exam-for-class-ix-xi-pupils-cong/articleshow/76488225.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Yoga makes Covid-19 patients breathe easy||AHMEDABAD: It's 9 o'clock and 20-odd patients in the Covid-19 hospital at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) on the Civil Hospital campus are seated on their beds. Dr Kinjal Solanki, an anaesthetist donning a PPE, demonstrates pranayama breathing exercises and easy yoga postures that are practised by her patients ranging from 28-year-old youth to a septuagenarian lady. "I have practiced yoga for eight years. Earlier, we used videos of yogasana and pranayama for patients but then I volunteered for physical demonstration," said Dr Solanki. "Two sessions of 30 minutes each in the morning and evening help improve breathing and psychological well-being. The routine is designed in a way not to cause exertion." As the world would get on the mat to mark International Yoga Day on Sunday, this year's celebration is focused on how yoga can help Covid-19 patients. Dr Devashree Patel, visiting faculty at Department of Life Sciences, Gujarat University, said that she co-authored a study which found that the patients with low Peak Expiratory Flow Rate (PEFR) indicating a person's maximum speed of breathing out air and low blood oxygen (SpO2) showed marked improvement with guided yoga training for six to 12 months. The study had 50 individuals with hypertension and low PEFR, SpO2 from Ahmedabad. “In Covid-19 scenario, blood oxygen level is an important marker for severity of the infection. While we have not worked directly with any Covid-19 patients, the findings are believed to hold true for Coronavirus patients with respiratory symptoms,” said Dr Devashree Patel, who is also a yoga instructor. “It is advisable for patients to practise in guidance of a teacher.” The study had included six exercises - Yogic prayer, pranayama, stretching, asana, Suryanamaskar and meditation. The end results showed that PEFR improved from less than 400 litres per minute (l/min) to up to 640 l/ min. SpO2 levels reached more than 95% in all 50 participants whichwas80-90% in 41of the participants at the start of the study. Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based pulmonologist and critical care specialist who is member of the expert panel constituted by the state government for Covid-19, said that regular pranayama have shown good results among patients with breathing issues. “Covid-19 targets lungs and restricts its capacity – often causing breathlessness. Somebreathing exerciseshelp patients.Thus, it’s included at hospitals. However, it should always be done after consultation with experts,” said Dr Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-yoga-makes-covid-19-patients-breathe-easy/articleshow/76488555.cms||Parth Shastri
June 21, 2020||Goa||TTAG urges Goa to restart tottering hospitality sector||PANAJI: Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has urged the government to seriously look at re-opening hotels, restaurants and bars in the state at the earliest. The TTAG appealed to the government to unlock Goa in a phased manner. More than a week ago, the state government initiated a process to receive applications from hotels willing to resume operations. It has stated that a standard operating procedure (SOP) will be drafted for hotels. Since then, TTAG president Nilesh Shah said 200 hotels have applied to the tourism department. “Tourism sector is ready to cooperate for implementing any SOP and resumption of the hospitality industry should start without further delay,” he said. Any further delay, Shah said, “will lead to more people losing jobs. People will suffer from mental health issues apart from losing their source of livelihood. It will be dangerous for society,” he said. He also pointed out that though the hospitality sector is willing to follow the SOP that will be issued by the government, the same will have to be also practically implementable. The TTAG said that hotels elsewhere have gradually been permitted to open paving the way for tourism activity to take off. “So that there is no reason why Goa should be waiting,” TTAG said. It further pointed out protocols permitting hotels to re-open cannot be successfully implemented unless bars and restaurants are permitted to open too. “It is also urgently needed to allow hotels together with restaurants and bars be made operational with normal timings,” Shah said. The excise department is yet to allow bars and restaurants to open though sale of alcohol has been permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ttag-urges-state-to-restart-tottering-hospitality-sector/articleshow/76488236.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Goa||Modify fuel scheme, urge pvt bus owners||Panaji: Private bus operators in the state have demanded the state government to include all private bus operators under the fuel subsidy. “In the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, our survival depends on financial assistance. However, the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) gets fuel subsidy for its 500-odd buses. However, not all the 1,500 private buses are included in the subsidy,” an operator said. They explained that the routes on which private buses don’t run as a parallel competition to KTC buses are not entitled to the fuel subsidy. As a result, private passenger buses that operate on uncommon routes were left out from availing of this subsidy. To protest the same, the operators assembled while maintaining social distance to appeal to the government to grant this subsidy to everyone who needs it. “Many private bus operators have not been able to ply their vehicles during the lockdown. The burden of purchasing fuel while struggling to make ends meets is what has brought us here today. We will negotiate with the government to modify the clauses of the scheme and renew it so that private bus operators can avail of it,” another operator said. The operators also pointed out that the KTC has been allotted a bus pass system owing to which travelers prefer its service compared to that of private buses. This happens despite the 50 percent concession to students and free transportation for the handicapped. “With diesel rates steadily increasing, we are dependent on the government’s mercy to continue with our daily business.” another operator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/modify-fuel-scheme-urge-pvt-bus-owners/articleshow/76488242.cms||---
June 21, 2020||India||Soon, online degree courses at 230 universities||NEW DELHI: In a move that will significantly improve access to higher education, over 200 universities can soon offer online degree courses as the University Grants Commission is changing the criteria for their eligibility. The UGC, according to a source, is finalising a proposal whereby “a univer-sity which fulfils one of the two criteria — Naac 3.01 and above CGPA (Grade A) or among the top 100 NIRF rankings will be allowed to offer online degrees. This will expand the eligibility base to over 230 universi-ties, significantly higher than the previous plan of 100 universities”. The move came following the human resource development ministry asking the UGC to review the rules. The government had earlier announced that institutions fulfilling both the criteria of featuring among the top 100 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework ranking and having National Assessment and Accreditation Council 3.26 CGPA (Grade A+) grade will be allowed to offer programmes online. As per the MHRD’s earlier announcement, only 67 universities became eligible. “Under present rules, many good universities will be missing out on the opportunity as they have to fulfil both the criteria. So the ministry asked the UGC to have a review so that more institutions can offer online degrees but without diluting the quality,” said a senior HRD ministry official. The move is seen as a major step in not only enhancing the gross enrolment in higher education, but also improving the quality of the institutions. TOI had reported earlier in May 2020 that 600 universities are unaccredited. Naac director S C Sharma said: “Equity and accessibility is important and gross enrolment has to go up significantly. But quality has to be ensured and allowing institutions of 3.01 CGPA and above to offer online degrees will ensure that. Moreover, universities which aspire to offer online deg-rees now will enhance their student-faculty ratio, improve their infrastructure so that they get at least Naac A grade or among the top 100 NIRF institutions which will translate into quality improvement as well.” The HRD ministry is likely to announce the new norms once the UGC finalises the criteria. According to ministry sources, around 100 universities are likely to be ready to roll out online degree programmes from the forthcoming academic session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soon-online-degree-courses-at-230-universities/articleshow/76488561.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Daily death toll at its highest in Mumbai, case growth rate dips||MUMBAI: The city registered its worst single-day toll of 136 on Saturday, but experienced a slump in the growth rate for cases. BMC attributed the increase in deaths to "book-keeping". Of the latest 136 fatalities, 61 occurred before June 16 while 75 took place between June 16 and 19. Total death tally in Mumbai has touched 3,561. In all, Maharashtra reported 3,874 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day addition so far, pushing total cases to 1,28,205. In the last four days, the state has added more than 3,300 cases daily. The cumulative figure stands at 14,760. The state has also added 160 deaths, the second highest addition in a single day, the highest being 178 deaths on June 15. The total death toll in the state stood at 5,984 on Saturday, inching close to the 6,000-mark. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region continues to add a large number of new cases, the total in the region now at 94,165. However, Mumbai city reported a slight dip in growth rate, adding 1,190 on Saturday as against 1,264 on Friday. Total cases in Mumbai on Saturday stood at 65,329, of which 28,893 are under treatment. The doubling rate of Mumbai too has gone up to 34 days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the corporation was re-implementing its old policy of containment with rigour. "We announced a full lockdown in certain areas such as Malwani where cases are on the rise," he said. The "working model" of tracing high risk contacts, testing and quarantining them is still the mainstay of BMC's anti-Covid measures. "The only new factor is the use of pulse oximeters to actively track cases in containment zones and the availability of oxygen concentrators," said Kakani. It is now almost two weeks since the lockdown was relaxed, but cases haven't exponentially gone up. "However, we cannot let our guard down. We will continue augmenting the capacity of our beds," added Kakani. Dharavi reported barely 7 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday including one death. A senior BMC official said occupancy too was under control for the first time during the course of the Covid pandemic. Vacant ICU beds have, for the first time, reached double digits and many ventilators are free. A senior BMC doctor said the Covid-19 graph in Mumbai should stabilise in the June-July period. "Cases will come.down sharply in August. We have to keep things in check till then," he said. There were 172 positive cases registered in the Navi Mumbai areas on Saturday, taking total count to 4,687. These include 2,683 patients who have recovered from the virus. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation officials also reported 10 deaths on Saturday, taking the total toll to 157. The PCMC area recorded its highest ever tally of 72 Covid-19 positives on Saturday. The previous single day highest was 65 recorded on Friday (June 19, 2020). The PCMC total tally has gone up to 1,266.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-daily-death-toll-at-its-highest-in-mumbai-case-growth-rate-dips/articleshow/76488581.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Daily death toll at its highest in Mumbai, case growth rate dips||MUMBAI: The city registered its worst single-day toll of 136 on Saturday, but experienced a slump in the growth rate for cases. BMC attributed the increase in deaths to "book-keeping". Of the latest 136 fatalities, 61 occurred before June 16 while 75 took place between June 16 and 19. Total death tally in Mumbai has touched 3,561. In all, Maharashtra reported 3,874 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day addition so far, pushing total cases to 1,28,205. In the last four days, the state has added more than 3,300 cases daily. The cumulative figure stands at 14,760. The state has also added 160 deaths, the second highest addition in a single day, the highest being 178 deaths on June 15. The total death toll in the state stood at 5,984 on Saturday, inching close to the 6,000-mark. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region continues to add a large number of new cases, the total in the region now at 94,165. However, Mumbai city reported a slight dip in growth rate, adding 1,190 on Saturday as against 1,264 on Friday. Total cases in Mumbai on Saturday stood at 65,329, of which 28,893 are under treatment. The doubling rate of Mumbai too has gone up to 34 days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the corporation was re-implementing its old policy of containment with rigour. "We announced a full lockdown in certain areas such as Malwani where cases are on the rise," he said. The "working model" of tracing high risk contacts, testing and quarantining them is still the mainstay of BMC's anti-Covid measures. "The only new factor is the use of pulse oximeters to actively track cases in containment zones and the availability of oxygen concentrators," said Kakani. It is now almost two weeks since the lockdown was relaxed, but cases haven't exponentially gone up. "However, we cannot let our guard down. We will continue augmenting the capacity of our beds," added Kakani. Dharavi reported barely 7 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday including one death. A senior BMC official said occupancy too was under control for the first time during the course of the Covid pandemic. Vacant ICU beds have, for the first time, reached double digits and many ventilators are free. A senior BMC doctor said the Covid-19 graph in Mumbai should stabilise in the June-July period. "Cases will come.down sharply in August. We have to keep things in check till then," he said. There were 172 positive cases registered in the Navi Mumbai areas on Saturday, taking total count to 4,687. These include 2,683 patients who have recovered from the virus. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation officials also reported 10 deaths on Saturday, taking the total toll to 157. The PCMC area recorded its highest ever tally of 72 Covid-19 positives on Saturday. The previous single day highest was 65 recorded on Friday (June 19, 2020). The PCMC total tally has gone up to 1,266.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-daily-death-toll-at-its-highest-in-mumbai-case-growth-rate-dips/articleshow/76488592.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Antiviral fabrics catch textile companies fancy||AHMEDABAD/SURAT: Textile companies seem to be betting big on antiviral fabrics with consumer focus shifting to health safety and hygiene post Covid-19 pandemic. Sample this: Welspun India Ltd is launching a range of antiviral home linens next week. Treated using a technology from Australia’s HealthGuard Corporation, the fabric is 99.94% effective against coronavirus and it will be made at company’s plant in Anjar, Kutch, says the home textiles major. Not just home linens, textile majors are launching antiviral garments, apparels, suiting and other products. The famed ‘Surti sari’ too has become ‘infection free’. Surat-based Laxmipati Industries has begun treating saris, kurtis and lehenga with antimicrobial finishing chemicals to keep them free from bacteria, viruses. Textile major Arvind Ltd plans to soon launch its antiviral fabrics after tying up with two foreign firms to introduce antiviral textiles technology in India. Ahmedabad-headquartered Chiripal Group has also launched antiviral and antibacterial denim and terry towels. Having presence in antimicrobial fabrics since 2011, Surgicot Textiles Ltd has seen orders pouring in after Covid-19 outbreak. The likes of Donear Group and Siyaram Silk Mills, too, plan to come out with antiviral fabrics in different categories. Textile industry experts believe that in times of the coronavirus pandemic, the demand for fabrics with antimicrobial properties is here to stay. More awareness about hygiene and keeping oneself safe will encourage brands to adopt fabrics that have antiviral properties. “The fabrics will get an enthusiastic response from customers as people will have a feeling of safety with these products. However, the onus will also be on the manufacturers to ensure consumer confidence is maintained through quality,” said Rahul Mehta, chief mentor and past president, Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India . Gagandeep Singh, secretary general, Denim Manufacturers’ Association of India, said, “These products can have multiple applications. For instance, currently the PPEs that are available are not breathable and therefore, antiviral fabrics can prove to be a great user-friendly alternative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-antiviral-fabrics-catch-textile-companies-fancy/articleshow/76488587.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||6 Covid patients die in Vid, Amravati cardiologist tests positive as 131 new cases surface||Nagpur/Akola/Amravati/Chandrapur: Five Covid positive patients died in Akola while a Buldhana patient, too, passed away even as Vidarbha reported 138 new cases, including that of a well-known cardiologist from Amravati on Saturday. This is the third time in June when six positive patients died in a day in Vidarbha. The Covid death toll climbed to 119 while total cases stand at 3,628 against a discharge count of 2376 across the 11 districts. Most of the cases (68) were detected in Nagpur, followed by Akola (27), Amravati (12), Yavatmal (11), Washim (7), Gadchiroli (6), Bhandara (4) and Buldhana (3). No cases were reported in Wardha, Gondia, and Chandrapur. Four men and a 35-year-old woman were casualties from Akola. The woman was a TB patient. The men victims are a 75-year-old who was also suffering from a cardiovascular disease, a 55-year-old, a 62-year-old and a 63-year-old. Details of the Buldhana victim were not available. In Amravati, a 60-year-old cardiologist in Rajapeth was among the 12 new Covid-19 cases. A Badnera doctor couple, who have their clinic in front of the Rajapeth police station, tested positive on Friday. This district's count rose to 418. With the discharge of 15 patients since Friday evening, the number of recovered persons has reached 279 at 66.74%. A 11-year-old girl and her brother (7) from Loni Takli village in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil tested positive after coming in contact with a 50-year-old woman from their family who tested positive six days ago. Hotspot Badnera took its tally to 53 when a 40-year-old male from Chamannagar tested positive while Habibnagar posted its 15th case through a 40-year-old male. A 75-year-old man recorded Yashodanagar's fifth case while men, aged 25 and 60, took Gopalnagar's count to three. Bhaji Bazaar gave its second case through a 27-year-old youth while Sabanpura its sixth via a youth aged 25. The virus made its entry in Dhamangaon Railway and Walgaon on Saturday to take its rural count to 38. A 43-year-old male tested positive in Dhamangaon while a 22-year-old girl tested positive in Walgaon. With the discharge of 15 patients, Amravati Covid hospital now has 114 of the total 122 active cases. Eight are in Nagpur. The Chandrapur tally remained at 55 as no case was reported. Only 16 active patients are remaining while the rest have been treated and discharged. Gondia witnessed the third day of relief with no fresh case, even after the number of tests increased significantly. Reports of 109 samples are awaited. Nearly 2,858 persons are institutional/home quarantined. In Yavatmal, 11 cases were found. All are from tehsil places. A man and a woman from Darwha, two women, two men and one boy from Ner, four men from Digras tested positive. Apart from these, two men from Vani tehsil tested positive in Nagpur and have been admitted there. They are being counted in Nagpur’s tally. Six tested positive in Gadchiroli. Five were at different quarantine centres at Wadsa Desaiganj. The five included a man (52) and his daughter (17) who returned from Delhi. Two women, both in their 50s, also tested positive. They had come from Nagpur. Earlier in the day, one person from the Aheri quarantine centre tested positive. A SRPF Jawan (29), too, tested positive. Gadchiroli has 60 cases while 42 have been discharged. The seven from Washim included four women and three men. A 30-year-old man, a 30-year-old woman, a 15-year-old boy and a two-year-old girl are from one family in Tamsi village. The others are a 56-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-patients-die-in-vid-amravati-cardiologist-tests-positive-as-131-new-cases-surface/articleshow/76487831.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rare ‘ring of fire’ eclipse on Sunday||The last full solar eclipse visible from India in the next 11 years is on Sunday. The rare annular eclipse — when the sun will appear as a thin “ring of fire” and/or a “necklace of shiny pearls” — will begin in Delhi at 10.19am and end at 1.48pm. Delhi's famous Chhatarpur temple will remain open during the solar eclipse on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-rare-ring-of-fire-eclipse-on-sunday/articleshow/76488586.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||High power bills shock consumers, MSEDCL says not overcharging||NAGPUR: There is widespread discontent among consumers over high power bills issued by state-run discom MSEDCL this month. Most consumers feel that the company is overcharging them. MSEDCL officials have clarified that the high amount was due to average billing in the past 2-3 months and now billing is being done based on actual consumption for that period. An official from MSEDCL official told TOI that meter reading was stopped in early March and only average bills were issued. “We again started taking readings in June and are now sending bills based on actual consumption. This is reason for consumers feeling that they are being cheated.” According to the official, average bills were issued in March, April and May on the basis of average consumption in December 2019, January and February. “The consumption during winter months is low because people don’t use ceiling fans, air coolers and air-conditioners. In summer, these appliances are used and hence the power consumption shoots up,” he said. Giving an example, the official said, “Say your consumption in December was 100 units, January 90 units and February 110 units. Your average consumption in these three months was 100 units. The bill for March, April and May was issued assuming that your monthly consumption is 100 units. However, in reality your consumption in March was say 200 units, 300 units in April and 400 units in May. So, you have consumed 900 units in these three months while paid the bill for only 300 units. Now, you will have to pay the bill for the extra 600 units.” The official assured that slab benefit had been given to consumers. “The 900 units consumed during these three months has been divided by three and we have calculated that your monthly consumption was 300 units. Even though you consumed 400 units in May and would have been billed at a higher rate for the units consumed beyond 300 units, you will get the benefit of averaging and pay a total lesser amount,” he said adding that average bill amount paid by consumers had been adjusted in the current bill. The official admitted that paying the extra bill for three months at one go was difficult for consumers. “However, they are also to blame. Only 3.6 lakh consumers took their readings through our mobile applications and paid the actual bills. Had every consumer done it we would not have faced the problem of cash flow and their bill would have got spread over,” he said. However, TOI has learnt many consumers didn’t receive SMS from MSEDCL to submit meter reading and when they tried to do it through the mobile app, they were asked to do so ‘after receipt of SMS’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-power-bills-shock-consumers-msedcl-says-not-overcharging/articleshow/76487844.cms||Ashish Roy
June 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lockdown googling reunites 93-year-old woman with her family after 40 years||BHOPAL: A smartphone. Lots of time to spare in lockdown. And a family’s tireless effort to identify a ‘guest’ they had cared for since 1980 have reunited a 93-year-old woman with her family more than four decades after they were separated. On the hot and humid afternoon of June 17, about 500 Muslim residents of the dusty hamlet of Kotatalab in Damoh district in MP burst into tears as they bid farewell to Panchu Bai Shingne, who had been part of their lives since 1980. A resident of a remote village of Vidarbha, Panchu Bai Shingne was reported missing in 1979 and the Lakadganj thana had been looking for her all this while. Now, they can close the file. Israr Khan who lives in Kotatalab, said it was his father, a truck driver, who found Panchu Bai wandering alone in 1980 and brought her to the village. “My father, Noor Khan, had rescued her from a bee attack on a jungle road near our village,” Israr said. Israr was barely a few months old then but has heard this story repeated over and over by his father and the rest of the village elders. “Since then, she has lived with us. We looked after her without ever understanding her language. When my father died in 2007, he told us to take care of her,” he said. Israr and his family had become deeply attached to her over the years and wept inconsolably when her grandson Prithvi Kumar Shingle, a timber merchant from Nagpur, drove her home in a red car. It was the first time grandmother and grandson met. Panchu Bai’s life seems intertwined with the Khans. If it was Noor who found her, it was Israr who tracked down her family. “May 3 was a very hot afternoon. Lockdown was on and I had plenty of time to do nothing. I was sitting with Panchu Bai. As usual she was murmuring something but this time it was a bit clear,” he told TOI on Saturday. “She would always mumble in a language we never understood. Just like that, I asked her the same question we have been asking her for 40 years: ‘Tumhare gaon ka kya naam hai?’ She whispered two words, ‘Khanjama Nagar’, and after a brief pause, ‘Pathrot’,” said Israr. He said he had bought a “bada phone” (smartphone) in 2018 and since then had been trying to trace Panchu Bai’s relatives on Facebook and other social media platforms. “I googled for ‘Khanjama’ but it did not yield any result. Pathrot, however, turned out to be a small village in Amravati district of Maharashtra,” Israr said. He then began looking for people in Pathrot and found Abhishek, a kiosk operator. He sent pictures and visuals of Panchu Bai to him. “Abhishek put them in WhatsApp groups of his community and Panchu Bai’s family was located in one and half days,” Israr said. Talking to TOI over phone from Nagpur, Prithvi Shingne said the lockdown further delayed their reunion. “Dadi is very happy ever since she has reached here. She has recognized her bahu, and my mother. My grandfather and my father both waited for her and died unhappy in 2005 and 2017,” he said. Shingne said he was not even born when her grandma went missing. My father had told me that she was taken to Nagpur for treatment but one morning, she went missing. “We have found her now, 40 years later,” he said. How she ended up in the jungle track in Damoh, about 400km from Nagpur, is still a mystery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-googling-reunites-93-yr-old-woman-with-her-family-after-40-years/articleshow/76487949.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||IAS man sent to Bhiwandi after 11 days in Thane||BHIWANDI/THANE: The rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in Bhiwandi and a demand by locals for an IAS officer in the powerloom city made the state government appoint Pankaj Ashiya the municipal commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampura in place of Pravin Ashtikar. Ashiya, credited with controlling the coronavirus in Malegaon, was deputed to the Thane Municipal Corporation to combat the coronavirus just 11 days ago. A 2015 batch IAS officer who hails from Jodhpur, Ashiya has served as assistant secretary at NITI Ayog. In Bhiwandi, the number of Covid-19 cases is 875. "I am happy the government has taken cognisance of my demand and posted an IAS officer in the city," Bhiwandi MLA Rais Shaikh said. In Thane, which has 5,500 cases, activists criticised the frequent replacements. Mid-March marked the exit of municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal and appointment of Vijay Singhal. In mid-May, two additional commissioners were replaced. Later, two IAS officials, Ranjit Kumar and Ashiya, were brought in. BJP city unit chief Niranjan Davkhare and mayor Naresh Mhaske said the rise in Covid-19 cases showed the transfers were not helping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/ias-man-sent-to-bhiwandi-after-11-days-in-thane/articleshow/76488609.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 21, 2020||Thane||IAS man sent to Bhiwandi after 11 days in Thane||BHIWANDI/THANE: The rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in Bhiwandi and a demand by locals for an IAS officer in the powerloom city made the state government appoint Pankaj Ashiya the municipal commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampura in place of Pravin Ashtikar. Ashiya, credited with controlling the coronavirus in Malegaon, was deputed to the Thane Municipal Corporation to combat the coronavirus just 11 days ago. A 2015 batch IAS officer who hails from Jodhpur, Ashiya has served as assistant secretary at NITI Ayog. In Bhiwandi, the number of Covid-19 cases is 875. "I am happy the government has taken cognisance of my demand and posted an IAS officer in the city," Bhiwandi MLA Rais Shaikh said. In Thane, which has 5,500 cases, activists criticised the frequent replacements. Mid-March marked the exit of municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal and appointment of Vijay Singhal. In mid-May, two additional commissioners were replaced. Later, two IAS officials, Ranjit Kumar and Ashiya, were brought in. BJP city unit chief Niranjan Davkhare and mayor Naresh Mhaske said the rise in Covid-19 cases showed the transfers were not helping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ias-man-sent-to-bhiwandi-after-11-days-in-thane/articleshow/76488596.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘Students will be called corona grads sans exams’||Nagpur: A day after the Maharashtra government ended the uncertainty over final year/semester examinations in the state, students’ organizations like ABVP and academicians of Nagpur University flayed the move. Through a government resolution (GR), the state department of higher and technical education ruled out any possibility of conducting exams in the present situation where coronavirus cases are multiplying with each passing day. It however left it to the students to either accept its proposal of average marks to get the degree or wait for a conducive atmosphere for holding exams. The ABVP, which has been opposing the government’s move since it announced its intentions, accused it of playing with the future of lakhs of students by giving them the option of getting their degree on the basis of past performance without appearing for the exams. “The decision is completely against the UGC guidelines, which had recommended two-hour exams for students. Even educationists were opposing any decision to drop the exams. If such students are awarded degrees without testing, they would be termed as ‘Covid graduates’. Who will give value to such degrees obtained without exams,” a statement released by activist Durgesh Sathaone said. Pointing out that the government was yet to come clear on the fate of failure (ATKT) students, the ABVP said that when the government was allowing the reopening of schools and also holding common entrance exams like MHT-CET for medical and engineering courses, then why university exams couldn’t be conducted. Former Nagpur University Management Council member Sanjay Khadakkar said that though the government had cleared the uncertainty over exams, students would be the ultimate sufferers as the other states were holding exams. “In such a situation, there would be a question mark on the degrees of Maharashtra students. It’s surprising that the government had taken the decision to drop exams citing the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and by ignoring the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, which governs educational institutions,” he said. Though relieved, final year students said that if the government had cancelled the overall exams, it would have been better. “We’re in a quandary. My parents advised me to appear for the exams, whenever they are held. My only request to NU is to declare the timetable as soon as possible. Of course this delay would certainly affect our prospects for admissions to postgraduate courses or for jobs,” Khushbu Lute, a student of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College of Engineering (DBACER) said. Endorsing Khushbu, Purva Joshi, studying in the same college, stated that exams are a must for all students and getting degrees without it would create several problems for the students in the future. “Exams shouldn’t be objective type as students really study hard in the final year to improve their overall grades,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-will-be-called-corona-grads-sans-exams/articleshow/76488039.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||‘Yoga can help develop intuition, concentration’||Ranchi: International Day of Yoga has popularised the concept of yogasana globally but Ranchi-based Yogoda Satsanga Society (YSS) has been preaching the concept of kriya yoga to the western world, particularly in the US through self realisation fellowship that has been founded by Paramhansa Yogananda, since 1920. The national general secretary of YSS, founded by Yogananda as well, Swami Ishwarananda Giri, spoke to TOI about yoga as the ancient Indian tradition that has been embraced across the globe. Q. Do you see any relevance of the International Day of Yoga? A. Yoga has been a part of life in India but declaring a date in particular as the International Day of Yoga has made it popular throughout the world. Dedicating a special day to it helps in creating awareness and initiate discussions about various aspects of yoga. There are so many forms of yoga and different people practice different forms according to their needs and inclination. Q. Is there a difference between asana and yoga? A. Asana or yogasana is just a part of the science of yoga. There are other things associated with the concept of yoga. The branch of yoga that deals with physical fitness is called hath yoga and asanas are an important component of it. We can say that yogasana improves physical fitness and prepares the body for other streams of yoga, which includes pranayam and meditation. For meditation, one has to sit in a particular static pose and that pose is known as asana. According to yogasutra, ‘sthiram sukham asanam’, which means the position in which you can remain static, is ‘asana.’ Q What is kriya yoga and is it meant for the saints only? A. People have often misconstrued the term of kriya yoga thinking it is meant for saints or aims at joining the order of sanyasi, when in reality, kriya yoga helps in improving the quality of worldly life for one and all. Kriya yoga teaches people to remain conscious and be scientifically aware. Yoga is nothing but science and after being trained in medicine, I can say this with conviction that yoga sutra is all about the science of body, mind and soul. If asana prepares the body, kriya yoga helps the mind to focus on inner self and develops the understanding of universal consciousness. For the commoners, practising kriya yoga can develop intuition and it can help them in having a sharp focus on whatever they are doing in their daily lives. Q. Though YSS started off in Ranchi, people in West follow the teachings more religiously. What are your views on it? A. Yoga is in the life of every Indian. We don’t even realise and still we practise it in some form or the other. One need not have a religious bent of mind for practising yoga. However, for people in the West it was a new concept. After being disenchanted with the Churches, they were looking for an alternative spiritual path and that’s when they found the Indian concept of yoga. The number of people who attend our meditation sessions has increased over the years and even at the Ranchi centre, several thousand people come here every year to understand and practise kriya yoga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/yoga-can-help-develop-intuition-concentration/articleshow/76486928.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bankura jail warden held for drugs sale||BANKURA: Debabrata Bhowmik, the warden of Bankura jail, has been arrested for allegedly supplying drugs to prisoners. The matter came to light after an inmate, Suman Singh, became unconscious inside his cell on Friday night. Singh is an accused in the 2017 murder of Kharagpur don Srinu Naidu. He was taken to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital. On regaining co-nsciousness, he told police that he would often do dr-ugs, which were supplied by warden Bhowmik. A senior officer said Bhowmik confessed his crime during interrogation. He was produced in court and remanded in police custody for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bankura-jail-warden-held-for-drugs-sale/articleshow/76488399.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Congress leader eyes TMC ‘breakaways’ for alliance push||KOLKATA: The growing Trinamool-versus-BJP political binary in Bengal has prompted a section of Pradesh Congress leaders to think “out of the box” for a third path to keep BJP at bay. Opposition leader in Bengal assembly Abdul Mannan eyes the possibility of some TMC leaders floating a new party ahead of the 2021 elections. Mannan maintains that Congress and Left can tie up with the new party to curb a BJP surge. Mannan dug up history to cite the example of Ajay Mukherjee, who floated Bangla Congress in 1967 and fought with Left to dislodge the Congress government in Bengal. Congress sources said Mannan had broached the idea in a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi. Speculation on Trinamool desertions has gained currency since 2019 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed at a Serampore Lok Sabha election rally that as many as 40 Trinamool MLAs were in touch with him. A rumour has been doing the rounds recently that at least three TMC ministers are set to dump the party. The most influential among them may even float a new party considering the demography of his support base. In all these cases, speculation is rife about their joining BJP or fighting polls with BJP support. A Congress-turned-TMC MLA from Bagda in North 24 Parganas recently joined BJP without even sparing a thought of going back to Congress. “I don’t mean a repeat of the 1967 situation. But I strongly feel that many people are averse to both Trinamool and BJP. There are many others, including intellectuals and non-political citizens, who are looking for a third path backed by Congress and Left. I was suggesting expansion of our horizon and accommodating these prominent individuals or breakaway factions,” Mannan said. Pradesh Congress president Somen Mitra didn’t indulge in surmises. “We have already started talks with Left over seat adjustments for the 2021 assembly polls,” he said. Asked about the possibility of tying up with a possible “breakaway” group of TMC, he said: “Let us first consolidate our own strength.” According to Congress sources, the party will ask for 100 seats and leave the remaining 194 for CPM and Front allies. Leaders of both party held talks over seat adjustments for municipal polls, including the one in Kolkata Municipal Corporation. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra has told party ranks to ramp up efforts at the grassroots to regain support bases the party lost to Trinamool. “BJP is trying to project it as Trinamool’s alternative in Bengal. Left activists reached out to people during the pandemic. It makes quite clear who is the real alternative. We will reach out to people along with Congress,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-leader-eyes-tmc-breakaways-for-alliance-push/articleshow/76488413.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||CPM condemns BJP stir over China coverage||KOLKATA: CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra condemned an agitation by BJP Mahila Morcha near the party state headquarters on Alimuddin Street on Saturday following “mischief” by BJP’s IT cell. “The BJP IT cell has uploaded a fake news item twisting a small portion of a news item published in Ganashakti over the recent skirmish along the Line of Actual Control at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. BJP Mahila Morcha assembled in front of the Ganashakti office and created a ruckus. It exposes their fascist face,” he said. The Morcha took exception to Ganashakti’s coverage of the Ladakh clash in which it had quoted the Chinese spokesperson as saying Indian soldiers violated border protocol and disregarded the status quo in Galwan Valley. Ganashakti gave versions of both India and China. Morcha state president Agnimitra Paul blamed CPM for taking a pro-China stance. Later, police arrested them. “We have taken versions from both governments. On the front page, we have given the Indian foreign ministry’s version and then quoted the Chinese spokesperson. BJP’s IT cell has taken only the second page, where it seems we have written (that the Indian Army violated the agreement and breached the border). In reality, we quoted the Chinese spokesperson. It is a mischievous way to confuse and mislead people,” a Ganashakti press release stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cpm-condemns-bjp-stir-over-china-coverage/articleshow/76488394.cms||---
June 21, 2020||Ranchi||Centre’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan aimed at Bihar polls, says Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||RANCHI: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rolled the Rs 50,000-crore Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan to generate jobs for migrants who lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren dubbed it as an “election jumla” aimed at the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar. Through video-conferencing from Delhi, Modi started the flagship scheme at Telihar village in Bihar’s Khagaria district on Saturday. The scheme is aimed at covering 116 districts across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Chief ministers of these states, including Hemant, were tuned in through a video hook up during the online launch. In Jharkhand, three districts — Hazaribag, Giridih and Godda — have been included in this scheme. About 25 focus areas across different departments were chosen for providing jobs in a mission mode in 125 days to build a durable rural infrastructure. Talking to the media after the launch, Hemant said, “I don’t see anything great in this. Even before the Centre thought of such a plan, we had been doing so under MNREGA for the last one month. So far, we have managed to provide jobs to about six lakh people in rural areas on a daily basis and our target is to touch 10 lakh soon. We are also working out plans to provide jobs in urban areas on the lines of the rural job schemes.” Hemant also took a dig for giving Jharkhand a raw deal. He said, “Only three districts have been included when poverty and joblessness is at its highest in our state. Majority of our districts are in the category of aspirational districts as per Niti Aayog. In a nutshell, I see the programme as nothing, but another scheme keeping Bihar election in mind.” Congress, an ally in the Hemant-led dispensation, also denounced the scheme and called it as a piecemeal approach by the Modi government towards Jharkhand and reiterated their demand for special assistance and package. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “Rather than such a piecemeal approach, we would have welcomed if the Centre had agreed to our demand of increasing MNREGA wages, fixed financial incentives to the poor who lost their livelihoods and a special package to the state.” Another spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, added, “The state government had also demanded allotment for free distribution of PDS under the food security Act till December, but the Centre hasn’t agreed to it.” In Hazaribag, one of the chosen district for this scheme, deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “We plan to rollout the scheme in all the 250 panchayats soon, with an estimated budget of Rs 500 crore at the rate of Rs 2 crore per panchayat. Of the over 62,000 migrants who returned to the district, we have finished skill mapping of 22,203.” (With inputs from Abhijit Sen in Hazaribag)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centres-garib-kalyan-rozgar-abhiyaan-aimed-at-bihar-polls-says-cm/articleshow/76486941.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Unusual symptoms of Covid-19 on the rise in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Covid-19 cases with “unusual symptoms”, which the union health ministry has spoken about, are on the rise in Kolkata, say city doctors. The health ministry expanded the Covid symptom list on June 12 to include muscle pain, diarrhoea and loss of taste and smell. A few patients with some of these symptoms, including two employees of a superspeciality hospital and a patient from Bihar, have already been discharged from clinics in Kolkata. None of them showed the “principal Covid symptom of severe upper respiratory distress”, their doctors said, making the initial diagnosis that much more difficult. One of the three did not even even have fever but all three suffered from diarrhoea for a week; one had lost her sense of smell and another had “minor breathing difficulty” without fever or cold. “Just 3% of symptomatic patients suffer from respiratory failure and need ventilation. Shivering, cough and breathlessness are the initial symptoms for these patients. But there are atypical symptoms like diarrhoea, vomitting and skin rashes that are not associated with Covid (because they are secondary symptoms). They may be more prominent than the primary symptoms and the challenge for doctors is to gauge them,” AMRI Hospital (Salt Lake) consultant Debashish Saha said. The 55-year-old Bihar woman, for instance, tested positive but was being treated for Parkinson’s disease and had only a mild, dry cough with no other classic Covid symptom. But her secondary symptoms — loose motion and an occasional loss of the sense of smell — turned out to be more pronounced. The CEO of a hospital, too, was admitted with severe diarrhoea and later tested positive for Covid. He had low-grade fever but no cough or cold and recovered in a week without any of the common Covid symptoms. Some of the “unusual” symptoms like skin rash, vomitting and diarrhoea can be the lone symptom for several days, doctors said. “In severe cases, patients may have cerebral stroke-like symptoms or venous thrombosis in the lungs or brain. It is the virus that triggers extreme symptoms, depending on the immune response,” AMRI Hospital (Salt Lake) consultant Debashish Saha explained. Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain says patients may have marked symptoms of gastrointestinal disorder, pain in the abdomen, nausea, vomitting and diarrhoea prior to respiratory symptoms like cough, sore throat and shortness of breath. “Some patients may not develop any respiratory symptom at all; these are often detected in routine checks. Physicians may be disarmed by these symptoms and not suspect Covid at all. Anosmia or hyposmia (reduced smell sensation) in the absence of a nose block may be a symptom of Covid,” Jain said. Asymtomatic patients needed to be diagnosed through contact tracing, Saha felt. “A vast majority of patients will not have symptoms and so it is has to be mandatory,” he said. “Receptors in the lungs and brain get attached to the spike proteins of Covid 19; so very severe symptoms, too, are prevalent but less common,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unusual-symptoms-of-covid-on-the-rise-in-kol/articleshow/76488357.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cave-in near ECL mine, woman trapped||ANDAL: A 45-year-old woman is trapped under the debris of her house that caved in following land subsidence near an open-cast Eastern Coalfields (ECL) mine at Jambad in West Burdwan’s Andal early on Saturday. Rescue efforts were on till this report was filed late in the evening. A senior ECL officer said as many as 16 abandoned ECL quarters, which are illegally occupied, had also been damaged. “The subsidence was triggered by heavy rainfall. The search mission will continue through the night. The 16 damaged quarters will be demolished and the squatters moved to provisional camps.” The woman, identified as Sahanaj Bano, and her family were woken up by a loud thud around 3.45am. While her husband Sheikh Miraj and their two daughters managed to rush out in time, she was buried under the collapsing house. “The crater (caused by land subsidence) was very deep. We could not reach down and pull her out,” Miraj said. Local panchayat authorities were informed along with police and ECL. A coalfields rescue team reached around 9.30am. Sources said two soil machines, a bulldozer and a payloader were on the job. CISF cordoned off the area. MLA Jitendra Tewari visited the spot. “The woman is believed to be trapped some 60ft below. Manual rescue is imp-ossible. Machines have been deployed. We’re with the family,” said panchayat pra-dhan Bir Bahadur Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cave-in-near-ecl-mine-woman-trapped/articleshow/76488389.cms||Mohammad Asif
