June 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai food designer solves the case of the forgotten vegetables||Fresh out of a food designing course in Italy and an internship in the Netherlands, Akash Muralidaran headed back home earlier this year to explore the underlying eating patterns in Chennai. Little did he know that a quick rummage into his attic would lead him to discover a new world of forgotten vegetables unique to South India. The 25-year-old food designer recently completed a 100-day cooking challenge on Instagram, which saw him discover and cook with some of the lesser-known vegetables native to the South, like country cucumber (thummatikai), spiny gourd (mezhuku-pakal) and purple yam (rasavalli kizhangu). The challenge was a product of grit, wide palates and a copy of Meenakshi Ammal’s cookbook relic Samaithu Paar. “Shortly after my return to India, I chanced upon the 70-year-old cookbook and a few family recipes,” recalls Akash. Those were all the ingredients he needed to whip up a challenge with a purpose. “While skimming through the book, I noticed that there were a number of vegetables I did not recognise. My mother and a few others I spoke to gave me nostalgic stories of growing these vegetables in their backyard as children. But they had no reason for not cooking with them now,” the food designer says. Every morning, between 6am and 8am, Akash has been cooking with one vegetable a day for the past three months. The 100-day journey started on March 1 and concluded last week. “Most of the recipes are from Samaithu Paar. Vegetables like the spiny gourd were not featured in the book. For a few such ingredients, I improvised with family recipes,” Akash explains. While the process involved a lot of planning, Akash describes it as a blind leap of faith. “I took it one day at a time, with a belief that I would find 100 such vegetables. I was aided by a couple of my friends and followers, who pinged me vegetable suggestions,” he says, adding that his mother was his partner in the kitchen. “Every weekend, we’d plan the vegetables we were going to be cooking with the following week,” he says. The lockdown, which was implemented shortly after the rolling out of his series, did not make things easier. “It was a bit hard to hunt down these vegetables. For instance, I could not find the thummatikai anywhere in the markets. So, I decided to use the thummatikai vathal instead,” he recalls. As for vegetables like magali kizhangu (decalepis root) and narthangai (citron), which could not be sourced from markets, Akash relied on the home gardens of his friends and family. Now, he intends to turn this challenge into a book. “I am now in the process of talking to home cooks, chefs and caterers in Chennai about why these vegetables do not make a big part of the city’s kitchens and menus. The aim is to publish that as a book,” he says. Noticing the greensNative vegetables apart, it is also time to celebrate the greens surrounding us, says Akash. Aloe Vera Thuvaiyal was one such revelation. “One of my friends suggested this dish to me. It made me realise how we do not notice the vegetables growing around us,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-food-designer-solves-the-case-of-the-forgotten-vegetables/articleshow/76498907.cms||Sruthi Raman
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||Youngsters map places of historic or cultural relevance in Karnataka with plaques||What if areas with a historic or cultural relevance were marked out to help you understand them better? Well, a group called the Yuva Brigade is undertaking something like that by figuring out the houses/buildings that eminent personalities have lived/been at, and installing rellow (red and yellow) plaques in their honour. The installation of rellow plaques started in Mysuru last with with Udayaravi, the home of the late writer and Jnanapith Awardee Kuvempu, which was followed up by the building from which the world’s only Sanskrit daily Sudharma was published. A plaque has been installed in front of the house that the late Bharat Ratna M Visveshvaraya spent his childhood at Muddenhalli in Chikkaballapura. In the initial phase, the group has identified 60 buildings and places of cultural and historical importance across Karnataka where rellow plaques will be installed in a phased manner. Overall, they have identified 600 places in Karnataka, where they hope to install the plaques. Talking about the idea behind the initiative, S Chandrashekhar, convener of the group, says, “The idea came to us during the lockdown. We realised that a lot of us, as well as visitors to Karnataka are unaware of the significance of certain areas. For instance, how many people know the place in Bengaluru that the late writer Maasthi Venkatesha Iyengar lived in or the area where the first survey of india was carried out using Trigonometry? These plaques will serve as a guide for tourists visiting Karnataka. If they visit our website, there are Google map links to each of these sites. As for the colour combination for the plaques, we opted for a mix of red and yellow because they represent the colours of the Karnataka flag. The plaques are made of a particular metal that can withstand sunshine and rain and have information in Kannada and English about the significance of the place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youngsters-map-places-of-historic-or-cultural-relevance-in-karnataka-with-plaques/articleshow/76497822.cms||Vinay Lokesh
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM's security staff, cops caught unaware as NSUI president stages agitation outside his residence||CHANDIGARH: At the time when CM Manohar Lal Khattar and his team were busy in celebrating Internationnal Yoga Day and observed the solar eclipse as well, the NSUI Haryana president Divyanshu Budhraja on Sunday staged agitation outside his residence. Divyanshu Budhraja resorted to solo agitation to press his demand of waiving of examinations for the final year students of all the courses as announced by the state government. The security personnel deployed at CM residence and cops from Chandigarh police were caught unaware when Budhiraja aligned from his car and sat on Dharna on the road berm outside the CM's residence in sector 2. With posters and placards seeking withdrawal of decision by government, Divyanshhu also raised the anti government slogans. "We are fighting for the rights of the students. Why double standards? Why dont exempt the local students as well. Students need degrees not the death," he said. Baffled security personnel as well staffers deployed at CM’s residence made a foiled attempt to pursue Budhiraja. Meanwhile, cops from Sector 4 police station headed by SHO reached the spot and this led to the arguments. Cops apprehended Divyanshu as preventive measures and detained him for couple of hours before releasing him after warning. Haryana government has announced the examination schedule for the exit classes in professional courses as well as undergraduate classes of various stream. The examinations are scheduled to be held in the month of July. Haryana has exempted examination for the students from the other states, this has triggered the protests by NSUI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cms-security-staff-cops-caught-unaware-as-nsui-president-stages-agitation-outside-his-residence/articleshow/76496669.cms||Manvir Saini
June 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Jagadhari reports 4 new Covid-19 cases||YAMUNANAGAR: Jagadhari town reported four new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, Yamunanagar's deputy commissioner (DC) Mukul Kumar said. Kumar visited inspected Tara Puri Colony, Nanda Colony, Jagadhri Workshop and Drajpur areas of the city and instructed the concerned officials to seal the area. “Four new cases include labourers from a factory at Sudhal village area. Out of the four infected people, one each is from Tara Puri Colony and Nanda Colony and two are from Drajpur area,” the DC said. “The concerned areas have been declared as containment zones and the patients have been isolated at Lal Bahadur Shashtri Hospital in Bilaspur town of the district”, said DC Mukul. Photo caption: Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar inspecting containment zones in the city area on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-jagadhari-reports-4-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76500036.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 15 Covid positive cases in Sangrur; four in Patiala||PATIALA: Sangrur reported 15 more cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking district's tally 226. Similarly in Patiala, four coronavirus cases, including a nurse and a health employee of government Rajindra hospital, were also detected. Dr Harish Malhotra, Patiala civil surgeon, said, “So far, 16,886 samples have been taken for testing of which 211 have tested positive for Covid-19 but only 74 cases are active in the district whereas reports of 1,075 samples were awaited." Malhotra said 133 patients have been recovered and sent back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-15-covid-positive-cases-in-sangrur-four-in-patiala/articleshow/76500054.cms||Bharat Khanna
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s bikers ride around the city with masks on World Motorcycle Day||If there is anything that brings out the poet in a biker, it’s the rain. For they will tell you how those wet roads, open skies, gorgeous scenery and cool drizzle add to their thrill like nothing else can. And Mumbai’s motorcycling frat had been raring to do just that post the lockdown — they chalked up the season’s first rides already, which included celebrating World Motorcycle Day on June 21. While they were not able to vroom away to their usual off-roading trips near hill stations, they made the most of the city’s open roads in this weather. As biker Amit Jambotkar says, “We bikers have a saying that if you don’t ride in the rains, you don’t ride at all.” BT caught them in action as they hopped onto their mean machines... ‘Mumbai has more than 1,000 biking groups’The low, thick clouds of grey that were hung over Bandra’s Bandstand only heightened the mood. “What a time to be outside,” says Amit, who’s also called Jambo among his biker friends. “The roads are open and traffic is far less than usual, so on any day, you might even see several sub-groups of riders out there. Mumbai, in fact, has more than 1,000 biking groups.” Santacruz-based entrepreneur Sam Samant shares, “In this pandemic phase, when people have travel fears, using a two-wheeler like a bike for transport is apt, so long as you ride safely. We were itching to ride after such a long break, but we are also ensuring that we go out in smaller groups, have our masks and maintain social distancing.” ‘Every year, we participate in a rally, but there are restrictions now’The bikers have their own network and chat groups, which helped them immensely during the lockdown. Businessman Anuj Gupta from Bandra informs, “There are around 5,000 of us in Mumbai, including women riders. We learn from each other.” Kandivali-based insurance advisor, Gurdeep Singh, adds, “Every year, we participate in a rally on World Motorcycle Day. Since there are restrictions now, we’re mostly doing a solo spin and can’t wait to get back to our group fun.” When biking sends out a social message... Bikers advocate riding with safety gear and every year, they ride to support various causes, including a ride with Mumbai Traffic Police to promote road safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-bikers-ride-around-the-city-with-masks-on-world-motorcycle-day/articleshow/76498404.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||More women take the wheel on the road to becoming aatma nirbhar||In one of his recent speeches, PM Narendra Modi had spoken about his plans to make the country aatma nirbhar or self-reliant to tackle the various challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Days later, a rising number of people in Kolkata, especially women, seem to have started following in his footsteps by signing up for activities that did not feature in their priority lists prior to the lockdown. One such activity is learning how to drive. With public conveyance becoming a risky proposition, driving schools across the city are seeing a huge surge in the number of new applicants ever since they resumed operations earlier this month. ‘Women are more eager to learn, punctual’ For most driving schools, accommodating the overwhelming crowd of learners is becoming a challenge. Nando Kishor Shah from Ballygunge Motor Training School, which reopened on June 1, told CT, “From Day 1, we have been flooded with calls for new enrolments. Most of them are women. There are two major reasons why people want to learn driving now. First, they are scared of using public transport. Second, they don’t have the money to splurge on chauffeurs or app cabs that often have surge pricing,” While men are eager to commute to the workplace on bikes, women are interested in learning how to drive a car. “Among women, 30% are students, professionals or homemakers aged between 25 and 45. Women are extremely receptive and their eagerness to learn is praiseworthy. They don’t miss a single class and are quite punctual. We generally give 24 classes for half an hour each, but some women are willing to spend more on private classes so that they learn faster,” he added. ‘Minimising expenses and child’s safety on women’s minds’ Bimal Guha, the secretary of Motor Training School Owners Association and general secretary of Bengal Taxi Association, believes that being able to drive is a great step towards becoming self-reliant. “Which is why there’s been a 10-fold jump in people willing to learn driving ever since the lockdown was eased,” he said. Explaining why women are more keen on taking driving classes, he said that in most families women are the decision makers, especially when it comes to managing finances. “And with so much of uncertainty looming over our future, they want to cut down on certain expenses, including the driver’s remuneration. Apart from that, once schools reopen, they don’t want to take the risk of making their children travel in a school bus or pool car. They would prefer driving the kids to school on their own,” he added. According to him, almost 60% of the new trainees in driving schools are women. “Many of them no longer wish to remain dependent on the men in the family or public transport,” said Bimal, adding that the sale of second-hand cars, bikes and scooters has shot up recently. ‘Self-drive is safer, empowering and saves time’ For travel professional Renuka Lalwani, driving not only makes one self-reliant but also saves up a lot of time that is otherwise spent on commuting through public transport, which is not a reliable option during strikes, national holidays and heavy rains. “Even from the safety point of view, driving your own car is a much better option, especially for working women. Unlike app cabs, you can be rest assured of hygiene in your own vehicle,” said the 38-year-old, for whom driving is also an empowering experience. Homemaker Piyali Mitra is taking driving lessons to gear up for her daughter’s upcoming board exams. “My husband is mostly busy with work and I don’t want my daughter to take the public transport for her exams in July. If I learn driving, it will help me take charge of a lot of chores and also save money,” said Piyali, 43, who was always intimidated by the very thought of driving. “But now, it is helping me take my mind off all the stress. While some have discovered their passion for cooking in the lockdown, I have overcome my fear of driving a car,” she smiled. ‘Women prefer smaller, pre-owned vehicles’ Since people started returning to offices, there has been a huge spike in demand for pre-owned vehicles. “Public transport is out of question for most office-goers. They are buying second-hand cars and two-wheelers to commute. Women – both homemakers and professionals – prefer smaller cars, especially for commuting to office or dropping kids to their schools,” said Amitava Sen, who deals in pre-owned vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-women-take-the-wheel-on-the-road-to-becoming-aatma-nirbhar/articleshow/76497047.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||More women take the wheel on the road to becoming aatma nirbhar||In one of his recent speeches, PM Narendra Modi had spoken about his plans to make the country aatma nirbhar or self-reliant to tackle the various challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Days later, a rising number of people in Kolkata, especially women, seem to have started following in his footsteps by signing up for activities that did not feature in their priority lists prior to the lockdown. One such activity is learning how to drive. With public conveyance becoming a risky proposition, driving schools across the city are seeing a huge surge in the number of new applicants ever since they resumed operations earlier this month. ‘Women are more eager to learn, punctual’ For most driving schools, accommodating the overwhelming crowd of learners is becoming a challenge. Nando Kishor Shah from Ballygunge Motor Training School, which reopened on June 1, told CT, “From Day 1, we have been flooded with calls for new enrolments. Most of them are women. There are two major reasons why people want to learn driving now. First, they are scared of using public transport. Second, they don’t have the money to splurge on chauffeurs or app cabs that often have surge pricing,” While men are eager to commute to the workplace on bikes, women are interested in learning how to drive a car. “Among women, 30% are students, professionals or homemakers aged between 25 and 45. Women are extremely receptive and their eagerness to learn is praiseworthy. They don’t miss a single class and are quite punctual. We generally give 24 classes for half an hour each, but some women are willing to spend more on private classes so that they learn faster,” he added. ‘Minimising expenses and child’s safety on women’s minds’ Bimal Guha, the secretary of Motor Training School Owners Association and general secretary of Bengal Taxi Association, believes that being able to drive is a great step towards becoming self-reliant. “Which is why there’s been a 10-fold jump in people willing to learn driving ever since the lockdown was eased,” he said. Explaining why women are more keen on taking driving classes, he said that in most families women are the decision makers, especially when it comes to managing finances. “And with so much of uncertainty looming over our future, they want to cut down on certain expenses, including the driver’s remuneration. Apart from that, once schools reopen, they don’t want to take the risk of making their children travel in a school bus or pool car. They would prefer driving the kids to school on their own,” he added. According to him, almost 60% of the new trainees in driving schools are women. “Many of them no longer wish to remain dependent on the men in the family or public transport,” said Bimal, adding that the sale of second-hand cars, bikes and scooters has shot up recently. ‘Self-drive is safer, empowering and saves time’ For travel professional Renuka Lalwani, driving not only makes one self-reliant but also saves up a lot of time that is otherwise spent on commuting through public transport, which is not a reliable option during strikes, national holidays and heavy rains. “Even from the safety point of view, driving your own car is a much better option, especially for working women. Unlike app cabs, you can be rest assured of hygiene in your own vehicle,” said the 38-year-old, for whom driving is also an empowering experience. Homemaker Piyali Mitra is taking driving lessons to gear up for her daughter’s upcoming board exams. “My husband is mostly busy with work and I don’t want my daughter to take the public transport for her exams in July. If I learn driving, it will help me take charge of a lot of chores and also save money,” said Piyali, 43, who was always intimidated by the very thought of driving. “But now, it is helping me take my mind off all the stress. While some have discovered their passion for cooking in the lockdown, I have overcome my fear of driving a car,” she smiled. ‘Women prefer smaller, pre-owned vehicles’ Since people started returning to offices, there has been a huge spike in demand for pre-owned vehicles. “Public transport is out of question for most office-goers. They are buying second-hand cars and two-wheelers to commute. Women – both homemakers and professionals – prefer smaller cars, especially for commuting to office or dropping kids to their schools,” said Amitava Sen, who deals in pre-owned vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-women-take-the-wheel-on-the-road-to-becoming-aatma-nirbhar/articleshow/76496967.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 22, 2020||India||MEA tells missions to resume visa services||NEW DELHI: The external affairs ministry has requested diplomatic missions in India to resume visa processing services “in view of lifting of the Covid lockdown”. The move comes at a time when the government is considering a calibrated resumption of international flights from next month depending on the pandemic situation. Highlighting issues being faced by Indian nationals in getting visas due to suspension of services, the MEA wrote to diplomatic missions on June 9. “This ministry is receiving a number of requests from Indian nationals/trade bodies/other organisations regarding difficulties being faced by bona fide Indian nationals in obtaining visas of foreign countries due to continued suspension of such services by some diplomatic missions in India… Several of them intend to travel to foreign countries for various reasons including emergency/compelling reasons, to rejoin family members residing abroad, resumption of education,” the letter stated. Some Indians who live and work abroad were stranded when international flights were suspended on March 22. “In some cases, their visas have expired and they need to re-apply at foreign diplomatic missions in India to travel back to their country of residence. In few cases, Indian citizens who had submitted their original passports to foreign diplomatic missions in India for processing of their visa applications before lockdown have not yet received their passports back,” the letter added. Senior officials of foreign airlines welcomed the move and said resuming visa processing could be seen as a sign of new normalcy returning post-pandemic. India had suspended most existing visas to foreigners on March 10 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. In past few weeks, India has begun lifting restrictions on entry of foreigners in a calibrated manner. Schedule commercial international flights are suspended till the month-end. Aviation minister H S Puri had said on June 20: “We can start regular international flights when our domestic traffic reaches about 50-60% & other countries open up to international traffic without present conditionalities. Once the situation evolves in that direction we will consider a calibrated opening.” Watch MEA tells missions to resume visa services||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-tells-missions-to-resume-visa-services/articleshow/76500654.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 22, 2020||India||Delhi containment zones need to be redrawn: Panel||NEW DELHI: A central government panel set up on the direction of home minister Amit Shah has called for a complete overhaul of the Covid-19 containment strategy in Delhi, recommending a fresh delineation of containment zones in the capital. This is to be followed by strict monitoring and regulation of activities not only within such zones but also listing and tracking of households outside. Importantly, the report has set timelines for undertaking the containment measures proposed by it. It has recommended that the Delhi government finalise a containment plan by June 22, set up district-level teams by June 23, issue amended limitation of all containment zones by June 26, complete 100% survey of containment zones by June 30 and a comprehensive survey of the rest of Delhi by July 6. The report of the committee led by Niti Aayog member Vinod K Paul — presented at a meeting chaired by Shah and attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday — also recommended conducting a serological survey in all of Delhi between June 27 and July 10, during which 20,000 individual samples will be collected and tested. The outcome of the survey, the home ministry said, would help in assessing the extent of Covid-19 spread in Delhi and help firm up a comprehensive strategy. The V K Paul committee has recommended aggressive contact tracing of infected people in Delhi and proper quarantining of contacts with the joint use of Aarogya Setu and Itihas applications. Every house outside the contact zones should also be mapped and monitored to help get a full picture of Delhi’s situation, the report said. Those detected as Covid-19-positive should be spread across hospitals, Covid care centres or kept under home isolation. Volunteers from independent organisations as well as NGOs should be enlisted to assist in better administration of Covid care centres, the panel suggested. As per another recommendation by the committee, each district should be linked to a major hospital that will offer the requisite assistance to handle Covid-19 cases. Shah, at the meeting, also directed the Delhi government to assess each death caused by Covid-19, covering aspects such as how many days after the patient was brought to hospital did the death occur as also if the patient was under home isolation and hospitalised in time. “Each death should be reported to the Centre,” a home ministry release issued after the meeting said. Shah said all Covid-positive patients should first be referred to Covid care centres, while patients who had adequate home isolation facilities and did not suffer any co-morbidities could be allowed home isolation. “The government of India should be kept informed as to how many people are under home isolation in Delhi,” the home ministry said. Shah asked the Delhi government to take the technical help for reassessment of status of containment zones, apart from urging Kejriwal to implement the committee’s recommendations at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-containment-zones-need-to-be-redrawn-panel/articleshow/76500681.cms||Bharti Jain
June 22, 2020||Business||50% of firms plan to invest in RPA: Automation Anywhere survey||BENGALURU: Nearly 50% of firms plan to invest in robotic process automation (RPA) to increase business resiliency in the post-Covid world, according to a report by RPA provider Automation Anywhere (AA). The pandemic and its aftermath has catapulted the urgency for embracing digital technologies. AA's report `The Work World is Transforming' said 57% of respondents want to acquire skills in RPA and AI, 28% want to do so in analytics and 15% in machine learning. AA surveyed more than 5,000 senior executives from mid-sized to large organisations in over 20 countries across India, the Middle East and emerging markets in Africa and Southeast Asia. It found that more than 80% plan to invest in digital technologies to build resilience into their future business plans. More than 70% of respondents said they anticipate at least half of their workforce will be digital workers, while over one quarter expect more than 80% of their workforce to be a digital workforce. "Our research shows that Covid-19 has created the perfect storm for organisations to accelerate digital transformation and has forced them to rethink what more can be automated across any industry,” said Milan Sheth, executive vice-president in AA. “The pandemic has encouraged a new wave of digitisation that will revolutionise our life as we know it. Organisations are transforming their engagements with customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders and will leverage the current crisis as an opportunity to drive innovative digital models to gain increased efficiencies.” An IDC report estimates that by 2025, almost 90% of new enterprise apps will be embedded with AI, and by 2024, around 50% of user interface interactions will integrate AI-enabled computer vision, speech, and natural language processing (NLP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/50-of-firms-plan-to-invest-in-rpa-automation-anywhere-survey/articleshow/76500929.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
June 22, 2020||Business||Work From Home boosts demand for study tables||Furniture companies, from Pepperfry and Godrej Interio to Transteel and Featherlite, are witnessing unprecedented demand for study tables and chairs as companies continue to encourage their employees to work from home because of the pandemic. For online company Pepperfry, study tables and chairs currently account for 35-40% of its business. “Before the lockdown, the category contributed only 10% to our overall business,” Kashyap Vadapalli, CMO at Pepperfry, told TOI. “Total sales, however, are 75% of what they used to be.” Office furniture company Featherlite, which catered predominantly – up to 80% – to the business-to-business (B2B) space before Covid-19, is currently witnessing orders from individual customers take up half of the demand pie. “The volume of orders is currently at 200 per city per day from the top eight metros and Tier I cities for office chairs, followed by laptop tables,” said Dheeraj Gowda, senior marketing manager, Featherlite. “Initially, we used to get bulk orders from corporates and sparse business from customers.” Similarly, Chennai-based Transteel went business-to-consumer (B2C) during the lockdown and saw mushrooming demand from people stuck at home. Co-founder Shiraz Ibrahim said the company’s current order volumes have gone up to 2,400 a week – predominantly from end consumers, from just 80 orders a week before the lockdown. “Ergonomic chairs priced from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 (with the latter category being purchased by employees of Google and Facebook) are the most in demand. Luckily, since we cater to bulk orders from corporates, our inventory levels seem to be enough,” he said. Furniture companies said a part of the demand is being fuelled by employees setting up home offices sponsored by companies, including Google, Salesforce and Freshworks, where allowances ranging between $250 and $1000 are being doled out. Furniture brands – Wooden Street and Godrej Interio – have seen demand pick up from the middle of May, when professionals began to realise that work-from-home is here to stay and their current home environment is not conducive for long work hours. “Research done by Godrej Interio showed that people were working from their sofa, dining table and bed. We saw 140% spike in searches for chairs. The second item in demand was a worktable,” said Sameer Joshi, associate VP – marketing (B2B), at Godrej Interio. Flipkart, too, witnessed a 3X increase in demand for study tables, office chairs and laptop tables over the last few weeks. “There is a good growth in demand for gaming chairs as well because people are looking for new entertainment options, while spending an increased time at home,” a Flipkart spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/work-from-home-boosts-demand-for-study-tables/articleshow/76500948.cms||Aparna Desikan
June 22, 2020||India||Govt changes LAC rules, gives forces ‘full freedom’ to ‘respond adequately’||NEW DELHI: India is determined to impose costs on Chinese troops if they attempt any further misadventure on the border, officials said on Sunday after defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed operational readiness along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with the military brass here. The armed forces have been given “full freedom” to respond in an “adequate and proportionate manner” to any hostile act in accordance with their judgement. “They have been told not to start a fight, but also not to hold back in the event of any ground intrusion or breach of airspace. The Army, Navy and IAF reported satisfactory levels of preparedness and high operational alertness along the LAC,” an official said. The hour-long meeting chaired by Singh, who is slated to leave for Moscow on Monday, was attended by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three Service chiefs, General M M Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. The decisive shift away from the long-standing border management policy to largely maintain “peace and tranquillity” on the LAC gives the military commanders on the ground the leeway to undertake whatever action is required to foil any misadventure by the PLA. “This obviously includes freedom to the commanders to order troops to open fire in the face of extreme provocation and extraordinary situations like the one near PP-14 on June 15,” the official said. TOI has previously reported that the Army would no longer allow "walk-in" intrusions along the LAC. Sources said diplomatic talks are likely to be held with China in the coming week in a bid to break the military stalemate on the ground. A second meeting between 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin is also on the cards, on the lines of the one they held at the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point in eastern Ladakh on June 6. This week, MEA joint secretary in charge of China, Naveen Srivastava, will hold a second virtual conference with his counterpart in Beijing to bring about a diplomatic resolution to the crisis. This will be the second conversation between Srivastava and Wu Jianghao, director general in the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs after June 5. With both India and China having amassed troops and heavy weapons all along the 3,488-km LAC, and no signs of any de-escalation in the troop confrontations in eastern Ladakh, “a high-level politico-diplomatic intervention may be required due to the continuing deadlock”, another official said. TOI was the first to report on June 18 that the bloody skirmish near ‘Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14)’ in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 injured on June 15, had led India to decide that “costs” would now be imposed on the PLA if it tries with its old tactics of incrementally grabbing territory. Though the Indian Army is in control of the area near PP-14, PLA’s occupation of ‘Finger-4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs separated by a distance of 8 km) area on the north bank of Pangong Tso remains a major area of concern. The PLA has built fortifications and taken control of the heights to block all Indian patrols west to east from ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-8’ area, where the LAC runs north to south, since early last month. Watch Armed forces given freedom to forcefully deal with Chinese aggression along LAC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-changes-lac-rules-gives-forces-full-freedom-to-respond-adequately/articleshow/76500971.cms||---
June 22, 2020||India||PM’s model village scheme a non-starter, finds govt audit||NEW DELHI: Six years after it was launched with much fanfare by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ‘Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana’ aimed at developing “model villages” has been found to be ineffective in ushering in development in chosen gram panchayats, with a central performance audit urging the rural development ministry to review the scheme. Commissioned by the RD ministry, the Common Review Mission-2019, an audit of rural schemes, has noted, “The CRM teams that visited the states did not find any significant impact of this scheme. In many of the SAGY villages, MPs did not give any significant money from MPLADS. In isolated cases, where MPs have been pro-active, some infrastructure development has taken place, but the scheme has not made any perceptible impact.” Launched in October 2014, SAGY offers each MP to select a village in his constituency for development. The scheme has no budgetary allocation and aims to bring about convergence in government schemes to improve developmental parameters in the selected village. The goal was to develop three “model villages” by each MP by March 2019, and then five more by 2024. But with each passing year, as reported by TOI, fewer MPs were adopting villages under SAGY. The reasons were two-fold- there was concern that picking one village would earn them the wrath of other villages in their constituencies, while the absence of budget too acted as a dampener. However, the ministry was mindful that it was the PM’s personal initiative. Now, the CRM audit has attested to the fact that SAGY has been a non-starter. “As such these villages cannot be called model villages. The CRM is of the opinion that in the current format, the scheme is not achieving the desired purpose. It is recommended that the ministry may review the scheme for enhancing its impact,” it has stated. In another important red-flag, the CRM has expressed concern over the quality of roads constructed under schemes of state governments and maintenance of rural roads under central PMGSY after the end of five-year warranty period. The audit has urged the Centre to frame a “National Rural Road Policy” to ensure uniform norms of construction and maintenance, irrespective of whether the road belongs to a state scheme or PMGSY. It has also urged the Centre to examine if the finance commission can provide funds for maintenance of rural roads, as many states have requested that the Centre should share cost of maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pms-model-village-scheme-a-non-starter-finds-govt-audit/articleshow/76500983.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 22, 2020||India||Police to probe conversion bid claims in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The Sagar district administration has announced a police probe into the veracity of allegations that an organisation of Catholics is trying to “lure” the poor and convert them. The organisation has denied the charges and called them “baseless”. Sagar SP Amit Sanghi is supervising the inquiry. According to sources, no one has filed a written complaint but the administration took note of media reports of allegations swirling around in villages. According to local reports, some Dalits and tribals of the region have alleged that they were made to hold special prayers in exchange of ration provided by missionaries during the lockdown. The allegations are leveled against Manav Vikas Seva Sangh, the social development arm of Sagar diocese. Head of the Sangh father Thomas, however, have denied the allegations. Ramvati, a tribal, said: “I was given wheat flour, rice, pulses and 1kg each of onion and potato, but when the ration kit was given, I was asked to hold prayers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-to-probe-conversion-bid-claims-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/76501005.cms||---
June 22, 2020||India||‘Batman, not bats’: Jibe at China in Army’s Bihar Regiment tribute||PATNA: Hours after PM Narendra Modi saluted the valour of the Bihar Regiment in the Galwan Valley skirmish with Chinese troops, a video tweeted by the Army’s Northern Command late Saturday to celebrate the unit’s battle history appeared to take a dig at China with the legend: “Born to fight. They do what they do. They are not the bats. They are the Batman.” The 1-minute, 57-second clip begins with the line “Friends, Indians, countrymen, lend me your years” and harks back to the Kargil conflict 21 years ago before going on to illustrate how the Bihar Regiment has its name etched on every major milestone for the Army — 1857, 1948, 1965, 1971 and 1999. India China standoff live updatesThe video makes no reference to Galwan Valley, where the 20 soldiers killed fighting the PLA were from the Bihar Regiment. Their story is told through pictures of three of the soldiers killed in action, including the 16th Battalion commander Col B Santosh Babu. The Batman tribute comes just before the voice-over ends with the Bihar Regiment’s war cry, “Bajrang Bali Ki Jai”, followed by a paean to the armed forces. While there was no official word from the Army or the creator of the video, Maj Akhill Pratap, the comparison between “bats” and the caped crusader Batman had Twitter in a tizzy over the inferred China-coronavirus connection. Till 7.30pm on Sunday, the pinned tweet on the handle @NorthernComd.IA had received more than 11.4k likes and been shared 5.4k times. Read AlsoGovt changes LAC rules, gives forces ‘full freedom’ to ‘respond adequately’The armed forces have been given “full freedom” to respond in an “adequate and proportionate manner” to any hostile act in accordance with their judgement on Sunday after defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed operational readiness along the LAC. “They have been told not to start a fight, but alsoOn Saturday afternoon, PM Modi had lauded soldiers from the Bihar Regiment as being among the bravest in the armed forces. “Our country is always proud of our armed forces, but when I am talking today to people of Bihar, I want to proudly mention the valour of the Bihar Regiment. Every Bihari is proud of it,” he said at the launch of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan. Read AlsoGalwan Valley clash: Govt grants emergency financial powers to three servicesThe government has granted the three services emergency financial powers of up to Rs 500 crore per procurement project to buy ammunition and weapons in view of the escalating border standoff with China, government sources said Sunday. ​​The special financial powers have been given to the forces toOfficials at the Bihar Regimental Centre in Danapur said the PM’s words of praise couldn't have come at a better time. “We want moral support from the people of the country. Bihar Regiment has a glorious past and we will live up to that tradition,” Col Hemant Parmar of the Danapur sub-area headquarters told TOI. In the first four days since the Galwan Valley conflict, internet users across the world looked up the word “Bihar” several million times, according to search engine data. Watch ‘Batman, not bats’: Indian Army pays tribute to Bihar Regiment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/batman-not-bats-jibe-at-china-in-armys-bihar-regiment-tribute/articleshow/76501010.cms||Ramashankar
June 22, 2020||India||J&K govt faces anger, says no booze-shop plan||Srinagar: Religious and political organisations in Kashmir have opposed a reported move to open liquor vends in the Valley, prompting the government to clarify on Sunday that it was not considering any such move. The Mutahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of socio-religious organisations, headed by Hurriyat Conference chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, said any move by the administration to open liquor shops in the Valley will be strongly opposed and resisted. “The government order ... clearly stating governments plan to set up liquor shops at 67 locations in Kashmir valley is causing grave concern and anguish among the Muslims of the valley,” the MMU said in a statement. The finance department of the Union territory, however, said it has not taken any policy decision regarding issuance of fresh liquor licences in unserved areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-govt-faces-anger-says-no-booze-shop-plan/articleshow/76501012.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||Patna Law College awaits renewal of BCI affiliation||PATNA: The 111-year-old Patna Law College, which has produced a galaxy of legal luminaries, including two chief justices and the first attorney general of India, is today unable to admit students to its LLB course for the next academic session as the Bar Council of India (BCI) has not renewed affiliation to this institution so far. The college has been facing a rough weather owing to the alleged apathy of the authorities concerned for the last one decade. Time to time, its affiliation is withdrawn by the BCI as the college fails to fulfil the mandatory requirements for affiliation. Among other shortcomings, the college, a constituent unit of Patna University (PU), has been facing acute dearth of teachers. The BCI had disaffiliated this institution a couple of years back owing to acute shortage of teachers, but restored it for one year ( 2019-20 session) on PU’s assurance of filling up all the vacant posts. The college has got altogether 29 posts of teachers, including 14 part-time teachers. At present the college has got only seven full-time teachers. Besides, four teachers of PU postgraduate law department also engage classes in the college. College principal Md Sharif said a BCI team led by its chairman Manan Kumar Mishra had visited the college for inspection on February 8 this year, but its recommendation for renewal of college’s affiliation is yet to be received. As the things stand today, the BCI is unlikely to restore its affiliation as the shortcomings have not been removed till date. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said the university has sought chancellor’s permission for the appointment of 14 part-time teachers (already advertised) through the statutory selection committee. As per earlier orders of the chancellor, an officiating VC is not allowed to take any policy decision and make any appointment in the university. If the university gets permission for appointing the law teachers and if the appointments are made in due time, the BCI would be approached for extending its affiliation to the college, he said. Vani Bhushan, a senior law faculty of PU, said at least seven posts of full-time teachers are also lying vacant. “These appointments are to be made by the newly constituted Bihar State University Service Commission and as such it would take a very long time. PU is facing problem even in appointing guest faculty against sanctioned posts,” he added. PU has already started the process of admission of students to all its courses, except LLB, for the next academic session. Admission to the three-year LLB course is taken on the basis of entrance test conducted by PU. “Until the university gets a positive nod from the BCI, the process of admission to the LL B course will not be initiated,” said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-law-college-awaits-renewal-of-bci-affiliation/articleshow/76497791.cms||B K Mishra
June 22, 2020||Patna||Girl gang-raped in Bihar's Supaul district||PATNA: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three youths at a village under Pipra police station in Supaul district on Saturday evening. The incident took place when the victim, stated to be a resident of Triveniganj police station area, was returning home on foot from Saharsa where she had gone to see her boyfriend who didn’t turn. A youth reportedly offered to drop her at home on his motorbike. As darkness had enveloped the area, the youth stopped outside Gamharia village and raped her. Later, his two associates joined him and also raped the girl. Bleeding profusely, the survivor ran for safety and met the village chowkidar, who admitted her to the hospital. He informed the women’s police station about the incident. A police officer of the women’s police station recorded her statement in the hospital. SHO Premlata Bhupashree said an FIR was lodged against three youths on the victim’s statement. “The identity of the accused is being ascertained. Raids are underway to arrest them,” she told this newspaper over the phone. The SHO said the role of the victim’s boyfriend was also under the scanner. “If required, his name will also be included in the FIR as an accused,” she added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-gang-raped-in-supaul-district/articleshow/76497994.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Magadh University gears up to appoint 400 assistant professors||GAYA: Magadh University is gearing up to appoint nearly 400 assistant professors in 26 different subjects, including law and electronics. The new appointees will be deputed in the PG departments of the university and its 19 constituent colleges spread over the five districts of Magadh division. The appointments will be made on the recommendation of Bihar State University Service Commission. The government, according to officiating registrar Radhe Kant Prasad, has asked the university to get the reservation roster vetted by the divisional commissioner to clear the reservation backlog. As per documents available in the university’s establishment section, of the 534 working teachers, 360 belong to the general category. The number of SC/ST teachers in the university is 35. The remaining teachers belong to the BC-EBC category. The number of general category teachers is in excess of the prescribed limit. According to the government reservation roster applicable to the university, 21% of the vacancies are reserved for EBCs, followed by SC 16% and BC 12%. One per cent of the vacancy is reserved for ST candidates in the state. In the general category, 10% of the posts will go to the economically weaker sections of the same category. Altogether 35% of posts in all categories will be reserved for women. The maximum number of posts is vacant in chemistry. As against the 77 sanctioned posts of teachers in chemistry, the number of working teachers is only 37. Vacancies in physics, botany, zoology and mathematics are 38, 29, 28 and 20, respectively. In the language literature category, the maximum number of vacancies is in Hindi. Altogether 20 posts are vacant in Hindi, 19 in English, six in Urdu, four in Sanskrit, two in Persian and one in Magahi. As against eight sanctioned posts in law, the number of working teacher is just one. Seven teachers will also be appointed to teach law. According to university PRO Sidhnath Prasad Deen, the reservation roster will strictly be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-gears-up-to-appoint-400-assistant-professors/articleshow/76497845.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rain makes life miserable for residents of Khagaria||KHAGARIA: Deprived of basic amenities like better roads and functional drainage system, monsoon always leaves almost all the roads covered with dirty water and a number of localities waterlogged. In absence of proper drainage system, waterlogging has become a perennial problem for the residents in the town. Bajrang Bajaj, a trader of Sagarmal Chowk locality, said even the service lanes parallel to SDO road is not walkable. Locals said such a deplorable state of affairs is largely due to the apathy of the Nagar Parishad, district administration and people’s representatives. The incessant rain during the last few days has further aggravated the plight of the residents of Chitragupta Nagar, Krishnanand, Bharti Nagar, Samir Nagar, Bapu Nagar. The NAC Road, SDO Road, Station Road and Malgodown Road were under ankle to knee-deep water on Sunday. Residents of the town have to navigate through mud and water. “Every year during the monsoon, we have to undergo the same situation,” said Jainendra, a local dentist. Ashok Sarraf, secretary of Khagaria Chamber of Commerce, echoed Jainendra’s tone. Sita Kumari, chairman of the Nagar Parishad, said a general body meeting of the parishsd was held recently and it was resolved to improve basic civic amenities like better roads, proper drainage system, safe drinking water, sanitation and provision of streetlights in the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-makes-life-miserable-for-residents-of-khagaria/articleshow/76497929.cms||N P Thakur
June 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: Housing societies go out of way to help residents, staff||PATNA: Despite the risk of contracting Covid-19, housing and residential societies in the city worked hard to contain spread of the virus in their localities. Regular sanitisation, disinfection of common areas and individual flats, stopping residents from stepping out of their homes and conducting regular meetings, the society members tried their best to keep the virus at bay. As part of TOI’s ‘MySocietyPride’ initiative, dozens of residential societies have written to us, sharing what they did and continue to do during the pandemic. Several societies claimed they completely banned the entry of outsiders for the safety of the residents. Karan Katyan of Green Heritage Flat Owners’ Welfare Society at Mainpura said the entry of outsiders, including maids and drivers, was banned during the lockdown. “Only essential services were allowed. Delivery boys were told to leave the items near guardhouse,” he said. Katyan added society members held meetings regularly to discuss precautions to be taken to curb the spread of the virus. “We also used WhatsApp groups to raise awareness among the residents about Covid-19,” Katyan said. Residents of Shanti Niwas Apartment at Anisabad also banned the entry of outsiders. “Regular sanitisation was done in common areas. Security and support staff were provided masks, gloves and sanitisers,” said Rishi, a resident of the apartment. At Shree Om Complex near Rukanpura, residents were not permitted to go out or enter the apartment without wearing masks. Apartment’s secretary S Singh said cleanliness and hygiene of the entire campus was maintained. “We are also collecting funds to continue sanitisation as the risk of getting infected still persists,” he said. Vibhakar Yashasvi of Lal Kothi Apartment at New Jakkanpur said sanitisation was looked after by the residents at a personal level. “The residents sanitised their houses on a regular basis. Besides, we paid newspaper vendors, maids, drivers and other workers even though many of them did not come to work during the lockdown period,” he said. Rajiv Singh, a resident of Shivam Enclave, said masks were made mandatory for residents and workers. “There are around 60 flats and 200 residents in the society. Though the society is big one, social distancing norms were maintained. Each resident contributed their part in fighting the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/housing-societies-go-out-of-way-to-help-residents-staff/articleshow/76497890.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||Paramilitary forces too perform yoga in Bihar||PATNA: Paramilitary forces deployed in the state organised special yoga sessions at several locations on the occasion of International Yoga Day on Sunday while maintaining social distancing norms. The paramilitary personnel had started putting emphasis on yoga and consumption of ‘kadha’ as well as ‘chyawanprash’ after Covid-19 outbreak in the state. Seven CRPF personnel in Aurangabad were tested positive for Covid-19. At Bihar sector headquarters of Central Reserve Police Force, IG GVH Giri and several others practised yoga on Sunday under the guidance of an instructor. The day was also celebrated at 40 more locations of paramilitary forces in the state. Meanwhile, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans also performed yoga at several locations, including Indo-Nepal border areas. “At home, the SSB personnel performed yoga along with their family members as per the direction of the government,” a senior SSB officer of Patna frontier said. Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel deployed at Patna airport also performed yoga inside their camp at Anisabad in the city. Those deployed at NTPC-Barh and Kahalgaon, IOC-Barauni and power generation plant at Nabinagar in Aurangabad also celebrated the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/paramilitary-forces-too-perform-yoga/articleshow/76498983.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 22, 2020||Patna||Take PM’s achievements to every household: Ravi Shankar||PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday asked the BJP workers to access every household and spread the message of PM Narendra Modi regarding the achievements made by him in the first year of his second term. Prasad, who is also Patna Saheb MP, was addressing the party’s mass contact programme called ‘jan samvad virtual rally’ of the Saptrishi and booth committee members at all the 372 booths in the Kumhrar assembly constituency of Patna. Around 5,000 party workers and 30,000 sympathizers heard the speakers, BJP’s Kumhrar MLA Arun Kumar Sinha said. Prasad praised the district, mandal, Saptrishi and booth level party workers for distributing the booklets and a signed printed letter from the PM among the families in the assembly constituency, besides appreciating them for distributing 1.23 lakh food packets among people battling hardships during the lockdown imposed as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. Sinha also appealed to the party workers to listen to the Mann Ki Baat broadcast of PM Modi on June 28, besides asking them to distribute the booklets on the PM’s achievements on June 23, the death anniversary day of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee observed as Balidan Diwas by the BJP. That would also mark the conclusion of the mass contact programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/take-pms-achievements-to-every-household-ravi-shankar/articleshow/76498025.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||People enjoy International Yoga Day at home, in parks||PATNA: Morning walkers and fitness enthusiasts in the city started their day on Sunday with ‘pranayama’ and ‘asanas’ on the International Yoga Day. They also maintained the social distancing norms in view of Covid-19 pandemic. There was no organized public gathering or event in parks, stadiums and halls this year. The theme this year was ‘Yoga for Health — Yoga at Home’. However, some residents performed asanas during morning walks in city parks, zoo and Gandhi Maidan. Birendra Kumar Singh (54) of SK Puri said, “Last year, I really enjoyed yoga session at Patliputra Sports Complex. This time it was a quiet affair.” Mukesh Sharma (39) of Lodipur said he did not remember the right way to perform the asanas like ‘trikonasana’ and ‘vrikshasana’. “So, I took help from the Art of Living video and also uploaded my video to my social media accounts,” he said. Shreshta Singh of Nageshwar Colony said she performed yoga in a group with light music while maintaining social distance. “Everyone in the apartment gathered on terrace and a yoga enthusiast in our building helped us perform the asanas,” she said. Meanwhile, there was no yoga day event at Bihar School of Yoga at Munger. Only ascetics performed yoga at the ashram by maintaining social distancing norms. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi performed yoga at his Rajendra Nagar residence. Earlier, he shared a video saying, “Yoga has attained much importance during the pandemic as it increases the immunity level which helps in fighting the Covid-19.” Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey also shared his video of performing yoga. He urged people to make yoga a part of their lives. “Regular practice of yoga is extremely important in this period. Yoga plays an important role in increasing immunity,” the minister said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-enjoy-international-yoga-day-at-home-in-parks/articleshow/76498966.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 22, 2020||Business||Apps with Chinese funds face users’ ire||BENGALURU: Top Indian consumer-focused unicorns like Paytm, Ola, Zomato, MakeMyTrip and others backed by Chinese capital are facing the ire of consumers. Users are targeting the Google Play Store ratings of these apps, citing their ‘Chinese connection’ even as experts feel that hardware products like smartphones will be harder to discard. Most of these mobile applications have seen over the last one week increasing comments and lowest possible ratings from consumers. Some of the users are even uninstalling the apps as they are backed by China’s largest internet companies like Tencent, Alibaba and Ctrip. But interestingly, all these companies are run by Indian entrepreneurs based out of the country. The down-voting of these apps hasn’t yet changed overall ratings significantly, but indicates the broader consumer sentiment gaining traction following the killing of 20 Indian soldiers owing to a border conflict with China in Ladakh. Chinese goods, especially leading smartphone players like Xiaomi, Vivo and other electronic appliance items, will take centre stage on top e-commerce platforms like Flipkart this week when the e-tailer holds its first summer sale since the virus outbreak. For instance, at the end of March quarter, Chinese smartphone brands like Xiaomi, Vivo and Oppo together had a market share of 73%. Xiaomi, Vivo, OnePlus, Paytm, Zomato, Ola and MakeMyTrip declined to comment on the story, while emails sent to other mentioned firms did not elicit any response. Counterpoint senior research analyst Prachir Singh said the current situation would open new opportunities for brands like Samsung to gain during the anti-China sentiment, but consumers also don’t have as many options for low- to mid-level priced phones. “Leaving an app from a phone is easy compared to throwing a hardware device. Chinese brands have dominance in this (smartphone) space, so choices for consumers are very less compared to segments like smartwatch,” said Singh. In fact, a host of Flipkart’s own private labels like SmartBuy, MarQ and Miss&Chief, under which it sells products like electronic accessories, washing machines and toys, are also made in China, according to the description of the origin of these products on the platform. On Amazon India, too, select handset and other accessory sales are lined up for brands like Xiaomi, OnePlus and Vivo along with its flagship private brand AmazonBasics. This private brand largely sells products that are made in China across categories at a noticeable discount than others. OnePlus concluded a sold-out event of its device last Thursday on Amazon India. An ongoing sale on Myntra too has several products originating from China. This indicates the penetration of Chinese products in segments like mobile, smart TVs, power banks and headphones. People may be expressing their anger online, or there could even be incidents like a fringe group protesting outside Oppo’s office in Greater Noida, as reported on Sunday. But brand experts and analysts say the immediate impact would relatively be more on consumers apps, which one can uninstall, compared to devices that are Chinese and often cheaper than other market options. “This (standoff) will definitely impact many Chinese-owned brands and apps that are widely in use in India. While some of this is being driven by the strong anti-China rhetoric and the sentiment fuelled by media reports, the calls to shun Chinese phone makers seems to be gaining traction, specifically in categories where there are reasonably priced options available. The same is true of apps, where many are feeling the need to replace them with options — or worse, going out of the way to negatively rate and review them,” said Lloyd Mathias, business strategist and marketer. He added that, historically, these nation boycotts have been short term and have not impacted purchasing behaviour on a permanent basis. Watch Apps using Chinese funds face consumers’ ire||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apps-with-chinese-funds-face-users-ire/articleshow/76498989.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 22, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Sevasi villagers oppose merger||VADODARA: Residents of Sevasi on Sunday observed a ‘bandh’ on Sunday to protest against the inclusion of their village in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. It was on Thursday that the state government had issued notification adding Bhayli, Sevasi, Vemali, Bil, Karodiya, Undera and Vadadla within the VMC limits, adding around two lakh population and 40 sq km land. “When the matter is sub judice, VMC or the state government cannot abolish the gram panchayat,” claimed Sevasi sarpanch Harsha Patel. “VMC has not even been able to develop villages that were included in its limits long back. This is lack lack of basic infrastructure like roads. The decision to include villages like ours in VMC limits will not serve any purpose,” said a resident Piyush Patel.  Residents said that the move will only result in a tax burden of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per household as compared to Rs 500 per year that the gram panchayat collects at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sevasi-villagers-oppose-merger/articleshow/76498890.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||Coughing trader triggers panic at Kollegal market||Mysuru: Chaos prevailed at the silk cocoon market in Kollegal in Chamarajanagar on Sunday morning, after a trader from Kanakpura was found coughing and sneezing inside the market. As the news spread, taluk administration officials rushed to the spot and questioned him about his travel history. According to locals, the incident was triggered due to the trader coughing continuously. Some vendors at the market spread the rumour that he had Covid-19, and as a result, chaos ensued in the entire area, and a few farmers ran outside. Immediately, senior officials of the taluk administration visited the market and questioned the trader. After confirming that he has no fever and that he didn’t travel to any neighbouring states, he was allowed to return to his native place. After his return, business continued as usual in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/coughing-trader-triggers-panic-at-kollegal-market/articleshow/76499273.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Man,24, beheaded by unidentified gang||Madurai: A 24-year-old man from Avaniyapuram was murdered and his head chopped off by an unidentified gang on Sunday evening. The victim was identified as P Muthuselvam from Periyar Nagar in Avaniyapuram. Police said that a gang consisting of not less than three people intercepted Muthuselvam who was riding a bike, near Manthai Amman Temple. They attacked him using sharp weapons. As he collapsed, the gang beheaded him and fled the place. On being alerted, a police team rushed to the spot and initiated an inquiry. The body was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital for post mortem. Police suspect that the murder could have been an act of revenge. Muthuselvam has been involved in various criminal cases including a couple of murder cases. A case was registered with the Avaniyapuram police station and a search is underway to nab the assailants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man24-beheaded-by-unidentified-gang/articleshow/76500413.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Varanasi||Despite security, some manage to reach ghats for dip after eclipse||VARANASI: While most ghats along the Ganga wore a deserted look on Sunday amidst tight security to enforce covid-19 protocols, some people, however, managed to dodge the police to reach the ghat near Manikarnika cremation ground and take a dip after the end of solar eclipse. The eclipse was observed in Varanasi between 10.31 am and 2.04 pm. In this period, residents preferred to stay indoors. While most temples were closed by late Saturday night, doors of Kashi Vishwanath temple were shut from 9am till end of the eclipse. Chief executive officer of KVT Vishal Singh said, while no devotee was allowed to enter the temple, rituals of ‘madhyan bhog aarti’ took place after 2.04 pm and temple doors were opened. With prohibitory orders in place due to the pandemic, heavy police force and paramilitary force were deployed at all ghats between Assi and Rajghat to stop people from taking a bath. However, scores of people managed to reach Scindia and Ganga Mahal ghats adjacent to Manikarnika ghat to take a dip in the Ganga. Policemen could not take action against these people as bathing at these ghats is allowed for those taking part in funeral processions. Taking advantage of this relaxation, many devotees, including woman dodged cops to reach the ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/despite-security-some-manage-to-reach-ghats-for-dip-after-eclipse/articleshow/76497665.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Stargazer buddies drive 700km to chase Kurukshetra’s ‘Ring of Fire’||LUCKNOW: Two city stargazers travelled over 700 km to Kurukshetra in Haryana to watch 'Ring of Fire' during solar eclipse was `maximum clarity’ and have a feel of the natural events triggered by the celestial event about which they had read in books so far. One of their friends also joined the journey from Farrukhabad. The duo dedicated the effort as a tribute to actor and astro-enthusiast Sushant Singh Rajput whose Instagram posts on astronomy inspired them to revive their childhood passion that got neglected after they got occupied by different full-time professions. Swapnil Rastogi (25) and Pushkar Pathak (30) learnt from NASA website that Kurukshetra is one of the few places in India from where the central line of eclipse was expected to pass, which meant that the phenomenon would be visible with maximum clarity. Packing bags with safe solar filters, advanced sophisticated cameras, high-resolution lenses, imported solar goggles and filters they had purchased online during the lockdown, the duo drove for over 12 hours on Saturday to reach their destination, spent all on field on Sunday and would be back on Monday. “Entire effort was only to view the celestial event, particularly `Ring of Fire’ or Necklace of Pearls’ - the name given to a circular ring that forms when the moon comes in between earth and sun. We were stopped multiple times on route by the police because of restrictions due to pandemic but we had taken permission from authorities in advance. Very few people that too from nearby areas had come to witness the event at the spot," said Swapnil, an executive in a private bank, while talking to TOI on phone. Swapnil, who is also president of Scientific Knowledge for Youth Amateur club, Lucknow, said that he followed actor Sushant Singh Rajput on Instagram and liked his posts especially the ones on astronomy. “Sushant was an amateur astronomer who pursued his passion despite being a busy actor. I too have liked sky watching since childhood and developed astronomy as a hobby, which got neglected when I got involved in my banking job,” he said. “What we had read so far was right before our eyes - As the moon gradually slid in between earth and sun, noon turned into evening and birds started flying back home thinking it to be sunset. And, then that moment came when the moon covered the sun, leaving only a shining thin line for about 45 seconds which is described as a necklace of pearls or ring of fire, he added . Pushkar Pathak, managing director in a private company, said “On the way, they picked a friend Amritanshu Bajpai from Farrukhabad. Since prohibitory orders are in place in Haryana, no hotel was ready to give us room. We somehow managed to convince one to let us spend two nights” he said. The entire effort paid off as the trio were able to witness the eclipse for full duration from 10am to 3pm, particularly those few seconds when the ring of fire was formed with full clarity. “Watching sun and moon hugging each other cannot be described in words,” said Pushkar, adding “Sushant’s death came as a shock for us and we decided to pay our tribute in this manner”. The duo will be making a documentary of their experience and facts collected during the exploration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stargazer-buddies-drive-700km-to-chase-kurukshetras-ring-of-fire/articleshow/76500872.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Thousands watch solar eclipse with rapt attention||PATNA: More than 15,000 people joined the social media page of Shri Krishna Science Centre (SKSC) and viewed the live streaming of annular solar eclipse on Sunday. Experts at the centre explained the viewers about the importance of the annular eclipse, commonly known as ‘ring of fire’. Residents enjoyed the celestial spectacle as the moon made its way across the sky, partially obscuring the sun. The eclipse started at 10.37am and continued till 2.09pm. The sun was partially blocked by the moon at 12.25pm, which was the sight that people were waiting to see. Aftab Hussain, education assistant at SKSC, said in an annular solar eclipse, the moon passes in front of the sun’s centre. “In the process, only the edges of sun become visible that forms a bright circle which is known as a ring of fire,” he said. “In Patna, the sun was only 59% covered by the moon, which is called partial eclipse. The maximum coverage of 98% was witnessed in Dehradun and Kurukshetra. On few occasions, the cloud played a spoilsport. However, during the peak time at 12.25pm, the eclipse was clearly visible. The main reason that we held a live session was to clear the misconception and myths related to eclipses,” Hussain said. He added, “The second and last solar eclipse of the year will take place on December 14, which will be a total solar eclipse. It will not be visible from India. This year, we have witnessed two lunar eclipses as well.” Several sky-gazers, who do not have the eclipse-gazing glasses or telescopes, prepared homemade pinpoint projector and viewed the eclipse. Garima Thakur (21), a resident of Ashiana Colony, said the solar eclipse should be seen only through protective glasses. “Since I did not have the one, I made my own projector by using an old box,” she said. Pinki Rani, a medical student and resident of Buddha Colony, said, “It was a beautiful sight. I don’t understand why people relate it to bad omen.” Meanwhile, the roads were partially empty on Sunday during the eclipse. After the celestial phenomenon ended, several people thronged ghats to pray to lord Sun and took a dip in the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thousands-watch-solar-eclipse-with-rapt-attention/articleshow/76497806.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: This Bhojpur library educates poor kids for scholarship exam||ARA: An initiative taken by Lakshandev Singh Public Library at Lakshanpur in Jamira panchayat of Bhojpur district has helped not only 33 students qualify for the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam, but also lent a helping hand to the children from the underprivileged sections of the society free of cost. The middle school students are getting Rs12,000 as yearly scholarship for 4 years up to class XII. Last week, altogether 20 students guided by the library passed NMMS exam and qualified for Rs12,000 yearly scholarship for 4 years. Founded and funded by social worker Bhim Singh Bhavesh in 2012, the library imparts education to the poor children with the help of some educated persons of the village. “I read an article in a newspaper about the NMMS exam for class VIII government school students. Those who qualify are entitled to Rs12,000 yearly scholarship for 4 years. I talked to the principals of government schools at Lakshanpur, Jamira and Bartoli as well as the library members and decided to teach and encourage the extremely poor students of the neighbouring villages to appear at the NMMS exam. A test was conducted in July 2018 in which 170 students from Lakshanpur, Jamira, Barauli, Kunjantola and Alipur appeared,” said Bhavesh, himself a PhD and LLB degree holder. The library tested it’s first success in April 2019 when 13 students qualified the NMMS exam. Among them were daily wager Chandan’s son Uttam, auto driver Sanjay’s son Raja and mason Krishna’s son Vishnu. Encouraged by the success, the library started conducting regular tests for NMMS exam on every alternate Saturday. “It gives me immense pleasure that my humble initiative helped the poor students qualify for Rs48,000 scholarship. We now want to help more students from humble background, Bhavesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-bhojpur-library-educates-poor-kids-for-scholarship-exam/articleshow/76497962.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Kerala airport turns saviour for Gulf expats from coast||Mangaluru: As there are no Vande Bharat Mission flights to Mangaluru from Saudi Arabia, Akram Mohammed (named changed) and three of his friends, who are residents of Derlakatte and stranded due to the pandemic, were forced to take a flight to Kannur International Airport (KIA) in Kerala, 150km away from here, to return home. It’s just not Mohammed alone, but many expatriates from Mangaluru, who are working in the Gulf, are reportedly flying in repatriation flights to Kerala. This is because the demand of Kannadigas living in the Gulf has not been heeded, for arranging repatriation flights to Karnataka. Despite several representations being made, ample flights to Karnataka, and especially Mangaluru, have not been arranged by the authorities. Till date, thousands of Kannadigas are waiting to return home but there are no repatriation flights to the state. “Desperate times call for desperate measures and it was the same with us. We had been stranded in Saudi Arabia without work and pay. Even though we wanted to return, there were no flights to Karnataka, and so we decided to fly to Kerala instead. We obtained an inter-state pass, and later got quarantined in Dakshina Kannada,” said Mohammed. Many who flew from Mangaluru International Airport to Kuwait and Bahrain, flew back to KIA after it opened, because of convenient timings, as well as cheaper flights. “Now they are choosing KIA as Kerala has a lot of VBM flights from Gulf countries,” stressed an expatriate, adding that a majority of Gulf Kannadigas are in desperate need to return home, and chartered flights are not the solution. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that a good number of expatriates are landing in KIA, and later getting quarantined in Mangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kerala-airport-turns-saviour-for-gulf-expats-from-coast/articleshow/76499473.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Two repatriation flights land in M’luru||Mangaluru: Two repatriation flights, including one chartered flight from UAE and another from Dammam, Saudi Arabia, landed at Mangaluru International Airport on Sunday. The chartered flight was arranged by Karnataka Sports and Cultural Club (KSCC), and was carrying 173 passengers from Sharjah, UAE. It landed around 11.30am. The second flight under the Vande Bharat Mission, with 169 people and 11 infants on board, landed around 7pm. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur in-charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said that after the initial health screening was done of all the passengers, they were sent into institutional quarantine for seven days. Their throat swabs will be collected and tested after five days. He added that on Monday, two more repatriation flights are expected to land at Mangaluru International Airport from UAE and Saudi Arabia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-repatriation-flights-land-in-mluru/articleshow/76499186.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Business||Blackstone, IIFL Wealth top bidders for L&T’s MF biz||BENGALURU: Buyout major Blackstone and IIFL Wealth are among the top bidders to acquire L&T Mutual Fund, which has assets under management of Rs 71,000 crore, even as they look to line up backers to strengthen their plays. While IIFL Wealth has roped in Axis Capital to help with financing options for its bid, Blackstone is working with top law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas to strengthen its case before securities market regulator Sebi, said sources briefed on the matter. L&T Finance — which owns L&T Mutual Fund — is expecting about Rs 4,500 crore from the sale of the business. But Blackstone’s bid has come at around Rs 3,000 crore, which is higher than IIFL Wealth’s quote of Rs 2,650 crore. L&T Mutual Fund also has about Rs 500 crore in cash, which is expected to be added to the bid as well, said one of the sources mentioned earlier. What makes the transaction interesting is that Blackstone has bid to acquire over 60% stake in the company, said sources, given its top bid. “Sebi has not allowed private equity firms to acquire an Indian AMC as it insists on a five-year track record as an asset manager in the country,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier. The source added that PE firms can only own 39.9% stake. Blackstone is backing up its bid with a legal opinion that it has sufficient experience in asset management, given it globally manages $538 billion in assets across private equity, real estate, hedge funds and credit strategies, besides being present in India for over a decade with a market value of investments at $40 billion in the country. Several other PE firms like Carlyle and ChrysCapital have also evinced interest in the business, but the contours of their bids could not be ascertained till the time of going to the press. Spokespersons for L&T Finance and IIFL Wealth “declined to comment on speculation”, while Carlyle and Blackstone offered no comments. Sebi did not revert to TOI’s queries at the time of filing this article. L&T Mutual Fund is the 12th largest asset management company with an average Rs 71,000 crore, or around $9 billion, giving it about 2.7% share of the country’s $350-billion MF industry. L&T started an AMC 10 years ago, first with the acquisition of DBS Cholamandalam in 2009 and then Fidelity’s mutual fund business in 2012. The sale of the mutual fund business is being seen as critical for the engineering-to-software conglomerate L&T as it plans to commit up to Rs 10,000 crore in L&T Finance for a proposed rights issue later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/blackstone-iifl-wealth-top-bidders-for-lts-mf-biz/articleshow/76499031.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 22, 2020||Patna||Fate of 126 Patna University students hangs in balance||PATNA: In a development that may put a question mark on the credibility of Patna University (PU), the degrees of as many as 126 of its students have been derecognized by the UGC. The aggrieved scholars are running from pillar to post seeking justice from the authorities concerned. Sources said PU’s directorate of distance education (DDE) admitted these students to its one-year bachelor of library and information science (BLibSc) course in 2016-17 session in spite of the fact that all DDE courses had already been derecognised by the Distance Education Bureau (DEB), a statutory body of the UGC. The authorities had reportedly admitted students to other courses run by DDE also in anticipation of the UGC’s approval. But, as ill luck would have it, the DEB did not restore its recognition to PU’s DDE for the next three consecutive sessions – from 2016-17 to 2018-19 – as it failed to meet the basic requirements of space and faculty needed for proper functioning of DDE. When students admitted to various courses under DDE started agitating, PU transferred them to the regular three-year honours courses running in its different colleges in the same academic session. But the students of BLibSc course could not be transferred to some other regular institution of PU and they were also allowed to appear at the final university examination. Their examination results were also announced by the students and 126 students were declared to have passed the examination. DDE director Deepti Kumari said DEB restored its recognition with effect from 2019-20 and did not agree to accord post-facto recognition. Consequently, the results of all these students became infructuous. Some of these pass-outs had also been selected for job in different institutions, but they were not allowed to join when their degrees were not found to be valid. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said the university is already seized with this problem of students and finding out ways for providing relief to them. In the meantime, aggrieved students are planning to move the court for getting justice and saving their careers from being ruined for no fault of theirs. According to the latest guidelines of DEB, only universities which are accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with A+ grade would now be eligible to run distance education centres under their jurisdiction. Needless to say, with B+ grade, PU will be hardly able to run its DDE, unless the UGC amends its own guidelines, said a senior academic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fate-of-126-patna-university-students-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/76497777.cms||B K Mishra
June 22, 2020||Patna||Fake telephone exchange case: Three still evade arrest in Patna||PATNA: Teams of Patna police will soon be sent to other states to arrest three people charged with running an illegal telephone exchange from a rented room of a private building at Salimpur Ahra under the Gandhi Maidan police station area in Patna. Two people were earlier arrested by police in connection with the case. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said three of the main accused are from Dehradun, Haryana and Noida. “Police teams will be sent to these places and other states for arresting the accused,” he said. The illegal telephone exchange was unearthed on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The SSP said intelligence agencies are also assisting the police in cracking the case. “This is the second time that such an exchange has been busted in Gandhi Maidan area. Earlier, one such exchange was unearthed in 2017,” the SSP added. Sharma that main motive of the exchange was to lower the call rates by using illegal process. “International voice calls are changed in local call. However, such exchanges could be misused and those running it won’t be able to know it,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said apart from intelligence agencies, the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of state police would also join the investigation. City SP (central) D Amarkesh said several cellphones had been sent to forensic science laboratory for analysis to get further details in the case. “These cellphones were seized from the room inside which the exchange was running. A computer software was being used to convert voice calls originating on internet into local cellular network calls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fake-telephone-exchange-case-3-still-evade-arrest/articleshow/76498049.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Business||Sensex up 34% on handful of stocks since March low||MUMBAI: Since touching a multi-year low on March 23, just when the countrywide lockdown started, the sensex and Nifty have both rallied by about 34%. The sensex has gained 8,750 points (33.7%), while the Nifty has rallied 2,634 points (34.6%) to their respective Friday closes. However, the rally in both the indices has been riding on just a handful of stocks. Half of sensex’s gain has come on the back of just three stocks: RIL, HDFC Bank and Infosys, while for Nifty, five stocks, HDFC and ICICI Bank, along with the three mentioned earlier, have contributed 52% of its gain. Market players are not very comfortable with such a concentrated rally. In these three months, foreign funds have pumped in nearly Rs 22,000 crore, or about $2.9 billion, official data showed. However, in the same period, there have been a clutch of large deals where the sellers were promoters of companies, which did not reflect in the FPI data, while the buyers were mostly foreign funds, which was added to the buying side of the same database. Traders said that even foreign fund managers were concentrating in buying blue chips, while they exited from a host of large- and midcap stocks. On the other hand, net investment by mutual funds during the same period was just about Rs 403 crore. These fund managers also limited their buying mainly into blue chips. Even data from industry trade body Amfi showed that investors’ money went into large- and multi-cap funds, while they took money out of mid- and small-caps. Market players pointed out that such a narrow rally should be a cause for concern for all stakeholders. “The data makes two things clear. First, the rally is primarily led by Reliance. And then it’s the financials as a group that has the highest weight in the two indices,” said Arun Kejriwal, director at KRIS, an investment advisory firm. “The RIL rally may be explained by the twin objective of completing a rights offer and then the fund-raising for Jio Platforms. In case of financials, it’s their sheer weightage in the indices which make their outperformance virtually mandatory for a rally of this magnitude.” Dealers also pointed out that with the expiry of June month derivatives contracts scheduled for Thursday, the market is expected to remain volatile through the week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-up-34-on-handful-of-stocks-since-march-low/articleshow/76499012.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||We killed school director: Santosh Jha gang members||PATNA: The notorious Santosh Jha gang on Sunday owned the responsibility for the daylight murder of the director of a private school, Awadhesh Jha, who was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne criminals at Dostian village under the Purnahia police station area in Sheohar district on Saturday. Awadhesh (45) was attacked by assailants when he was engaged in plucking mangoes from his orchard on the outskirts of his native village. The assailants pumped two bullets — one in his head and another in chest — leading to his death. The deceased’s father, Lalbabu Jha, told the police that the family had a dispute over a plot of land with Santosh Jha for over a decade. The police had recovered a handwritten pamphlet containing the names of 10 people, who were on the hit list of the gang, which had gone into hibernation after the killing of its kingpin Santosh Jha in Sitamarhi in August 2018. On Sunday, a member of the gang owned the responsibility for the killing of the director of the school. SHO of Purnahia police station Vijay Kumar Yadav said, “We have also come to know about the matter. It’s being verified.” Santosh Jha was a native of Dostian village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/we-killed-school-director-santosh-jha-gang-members/articleshow/76497869.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Business||RBI nudges banks to decide if red-flagged accounts are fraud||MUMBAI: Banks are in a major dilemma over a directive from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that lenders should decide whether loan accounts that have been ‘red-flagged’ as suspicious over six months ago are fraudulent or not. If banks do not classify these loans as a fraud, they risk being pulled up for being lenient. If they do, they must set aside provisions for 100% of the loan amount within a year, even if a large part of the loan is recoverable. Also, the fraud tag makes it difficult to sell an otherwise sound business. Last year, a spate of action by enforcement authorities resulted in many large borrowers being red-flagged. The RBI is now pushing banks to take a call on these loans. Of the large accounts red-flagged last year, two are DHFL and Religare. The red-flag account concept was introduced by the RBI to get banks to act on early warning signals, which include raids by regulatory and tax authorities. Once an account is red flagged, banks are mandated to complete its forensic audit within six months and decide whether it is fraudulent or not. Classifying loans as a fraud would mean a jump in provisions and impact the bottom line of banks in the June quarter. This would belie market expectations that bad loan provisions would not spike in the April-June quarter because of the moratorium on repayments allowed because of Covid-19. Banks fear a repeat of last year when fraud numbers jumped after all lenders were forced to classify Bhushan Power & Steel as a fraud following action by Punjab National Bank. In the case of DHFL, which has over 20 lenders in its consortium, half the banks have classified their loans to the company as a fraud, while the other half have not. Following a forensic audit by KPMG, all the lenders had red-flagged the DHFL account last year. However, SBI had moved ahead and classified the loan as a fraud earlier this year, resulting in many other banks following suit. Earlier this month, Karnataka bank reported to the exchanges that it has classified DHFL, Religare Finvest and a couple of other borrowers as fraud accounts. Similarly, in several other accounts, there are instances where one of the consortium members has classified it as a fraud. The red-flagging is done on an information technology platform where all banks report a large exposure to entities/individuals so that other banks can be forewarned about fraud risk. This also puts pressure on other banks in the consortium to report the fraud. Bankers say that a revamp of norms is required for frauds. For instance, in the case of DHFL, banks say there are many buyers for the retail loan business, which is still performing well under the RBI-appointed management. “There is a need to see the business distinctly from the promoter, particularly in the case of financial entities. The depositor’s interest is best served if action is taken against the promoters while trying to save the business,” said the CEO of a public sector bank. However, even if this were to be done, there are laws that allow enforcement authorities to seize assets from buyers if it is established that the original promoters were involved in money laundering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-nudges-banks-to-decide-if-red-flagged-a/cs-are-fraud/articleshow/76498955.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Police on extra vigil as cases rise among them||Madurai: The sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Madurai city police unit has alarmed police personnel and officers. If only six cases were reported till June second week, 10 more were reported between June 14 and 19 four of whom were women personnel. A head constable from South Gate police station, a constable from Sellur station, a constable from Armed Reserve, a woman constable each from South all-women police station and Town all-women police station, a constable from Thideer Nagar police station, a constable from Keerathurai station, a constable from SS Colony and two women constables from Subramaniapuram were infected by Covid-19 in the past week. A traffic head constable and special sub-inspector of police attached to South Gate station were the first to be affected in April when they were posted at Kuppupillai Thoppu, a containment zone. Though cops said they are not rattled by the growing number of those infected, the death of a Chennai police inspector made them realize the importance of taking extreme precautions. A police constable from South Gate station said “We panicked after the first case among police from our station, but we are better prepared now,” he said. An officer from Anna Nagar range said, “We are not afraid of doing our duty, which involves moving closely with people. We are doing our regular duty of enforcing curfew regulation like booking cases against erring shopkeepers and social distance violators,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-on-extra-vigil-as-cases-rise-among-them/articleshow/76500423.cms||V Devanathan
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||PES College jumps 14 spots on NIRF list||Mysuru: The recently released gradation list for educational institutions by the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) in accordance with the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ushered in some cheer for PES College of Engineering, Mandya, which jumped 14 spots compared to its ranking last year to slot in at 147 among engineering institutions. HV Ravindra, principal of the college, is incredibly happy with the improvement in the institution’s ranking. Pointing out that, of the 10,000 engineering colleges across India, a mere 1,071 were considered by the MHRD to be rated under the NIRF guidelines. “In the end, only 200 institutions make it to the final list. Among the 21 engineering colleges of Karnataka that have found a place on the list, ours is 17th, which is also an improvement on our last year’s rating, when we stood 18th. The other feather in our cap is that the ratings have placed the college in the 151 to 200 band on the list of colleges offering both engineering and management courses,” said Ravindra, attributing the achievement to the tireless efforts of the staff, and the guidance of the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pes-college-jumps-14-spots-on-nirf-list/articleshow/76498813.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Sal locals urge govt to take measures to avoid flooding||Bicholim: The villagers from Sal in Bicholim have demanded that the state government undertake immediate measures to avoid a flooding situation like the one seen last year. A few farmers have also raised concerns over the negligent attitude of the government in not compensating them for losses suffered last year. In August last year, the Sal village witnessed major flooding due to heavy rainfall, which compelled the disaster management team to evacuate villagers to safer places as water entered many houses. They also faced huge losses as their plantations were destroyed. Septic tanks in the village were also filled with flood water causing acute inconvenience to the people. The contaminated water also entered wells. The president of the Congress Bicholim wing, Meghshyam Raut, said the government should convene a joint meeting with the collector, mamlatdar, WRD officials and other local bodies to plan a proper course of action to avoid flooding this year. He said that so far “not a single precautionary measure has been adopted by the government to avoid disaster”. He further urged the government to chalk out a plan to avoid flooding of the Tillari reservoir and the Chapora river. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit told TOI that the captain of ports has deputed a motor boat and life jackets for rescue operation if floods occur in Bicholim. He also said that precautionary measures have been undertaken by the Bicholim disaster management team to avert any untoward incident during the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sal-locals-urge-govt-to-take-measures-to-avoid-flooding/articleshow/76500442.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Varanasi||One more coronavirus death in Varanasi, toll reaches 14 now||VARANASI: On Sunday, 14 new cases of Covid-19 were detected one died in Varanasi taking the death toll to 13. Ghazipur registered 22 new cases of which one had died, Ballia also recorded 20 new cases while three new cases were reported in Jaunpur. Chief medical officer Varanasi Dr VB Singh said that reports received from BHU lab on Sunday confirmed 10 cases as positive while four cases were reported on late Saturday night. Now, total tally of Varanasi has reached to 332 of which 233 have been cured while 86 are being treated. The district recorded 13th Covid-19 death after a 64-year-old TB patient, who was admitted to BHU hospital on June 19 following some respiratory problems, died on Saturday. His report received on Sunday confirmed him Covid-19 positive. He was a native of Nichi Brahmpuri locality of Dashaswamedh police station area. Others who were as infected on Saturday include 30-year-old Delhi returned bank employee of Ajay Vihar Colony Taktakpur and three members of a family including a 38-year-old woman, 12-year-old girl and 4-year-old boy of Sisva in Badagon area. A 38-year-old man of Madhopur Sigra, 5-year-old boy of Sonarpura Bhelupur and family members of already infected person, 46-year-old hardware trader of Sonarpura Bhelupur, 24-year-old woman medical practitioner returned from Mumbai on June 13, 17-year-old Bihar returned boy of Churamanpur Lohta, 21-year-old Mumbai returned youth of Mirzamurad, 42-year-old Nigeria returned man of Shivpur, 35-year-old Mumbai returned man of Chandmari Shivpur and 30-year-old Mumbai returned woman of Hiramanpur Phoolpur were confirmed as infected on Sunday. With the detection of new cases, eight new areas including Ajay Vihar in Cantt area, Churamanpur, Nichi Brahmpuri, Sonarpura, Shivpur and Barauna in Phoolpur were declared as new hotspots. Total number of hotspots in Varanasi reached to 174. In Ghazipur, 19 new cases were reported on Saturday late night while three more cases were found on Sunday. One patient of district hospital, who died on Friday, was also confirmed as infected after his test report was received on Saturday late night, said additional chief medical officer Ghazipur Dr Umesh Kumar. Now, total number of positive cases in Ghazipur has reached 281 of which 168 have been cured while one died. Active cases in the district are 112. In Ballia 20 new cases of Covid-19 positive came to light, said district surveillance in-charge Dr K Mishra adding, that now total tally of positive cases in the district reached to 90 of which 59 have been cured. Among new cases four belong to a family of Tikhampur. District magistrate Jaunpur DK Singh said that three new positive cases, including one from the family of the infected lekhpal and two Mumbai returned youth had been reported on Sunday. Total number of cases in Jaunpur has reached to 477 of which 141 are in active category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-more-coronavirus-death-in-varanasi-toll-reaches-14-now/articleshow/76497676.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: No FIRs filed at women’s police station in Dakshina Kannada during lockdown||MANGALURU: The women’s police station located at Pandeshwar in the heart of the city wears a deserted look, thanks to lockdown. Otherwise, the station is visited by couples with marital discord, relationship issues and crimes against women. Barring minor complaints, the station in Mangaluru City Commissionerate and Puttur limits (under Dakshina Kannada district police) has not registered any FIR till date ever since the enforcement of lockdown, according to SP B M Laxmi Prasad. “The station used to register several complaints, ranging from fight between couples and those relating to dowry, sexual harassment, molestation, abduction, domestic violence, cheating on the pretext of marriage, rape and sexual assault. The Pandeshwar station registered about 13 FIRs from early this year till the lockdown was announced, but not a single case after that,” station head Shantaram Kunder said, adding that the station has been dealing with minor issues, which are resolved amicably through counselling. Usually complaints, like those registered under Indian Penal Code 376 and atrocities against women registered in other stations across the commissionerate, are transferred to women’s station for further investigation. SP Laxmi Prasad told TOI that police will reach out to women in distress at their doorstep as and when the cases are reported. “Due to lockdown, there is no proper transport for victims to reach the station. However, we will ensure that all crimes are reported, and police reach out to those in distress,” he said. Sources from the women’s helpline in the district said that they have not received any complaints during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-firs-filed-at-womens-police-station-in-dk-during-lockdown/articleshow/76497749.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Deaths gone up, give more attention to south TN: Madurai MP||MADURAI: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has appealed to the chief minister to give special attention to Madurai and the southern districts of Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram as the Covid-19 cases and deaths due to the disease had doubled in these three districts in the last ten days. Former Union Minister P Chidambaram has also expressed concern over rising cases in Sivaganga. In a statement issued in Madurai on Sunday, he said that the Tamil Nadu government had released its comprehensive report on Saturday. Such a bulletin was last issued on June 7. This report released on Saturday, shows that that the infection rate has doubled in Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts. The deaths had also doubled in these districts since the last report was issued. With the intense lockdown in force and special monitoring officials roped in, action was being taken to contain the infection’s spread in the northern districts, the same should be done for the southern districts, he said. The cases and casualties in southern districts may be low when compared to Chennai and the other districts in the red zone, but the doubling of deaths and infection in just ten days was a matter of grave concern. The government order dated May 31, 2020 issued by the state government stated that all people who go to other districts from Chennai zone would be tested for Covid-19. But this was not followed in the southern districts. Testing had been intensified only since June 17, after many demands for intensified testing. Many people who came to the southern districts with and without e-passes were allowed into the districts sans any testing. They should be traced and tested immediately, he said. Since Madurai is the hub for the southern districts, in terms of trade, markets, trains, air travel, many people travel in and out of the district. Hence, it is imperative that a separate plan be chalked out for the southern districts, with focus on Madurai. This should be done without further delay, under the guidance of the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Venkatesan said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deaths-gone-up-give-more-attention-to-south-tn-mp/articleshow/76500425.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fear factor keeps AIIMS helpline buzzing||NEW DELHI: The helpline started by AIIMS, National Teleconsultation Centre or CoNTeC, has been receiving 50-60 calls daily from doctors in the capital, mainly pertaining to the sanitisation process after a person is found infected with Covid-19 and the subsequent treatment protocol. Since March 27, the helpline has been getting about 300 calls from doctors and patients across the country. The calls on the helpline — 9115444155— are not limited to patients of AIIMS who have been querying about follow-up, but even the general public seeking the latest guidelines and things to be done during the time of Covid. On June 19, 308 calls were received on the helpline, including 50 from doctors in Delhi and three from outstation. Dr Vijay Hadda, nodal officer for CoNTeC, told TOI, “Calls from doctors of government and private hospitals and even retired practitioners operating clinics are being received on a regular basis. The most common query is regarding sanitisation methods if a patient who has been treated at the facility tests positive later. A few doctors even asked how to dispose of PPE kits and biowaste. Other queries were about testing of patients who were brought dead to the hospital.” There were many other examples cited by Hadda. He said, “Recently, a retired practitioner sent a list of 20 questions after someone in his family tested Covid-positive. It took me half an hour to answer his queries. Similarly, a doctor from a private hospital, who had carried out the delivery of a baby, asked if he should shut the labour room as the woman had tested positive later. We were also asked about when oxygen should be given to a patient. A doctor, who tested positive along with his father, asked the precautions that needed to be taken as his father was suffering from hypertension and other health issues.” AIIMS deputy director (admin) SK Panda said the system was running smoothly, all thanks to the young volunteers who were working round the clock and ensuring each call reached its logical conclusion. “Every morning, a meeting is held for sanitary staff members, doctors, faculty and other employees to discuss issues, prevailing situations and how things can be improved. Doctors also conduct webinars with other institutes. Volunteers follow-up with patients who call to check if they require any assistance,” said Panda. Dr (Prof) Aarti Vij, chairperson, media and protocol division, said, “The system has been devised in such a way that each call is first connected to an IVRS number, which gives options to connect to multiple lines. “The calls from doctors are received by patient care managers who are on duty 24x7. So far, we’ve received over 10,000 calls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fear-factor-keeps-aiims-helpline-buzzing/articleshow/76499680.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata restaurants see marginal increase in footfall after fortnight; peak hours shift to lunchtime||KOLKATA: Restaurants in Kolkata recorded a 15% rise in footfall during the second week of reopening after a dismal inaugural week when attendance remained less than one-fourth of the reduced capacity (50%). Even though most are still running at a loss, Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) — which held a review meeting on Wednesday — has asked its members not to shut down and wait till July 1 when the second phase of unlock begins and permits for bars to reopen can be expected. With a 9pm closing time due to the night-curfew rule, dinner has been cut out and the peak hours have now changed to noon to 3pm, said restaurants. “There has been a marginal improvement in footfall. But that is not enough for us. It will be difficult till alcohol is allowed since liquor accounts for 60% of sales in 90% of Kolkata’s restaurants,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar. Trincas on Park Street, which had a ‘soft reopening’ on June 18, has had poor footfall so far. “It’s been slow so far and people are asking for liquor,” said Anand Puri of Trincas. The restaurant resumed its home delivery last month and has now launched a ‘customized menu’ for small ‘home gatherings’. Peter Cat and Mocambo on Park Street, too, saw a minor rise in footfall compared to the first week. Weekends have been better and the peak hours have changed to lunch time, said owner Nitin Kothari. “The crowd thins after 6pm. People are yet to get used to the idea of going out for meals due to a number of factors, including lack of public transport. But the fear is gradually waning,” he said. Mughlai chain Oudh 1590, too, has seen a spurt in footfalls during lunch but it remains marginal, according to owner Shiladitya Chawdhury. “It remains low and the onset of monsoon hasn’t helped. This weekend could have been better without the rain. We are keeping fingers crossed for the rest of the month,” said Chaudhury. The crowd profile, too, has altered since reopening, pointed out Poddar. “We now have a far greater number of youngsters visiting restaurants during afternoons. Once bars reopen and the night curfew is lifted, families should be back,” said Poddar who owns Song-Hai restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restaurants-see-marginal-increase-in-footfall-after-fortnight-peak-hours-shift-to-lunchtime/articleshow/76499661.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 22, 2020||Meerut||4 construction workers seriously hurt as roof collapses on them||Bijnor: Four workers were seriously injured when the roof of an under-construction building came crashing on them in Bijnor district’s Nagina town on Sunday. The construction workers Shahwaz, 21, Taslim, 22, Waseem, 24 and Talib, 26 were pulled out of the debris by locals and rushed to district hospital.The incident happened at a construction site in the Muglaan area of Nagina town.The condition of the workers is serious. One of them, Talib, was later referred to Meerut as his condition was critical.According to Nagina’s station house officer (SHO) Sanjay Dheer, “Four labourers were injured when the roof of an under-construction building collapsed. They were admitted to district hospital for treatment. Out of them, one is stated to be serious.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-construction-workers-seriously-hurt-as-roof-collapses-on-them/articleshow/76497759.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Skygazers in Trichy, Madurai get an eyeful of partial solar eclipse||MADURAI/TRICHY: The partial phase of the solar eclipse was visible in Trichy and Madurai as people from the cities, including many enthusiastic children, gathered on their terraces or open spaces hoping to get a peek of the event. The eclipse lasted approximately three hours on Sunday and was at its peak at 11.46am. People viewed the astronomical event using X-Ray sheets, exclusive glasses and even homemade pinhole projector. “We watched the eclipse with the whole family using a home-made pinhole projector. My brother and I easily had fun making the pinhole projector on our own watching how to make it on YouTube,” said R Akshya, a Class VI student, whose family resides in Anna Nagar. Like her, many families eagerly gathered either on the terrace of their house or open spaces like Teppakulam in Madurai to watch the eclipse. Though the skies were a little cloudy, the solar eclipse which covered 29% of the sun could be witnessed for a while in Madurai. In Trichy, space enthusiasts even gathered in front of Anna Space Centre – Planetarium assuming it to be opened. “The solar eclipse on December 26 last year was visible as an annular eclipse in Trichy where over 90% of the sun was covered by the moon, while north India had witnessed partial eclipse. This time it was the reverse,” said K Balakrishnan, principal of Bharathi Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Trichy. Organisations like the Tamil Nadu Science Forum (TNSF) distributed solar filter glasses for people to view the eclipse from their homes. People living in areas like Arapalayam Roundtana, Bethaniyapuram, Muthupatti, Kadachenendal, Ellis Nagar, and Alanganallur were able to witnessed the rare celestial event. TNSF members also ate sundal to break the myth of eating during eclipse being unhealthy. At Muthupatti, around 100 people, including children and parents gathered maintaining social distancing to witness the eclipse with arrangements made by the TNSF. Hand sanitisers were also given for all as a precaution for Covid-19 prevention. Telescopes, pinhole projectors, ball mirrors, and even sieves were used to watch the eclipse. Close to 100 people participated in the online discussion organised by TNSF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/skygazers-get-an-eyeful-of-partial-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76507428.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Theni district bags Skoch Gold award||Madurai: Theni district has bagged the Skoch Gold Award, a national award for water management and water conservation practices, by beating 130 other districts countrywide. District collector Pallavi M Baldev said a lot of efforts went into conserving water bodies and natural resources in the district. Theni is one of the few districts in the state which has two rivers flowing through it and many dams in its limits. Survey of waterbodies and eviction of encroachments on them were among the various interventions done. Various government water bodies schemes, especially Kudimaramathu, were implemented resulting in improvement of 229 water bodies. Silt removal from channels, construction of farm ponds, sunken pits, check dams under NREGS and efforts to curb sand mining were undertaken. Intensified afforestation programmes to enhance the green cover and rejuvenation of 257 defunct borewells were also taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-district-bags-skoch-gold-award/articleshow/76500427.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat developing CDV vaccine for lions||AHMEDABAD: The canine distemper virus (CDV) outbreak in October 2018 came as an opportunity for the state to show it is capable of developing a vaccine of its own. The Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), under the department of science and technology, is developing a CDV vaccine which is now at the trial stage. Hareet Shukla, secretary, science and technology, said, “We are in the process of developing a vaccine for CDV in lions. It is under development and the results will be available soon.” Sources in the department said the genesis of the project was the 26 lion deaths, due to CDV and babesia, in Gir (East) division in October 2018. At the time, CDV vaccines were imported from the US. Sources said GBRC was involved in testing of blood, tissue and swab samples for diagnostics at the time. Scientists observed that the viral sequence from the infected lions differed from the reference genomes from National Centre for Biotechnology Information. A project was also taken up to identify seroprevalence of CDV in canine and feline species in Gir through antigen and antibody testing. Officials said that it was during this project that GBRC scientists began working on developing the CDV vaccine and the initial results are promising. A forest officer said the imported vaccine was to be given in three shots at regular intervals, which is difficult to administer in the wild. GBRC is likely to develop a single-shot vaccine. A senior officer said the vaccine will be tested on zoo animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-developing-cdv-vaccine-for-lions/articleshow/76499769.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Evening jogger pays for dog owner’s apathy in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Adopting a pet is easy, it is inculcating discipline in them that is hard. And Delhiites always seem to opt out of this responsibility despite the numerous problems their pets could be causing to others, especially in public parks. Plagued with this apathy, many RWAs across the city have banned the entry of dogs into parks in their areas. For 36-year-old Samrat Mitra, a jog in a park near his house in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park on Friday evening ended in five bites and severe injuries from a pet dog, a Rottweiler, that had been left loose. Experts said the incident had again highlighted the need for better monitoring of pets by owners, especially those keeping exotic breeds. Mitra said two women, presumably the owners of the Rottweiler, entered the park a few minutes after him and removed the dog’s leash, allowing it to roam freely. The dog started chasing Mitra despite him asking the women to restrain it. “The dog was too powerful for them. It jumped on me and landed on my chest. As I struggled to fight it off, it bit my right hand. When I pushed it away and tried to get up, it jumped back and bit me on the chest and my left hand. It bit me five times and I started bleeding profusely,” Mitra said. He soon rushed out of the park and caught an e-rickshaw to reach a hospital. Though he filed a police complaint against the two women, who were later identified, Mitra said he won’t be pressing charges. “I was able to fight off the dog, but others, especially the elderly, may not be able to do so. There’s a need to create awareness about owning exotic, hunting dogs that need proper training. More importantly, they should be leashed at all times,” said Mitra, adding that he received five injections for the bites with more prescribed in the coming days. Gauri Maulekhi, trustee at People For Animals, said, “One incident should not mean dogs can’t be allowed inside a park. If there is a pickpocketing incident in a park, does that mean humans should be banned too? However, it calls for stronger action to regulate and check pet owners with exotic breeds and larger dogs and how they procured these animals. The state animal welfare board should carry out this exercise.” Sonya Ghosh, an activist, said that while Delhi Development Authority doesn’t prohibit any dog from entering parks, owners need to be more careful. “Keeping your pet leashed and under control is your responsibility. As long as pet owners do that, there should be no problem,” she added. DDA’s guidelines state that dogs should only be allowed in parks if they are leashed and being walked by adults. It also asks owners to walk them in a less crowded area of the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/evening-jogger-pays-for-dog-owners-apathy/articleshow/76499666.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Skygazers in Trichy, Madurai get an eyeful of partial solar eclipse||MADURAI/TRICHY: The partial phase of the solar eclipse was visible in Trichy and Madurai as people from the cities, including many enthusiastic children, gathered on their terraces or open spaces hoping to get a peek of the event. The eclipse lasted approximately three hours on Sunday and was at its peak at 11.46am. People viewed the astronomical event using X-Ray sheets, exclusive glasses and even homemade pinhole projector. “We watched the eclipse with the whole family using a home-made pinhole projector. My brother and I easily had fun making the pinhole projector on our own watching how to make it on YouTube,” said R Akshya, a Class VI student, whose family resides in Anna Nagar. Like her, many families eagerly gathered either on the terrace of their house or open spaces like Teppakulam in Madurai to watch the eclipse. Though the skies were a little cloudy, the solar eclipse which covered 29% of the sun could be witnessed for a while in Madurai. In Trichy, space enthusiasts even gathered in front of Anna Space Centre – Planetarium assuming it to be opened. “The solar eclipse on December 26 last year was visible as an annular eclipse in Trichy where over 90% of the sun was covered by the moon, while north India had witnessed partial eclipse. This time it was the reverse,” said K Balakrishnan, principal of Bharathi Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Trichy. Organisations like the Tamil Nadu Science Forum (TNSF) distributed solar filter glasses for people to view the eclipse from their homes. People living in areas like Arapalayam Roundtana, Bethaniyapuram, Muthupatti, Kadachenendal, Ellis Nagar, and Alanganallur were able to witnessed the rare celestial event. TNSF members also ate sundal to break the myth of eating during eclipse being unhealthy. At Muthupatti, around 100 people, including children and parents gathered maintaining social distancing to witness the eclipse with arrangements made by the TNSF. Hand sanitisers were also given for all as a precaution for Covid-19 prevention. Telescopes, pinhole projectors, ball mirrors, and even sieves were used to watch the eclipse. Close to 100 people participated in the online discussion organised by TNSF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/skygazers-get-an-eyeful-of-partial-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76500429.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Varanasi||Mau cops launch crackdownon Mukhtar gang, corruption||VARANASI: Mau district district administration and police have initiated action against mafia involved in various wrongdoings as mafia involvement in the irregularities in various sectors were exposed in the last one week. Police are cracking down on extortion, slaughter house and fishery mafia allegedly enjoying the patronage of jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari. The district administration has targeted corruption in education department and land mafia which grew in last two decades. A woman Rambha Pandey, was booked for using documents of one Mamta Rai to secured the job of primary teacher. Besides, large scale irregularities were detected in compensation payments for land acquired for highway and other projects. Fake appointment Just like 25 Anamika Shuklas were found working in government schools, one Rambha Pandey was found teaching at Mubarakpur primary school in Ratanpura block in the name of Mamta Pandey. Mau DM Gyan Prakash Tripathi told TOI, “Rambha Pandey, a native of Bachhabar, Ballia, joined in Mau on basis of a transfer letter issued from Maharajganj district in 2000. When the basic education department officials contacted Bachhbar village head, her real identity was confirmed. She was served a notice, but she absconded instead of filing reply.” SP Mau Anurag Arya said an FIR has been lodged against Pandey and she will be arrested soon. Terminated teachers booked DM Mau issued orders to book 64 teachers, who had been terminated for using fake documents to secure jobs, as they did not deposit the salary drawn during the service period. Tripathi said, “Before I assumed charge in 2019, as many as 32 teachers had been terminated. 32 more were sacked last year as they also used fake documents. They had been served notice to deposit the salary of their service period. The total amount to be recovered is Rs 6 crore. They will be booked under Gangster Act and their properties would be confiscated.” Police investigation will reveal the names of staff involved in the fraud, he added. Irregularities in land acquisition The role of 70 clerks is being probed for irregularities in payment of compensation to farmers whose land was acquired for highway and other projects. Tripathi said, “Investigation was conducted and even call details of clerks in special land acquisition office were checked. It was found that compensation was paid against fake names while bribe was extorted from farmers.” The files containing documents of payments are missing. Teams have been formed to probe the role of 70 clerks, he added. Anomalies in road construction Irregularities were detected in construction of link road in Kamrava village of Ranipur block. DM terminated additional programme officer of MNREGS, Aslam Parvez, technical assistant Ajay Kumar and gram rozgar sevak Manju Devi and an FIR has been lodged against them. The block development officer Jayesh Kumar had been issued showcause notice. Land grabbing A probe was ordered after a pond in front of district hospital was grabbed by land sharks and illegal construction started on it. Investigation officer and tehsildar Sadar, P C Srivastava submitted his report exposing the names of encroachers. An FIR was registered on June 17 against 15 persons, including a former executive of nagar palika and former chairman. Earlier in January, an FIR was registered against 60 persons for grabbing 5 acre pond in Jahangirabad, Dakshintola. Officials said, there were reports that Mukhtar was involved. Investigation is still in progress and he will be booked if his involvement comes to light. Mukhtar gang on cops’ radar Mau police has launched a crackdown on people associated with Mukhtar Ansari, though his henchmen were on target for many months. In last five days, cops booked 11 henchmen of Mukhtar under Gangster Act and busted an illegal slaughter house. Police arrested five men and announced a cash reward on three others. Mukhtar’s three men involved in illegal trade of fish were arrested Saturday with over 10 tonne of fish. SP Mau Anurag Arya said, “On January 8, Rs 25,000 cash rewards had been announced on Anuj Kanojia and Ramu Mallah of Ghazipur. Both are shooters of Mukhtar gang.” Police also registered a case against Mukhtar for issuance of arms licences to four persons, including a criminal gunned down in encounter, on recommendation on his letter head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mau-cops-launch-crackdownon-mukhtar-gang-corruption/articleshow/76497685.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||New Town: Fever surveys to avert coronavirus, dengue||KOLKATA: With the twin threat of Covid pandemic and dengue outbreak looming large in New Town, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is taking up steps for better management with special emphasis on the areas bordering New Town and Salt Lake. The authorities recently held a video conference with over 70 representatives of various housing societies in New Town to discuss on the measures that are being taken up. NKDA officials informed the residents that they were doing house-to-house fever survey in which over 14,000 persons have already been tested. As per sources, nearly 30 persons have tested Covid positive in New Town so far. NKDA will be handing over pulse oximeters to the block and housing societies on selective basis with priority to Covid-affected areas. It is being given to measure the oxygen saturation level, which could detect suspected Covid carriers. Doctors suggested that apart from fever, in case a person’s saturation level was less than 95%, it could be a case of asymptomatic Covid. The person will get immediate medical attention from the New Town Health Centre. NKDA is also holding free homeopathy camps with many residents associations requesting for a camp to be held in their area. Authorities have already sent SMS to all registered residents stating that since this was the season of influenza, dengue and Covid, whenever anyone gets fever, information must be given to the 24x7 New Town helpline. Officials said NKDA-formed teams are fogging and spraying mosquito-repellant to keep the diseases at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fever-surveys-to-avert-ncov-dengue/articleshow/76500443.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata eateries take guard against new e-crime wave||KOLKATA: Several leading restaurants in Kolkata have been forced to take steps against online duping of their customers after many were cheated ever since home delivery services resumed earlier this month. Brands like Aminia, Peter Cat, Oh! Calcutta and 6 Ballygunge Place have alleged that fraudsters have put up advertisements on popular websites that offer food from their outlets at attractive prices, luring buyers into paying up through credit cards. At least a dozen have been cheated over the past two weeks. A Kolkata Police cyber cell officer said fraudsters were using display advertisements on sites like Facebook and Instagram in the name of some popular eateries of south and central Kolkata and offering a two-for-one deal. “Once the victim clicks on the link, several google forms appear, asking for the orders and payments,” the officer said. Aminia director Kabir Azhar told TOI the company has lodged a complaint in the cyber cell on June 18 after a customer informed them that he had been cheated while ordering food from the restaurant from a website. “The fraudsters were running a sponsored account on social sites and luring people with attractive deals in our name. We have got some feedback from the cyber cell,” he added. Anjan Chatterjee, chairman of Speciality Restaurants that owns brands like Oh! Calcutta, Mainland China, Haka and Sigree, said they have filed a complaint on June 17 against fraudulent activity involving Oh! Calcutta . “The fraudsters are targeting leading brands as most of us are now doing home delivery,” he said. When contacted, the owners of Peter Cat and 6 Ballygunge Place also confirmed that their customers have been cheated by advertisements on social media. “There was a sponsored post on Facebook and some of our customers called us. We complained on June 12,” said Aninda Palit, director of 6 Ballygunge Place group. Peter Cat owner Nitin Kothri also said it has been happening for almost a month now. Earlier, when members of an inter-state gang were nabbed, it was found that the contact details of a city eatery was allegedly altered on the Google search engine and customers were lured into reserving tables by an offer paying only Rs 10. The alleged fraudsters had inserted their contact details as that of the restaurant and asked customers to book a table by contacting that number, said cops. Cops said during the unlock period alone, they received 16 complaints. “Besides KYC frauds, this is one of the several modus operandi popular among cyber frauds to dupe Kolkatans,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eateries-take-guard-against-new-e-crime-wave/articleshow/76499706.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
June 22, 2020||Madurai||In Tamil Nadu's Srivilliputtur, man donates masks on his birthday||MADURAI: A college student in Srivilliputtur donated masks and hand sanitizers to around 500 people on his birthday on Saturday. Muthu Jeyabal, 22, son of Vairamani of Mangapuram in Srivilliputtur, said that he usually distributes food to poor people on his birthday. This year, many old-age homes and orphanages were not accepting outside meals due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so he decided to use that money to buy masks and sanitizers for people, who needed it. He said that he donated masks and sanitizers to create awareness on the use of these two items during the Covid-19 crisis. He and his friends distributed the masks to vendors and roadside dwellers and told them to use it regularly. He said that he noticed many people without masks as they did not have access to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-donates-masks-on-his-birthday/articleshow/76500431.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Partial spectacle for Delhi but it can’t eclipse the fun||NEW DELHI: It was another lockdown Sunday. But lakhs of Delhiites made the most of it by gazing at the skies to witness this year’s first solar eclipse. While it was partial in Delhi, some parts of India witnessed a total eclipse with a ring of fire surrounding the Sun. In Delhi, over 90% of the Sun got covered with the peak seen at 12.01pm. The entire eclipse lasted for over three hours; in Delhi, it ended around 1.48pm. In the morning, many amateur astronomers were worried that cloudy sky would hinder their viewing. Himanshu Rastogi, of Amateur Astronomers Association (AAA), said the event was fairly clear from his terrace in Gurgaon, but cloud did interrupt viewing when the eclipse was at its peak. “We were able to get glimpses of it but couldn’t see it at its maximum,” he said. “My entire family viewed the event for close to two hours,” Rastogi added. The Delhi-based organisation has over 1,200 members. A number of amateur astronomers from Delhi-NCR went to Kurukshetra as the full eclipse was visible there, said Rastogi. Association members usually meet during big events but this time most viewed the eclipse from their own rooftops, he said. “It is an extremely rare event and so it is easy to forget about precautions. One should not view the eclipse directly and ensure they have some sort of protective eye gear,” he added. Sneh Kesari, another amateur astronomer, said the eclipse was fairly clear from his residence in Ghaziabad. The Sun was covered close to 93% in the capital, said the AAA member. “However, there is a big difference between a partial eclipse and a full eclipse. People specifically travel to view a full eclipse as it is a rare phenomenon.” The next two eclipses of this kind in 2052 and 2086 will only be visible from the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, respectively. Delhi’s Nehru Planetarium carried out a live webcast, showcasing the eclipse from Delhi and clips simultaneously from around the world. N Rathnastree, director of the planetarium, said while people did try to come to the planetarium, they were asked to tune into the webcast as no permission was available for any gathering. “Cloudy skies did act as a hindrance during the peak, but largely we were able to view the eclipse,” added Ratnasree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/partial-spectacle-for-delhi-but-it-cant-eclipse-the-fun/articleshow/76499702.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Villagers cheer sibling nurses at forefront of Covid-19 battle||MADURAI: During their childhood, the daughters of R Chellammal aspired to be in the medical profession seeing their mother toil day in and day out as a nurse, who was even awarded for her service to TB patients. Though they couldn’t become doctors, three of the four daughters have been carrying the mantle dutifully as nurses, that too in the Covid-19 ward of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. Amudha, 52, Muthumeena, 50, and Dhavamani, 48, have all been serving as staff nurses at GRH for more than 15 years. So when the pandemic struck in March, they did not hesitate to be at the forefront. “I was the first to be on Covid-19 duty. I had two weeks duty when the first death in Tamil Nadu, of a 56-year-old man from Anna Nagar occurred. Those initial days were challenging as we were among the first ones to take care of Covid-19 patients and feared for our safety,” said Amudha. Two weeks ago, Muthumeena and Davamani were also together on duty in the Covid-19 ward for a week. Working in PPEs was quite a challenge, but more importantly, the sisters found that Covid-19 patients needed more mental support which they provided by talking and interacting with them. In the absence of attenders, the patients had to rely only on them. After spending seven days of mandatory quarantine after the duty, the two sisters were relieved to see that they tested negative for Covid-19. “We were satisfied with the job we had done and we got together and returned to our houses in Pechikulam. To our surprise, people living close by were all praise for our services and gave us a warm welcome. Initially, people were afraid of anyone coming from GRH and used to view us with disgust. We can’t be happier now,” said Amudha. “Our mother was a retired nursing superintendent who passed away a few years ago. She was the one who inspired us to become nurses. She spent more time at work than with us,” said Amudha. For Muthumeena and Davamani, both their mother and Amudha herself have been idols who pushed them to take up nursing. Amudha was posted in the cardiology wing while Muthumeena was in family planning department and Davamani in laparoscopy department at GRH. “While we did our best as nurses in our respective areas, nurses were not always appreciated for their service. However, now it is heart-warming to see people support us,” said Muthumeena. All three sisters are married and have children as well. Their 85-year-old father S T Ramanathan is also dependent on them while their fourth and eldest sister, 57-year-old Dhanalakshmi, is a homemaker. Amudha’s daughter inspires to fulfil her mother’s dream to be a doctor and is set to attempt NEET to pursue MBBS. Watch Madurai: Sibling nurses praised for their efforts against COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-cheer-sibling-nurses-at-forefront-of-covid-19-battle/articleshow/76500440.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 22, 2020||Goa||Forest destruction affecting habitat of Hump-nosed viper||Keri: A 5-year study by Nitin Sawant, a zoologist at the Goa University (GU), has revealed that the destruction of forests for human settlement, agriculture and other activities has been seriously affecting the natural habitat of the Hump-nosed pit viper in Goa. Sawant, an associate professor of GU’s zoology department, told TOI that the viper was regular in only very few densely forested areas. “But as the natural habitats of the snake have been threatened due to degradation of forests, we come across this snake inside cashew plantations in Sattari and Dharbandora talukas,” he said. Though it was thought that the bite of the Hump-nosed pit viper causes minor effects, however, only recently, it has been found that this viper’s bite results in morbidity and mortality among human beings. Like the Malabar pit viper and Bamboo pit viper, the Hump-nosed pit viper too has heat sensing pits present between the eye and nostril. This ash grey or brown coloured snake, with dark brown bands, has been known to be found in the dense forests of the Western Ghats. However, activities such as clearing of forests has increasingly posed a threat to the natural habitat of the Hump-nosed pit viper. Ramesh Zarmekar, a wildlifer from Surla-Sattari, said, “In Sattari, the forests of Mhadei wildlife sanctuary on the hills of Satregad, and Hulan in Caranzol, are known to be natural habitats for this snake. But today, destruction of the forests has threatened this snake.” The Hump-nosed pit viper feeds on geckos, skunks, small rodents, reptile eggs and frogs. It is ovoviviparous, as embryos develop inside the eggs which are retained within the mother’s body and young ones are born.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-destruction-affecting-habitat-of-hump-nosed-viper/articleshow/76500458.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Five years later, restoration work begins at Delhi’s oldest library||NEW DELHI: The oldest public library in the capital will finally get a new lease of life. After several years of delays and neglect, the restoration work at Hardayal Municipal Public Library near Chandni Chowk started on Saturday. The library was set up in 1862 when it was a part of the Lawrence Institute, named after the then viceroy of India. The existing building was built between 1861 and 1866 just behind the Town Hall building. A senior north corporation official said that the renovation work is expected to be completed by November 2020, while the estimated cost of the project will be Rs 1.82 crore. The contractor who is carrying out the repair and restoration work also looks after the maintenance work for Rashtrapati Bhavan, the official added. The pace with which the project moved can be gauged by the fact that the then LG Najeeb Jung intervened in August 2015 to announce a Rs 3-crore package to help the library and the work was finally inaugurated in 2020 by the current mayor. North corporation mayor Avtar Singh said the library structure was more than 100 years old and in urgent need of repair. TOI had earlier reported about the dilapidated structure, leaking roof and lack of fire safety measures at the library. “We have to carry out repair in a way that the original heritage appeal is not affected. The interior design will be changed, but the outer structure and architecture will not be altered. Plaster will be removed and repair will be carried out with the same limestone material which was used 100 years back,” the official said. Work on digitisation of rare books in the library is also to be carried out. The library contains around 8,000 rare books, including many first editions, blocks printed in 17th and 18th centuries, a few surviving copies and many old Persian manuscripts with golden inscriptions. The library employees proudly display the restored ‘History of the worlds’ by Sir Walter Raleigh from 1677—one of its oldest books. The library has a long and multifaceted history attached to it. Ironically, the building was constructed “in grateful recognition of the escape of Lord and Lady Hardinge” who survived a bomb attack in 1912 from Indian revolutionaries while on a procession atop an elephant. The times changed after independence and it was no longer necessary to please the colonial Lords. The place hence was renamed after Lala Hardayal—a revolutionary, an anarchist and founder of Ghadar party— in 1970s. Right in the middle of the cacophony at Chandni Chowk, the place provides reading rooms to students from the walled city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-years-later-restoration-work-begins-at-delhis-oldest-library/articleshow/76499723.cms||Paras Singh
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Fresh problems at Kolkata societies as youngsters go to work||KOLKATA: The easing of lockdown restrictions has brought in a unique set of problems for the senior citizens living in gated communities with the younger members of the societies gradually returning to offices, leaving them to grapple with everyday chores. During the lockdown, which started in March, several residential complexes in the city had put together special care teams comprising younger residents to help out the elderly and those with underlying conditions who needed to be shielded from the novel coronavirus. These younger residents would do a variety of chores — from delivering medicines to helping out with digital transactions. Sometimes they would just keep the elderly company, chatting with them during the day. “Several senior citizens live alone because their children are settled outside Kolkata. We had to make sure that all their needs were met and they did not have to step out at all. So, a special care team for senior citizens was formed to assist them with all the chores during the lockdown,” said Mainak Kanrar, secretary of Sukhobristi Residents’ Association. But with offices and businesses opening up and younger residents of the complexes going to work, the elderly have been suddenly left with a void. “During the lockdown, whenever we required anything we would just call up one of the young volunteers assigned to assist us and they would help us out instantly. They were very helpful and never let us feel that we owed them a favour,” said Rajesh Gourisaria, a resident of Lake Terrace Apartments off VIP Road. But now most of them have either started attending their offices or resumed their business. So now we must inform the association in advance if we need anything,” he added. Several associations foresaw this problem and started training their senior citizens to perform digital transactions. “Several senior citizens in New Town have prepaid electricity connections. As their children live outside Kolkata for most of the year, our volunteers would show them how to conduct digital transactions safely. Even today, we are providing all possible help to the elderly and those with underlying conditions,” said Samir Gupta, joint convener of New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum. During the 10 weeks of lockdown, many aged residents had formed a close bond with the youngsters and would wait to chat with them. The conversations take place even now, though, with a reduced frequency. “I am a retired person, but others have work to do. Commuting to and from office has become such a hassle and the threat of the virus also looms large. However, I still really look forward to conversations with the youngsters,” said Debabrata Dasgupta, a resident of Sunrise Apartments on Convent Road. Several people, who resumed office, have also been complaining of anxiety fuelled by the threat of the virus and hassles in commuting. “Even if I practice social distancing others are not doing so. Most people either don’t wear masks or the masks dangle around their necks. Buses are crowded, and taxis and app cabs are hardly available,” said Samyabrata Roy, who works at a logistics firm in New Town and resides in Dhakuria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-problems-at-societies-as-youngsters-go-to-work/articleshow/76499735.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Man who lost job during lockdown found dead in Kolkata's Behala||KOLKATA: The mysterious death of a 39-year-old man at his Behala residence has led locals to allege that he had committed suicide after being unable to find meaningful employment for himself. They claimed he had tried to slit his wrist. The police, however, said he carried no external marks of injury and that some blood stains around him was due to a fall. The victim has been identified as Gautam Chakraborty (39). Chakraborty lost his previous job during lockdown and started working as a security guard. The incident was reported from the 11 Pally area in Behala on Sunday afternoon. The police said they were investigating the circumstances of death and waiting for the post-mortem report. “We are investigating into the incident,” said an officer. According to DC (southwest) Nilanjan Biswas, the police received a call at 12.30pm that Chakraborty was not answering to calls from his neighbours at Satyen Roy Road. When cops reached his home, they found him unconscious and shifted him to Vidyasagar State General Hospital. He was declared dead. Locals said Gautam had no parents. A few days ago, his elder brother also passed away. “During the lockdown, he could hardly make ends meet. The local club tried to support him. On Saturday night, a few neighbours heard him groaning but then it had stopped. It was then that they had decided to check on him,” said a neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-who-lost-job-during-lockdown-found-dead/articleshow/76500448.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 22, 2020||Varanasi||Thousands take part in online yoga camp on 6th International Yoga Day||GORAKHPUR: Over 11 thousand people practised yoga during 7-day online yoga camp organised under the joint aegis of Guru Gorakshnath Yog Sansthan and Maharana Pratap Siksha Parishad on 6th International Yoga Day on Friday, said Maharana Pratap PG College principal, Dr Pradeep Rao. “People participated in the online yoga camp while staying at home between 6am and 8am under the guidance of yoga trainers. The programme was live at Facebook page of all the institutes associated with MP Siksha Parishad. During the camp, the yoga trainers /yogacharyas also informed the partoicipants about the benefits of yogasan taught. Yogacharya of Gorakhnath temple, Dr Chadrajeet Yadav said that the importance of yoga has increased during the time of coronavirus spread as yoga increases resistance power of body thus protecting it from infection. BJP members and other organisations also practised yoga at home and many among them also uploaded their pictures practising yoga on social media. Gorakhpur MP, Ravi Kishan congratulated people on the occasion and appealed to people to practise yoga on International Yoga Day. He said, “The entire country is celebrating Yoga Day under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. Yoga practise in simple words is a tool that brings health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/thousands-take-part-in-online-yoga-camp-on-6th-international-yoga-day/articleshow/76497696.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 44 deliveries at Tihar Jail in 10 years||NEW DELHI: In the past 10 years, Tihar Jail authorities have aided 44 woman inmates in the delivery of their babies. Nine deliveries were facilitated in 2012 and eight in 2015. Jail authorities claim that they provide all medical facilities to pregnant inmates as per the revised jail manual enforced last year. Sources said the manual was revised in 2012 after a woman named Sonia Mann, who was jailed in a cheating case, underwent an unassisted delivery within the jail premises because of which her newborn suffered an injury and died. Currently, there are two pregnant prisoners, one of them being anti-CAA activist Safoora Zargar. While Zargar is lodged at Tihar, the other inmate is at Mandoli Jail. Apart from regular check-ups, facilities will be provided for their deliveries, when required. The two women are being kept in different sections, away from the other inmates to avoid confrontation and stress. As per the revised manual, a woman medical officer would be assigned to each inmate to conduct a pregnancy test at the time of admission and once each month. The gynae examination would be done at the jail hospital and proper prenatal care would be provided on the advice of the medical officer. The prisoner would be allowed to visit nearby government hospitals along with a jail staffer on the recommendation of the medical officer. The inmate would be admitted to a hospital for the delivery on the recommendations of a doctor. Adequate arrangements would have to be made at the hospital a day before the delivery. The prisoner would be taken back to jail only after the recommendation of the examining doctor. “The prison will not be recorded as the place of birth. Only the address of the locality will be mentioned,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/44-deliveries-at-tihar-in-10-yrs/articleshow/76499738.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Additional CS directs MU to probe into its irregularities||Mangaluru: A direction from the additional chief secretary, department of higher education to Mangalore University on May 18 to carry out a departmental probe into alleged irregularities in the university has come in handy for former Syndicate member Harish Achar. Welcoming this directive, Achar went a step ahead in asserting that only an inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court can help unravel the truth behind these irregularities. Achar, who dashed off a letter to minister for higher education CN Satyanarayana seeking a judicial probe, maintained that departmental inquiry will not help bring those guilty to book. Besides, with various statutory officers of the university – serving and retired – part of the decision-making process at the time these irregularities took place, Achar said a probe officer that the university appoints will not be able to effectively probe their wrongdoings. Incidentally, a letter from Mahesh R, under-secretary to the government, education department (universities – 2) on the direction from the additional CS to the vice-chancellor refers to launches noted in expenditure on various heads by additional director, Karnataka State Audit and Accounts department, Mysuru. The department in its audit report of January 22 has flagged violations of KTPP Act as well as UGC laid down norms in appointment of faculty. The audit department has flagged expenses incurred on international hostel, classroom complex, interior works carried out on the auditorium, solar rooftop installation, installation of CCTVs on university’s Mangalagangothri campus, faculty recruitments, temporary appointments and purchase of laptops. The order pointing to financial loss to the university and flouting of UGC norms has sought action against officials concerned. Demanding that the government appoint a nodal officer who in turn should take in to possession all documents pertaining to the areas the audit department has flagged, Achar said judicial probe will empower the judicial officer to summon all including him to depose before and have powers to summon any document pertaining to the inquiry. PS Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, told TOI that the university has not officially received the above mentioned government directive and the university will act as per procedure laid down and even order a judicial probe if so needed.. Achar claimed that Yadapadithaya is one of the statutory officers of this 39-year-old university involved in some of the above decision making and others include former vice-chancellors K Byrappa and TC Shivashankara Murthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/additional-cs-directs-mu-to-probe-into-its-irregularities/articleshow/76497787.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Contact tracing falters with spike in coronavirus cases||HYDERABAD: Tracing contacts and identifying the source of Covid-19 infections has now become difficult for the multi-disciplinary teams with the spurt in cases. Officials were able to probe patients as well as their primary and secondary contacts when the state was observing lesser than 200 cases per day. The list of names and addresses were prepared and every suspect was tested. While persons with symptoms were sent to hospitals, those asymptomatic were put under home quarantine. However, as cases continued to show an upward trend, contact tracing and identification of the source became difficult due to the lack of adequate manpower and resources. “Before this sudden spike, health officials would provide us the list of the primary and the secondary contacts too. With the help of police, we used to trace their houses, check for symptoms and quarantine them. But for the last three days, only family members of the person tested positive are being quarantined. Secondary contacts are not being identified,” said a GHMC official. According to officials, when the number of infections were low, strict guidelines were being followed and those under home quarantine were monitored. Stickers used to be pasted on their homes and hands were also stamped. After the number of positive cases crossed 200, conducting a fever survey has also become a challenge, said an official deployed on Covid-19 duty. Each multi-disciplinary team consists of an auxiliary mid wife, a GHMC official, police personnel and a volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contact-tracing-falters-with-spike-in-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/76500468.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 22, 2020||Kanpur||Two more Covid deaths, 30 test positive in Kanpur||Times News Network Kanpur: Corona positive cases are on a steep rise in the city with 30 more positive cases recorded by the district health department on Sunday. With the detection of new cases the total corona count is nearing one thousand mark. The Covid death toll of the district also increased to 39 with the death of two more Covid positive patients on Sunday. Of these 39, 28 Covid patients died in the month of June alone. Meanwhile, 37 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital on Sunday. So far a total of 570 persons of total 966 cases have been discharged from hospitals after recovering completely. There are now 357 Corona positive patients undertreatment. District health department informed that 30 new cases had been identified from areas like Keshav Nagar, Lakshmipurwa, Dhankutti, Meerpur Cantt, Khapra Mohal, Shyam Nagar, UHM hospital, Jajmau, Gandhi Gram, Bithoor, Patara, Kakwan, Dalelpurwa, Patkapur, Ratanpur and Pashuptai Nagar in Nabuasta. The two deceased were identified as a 54 year old man who lived in Dhankutti and was suffering from Type-2 diabetes while the other was a 67 year old man of Govind Nagar. He was also suffering from Type-2 diabetes along with heart ailment and type-1 respiratory failure. Both of them breathed their last in LLR hospital, health department said. Two patients were discharged from Covid-19 hospital LLR, six were discharged from Maninye Kashiram Sayukt Hospital and 27 from ESI Jajmau hospital. Two more persons were discharged from Rama Ayush wing hospital. Health department also informed that 332 samples were collected on Sunday which would be sent for tests and the results will be awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-more-covid-deaths-30-test-positive-in-kanpur/articleshow/76500340.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Free haemophilia treatment in 18 Punjab districts soon||CHANDIGARH: Providing major relief to patients of haemophilia, Punjab government commenced treatment by anti-haemophilia factors in 18 integrated care centres across the state. To provide quality treatment to needy haemophilia patients, the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government has established 18 integrated care centres in the state, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said. Besides three in medical colleges, 15 centres have been set up in district hospitals. Soon, four more centres will be opened in other districts. Anti-haemophilia factors are to be provided to haemophilia patients free of cost in these centres. The minister said earlier, patients had to spend anything between Rs 18 lakh and Rs 80 lakh annually for treatment. Now, all expenses are to be borne by the state government. Registration of patients is going on for the purpose. Sidhu said specialist doctors from PGIMER, Chandigarh and other experts have provided training to staff through webinars. Paediatricians, medical specialists, staff nurses and lab technicians have completed their training, he added. The minister further said that recently, the first affected patient got treatment with anti-haemophilic factor-8 from an integrated care centre in Mohali. Additional project director, Punjab state AIDS control society and state nodal officer for haemophilia and thalassemia Dr Manpreet Chatwal said the factor is given when a haemophilia patient bleeds. Failure to detect this factor in the body increases the patient’s bleeding, which sometimes leads to disability and even death. Therefore anti-haemophilia factors have been made available so that patients can be treated in a timely manner to decrease morbidity and mortality. Dr Chatwal said about 500 patients are suffering from haemophilia in Punjab and all possible arrangements have been made for their treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/free-haemophilia-treatment-in-18-pb-dists-soon/articleshow/76500451.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab set to face medical staff shortage||CHANDIGARH: Already struggling to cope with limited availability of human resources in the fight against Covid-19, the Punjab government is staring at possible acute shortage of manpower as about 7,500 medical professionals on extension will be relieved by September 30. Though the Punjab government is confident of filling the posts falling vacant before the medical professionals on extension are relieved of their duties, it seems an uphill task there is only three-month time to complete the recruitment process, which has not even yet started. The recruitment process will kick start after getting a nod from the state cabinet, which is scheduled to meet next week. Earlier this year, the state government had abolished the provision of granting two-year extension in service due to financial crunch. Keeping in mind staff shortage and to effectively control the coronavirus outbreak, the cabinet had decided to grant extension in service to doctors and paramedic staff till September 30, which included about 150 doctors. As the government is left with little time at hand, a delegation of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) had last week held a meeting with health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu with a request to fill the posts at earliest and not to grant extension to retiring staff. PCMSA, a body which represents government doctors, fears that the government might not be able to complete the recruitment process in time. “Recruitment is a lengthy process as it involves several steps right from advertising posts, inviting applications, shortlisting of potential candidates and interviews,” said president of PCMSA Dr Gagandeep Singh. The process should have been initiated after the decision to grant six-month extension was granted, he added. Sidhu, on the other hand, sounded confident about filling all the posts before September 30. “After getting approval from the cabinet, the recruitment will be complete well before medical professionals on extension are relieved on September 30,” said Sidhu. Punjab is facing a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 and due to limited resources the existing staff members and doctors engaged in the fight against coronavirus are already overstretched. Against the sanctioned strength of 2,340 MMBS doctors, there are about 2,100 doctors. Only about 150 posts of specialists doctors — surgeons, gynaecologists, physicians and paediatricians — are filled out of 496 sanctioned posts. To overcome the shortage, around 750 doctors of rural department are working with the health department, while about 450 ayurveda doctors are also at the disposal of the health department. The government has also decided to use the services of rural and ayush doctors in sample collection.The health department has also roped in qualified volunteers. Around 30,000 qualified health professionals, including 1,000 doctors, have volunteered to assist the Punjab government, giving much needed push to the overstretched workforce in the time of need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-set-to-face-med-staff-shortage/articleshow/76500453.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dakor priest booked for removing road barricades||AHMEDABAD: If your break the law, you won’t have even God on your side. A priest from Dakor in Kheda learned this the hard way after removing barricades from the temple path apparently to make things easy for devotees. Police had set up the barricades at the Dwarkadheesh Temple of Dakor to ensure devotees who came to glimpse the Lord maintained social distance and avoided overcrowding. The cops ultimately booked the priest and filed an FIR. “As the government has given its nod to open temples now, the Dakor temple of Kheda is set to witness a huge rush of devotees. People from other districts also come to the temple in their private vehicles, so the cops have channelled traffic to a particular road near Bodana statue to avoid rush and to prevent any infection,” states the FIR. Police blocked one way towards the temple, which did not go down well with the accused identified as Ketan Shastri who had on June 18 morning removed a barricade put there by Dakor police. Constables Kuldeep Karnalsinh and Nilesh Kanu were present at the spot when Shastri not only removed the barricade on his own, but also told cops that he will use that way only and help other devotees use the same way, states the FIR. Shastri reportedly told cops that he will not follow any notification issued by any government or government agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dakor-priest-booked-for-removing-road-barricades/articleshow/76499794.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||11 booked for trying to grab dera land||BATHINDA: Uttarakhand police have registered a case of cheating and forgery against 11 religious figures of Punjab on the complaint of representatives of a dera at Kankhal in Haridwar for trying to grab property by forging documents. Shri Panchayati Akhada Nirmal, Kankhal, Haridwar treasurer Jaswinder Singh Shastri submitted a police complaint against the 11 persons identified as Mahant Resham Singh of Nirmal Dera village, Shekhwan Ferozepur, Hakam Singh of Ganda Singh Wala village in Sangrur, Kashmir Singh dera Tapovan Amritsar, Mahant Santokh Singh of Nirmal dera Paldi Hoshiarpur, Prem Singh of Muridke village in Gurdaspur, Kamaljit Singh of Jhaneri village in Sangrur, Mahant Gopal Singh of Amritsar, Mahant Jagjit Singh of Kankhal, Haridwar, Sukha Singh of dera Tapovan Amritsar, Mahant Bikkar Singh of Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and Jagtar Singh Nirmal dera Nainewal in Barnala. The case was registered on June 19. Jaswinder Singh said Shri Panchayati Akhada Nirmal, Kankhal Haridwar is a registered institution with registered bylaws and property in many cities of India. He is the treasurer of the institution and Mahant Swami Gyan Dev Singh, disciple of Mahant Lal Singh is the president. The society is registered and according to the bylaws of the institution, no meeting of the institution can be called without the permission of the president. He said the accused have been trying to grab the property of the institution for a long time. They conspired against the institution and called a meeting on August 19, 2019 in the name of the Shri Panchayati Akhada Nirmal. In this meeting Mahant Resham Singh was appointed president of the organisation. Jaswinder Singh said, “The aforesaid persons and who have passed the above resolution are not primary members of the registered institution. Nor do they have the right to call such a meeting or pass any resolution of any kind in relation to the institution or use the letter pad stamp of the institution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-booked-for-trying-to-grab-dera-land/articleshow/76500461.cms||Neel Kamal
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Employee runs away with Rs 25 lakh||AHMEDABAD: An employee of an angadia firm in Navrangpura allegedly ran away with Rs 25 lakh which he was supposed to give to various traders, states an FIR filed with city police. Ratansinh Parmar, 58, a resident of Rajkot, on Saturday filed a complaint with Navrangpura police stating that he runs an Angadia firm which has its offices in Navrangpura and Ratanpol. “We have a branch near Punjabi Hall in Navrangpura where the accused Govind Desai, 36, a resident of Ghatlodia and native of Mehsana, was working as manager,” said Parmar. Parmar added that he stays in Rajkot and visits Ahmedabad in every two-three months. “We receive money from various firms through angadia transactions which we deliver to the traders,” he states in the FIR. Parmar said that Navrangpura branch of his angadia firm had on June 15 and June 16 received Rs 25 lakh which was supposed to be given to various traders. On June 16, an office boy of Navrangpura branch called up Parmar and said that Desai had gone to collect money from market but did not return for a long. When Parmar called up Desai his phone was switched off, states the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/employee-runs-away-with-rs-25l/articleshow/76499763.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra freezes 3 Chinese projects worth Rs 5,000 crore||MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government has put the three agreements signed with Chinese companies at the recent Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 investor meet on hold. The proposed investments total over Rs 5,000 crore. “The decision has been taken in consultation with the Union government. These were signed prior (to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers on the Indo-China border). The ministry of external affairs has advised not to sign any further agreements with Chinese companies,” said industry minister Subhash Desai. Read Also‘Batman, not bats’: Jibe at China in Army’s Bihar Regiment tributeA video tweeted by Army’s Northern Command late Saturday to celebrate Bihar Regiment’s battle history appeared to take a dig at China with the legend: “Born to fight. They do what they do. They are not the bats. They are the Batman.” Without making any reference to the June 15 clash, the videoThe online conference held last Monday was attended by Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong. The three agreements included a Rs 3,770-crore MoU with Great Wall Motors (GWM) to set up an automobile plant in Talegaon near Pune. Also, PMI Electro Mobility in a joint venture with Foton (China) had announced a Rs 1,000-crore unit that would create 1,500 jobs, said a government press release. Among other Chinese companies that made commitments was Hengli Engineering for a Rs 250-crore investment as part of its phase II expansion at Talegaon, a project that will generate 150 jobs. Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 was an attempt by the Maharashtra government to kickstart the economy, post-Covid. In all 12 agreements were signed which included companies from Singapore, South Korea, US besides several Indian companies. Desai said the state government is actively processing the other nine MoUs. Read AlsoGalwan Valley clash: Govt grants emergency financial powers to three servicesThe government has granted the three services emergency financial powers of up to Rs 500 crore per procurement project to buy ammunition and weapons in view of the escalating border standoff with China, government sources said Sunday. ​​The special financial powers have been given to the forces toIn January this year, Great Wall Motors signed an agreement to acquire the Talegaon plant from US-based multinational General Motors. GWM planned to produce its electric vehicles and SUV models at the unit. “This would be a highly automated plant in Talegaon (near Pune) with advanced robotics technology integrated in many of the production processes,” Parker Shi, managing director of the Indian subsidiary of GWM, was quoted as saying in a statement. “Overall we are committed to $ 1 billion (Rs 7600 crore) of investment in India in a phased manner, which is directed towards manufacturing world class intelligent and premium products, R&D centre, building supply chain and providing jobs to over 3,000 p$eople in a phased manner,” he added. Read AlsoGovt changes LAC rules, gives forces ‘full freedom’ to ‘respond adequately’The armed forces have been given “full freedom” to respond in an “adequate and proportionate manner” to any hostile act in accordance with their judgement on Sunday after defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed operational readiness along the LAC. “They have been told not to start a fight, but alsoThe decision to stall the Chinese projects comes in the wake of the border clashes. At the all party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray said, “India wants peace but that doesn’t mean we are weak. China’s nature is betrayal. India is Mazboot not Majboor (India is strong, not helpless),” he said. Thackeray, expressing confidence in the Modi administration, said, “Our government has the ability to give a befitting reply…We are all one. This is the feeling. We are with you, PM. We are with our forces and their families,” he said. Watch Maharashtra government stalls 3 Chinese projects worth Rs 5,000 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-freezes-3-chinese-projects-worth-rs-5000cr/articleshow/76500474.cms||Clara Lewis
June 22, 2020||Allahabad||SP (Prataparh) office sealed, complaint box put outside||Prayagraj: After the office of the superintendent of police of Pratapgarh district got sealed after coming under the containment zone, the senior police authorities at Pratapgarh district have put a complaint box outside the containment zone to receive complaints of the applicants. The initiative was taken by the SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh himself who after acknowledging the fact that complainants were facing hardship to get their grievances registered or noted, has ordered to put a complaint box. SP told TOI that, “Cops have put a complaint box outside the containment zone to receive the complaints and a policeman would be picking up the complaint daily for its disposal. He added, “Once I receive complaints of applicants, they are being forwarded to concerned thana or police officials and conducting an online monitoring till its disposal.” About three days back, the office of the superintendent of police was sealed after coming under containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sp-prataparh-office-sealed-complaint-box-put-outside/articleshow/76498476.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Key suspense for KMC as staffer tests +ve||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has arranged for random Covid-19 test for its employees at the headquarters after a staffer from caretaker’s department tested positive on Friday. The department takes care of logistics and has the keys to offices and counters of other civic wings. While the employee was sent to a Covid-19 hospital for treatment, several others from the department were sent for home quarantine. The civic brass has decided to arrange for a random sample test for the employees at the caretaker’s department on Monday, following a scare among the staffers of various other wings. However, officials were worried about the normal functioning at the civic headquarters in the absence of caretaker’s department employees. On Saturday, functions of all departments at the KMC headquarters came to a standstill, owing to absence of the department’s staffers. Even visitors found several gates locked and could not enter the headquarters. A large number of visitors had queued up in front of the KMC birth and death certificate wing, but the counters could not be opened for want of keys. “The scene was really worrying for us as visitors were allowed inside, but the birth and death certificate counters could not be opened as the keys were with the employees of the caretaker’s department who did not turn up on Saturday,” an official said. Apart from the health department, functioning of several other departments suffered due to the non-availability of keys. “Even the mayor’s office could not be opened in time on Saturday for want of keys,” said a civic official. According to a KMC official, the situation will be difficult on Monday as well as a majority of the employees from caretaker’s department will be absent. “We can’t think of alternative means as it is a specialized job. Employees from the caretaker’s department can’t be replaced with employees of other departments. It will be difficult for us to keep functions normal at the headquarters on Monday,” said a KMC senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/key-suspense-for-kmc-as-staffer-tests-ve/articleshow/76499754.cms||Saikat Ray
June 22, 2020||Allahabad||Corona: Yoga to the rescue||Prayagraj: The ancient Indian practise of yoga has proved beneficial for a large number of residents across the city as it has helped them to defeat the coronavirus disease. A 45-year-old resident who had tested positive for the coronavirus infection has completely recovered from the disease in just one week with the help of yoga. While it takes at least two weeks for an infected person to recover and turn negative, there are over 35 residents who have successfully made fast recovery as they included yoga in their daily routine. With a total of 178 cases, Prayagraj district has a good recovery rate as 131 have been discharged after recovering from the disease. Nodal Officer and Additional chief medical officer, Rishi Sahai told TOI that patients undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection are now opting for yoga for speedy recovery. We have been holding Yoga sessions daily for patients at Covid level one hospital for speedy recovery. The recent case of utilising the benefits of the techniques of yoga is of a 55-year-old woman who managed to defeat corona within a week. She also made a video where she credited yoga for her quick recovery. The video has gone viral on social media. “Interestingly, the viral video has encouraged more patients to include yoga in their daily routine for a speedy recovery,” said Dr. Sahai. “Anulom vilom and paranayam have helped me to fight against the disease. Many patients are taking the help of yoga and meditation to defeat the infection. One should have a positive mindset as it helps one to build a stronger immunity,” said the 45-year-old man who defeated the virus within a week. “After being tested positive for coronovirus infection in the month of May, I did not lose hope and started practicing yoga, meditation and some asans for speedy recovery. Other patients also learnt the same practises and they too managed to recover quickly,” he added. Dr. Sahai, meanwhile, said patients undergoing coronavirus treatment at Covid Level one hospital, claimed that patients are keen to adopt yoga and meditation in morning hours. While some are practising yoga for 30 minutes, others are practising it for more than 45 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/corona-yoga-to-the-rescue/articleshow/76498489.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Nine Tablighis from Nepal and Lanka granted conditional bail in Ambala||AMBALA: Nine foreigners, who are members of Tablighi Jamaat and were arrested by the Haryana Police after the Covid-19 outbreak in the first week of May, were granted conditional bail by an Ambala court on June 19. They will have to furnish a bail bond of Rs 1 lakh each with two sureties of the same amount each. Those arrested included eight from Nepal and one from Sri Lanka. Their advocate Mohammad Danish said, “On Friday, the court of additional sessions judge Krishan Kant at district court Ambala granted them bail under Section 439 (special powers of court regarding bail) of CrPC with the condition that they shall not leave India without prior permission of the trial court and shall regularly remain present during the trial on every hearing.” Those granted bail include Sheikh Mustafa (46), Mohd Nabir (26), Mohd Ghani (71), Mohd Wasir (52), Mansoor Alam (52), Mohd Bojhrai (66), Faizul Haq, Mohd Yasini (63), all eight of Nepal, and Mohd Rifsan (25) from Sri Lanka. “In the case of Mohd Rifsan, the court asked him to surrender his passport/other identity documentary proofs, if required to secure the presence of the accused. At the time of execution of the bail bond, they will give their address and mobile numbers to the investigation officer and the court concerned,” added Danish. He said the bail bonds and sureties will be furnished on Monday. On April 2, on the complaint of Ambala security officer inspector Rajesh Kumar, a case was registered against 11 accused — nine foreign nationals and two Indians — under sections 7 (obligation of hotel keepers and others to furnish particulars), 8 (determination of nationality), 14B (violation of the conditions of the valid visa), of the Foreigners Act, and 188 (disobedience of orders of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience of quarantine rule) of the IPC at Mahesh Nagar police station. The complainant alleged that some people from other country came from Delhi to Madina Masjid, Shivpuri Colony, Ambala Cantt, for a religious purpose and collected some other people, thereby violating the lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-tablighis-from-nepal-and-lanka-granted-conditional-bail-in-ambala/articleshow/76500460.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 22, 2020||Amritsar||He cremates abandoned Covid victims||AMRITSAR: With many people refusing to cremate bodies of persons who died of Covid-19, even if they happen to be deceased loved ones, it is up to the administration to perform their last rites. Under such circumstances, Kartar Singh Lehari, a patwari has volunteered to cremate bodies of people who died of the disease. His first such cremation was spiritual singer Padma Shri Nimral Singh Ragi, who died of coronavirus infection on April 2. Since then, Lehari has cremated 21 bodies of Covid 19 patients. Lehari told TOI on Sunday that being a patwari, he was asked by his seniors to identify a cremation ground for Ragi’s last rites. However, he recalled the resistance they faced from residents of the area around Verka cremation ground, who feared the spread of coronavirus infection if the body of a person who died of the disease was cremated nearby. “Late in the evening, using lights of vehicles, the ambulance driver, the helper and I wore PPE kits. We took Ragi’s body from the ambulance and prepared a pyre. The pyre was lit by Ragi’s son,” he said. According to him, there is no higher form of service to humanity than giving a dignified send-off to people rejected by their own. Therefore, he said he approached his seniors to volunteer his services for cremation of persons dying of coronavirus infection in future. “Till now, I have cremated 21 people who died of Covid-19 and it has now become a mission of my life,” he said, adding that his wife Jaswinder Kaur, a teacher, never objected to him for doing the ‘risky’ job. “I tell my wife whenever I go to cremate a person who died of Covid 19. She offers prayers for me until I come home but I take adequate precautions like removing the clothes and taking a bath before entering my home,” he said. Due to misinformation and social stigma surrounding the cremation of Covid 19 dead, the next of kin of the deceased often disown their loved ones and refused to even accompany them to the cremation ground. “But now, in some cases, family members of Covid 19 deceased have started coming forward to at least light the pyres. Earlier, relatives, including wives or children would refuse to come to the cremation ground. Those who did would remain at a distance and record videos on their mobiles,” he said. Watch Kartar Singh Lehari cremates abandoned Covid victims||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/he-cremates-abandoned-covid-victims/articleshow/76500455.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 22, 2020||Kanpur||Eight persons booked in ex-BSP leader’s murder case||KANPUR: Police have booked eight persons for the shootout which took place on Saturday at JK Ashiana Colony in Chakeri police area of the city, which snuffed out the life of the ex-BSP leader Narendra Singh alias Pintu Sengar. Sengar, a resident of C block Mangala Vihar Chakeri, was shot dead at around 1 pm as soon as he alighted his Innova driven by his driver Rupesh. According to police, on the complaint of the deceased's brother Dharmendra Singh an FIR has been registered against Mohd Asif, Pappu Smart, Saud Akhtar, Deenu Upadhyai, Arindam Singh, Mahfooz Akhtar, Manoj Gupta and one other for their involvement in the attack. A senior police official, privy to the investigation, said the incident apparently was the fall out of some kind of property deal that went wrong. “Investigation to corroborate the same is still continuing. Several suspects have been picked up and their questioning is underway in this regard,” he said. SP (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal said that four police teams have been formed, which are zeroing in on the perpetrators of the crime with the help of CCTV footage accessed from the crime spot and they would be nabbed soon. “A case has been registered under sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 34 of the IPC and section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act”, Agarwal further said Agarwal. The forensic and fingerprint teams were pressed into service to collect evidence. Several shells of spent bullets of .32 bore were recovered from the spot. Initial investigation has revealed that Pintu's meeting was to be held with some people at the JK Ashiana colony area on Saturday to resolve their property dispute. The shooters, who numbered around four, already knew about the movement of Pintu, who was neither expecting nor was he prepared for the attack, according to sources. Police on the basis of CCTV footage of the incident, will also recreate the sequence of events. Pintu had made headlines in 2010 when he gifted a 3-acre plot on the Moon to then UP chief minister Mayawati on her birthday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-persons-booked-in-ex-bsp-leaders-murder-case/articleshow/76500433.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sample collection gets augmented in district||Thiruvananthapuram: In a move aimed at streamlining sample collection process in the wake of rise in case load and to settle controversies over the time limit set for collection of samples and transfer of staff, the district health administration has augmented the swab sample collection process. Setting aside a row over the transfer of a microbiologist at General Hospital (GH), who was in charge of swab collection, to health centre at Nemom, the district medical officer has also issued an order transferring her to district Covid management team. Here, she will work with the team involved in sample collection and testing. Sample collection, which was primarily confined to the Medical College Hospital (MCH) and GH in the district, will now be held across the district. Taluk-level collection centres have been arranged at taluk hospitals in Chirayinkeezhu, Varkala, Neyyatinkara, Nedumangadu and Parassala. Within the corporation limits, sample collection will be done at Fort Hospital, Peroorkada hospital and SUT Royal Hospital where cabin crew of flights are now being subjected to sample collection.  The centres will be functional from 9am to 4pm and in case of symptomatic cases being reported from various parts of the district, arrangements will be made at GH. Taluk-level medical officers will arrange for communication, transportation of symptomatic cases to GH in co-ordination with the nodal officer. Following sample collection, they will be shifted to the Covid first line treatment centre set up at Karakkonam. Recently, there was a direction to have only two shifts for sample collection at GH; from 8am to 12 noon and 12 noon to 4pm for swab collection and screening. It was directed that after 4pm no samples will be taken from GH and that if there was vacancy in pay wards for admitting symptomatic people it will be informed before 4pm everyday so that suspected patients can be sent to GH for admission till the rooms are full. The district team was told that samples of symptomatic patients will be taken next day morning and it was clearly instructed not to send asymptomatic positive contacts after 2pm to GH for sample collection. District collector Navjot Khosa said that a standard operating procedure will ensure uniform procedure for sample collection and a time-based system cannot be entertained. With sample collection being diversified in multiple centres, the health team will be able to save time required for transportation of every suspected patient to GH or MCH from other parts of the district. “We are also launching mobile units at mental health care centre and coastal areas . There have been so many cases which are being referred to Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada, from Tamil Nadu and symptomatic persons can have their samples collected using mobile units,’’ said a health official. Meanwhile, police have decided to shut down five roads from Monday onwards. They are Ambalathara-East Fort Road, Maruthoorkadavu-Kaladi Road, Jagathy-Killippalam Road, Kaithamukku-Chettikulangara Road and Kumarichantha-Ambalathara Road. These roads lead to Kaladi, Attukal, Manacaud, Chiramukku and Iranimuttam, which are containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sample-collection-gets-augmented-in-district/articleshow/76498903.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 22, 2020||Allahabad||Absence of visitors leave boatmen in distress||Prayagraj: Days after the district authorities allowed plying of boats at Sangam-- the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati, absence of visitors have left the boatmen community in a piquant situation. Boatmen plying their boats at different ghats like Quila Ghat, Gau Ghat, Saraswati Ghat, Balua Ghat, Mahewa, Arial, Boat Club, Minto Park, Ghussa Ghat, Jhunsi, Chatnag, Nibi towards Sangam, however, said that they hardly get any customers. President of Allahabad Navik Sangh, Pappu Lal Nishad told TOI that In the absence of adequate number of visitors, the boatmen find it difficult to earn their livelihood. “The strength of visitors will increase only after the pilgrims and devotees start flocking the Sangam from different parts of the country”, he added. In the present scenario, few buses from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh are arriving at Sangam but the pilgrims and devotees mostly go to their traditional priests and hardly hire boats. However, boatmen are able to earn their 15 to 20 percent business as compared to the lockdown period when the plying of boats was completely banned. Nishad, meanwhile, informed that the boatmen community ofVaranasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have sought help from their Prayagraj counterparts to mount pressure on authorities concerned to start boating in Varanasi. Gopal, a boatman said, ”There are hardly 15 per cent customers left as compared to normal days.We have only boats to earn our livelihood by catering to the pilgrims at Sangam and still continue to fight for our survival”. “Due to the absence of customers, the majority of the boatmen are left with no money to even arrange for two square of meals”, he added. Nanka said “Boatmen at Sangam solely rely on rowing boats to earn their bread and butter. Due to lockdown, they are not only debt ridden but also on the verge of starvation. Though the administration has allowed rowing of boats, but lack of devotees and pilgrims have not brought good days for them. Usually, around 1,500 boats are permitted to ply on Sangam and at least two boatmen work on a single boat. Another boatman Pawan said “We are waiting for good old days to come when scores of pilgrims and devotees will flock Sangam and we get good business”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/absence-of-visitors-leave-boatmen-in-distress/articleshow/76498508.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Allahabad||11 more tested positive for Covid-19 infection||Prayagraj: A 13-year-old girl and her grandmother and another four-year-old girl were among the 11 coronavirus cases reported from Prayagraj on Sunday. These four new cases took the district’s tally to 189.Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “ The teen aged girl and her grandmother ( 68 years) were close relative and contracts of a Covid patient who died last week due to respiratory disorder”. Dr. Sahai also added residents of Lalgopalganj, both girl and her grandmother are asymptomatic. Besides, a 55-year-old man and resident of Lohia Marg, Civil Lines also tested positive for the infection. Dr. Sahai said that the patient had no travel history. Dr. Sahai further informed six people who were in contact with Covid-19 infected additional chief medical officer, also tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. The six people included his five family members and a helper. The ACMO rank health official tested positive for infection last week. Moreover, a patient undergoing treatment at SRN hospital also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/11-more-tested-positive-for-covid-19-infection/articleshow/76498532.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Tricity twists & turns on Yoga Day||CHANDIGARH: The Tricity celebrated the 6th International Yoga Day on Sunday. Various schools and colleges in the UT practised yoga exercises to mark the day with enthusiasm, but this time at their homes. Every year June 21 is recognised as International Yoga Day. However, this year, due to coronavirus pandemic, social distancing was adopted by people while practicing yoga. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga for health-Yoga at home’. The NSS units and NCC (Naval Wing) of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women organised various online activities to celebrate the importance of the Indian tradition of yoga for a healthy life. The robust group of KBDAV Senior Secondary Public School, Sector 7B, Chandigarh, got together on a G-meet link and performed yoga aasanas and sent a strong message on the importance of yoga in every one’s life. At AKSIPS-45, the yoga coach instructed students about the dos and don’ts and were followed by them. Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, has taken an initiative to go live on its YouTube channel by organising a live yoga session. School’s internationally acclaimed yoga teacher Shivani Sachdeva performed yoga postures. In Panchkula, a few joined experts at the parade ground in Sector 5. District ayurveda officer Dr Dalip Mishra and his yoga experts helped residents in doing yoga exercises. The Red Cross Society of Panchkula also organised a yoga session for the elderly persons staying with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricity-twists-turns-on-yoga-day/articleshow/76500469.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man dies waiting for ventilator, hospital gets notice in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Sunday issued a notice to Rajasthan Hospital, Shahibaug, after a patient died waiting for ventilator support. The notice stated that Harish Kadiya had been shifted from Lifecare Hospital, Khanpur, to Rajasthan Hospital specifically because he needed the ventilator. “The deputy health officer confirmed the availability of a ventilator at Rajasthan Hospital in advance,” the notice reads. It adds that when the patient was taken to the corona-patients’ gate of Rajasthan Hospital, the gate was not opened for approximately 20 minutes. “After a huge tussle, when the gate was opened by the staff of your hospital, it took another 10 to 15 minutes to bring a stretcher,” the notice says. “This is not only recorded in the incident report filed by the zonal deputy commissioner, but is also evident from CCTV footage.” This is the third such notice sent to hospitals by the civic body in a fortnight. Earlier, the AMC had slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on Bodyline Hospital in Paldi and Aartham Hospital in Panjrapole for denying admissions. As for the Rajasthan Hospital case, the AMC notice states that on June 18 “...there was a serious lapse in duty by the hospital which resulted in the death of Covid-19 patient Harish Kadiya.”  The AMC used CCTV footage and the report from Dr Manish Kumar, the civic body’s officer on special duty, to find the hospital accountable for the death. The notice states that in the pandemic situation, it is vitally important that Covid patients get care expeditiously. The notice also refers to a Gujarat high court order observing that in the critical situation of the pandemic, private hospitals must cooperate with the government. The court had also warned that patients must not be exploited. The AMC has asked Rajasthan Hospital to explain why a criminal complaint should not be filed against it and its trustees under various provisions, including those of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The AMC has also asked the hospital to show cause for not initiating appropriate legal proceedings for wilful defiance and contempt of the high court order. Imposing a heavy penalty and cancelling the registration of the hospital are among the options available to the AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-dies-waiting-for-ventilator-hospital-gets-notice/articleshow/76500508.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Father’s Day surprise for cops away from families in Delhi||NEW DELHI: “He held my finger and taught me how to walk and is still a guiding light even while on duty during these difficult times…” As Ravinder, a head constable posted with the Chandni Mahal police station, heard this short poem recited by his daughter Dipti Yadav, it instantly struck an emotional chord with him. He was simultaneously overwhelmed with the surprise that the central Delhi police had thrown for the junior-rank cops on Father’s Day. In a heartwarming gesture, the children of these policemen were asked to record a video message for their fathers who have not returned home for the past one month. These cops were on picket duties during the lockdown and are now under quarantine. Some of the policemen were left in tears when they were handed the cards written by their children. On Sunday morning, about 500 policemen from different police stations were asked to join a regular briefing regarding the deployment for the day using the videoconferencing tool. Many of them were pleasantly surprised when the faces of their family members started appearing on the screen greeting them on Father’s Day. In the video messages, some of the children who are now grown up and working professionals recalled how their fathers would take out time to reach out to them even during late hours. DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia and a team of senior cops conducted the session and called out names of some of the policemen whose children read out their messages. “These are tough times for all the policemen working on ground level and the frontline Covid warriors who have been trying to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Our men have been staying away from their families for the past few months. With gestures like these, we plan to keep their spirit high,” said Bhatia. Delhi Police plans to come up with such gestures for the on-ground policemen from different parts of the city on different occasions from now on. This was the first in the 33 years of service for Ravinder. “I didn’t realise when my daughter had become a poet. She grew up while I was serving the people. She is now a teacher at a government school in central Delhi. I was moved when I saw her reciting the poem in the video,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fathers-day-surprise-for-cops-away-from-families/articleshow/76499787.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University starts phase II of giving degrees, marksheets online||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has started the second phase under the National Academic Depositary (NAD) for awarding online degrees and detailed marksheet certificates (DMC) to students of post-graduate courses for the current session i.e. 2017 to 2020. Keeping in view Covid-19 pandemic, the university has already decided not to hold convocation and decided that the students will be enrolled in NAD so that original degrees can be downloaded online from anywhere. According to the PU records, there are 39 post-graduate courses running on the campus and in various affiliated colleges of the university. Around 25,000 students were enrolled in PG courses, of which, data of around 8,000 students have already been uploaded for verification from NAD. Dr Parvinder Singh, controller of examination, PU, said they have started the second phase for online degree, the process for which will be complete soon. Thereafter, under graduate enrolment will start. He said 300 PhD degrees are already ready to be uploaded by students from depository with NAD registration. He said the university has not planned online degrees due to Covid-19, but this process was already on and they decided that PhD and PG degrees will be given through NAD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-starts-phase-ii-of-giving-degrees-marksheets-online/articleshow/76500472.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 22, 2020||Pune||Fewer shows, chessboard seating inside multiplexes||PUNE: The movie-going experience is set to change when multiplexes reopen. For starters, ticketing will move online. Around 55% bookings on an average are done online for big shows while the rest are sold physically at the multiplexes. The number of shows will drop by at least 20% per day. A multiplex screening five movies per day will curtail it to four to ensure sufficient time between screenings for disinfection and cleaning, sources from the Multiplex Association of India told TOI. There are 25 multiplexes and 10-12 working single screens in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Neerav Panchamia, chief operating executive, E-square Leisure Private Limited told TOI that the entire experience for viewers will be as contactless as possible, from purchasing a ticket online to food and beverage purchases. There would be chessboard seating arrangement for the initial three to six months and fewer shows per screen to ensure enough time for disinfection between one show exiting and the other starting, he added. This may increase the turnaround time between two shows from approximately 10 minutes to 40-45 minutes. “The industry average of about 6.5 shows per screen, per day will come down , to 5 to 5.5 shows per day. With the chessboard-like seating, the number of viewers allowed in an auditorium may drop by around 50%.” Panchamia said lesser food items on counters is likely as eatables like samosas that need handling may have to go. More packaged and pre-packaged food will come in, he added. Alok Tandon, chief executive officer of INOX Leisure Ltd, told that they have used the lockdown phase to determine various scenarios and work out robust plans for ensuring hygiene and distancing. “Adjacent seats will be left vacant for a group or a family. Online booking modes will be programmed to allocate seats in that order. Movie shows will be scheduled so that entry, intermissions and exits to two shows do not occur simultaneously, thus precluding crowding of lobbies and washrooms,” he added. Another source from INOX Leisure Ltd said food and beverages will be truncated for the first few weeks. They may be served at the seats so there is no crowd at the food counters, the source added. A top source from the Multiplex Association of India said considering the economic losses that multiplexes have suffered since the lockdown began and stress on contactless services, a chunk of staff will be reduced, promoting a shift of the ticketing process online. “Ushers will have to go in the Covid-19 times, and the screen will display seat arrangements. Ticket checks will be done by personnel behind a glass screen and customers will have to show him the ticket QR code on their cellphones. Ultraviolet-C disinfection of seats before viewers take their seats each time is also on cards,” he said. The modalities will be streamlined before multiplexes open. “Even if multiplexes in other parts of the country open earlier, and those in Maharashtra and Delhi do not, multiplexes in other parts will think twice before resuming operations. Movie producers are unlikely to dish out new releases until multiplexes open up pan-India,” an MAI source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-shows-chessboard-seating-inside-multiplexes/articleshow/76499790.cms||Neha Madaan
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man sexually assaults 12-yr-old daughter of live-in partner, held||Thiruvananthapuram: A 38-year-old man, who tried to rape the 12-year-old daughter of his live-in partner, has been arrested by Kilimanoor police. The accused is a mason and hails from Ernakulam. His arrest was recorded on Sunday. According to the police, the incident related to the case took place on Friday when the girl’s mother and her brother had gone out to meet relatives. The girl managed to resist the attack and ran out of the house. She returned home only after her mother and brother came back. Later in the night, she narrated her ordeal to her mother. “The mother of the girl did a good thing by not confronting him right away. She kept quiet and approached the police without his knowledge,” said Kilimanoor station house officer inspector K B Manoj, adding that this helped the police apprehend the accused without much trouble. If he had learned about the complaint against him, he would have tried to flee, the inspector said. The inspector also said that according to the girl, the accused was under the influence of alcohol at the time of committing the crime. The accused was in a live-in relationship with the girl’s mother for the past five years after she got separated from her husband. The police have charged him with sections 11 and 12 of Pocso Act pertaining to sexual harassment, which if proven guilty could get him a sentence of up to three years. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. This is the second arrest under Pocso Act being recorded at Kilimanoor police station in past three days. On Friday, the police had arrested a 20-year-old youth, who allegedly lured a minor girl, took her to various places and sexually exploited her. Though case in this regard was registered three months ago, the accused was on the run. He was caught on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-sexually-assaults-12-yr-old-daughter-of-live-in-partner-held/articleshow/76498937.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases rose in Ahmedabad’s careless western part||AHMEDABAD: Our carelessness in observing basic precautions — such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing — led to a dramatic rise in Covid cases between May 18 and June 10. This marked increase is seen in the posh western part of the city. In this period, Chandlodia has seen a 150% rise in cases, Ghatlodia has recorded a 120% spike, Bodakdev has registered a 97% spurt, and Naranpura saw a 56% jump. In Thaltej, cases rose by 32%, while in the Gota-Sola area the rise was by 46%. There have been 17 studies all over the world suggesting that wearing masks can reduce Covid transmission rates by at least 77% and also cut case growth rate drastically. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also stresses the importance of wearing masks. A senior official cited the example of Sachin Tower which is shown in the pink zone by the Aarogya Setu ITIHAS mobile tracking data. “Those who do not wear masks are not bothered and are indifferent to the safety of other vulnerable people around them,” said a senior health official. “The social distancing circles outside provision stores or milk booths are not being used. Moreover, 50% of people do not wear masks in areas such as Bopal, Prahladnagar, and Navrangpura.” People are feeling that the crisis period is over because of which complacency is setting in, the official said. “Such violations will only lead to a geometric rise in cases and even more so during Covid’s second wave,” he said. “Studies in the Lancet journal state that each infected person can transmit the virus to 2.76 people in a day,” the official said. “This will rise geometrically in three weeks.” The official also cited the example of Jamalpur area which during the containment period had seen a 65% decline in cases. But as it emerged out of the containment period, it registered a rise from 9 cases to 37 cases between May 18 and June 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-rose-in-citys-careless-western-part/articleshow/76500505.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Supplementary exam: Form submission date extended||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has extended the last date to fill forms for class XII science students who want to take the supplementary examination. Students, who have failed or not taken exams for two or more subjects in class XII board exams held in March, can now fill the forms till June 30 instead of the earlier announced deadline of June 20. The results for class XII (science) were declared on May 17. The applicants are to pay online fees along with an online application for rechecking, re-evaluation or for availing duplicate copy of their OMR sheet. Under normal circumstances, the re-evaluation is done in Gandhinagar. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the board has decided to divide the state into different zones and set up centres for re-assessment of exam papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supplementary-exam-form-submission-date-extended/articleshow/76499792.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Even half the target not met, Delhi govt told to ramp up rapid tests||NEW DELHI: Terming the current rate of rapid antigen test per day “abysmal”, Delhi high court has asked the AAP government to ramp up these tests. After being informed by the government of the numbers, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed that “the figures of the testing done from June 18 onwards are abysmal” as the Delhi government could not even conduct more than 50% of the tests and “failed to keep to the target”. It said in view of the rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital, the government should increase the number of tests and expand these to include all patients who come to Covid-19 hospitals for treatment. As of Monday, RAT is conducted only in hotspots and containment zones. “See if you can expand RAT numbers. Looking at the rate the (Covid-19) numbers are going up, the sooner you do, the better,” the bench told Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam, who informed it that RAT methodology was started on June 18 and is in its trial phase. He urged the court to wait for a week after which the RAT numbers will go up as the tests get expanded. The court was taking stock of the progress made in removing bureaucratic red tape to enhance the efficiency of private labs engaged in Covid-19 tests. It had earlier asked the private labs to inform it about the difficulties faced by them in carrying out the tests. Once they did so, the bench had on June 18, ordered an expert committee, set up by the lieutenant governor to advise Delhi Disaster Management Authority to examine the issues raised and resolve them. During the hearing, the government informed the court that the panel is yet to take up the issue, prompting the bench to direct the chief secretary to convene a meeting of the committee soon and ensure the panel’s recommendations are conveyed to the high court before the next date of hearing on June 26. On Monday the court also made it clear that “once ICMR has to give a sanction to a private laboratory to conduct the Covid-19 test, NABL will not come in the way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/even-half-the-target-not-met-govt-told-to-ramp-up-rapid-tests/articleshow/76518904.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Back-to-back hikes in price of diesel cast shadow on Monday’s commute||KOLKATA: With the diesel price meter ticking uninterruptedly on, the staggering losses in bus operation may prevent operators from hitting the road on Monday. Since June 6, the price of diesel rose on a daily basis and, compared to June 6, it is now dearer by Rs 7.99 per litre in Kolkata. A majority of operators said plying buses on the old fare structure is increasingly becoming “suicidal” for them. On Friday, buses stayed away from north Kolkata, leaving hundreds stranded, after diesel price rose from Rs 71.94 to Rs 72.51. Since Friday, diesel price rose by Rs1.09 to Rs 73.60 per litre. “Diesel price is the biggest component of operating cost. We now not only need a fare revision, but a substantial rise,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary of joint council of bus syndicates. “In the past few days, we incurred a huge loss but operated buses simply out of compulsion as it is an essential service. But we have also exhausted our resources and we are bleeding. Unless the government takes a serious view on this and comes to our rescue with a revised fare table, buses will be off the road incrementally,” said Tarun Senapati, a bus operator. The price spike is affecting the STUs as well. Since the cost of operation is going up, it may necessitate the government to offer greater subsidy to STUs to sustain public transportation at a modest cost. “But the diesel price is hitting us equally hard. The AC buses consume more diesel and we have no substantial number of AC buses in the fleet now,” said a WBTC officer. Private buses still serve as the backbone of public mobility, with STU buses complementing the service efficiently. “With life swinging back to a new normal, there will be a mobility crisis if private buses stay off the road. Fare revision should be imminent, otherwise a commuter will end up paying much more by changing modes to reach the workplace,” said Anirudhha Som, a public transport expert. “Bus operation has stabilized and people know when to leave home to reach office on time. If private bus operation is withheld, commuters will end up spending more time and money,” said Sohini Adhikari, a government employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/back-to-back-hikes-in-price-of-diesel-cast-shadow-on-mondays-commute/articleshow/76499798.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune to get light rainfall during the week: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast very light rainfall over the city this week from June 22 to June 24. From June 24 onwards, the city was likely to get moderate rain that would last till June 27, an official from the met department said. The city would mainly experience overcast sky conditions, but it would bring only sporadic rainfall at isolated places, the IMD said. On Sunday, the city experienced overcast conditions throughout the day. It had also received some spells of rain in isolated areas, the IMD official said. “With the weakening of monsoon currents, there would be light rainfall till June 26. Rainfall will pick up thereafter,” stated the IMD’s forecast issued on Sunday evening. Since June 1, 151.6mm rainfall has been recorded in the city, which has been above normal for the season, so far. The city’s temperature during the week would remain below normal, the IMD official said. On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded the day temperature as 29.7°C and 29.5°C, which were below normal by 0.5 and 1.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. The Shivajinagar observatory recorded 3mm rainfall, while the Lohegaon observatory registered nil rainfall. During the weekend, good rain spell was recorded in Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha, which would continue during this week, the IMD forecast added. “There is trough running between Punjab and interior Odisha, which was expected to shift southward. As a result, the monsoon would strengthen bringing moderate spells over Vidarbha and Marathwada, due to which strong westerly winds would blow from the Arabian Sea, causing heavy rain over Konkan and Goa this week,” the met official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-to-get-light-rainfall-during-the-week-imd/articleshow/76499801.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Accused-turned-approver gets bail||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has granted regular bail to an accused who has turned an approver in the 2008 serial blasts case, Ayaz Saiyed. He is the first person to receive regular bail in last 12 years in the case Saiyed was arrested in 2008. He proposed to turn an approver, and his change in status was unsuccessfully challenged by co-accused. The legal battle went up to the high court. While granting conditional bail to him, Justice R P Dholaria observed, “The applicant is in jail since 2008. Further, it is reported that the matter has reached the stage of recording further statement of the accused and the statements of majority of the accused are already recorded. Since the status of the applicant is changed to approver and he has become the witness of the state, this court is inclined to use judicial discretion to enlarge the applicant on regular bail.” Before Saiyed, the only person in this case to have come out on temporary bail was Naved Kadri, who was released on medical grounds. On July 26, 2008, as many as 19 bombs rocked the city of Ahmedabad. Fifty-six persons lost their lives and 200 others sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accused-turned-approver-gets-bail/articleshow/76500500.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Charachira pond renovation project unscientific, allege residents||Thiruvananthapuram: A group of residents have raised concern over the mega renovation project at Charachira pond, which they claim is an unscientific construction. However, corporation officials claim that construction wouldn’t impact the environment. The city corporation has taken up a major renovation project worth Rs.3cr at Charachira pond. It includes beautification, construction of a walkway and space for fishing. A retaining wall has been constructed on three sides of the pond, while one side is covered with filth and water hyacinth. Footpaths have been constructed on the sides and drainage work is under progress. Last week, a group of residents from Nanthancode visited the area around the pond and recorded the status of the work. "The construction is unscientific. The natural spring that flowed into the pond has been blocked by the wall. Authorities are not transparent about the work. While one side of the pond has been encroached upon by people, the other side is blocked by a wall and a drain is going over the waterbody. Water gets clogged between the wall and drainage and waste is dumped in whatever little space is left," said Liza RS, a resident. A study conducted by a city-based school had reported the contamination of pond water and unscientific construction of retaining walls. "I have been staying at Nanthancode for more than 30 years. I am witness to the drastic deterioration of pond over the years. Earlier, elephants were brought to the pond for bathing and its used to be a dhobighat too. Now, more than one third of the three-acre pond has been encroached upon by people and the construction project is taking more area of the pond. We have decided to save the pond from destruction," alleged Evangeline Sugunan, another resident. Corporation has identified eight people who have encroached upon the pond and measures have been taken to clear encroachments. A resident had filed an RTI application regarding the development projects proposed at Charachira Pond. "I did not receive any reply to the RTI. During lockdown, I was unable to file an appeal, which was due in April. Recently, I filed an appeal and we will plan our future steps based on details of the projects," added Evangeline. However, according to Nathancode ward councillor Palayam Rajan, the construction has been planned in such a way that the natural flow of water is not affected. "After completion of the project, the space will also be suitable for walkers and joggers. Walkway on three sides of the pond has been completed and tiles and fencing work are pending. The waste and hyacinth will be cleared soon. Also, the sewage pipeline near the pond will be shifted to another area. The project is in tender stage. It’s been planned to cultivate grass carp fishes in the pond," said Rajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/charachira-pond-renovation-project-unscientific-allege-residents/articleshow/76498947.cms||Anasooya.S
June 22, 2020||Goa||Breeding policy for buffaloes and cattle revised||Panaji: The state government has revised the breeding policy for cattle and buffaloes in Goa. Considering the performance of existing cross-bred, exotic and indigenous animals in the state, the pattern for breeding of nondescript cattle, cross-bred cattle and nondescript buffaloes has been revised. The earlier policy had been framed based on the recommendations of central/National Dairy Development Board’s reports. “Goa has hot and humid coastal conditions, wherein milch animal breeding with 100% exotic blood-level should not be permitted. Maintaining 50% exotic and 50% indigenous blood-level has proved to be beneficial in terms of disease-resistance and adaptability to climatic conditions of the state,” the scheme reads. According to the revised scheme, the breeding of nondescript cattle would be done artificially with 100% Jersey, HF, Gir, Sahiwal and Red Sindhi germ-plasm. The present nondescript cattle population stands at 31,465. The F1 and F2 generation would be bred with 100% Jersey and HF germ-plasm of high pedigree bulls. It can also be bred with Gir, Sahiwal and Red Sindhi germ plasm accordingly. To fulfil the increasing demand of milk in the state, upgrading of the available cross-bred cattle population has been proposed. Meanwhile, the nondescript buffaloes will be bred with 100% Pandharpuri, Murrah germ-plasm of high pedigree while the existing Murrah buffaloes with only the Murrah germ-plasm. The indigenous/nondescript buffalo population stands at 25,630 in Goa. The directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services has two farms — a cattle breeding farm at Copardem in Satari and the government livestock farm and Dhat in Mollem were many of these breeds prevail. The scheme also proposes that the stockmen training centre at Curti Ponda and ICAR, Old Goa and the Goa State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union at Curti, Ponda carry out awareness on breeding activities and benefits which would be accrued. A core committee has been formed to look into the above issue. It will also look after the revising of the breeding policy. It was decided that breeding policy shall be uniform throughout the state inclusive of Goa state co-operative milk producers union and other institutes.The breeding policy will be effective for a period of three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/breeding-policy-for-buffaloes-and-cattle-revised/articleshow/76500491.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Business||Bajaj Auto makes ‘surprising’ recovery||Pune: Bajaj Auto on Thursday said the firm has regained 80% of its last June’s demand, with a majority of its factory workers resuming work at its three units across the country.  “About 70% of our factory workers and 50% of our office staff are back at work. There are some disruptions like Chennai going into a lockdown again. In terms of production, we are back at 80% of June 2019 levels, but we must also remember that FY2020 was not a great year for automakers. So, we are comparing against that benchmark,” Rakesh Sharma, executive director, Bajaj Auto, said. On the recovery front, Sharma said it had been “surprisingly quick” and movement was being seen across the supply chain, production and at labour level. The only opportunity that seems to be passing by is that of the demand, which the government can stimulate by putting more money in the hands of the people, he added. Sharma said transporters had worked exceptionally hard in getting back workers. Bajaj Auto has plants in Uttarakhand and Aurangabad (also its largest) and Chakan (Pune). As at end of March, Bajaj Auto has emerged the biggest company among listed two-wheeler makers in the country by clocking a revenue of Rs 29,918 crore and net profit of Rs 5,100 crore. The company, in FY2020, exported 45% of its total production giving it better realisations per unit sold. “Staying at the top is definitely a slippery slope and we are not overtly obsessed with the market metrics. We do monitor that as any other firm will. Our focus is that the independent strategy on each of our brands must work together,” Sharma told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-auto-makes-surprising-recovery/articleshow/76494106.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 22, 2020||Pune||Woman jumps to her death from hillock||Pune : A 35-year-old woman ended her life by jumping from the hillock at Dukkar Khind near Warje on Sunday morning. The Kothrud police are yet to ascertain an identity of the woman. Inspector of the Kothrud police Kiran Balwadkar told TOI that the incident occurred around 11am on Sunday. A passerby who was walking along the service road of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass noticed a woman standing at the edge of the hillock. “Before he could do anything, the woman jumped,” Balwadkar said. He said the woman fell along the service road and died on the spot. “The man immediately alerted the police control room,” Balwadkar said. Another officer from the Kothrud police said the woman’s photograph had been shared on different groups on social media platforms to ascertain her identity. He said that a few people, including a sub-inspector from the Warje Malwadi traffic branch, had noticed the woman walking towards Dukkar Khind from Chandni Chowk. “The woman was seen walking on the roads in Bavdhan area for the past three days,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-jumps-to-her-death-from-hillock/articleshow/76499805.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||PEC postpones convocation from October to December||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has postponed its convocation from October to December. The institute has decided that provisional degrees be issued to final-year students to avoid any difficulties in them joining their jobs, said Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, director, PEC. He said final-year students get a provisional degree from the college on a letter head in May ever year to enable them to join their jobs. The coronavirus pandemic has spurred the institute to deliver scanned copies of provisional degrees along with transcripts on e-mail to every student this time, he said. Though some of the local students prefer to come to the institute to get the degrees, out of station students prefer the online method. Sanghi said the convocation is generally held on the second Saturday of October but the institute is planning that if by December the situation improves, it will hold the convocation. Sanghi said, “Our fourth-year undergraduate students started receiving their provisional degrees and transcripts this week. Sad for no farewell, no celebrations, no award ceremony, and not sure of convocation. But we will organise an alumni get-together for your batch when it is safe to do so.” He further said, “I am sure going through this difficult period has made you stronger, and you will make all of us at PEC proud of you by your actions. I wish you a great career ahead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-postpones-convocation-from-october-to-december/articleshow/76500478.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 22, 2020||Vadodara||Dahod man held with country-made gun||VADODARA: A 22-year-old man from Dahod was arrested with a country-made gun and two cartridges in Akota on Saturday. The accused, Kaileskumar Vasaiya, was found suspiciously loitering outside Sir Sayajinagar Gruh on Saturday morning. When cops went and questioned him, he identified himself but could not give any satisfactory reply about his presence there. On frisking him, cops found a gun with two cartridges in its magazine holstered in his pants. Vasaiya said that he did not have any license for the weapon. He was arrested and an offence under Arms Act was registered against him at Gotri police station. Later during interrogation, he told cops that the gun was given to him by his uncle Satish Vasaiya, who also lives in Dahod. When cops nabbed him in Akota, Vasaiya was actually looking for a person to sell off the gun. Police said that Vasaiya’s uncle, too, has been booked and they are searching for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dahod-man-held-with-country-made-gun/articleshow/76498938.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Engineering intake: 5% quota for non-Gujarat students||AHMEDABAD: The state government has announced three major changes in the rules for admissions to engineering degree courses. The management quota for self-financed institutes has been increased. A quota of 5% has been carved out for non-Gujarat students in government colleges. Moreover, the admission of foreign students has been allowed on supernumerary seats. With the changed rules, the government has increased the management quota for private colleges from 25% to 50%. Hitherto, the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) granted admissions through a centralized system on 75% of the seats in private colleges. Now, only 50% admissions will take place through the ACPC, and the rest will be given by colleges by preparing their own merit lists. There are 140 engineering colleges — government, aided, and SFI — across the state, and they have a total of 65,000 seats. Last year, more than 33,000 seats remained vacant. The vacancy is likely to go up this year with board exams scores dipping. As for the 5% quota in government colleges for non-Gujarat students, till last year, such students had to compete with local students by taking the Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET). But now their admissions will take place after the preparation of their merit list through their performance in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). Principal education secretary Anju Sharma said that the provisions for these changes were made when the law for engineering admissions was amended in December 2019. The state government has also made provisions for admissions of students from other countries. They will be granted admissions on supernumerary seats in government and private colleges. The secretary said that the seats in engineering colleges have remained vacant for the past few years and students coming from other states and countries will help colleges fill seats. The state government had conducted roadshows in 10 countries to attract students for higher studies in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engg-intake-5-quota-for-non-gujarat-students/articleshow/76500501.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Python caught near Sukhna cafeteria||CHANDIGARH: Panic gripped morning walkers after one of them noticed a five-foot long python near the cafeteria area at Sukhna Lake on Sunday morning. After the Sukhna police post was informed about the snake, ASI Silak Ram, rushed to the spot. Silak Ram caught the python from its tail with his bare hands and released it in the forest area of the lake. A Python was caught by #ChandigarhPolice ASI Silak Ram from a cafeteria at Sukhna lake on Sunday morning https://t.co/oXaGovdc5a— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1592707873000The police said due to the forest area around the lake, python sneaked into the cafeteria area. After seeing the cop holding the snake, walkers were seen clapping for him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/python-caught-near-sukhna-cafeteria/articleshow/76500484.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||What to do if you have Covid-19 symptoms||HYDERABAD: Even as the state continues to see an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases, the isolation ward at government hospitals across the city are inching towards a manpower crisis. The officials at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) where 50 suspected Covid-19 patients are currently lodged in the isolation ward are left worried about shortage of staff after over 100 doctors and staffers having tested positive. The inflow of patients (suspected and confirmed), however, continues to be steep. Although the hospital has a total strength of 700 faculty, senior and junior doctors, around half of them have to remain in quarantine, as per government norms. “Most hospitals are impacted by the shortage of staff as a large number of them have tested positive and a chunk is also in quarantine. If more doctors test positive, we will have to rope in doctors from other districts too,” said a senior health official. The grim situation was also revealed in a letter written by a PG doctor from the general medicine department at OGH. The letter described how the doctors are feeling disappointed and demotivated after seeing the poor condition in which the isolation ward is functioning. “I feel ashamed of myself for the inhumane behaviour I am showing towards the patients. I am afraid I will become completely stone hearted by the end of the year. This pandemic has taught me more life lessons than any subject lessons. There is no value to a poor man’s life in the government’s opinion. Change will come only when public realise the importance of government health system,” read the letter, which has come as a reminder of how young doctors and medical students are heading towards a burnout. The shortcomings at state-run Gandhi hospital, which is a nodal Covid-19 treatment centre, were exposed when PG doctors went on a strike after the attendant of a patient assaulted a doctor. The doctors blamed the poor infrastructure and shortage of staff for the ire of patients. They had also alleged that security at the hospital weas dismal after lockdown relaxation. Although the hospital has over 1,100 faculty, senior and junior doctors put together, the actual strength of doctors at the Covid-19 ward is around 40 (general medicine and pulmonology departments), while there are nearly 350 patients lodged at the hospital. At the King Koti Hospital and Chest Hospital, the situation is no different and hospital authorities have been redirecting cases to other isolation centres, given their inability to deal with a large number of cases due to limitation of staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-hosps-grapple-with-dearth-of-staff-as-cases-surge/articleshow/76500483.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets first safe house, another to open today||KOLKATA: A ready-to-move-into high-rise at New Town, which was being used as government quarantine centre for the past three months, has started operating as full-fledged safe homes for mild or asymptomatic Covid patients from Sunday. In the evening, the NBCC Square had its first set of patients — a teenager, his mother and a middle-aged man — all residents of Behala. A second such centre, near Science City, will begin operations from Monday. While the 11-storey NBCC Square, owned by the Union government and involved in project management consultancy, can host a 100-odd patients in 16 3BHK flats, the six-storey Pratidin Bhawan near Science City is being prepared to house another 150-odd patients from Monday. The government on June 17 had announced opening 106 safe-home centres across the state. Till Sunday night, 166 people have gone into safe homes in different districts. Six more in Kolkata have been kept at a satellite facility — a 52-bed hotel — by Medica hospital. “At present, there is no great requirement of quarantine centres as patients’ families are mostly being quarantined at home. Those coming from other states are also being asked to stay at home and those coming from abroad are asked to stay in hotel quarantine. Hence, a decision was taken to convert these quarantine centres into safe homes since they already have a set infrastructure ready with trained paramedics and housekeeping staff,” said a health department official. The official said that while they are still promoting home isolation for mild and asymptomatic patients, the facilities will be exclusively for those patients whose homes are either too small for isolation or they have no one to look after them. TOI visited the NBCC Square building at Anandakeshari crossing in New Town on Sunday afternoon to find health department and NKDA officials conducting last-minute sanitization. “Rooms on the first two floors of the building have been kept for doctors, paramedics, cleaning staff, guards and civil defence personnel manning security of this facility. Sixteen rooms on the upper floors have been prepared for patients. Each room can house a maximum of seven patients, segregated properly. Separate rooms are also maintained for men and women. In due course, 300 more beds can be accommodated,” said an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. CMOH North 24 Parganas Tapan Saha, under whose supervision the conversion is underway, said arrangements for preliminary medical treatment will be available at the centre. But if a patient’s condition deteriorates, s/he will be removed to a hospital. Health department officials said, similar arrangements have been made at Pratidin Bhawan, where it is like a dormitory and can house a larger number of patients. “We are following all quarantine protocols and are ensuring proper food and medication,” said a health department official. (With inputs from Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gets-1st-safe-house-another-to-open-today/articleshow/76499812.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC resumes servicesfrom Pappanamcode depot||Thiruvananthapuram: As KSRTC resumed bus services from Pappanamcode depot, several measures are being adopted for safety of employees. The depot was closed for two days for disinfection last week after one of the drivers tested positive for Covid-19. Officials have started checking temperature of staff using two thermal scanners received recently from another depot. According to a KSRTC official, masks have been made available to staff but there is a shortage of gloves and sanitizers. The depot which operates special services to railway stations has started separating driver’s cabin in the buses. Steel structures have been used to create a barrier between the driver’s cabin and passenger seats. The structure for cabin will be fixed in around 200 buses. Conductor’s seat too has been marked as a single seat. “We have provided masks, sanitizers made in our workshop and gloves. There is a shortage of gloves and sanitizers and we are trying to arrange these with sponsorship. Safety of employees are our priority,” said Jacob Sam Lopez, assistant transport officer, city depot. In a meeting convened by ATO with trade union representatives the previous day, it was decided to disinfect the buses on a daily basis and the depot premises once in a week in association with the corporation. Earlier, KSRTC employees’ trade union had staged protests and refused to report to duty claiming that precautions were not in place. The ATO also handed over a list of primary and secondary contact of KSRTC employees to the health department requesting to conduct infection tests. The list consists of 17 drivers who stayed with the infected driver at depot staff room and a conductor who was on duty with him. Details of 308 employees have been included in secondary contacts list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-resumes-servicesfrom-pappanamcode-depot/articleshow/76498972.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Real estate sector caught in Covid quagmire||VIJAYAWADA: For the real estate sector in Vijayawada the pandemic could not have come at worse time. Problems in the sector began last year, when a crisis in sand supply sent all project deadlines haywire. This was followed by a fall in demand after the government decided to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam. But just when the market was recovering in March, that the coronavirus broke out. Desperate real estate promoters have begun offering special discounts to revive sales. “The real estate sector is facing a very tough time. Demand for both open plots and apartments has come down. The purchasing capacity of the public has come down after the Covid-19 lockdown. Many people have lost their jobs and we are feeling the pinch,” said K Rayappa, a real estate promoter from the city. Meanwhile, a few promoters have even reduced the cost of the plots and are offering special discounts up to 25 per cent and rental guarantees. Many buyers who booked open plots of land and flats by paying advances are now requesting the real estate firms to cancel their bookings and return the money. “We booked a flat in February. But we have suffered a lot of losses owing to the lockdown and I am now in no position to make full payment. So I have requested the real estate company to return my advance,” said Nutakki Bhaskar, who has a steel business. On the other hand the exodus of migrant labourers from the state has only compounded the problem further. Builders in the city are struggling to meet their deadlines. “We had promised our clients that we would deliver the flats by May 2020. But the lockdown hampered construction work. Around 60 per cent of the labourers left the city and we are unable to now complete the projects. Although the government has given relaxation to the real estate sector, buyers are pressurizing us to deliver the flats at the earliest,” said Jasti Ramesh, a city-based builder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/real-estate-sector-caught-in-covid-quagmire/articleshow/76499816.cms||Venu Lanka
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Colleges to start sans teaching in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Colleges across the state will start from Monday with teaching and non-teaching staff attending office, though there will not be any education activity. The colleges had remained closed since March 23 with the announcement of the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Education activities might soon begin online as the education department has currently prohibited any kind of education activity in classroom. Schools across the state started earlier this month. Online education activity in schools started from June 8. Meanwhile, schools have started admissions for Class VIII and XI. The schools have been asked to maintain social distancing norms during admission activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/colleges-to-start-sans-teaching/articleshow/76500502.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune man hangs self, wife follows suit minutes later||PUNE: A 22-year-old woman hanged herself minutes after her husband too hanged himself at their house at Vishram Society, Nanapeth, on Sunday morning. The police, surmising from initial information provided by the relatives of the couple — identified as Suraj and Kareena Soni — said domestic unrest was to blame for the tragic incident. The couple, who were childless, frequently quarrelled since they got married a year ago, police said. Police said Kareena and her brother saw Suraj hang himself using a dupatta. Her brother rushed to Pulgate to alert Suraj’s brother, when Kareena similarly hanged himself. Police are looking into what might have prompted the couple to take this extreme step. Suraj, originally from Nepal, worked as a security guard for a residential society, while his wife worked as a domestic help. Society residents said they had no inkling of the Sonis’ domestic situation. “We hardly knew the couple, as they had shifted here only a few months ago. Suraj always appeared happy and never worried,” a society member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-hangs-self-wife-follows-suit-minutes-later/articleshow/76499809.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Govt must follow LG’s order on testing, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday said it expects the Aam Aadmi Party government to “scrupulously” follow the directions issued by the lieutenant governor on June 8 in connection with testing of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan disposed of two petitions challenging the state government’s health department’s June 2 decision to exclude asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic patients from Covid-19 testing. The order was set aside by LG Anil Baijal’s subsequent order on June 8 allowing all patients to be tested for the novel coronavirus. Taking note of the development, the high court said it need not further monitor the matter. The two separate, but similar, petitions were filed by Dr K K Aggarwal, Padma Shri awardee and former President of Indian Medical Association, and one Renu Goswami. Aggarwal, who is also the president of NGO ‘Heart Care Foundation of India’, claimed that multiple orders from Delhi government and the LG were leading to confusion among doctors as well as general public. He said there should be one common order to avoid confusion. He submitted that since Covid-19 was a notifiable disease, it was mandatory for all citizens to get themselves tested for the virus, irrespective of the patient being symptomatic or asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic. In the other petition, Goswami had claimed that the state government excluded asymptomatic direct contacts of confirmed cases from Covid-19 testing (except high-risk cases), which was in contravention of the ICMR testing guidelines issued on May 18 mandating testing of asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case. Goswami’s plea argued that the AAP government had also issued showcause notices to authorised private laboratories for testing asymptomatic cases by alleging that they purportedly acted in violation of the ICMR testing guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-must-follow-lgs-order-on-testing-says-hc/articleshow/76518929.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Osmania General Hospital declares in-patient ‘dead’, triggers confusion||HYDERABAD: A clerical error triggered confusion on Sunday after Osmania General Hospital (OGH) staff wrongly declared a 55-year-old woman dead in the early hours. The family was flooded with calls from hospital and police, informing them about the sad news. The family, however, protested about the death as they were with the recuperating patient at OGH. Hyderabad police had to clarify that a clerical mistake by OGH authorities led to the confusion. In a statement to the media, the woman’s daughter raised objections and questioned how a patient undergoing treatment could be declared “dead” both by the OGH authorities and police. “Our family members kept getting phone calls since 6am informing that my mother died at 1.30am. First, we got a call from policemen at OGH and later from Afzalgunj and Rein Bazar police stations. Even in mortuary records too, my mother’s name figured. How can a surviving person be declared dead?’’ she questioned. On Friday, the 55-year-old woman from Reiz Bazar got admitted to OGH as a Covid-19 suspect. “After conducting tests, senior doctors of the hospital told us that my mother tested negative for coronavirus, but she is suffering from an infection and breathing problems,’’ the woman claimed. When contacted, Hyderabad police clarified to TOI that by mistake the hospital authorities, who prepare a list of Covid-19 victims, entered the 55-year-old patient’s name by mistake. Another woman, also from same police station limits and undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at OGH, had succumbed. “Since both are from Rein Bazar police station limits, the hospital staff concerned by mistake entered the wrong name. When the policemen learnt that the 55-year-old woman is still alive and undergoing treatment, they alerted the hospital staff who corrected the mistake,’’ a senior Hyderabad police officer told TOI. Meanwhile, Panjagutta police registered a criminal case against the 55-year-old woman patient’s family members based on a complaint lodged by a private hospital in Banjara Hills for allegedly creating nuisance on Friday after the staff refused to take her due to lack of beds for Covid-19 suspects. In the last one month, there were a few cases of similar goof-ups in state-run hospitals. A man from Mangalhat who went to Gandhi Hospital for a medical check-up as a Covid-19 suspect went missing and his body was later found mysteriously in mortuary after nearly three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-declares-in-patient-dead-triggers-confusion/articleshow/76500498.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||One more Covid-19 case in Ahmedabad's Bopal||AHMEDABAD: One more Covid-19 case was reported from Gala Aura in South Bopal. The Ahmedabad district barring Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation area reported 13 new cases and one death in the past 24 hours. With this, the total cases touched 702 on Sunday. Like the AMC, the district officials too have stopped giving details of new cases and deaths. Of the 13 new cases, six were from Sanand, three from Dholka, two from Daskroi, and one each from Bavla and Detroj. With one more death, 47 persons have lost their lives because of the pandemic in Ahmedabad rural areas. Of the 702 cases in the district excluding the city, 206 were from Dholka taluka, 162 from Daskroi, 135 from Sanand, 63 from Viramgam, 74 from Bavla, 25 from Dhandhuka, 14 each from Detroj and Mandal and nine from Dholera taluka. In the district, 1,572 people are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-more-covid-case-in-bopal/articleshow/76500506.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||When moon stole sun’s shine, Ludh was ready with cameras||Ludhiana: Ludhiana witnessed annular solar eclipse at 11.59am on Sunday. The eclipse began at 10.20 am on Sunday and ended at 1.44pm — after a duration of three hours and 24 minutes. Scientists at remote sensing department said, “The partial eclipse begins when the moon touches the sun’s edge exactly at 11.59.43 on Sunday. With this, the maximum eclipse moon is closest to the centre of the sun and at 1.44 pm, the partial eclipse ended when the moon left the sun’s edge.” They further added, “The annular phase of this solar eclipse was not visible in Ludhiana, but it could be observed there as a partial solar eclipse. The moon covered a large portion of the sun, so this was a spectacular sight.” Although solar eclipse in general is hounded by many myths and misconceptions, they are also equally popular among those interested in astronomy. Sunday’s event created quite a stir among these enthusiasts, who wanted to capture the different stages of the eclipse. An eclipse enthusiast, Dinesh said “Looking directly at the sun is unsafe except during the brief total phase of a solar eclipse, when the moon entirely blocks the sun's bright face. This will happen only within the narrow path of totality. Today’s eclipse looked like a ring of fire.” He said this was a momentous occasion as such an eclipse can be witnessed next only in 2039. Meanwhile, a scientist, Shashikant Sahoo said Punjab Remote Sensing Centre could not capture the images due to the unavailability of telescope. While a Class X student of Sacred Heart Convent School Sarabha Nagar, Ekjot Kaur, captured the Solar eclipse. She said “I have been into astronomy for the last four years and I am really passionate about pursuing a career in it. Today, I captured an annular solar eclipse from my terrace. This solar eclipse is really special, as it is the last solar eclipse of the year and also no more solar eclipses like these would be visible in India for next two years. I have been doing photography for a long time and have really improved my skills. I clicked the photos with the help of a simple refractor telescope and Canon 1300d.” Sandeep Sahijpal, a physics professor, said, “The eclipse was seen in projection mode of the telescope, whereby, the image is projected on the screen. The seeing condition was in general good throughout the observations except for the scattered clouds. The images represent the partial blocking of the sun by moon.” According to him, the eclipse did not bring any good or bad influence on any individual and there is no correlation between the eclipse and coronavirus. “This is a celestial event that happens quite often. The moon simply passes between earth and the sun. The moon casts shadow on earth just like the clouds cast shadow,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/when-moon-stole-suns-shine-ludh-was-ready-with-cameras/articleshow/76500490.cms||Mehak Jain
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lawyers allowed to take up other jobs in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) on Sunday decided to temporarily lift its biggest bar on practising lawyers by allowing them to undertake any job, business or profession till the yearend even as courts remained closed for three months and majority of advocates are deprived of legal practice in this Covid-19 pandemic. Section 35 of the Advocates Act prohibits any practicing lawyer from holding the licence to practice, if he/she engages himself in any other profession, job or business other than legal practice. Citing the financial difficulties for more than its 75,000 members across the state, the elected representatives of the Bar Council unanimously decided in a meeting on Sunday that as the lawyers are deprived of their legal practice, any advocate enrolled with BCG may take up any job, business or profession till December 31, 2020 for financial gain. The bar has insisted that the lawyers should involve themselves in professions that maintain dignity of an advocate, BCG said in a statement. The Bar Council made it clear that many lawyers face financial problems and are unable to carry out their familial responsibilities due to the present Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, the restrictions of the Advocates Act would not apply to those in need for the remainder of the year. The BCG has also decided to immediately send this resolution to the Bar Council of India for its approval. The Bar Council leaders have also resolved to act strict against those lawyers who abuse the BCG and its elected representatives and chairman on social media. It said that notices would be issued to such lawyers for further action for deviation from professional ethics. After the nationwide lockdown was announced and the lower courts were closed in March, the BCG announced Rs 5,000 aid to needy lawyers. It selected 8,500 lawyers for financial assistance and allocated Rs 4.5 crore fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyers-allowed-to-take-up-other-jobs/articleshow/76500510.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Inmates virtually attend family events||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Kalumiya Shaikh will be attending his grandson’s wedding and blessing him, but while sitting inside jail only. The Gujarat high court has refused to release him temporarily to physically attend the wedding, but instead permitted him to watch it through video conferencing. Shaikh has been serving life-term since 2016 in a murder case in Kheda district. He last week requested the HC to free him temporarily to attend the function, but the court on Friday refused because he was out to help his family in May. However, the court did not want him to miss the function, but it was rather more concerned about the health of people inside and outside the prison. The court felt that there was no time for him to undergo Covid-19 test as the marriage was scheduled on Monday. It directed the jail authorities to allow him to meet his family members on the occasion through video conferencing. If it is an occasion of happiness in the case of Shaikh, the high court has ordered similar arrangements for another murder convict Santoshkumar Tiwari, who wanted to join his mourning family members and perform post death rituals for his father-in-law. Serving life sentence since 2015, Tiwari wanted to go to Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh to participate in the rituals. The court felt that it was not possible in this time of Covid-19 pandemic and permitted him to virtually be with his family member during the time of mourning. The jail authorities have been directed to arrange for 30-minute virtual meeting for Tiwari with his relatives in Uttar Pradesh. For Shaikh, the court had a doubt over the reasons that the inmate had put forth. The court has asked the Kheda police to first verify whether a wedding has really been arranged in Shaikh’s family. The court has also said that if Shaikh’s claims are proved wrong, the jail authorities should make adverse endorsement in his jail record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inmates-virtually-attend-family-events/articleshow/76500511.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Fine those violating mask and distancing rules, demand locals||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a flagrant violation of social distancing norms, around 175 guests recently gathered at an upmarket high-rise building in Seethammadhara to attend a family function. Soon, two guests tested positive for Covid-19, others were quarantined and the building kept under containment. Flouting safety rules has become a common sight in the city, with masks — the first line of defence against the virus — often not worn or worn incorrectly by many residents. Coupled with the rapid rise in caseload in the district, some sections have called for stringent rules and penalties for those found violating social distancing norms and hygiene. Some have even demanded that restrictions be reimposed under a partial lockdown, besides making masks mandatory. Speaking to TOI, principal scientist and scientist in-charge at Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Visakhapatnam, R Raghu Prakash said, “In India, only the fear of a fine can make people wear masks in public places. It must be imposed in Vizag too, where cases are spiralling out of control though till mid-May, the situation was well under control. Rules are so relaxed here including tracking of travelers and callous monitoring of containment zones. Shops can be kept open in the morning hours only and partial restrictions should be imposed.” Businessman Althaf Babjan, a resident of Kirlampudi Layout said there is no monitoring of the containment zone in his area except for blocking the exit on the Beach Road side. “Despite a couple of cases behind Visakha Museum, the road leading from Chinna Waltair to our colony is not guarded and any vehicle can enter.” On average, Vizag has reported 18-20 cases per day over a fortnight and containment zones are being added every day (there are currently 121 clusters). However, health authorities say imposing stringent rules may not be possible. Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) said, “Despite being aware about the guidelines, when influential and educated people are violating safety norms, we health officials cannot do much. Police should be more vigilant. Also, Vizag is a revenue generation hub and restrictions on movement or partial lockdown cannot be reimposed unless the government gives the green signal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fine-those-violating-mask-and-distancing-rules-demand-locals/articleshow/76499832.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 22, 2020||Goa||A tale of two contrasting monsoon onsets||Panaji: Goa witnessed the onset of monsoon on June 11, this year. However, the state was starved on the season’s arrival for two weeks last year, until it finally arrived on June 20. Unlike the previous year, the state has recorded the average rainfall of 100mm within the first few days, this season. According to the India meteorological department (IMD), the first day with average rain above 1mm in 2019 was on June 6. Till June 20, the highest average rainfall in the previous year was 56.8mm which was recorded on June 13. In comparison, 2020 recorded average rainfall of 100mm on June 3, itself. The highest up to June 20 is 137mm on June 17. “This means, during the 24 hours from June 16 to 17, the average rain over the state itself was in the category of very heavy rainfall,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. In 2019, Goa’s coast experienced winds and rains due to severe cyclone Vayu which formed in Arabian Sea on June 10 and lasted till June 17, though it affected only the coastline. In 2020, it was the severe cyclonic storm, Nisarga which had an impact in the first week of June. “Vayu moved northwards and brought rain over Goa on June 12, 13 and 14, just as cyclone Nisarga did this year on dates June 2, 3 and 4. In both cases, monsoon had not set over Goa and rains were due to the effect of cyclones. Finally, on June 20 monsoon conditions were set over Goa in 2019, and this year it was on June 11,” Rahul said. These systems over the Arabian Sea in 2019 and 2020 during this month had a vital role to play in the cumulative state average rainfall which is calculated from June 1, onwards. After its onset on June 20, 2019, the cumulative rainfall was 25cm which was 55% less than normal. On June 20, 2020, the cumulative rainfall for Goa stands at 91cm which is 65% higher than normal. The rainfall was therefore deficient in the month of June 2019 as compared to June 2020. “This year, till now Goa received approximately 3.5 times higher cumulative rainfall compared to same date last year. But we must remember that even with such shortage of rains in the month of June, south west monsoon season 2019 ended with a whopping 33% higher than normal rainfall for Goa,” Rahul said. The monsoon has advanced or progressed much more faster in 2020 as compared to 2019 and has also reached most parts of the country except northern and northwest parts of the Indian subcontinent. M R Ramesh Kumar, former chief scientist in the physical oceanography division, of the Goa-based National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) said that out of the 36 meteorological subdivisions in the country (as on June 18, 2020), ten subdivisions have large excess rainfall, 13 subdivisions have excess rainfall, seven subdivisions have normal rainfall, and only six subdivisions have deficient rainfall. “This in general abodes good a normal to excess rainfall for Goa and the country as a whole for monsoon season of 2020,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-tale-of-two-contrasting-monsoon-onsets/articleshow/76500517.cms||Nida Sayed
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||100 more cases by month-end, predict experts||Chandigarh: A trend of the city reporting 115 Covid-19 cases from May 1 to 20 and almost the same number from June 1 to 20 has spurred health experts to predict another 100 more cases by the month-end. Thirty-three cases were reported in March, 58 in April, 206 in May and 107 from June 1 till 20, according to data from the UT health department. There was a 43% spike in the number of cases from March to April and 72% from April to May. On Saturday, the city got 24 new cases — the highest single-day surge in June. “We expect more numbers and there can be another 100 by the end of this month. The recovery is more than 80%,” said an epidemiologist in PGI. The average growth rate of new infections from June 14 till 21 is 2%. The recovery rate, on the other hand, has declined from 83% to 78% owing to the rise in the number of active cases. However, tests per million which picked up by the end of May are almost constant. “Testing, tracking and isolating the infected people is the only way. If this is followed consistently, the numbers can be contained,” said an epidemiologist in PGI. Besides domestic travellers, with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza like illness, are also reported to be suffering from Covid-19. These patients had no contact or travel history. THE COUNT April Total | 74 Active | 56 May Total | 294 Active | 91 June* Total | 404 Active | 82 (From June 1 till 20)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-more-cases-by-month-end-predict-experts/articleshow/76500499.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 22, 2020||India||Nepal eyes citizenship law tweak; ‘roti-beti’ ties with India at stake||KATHMANDU: A key parliamentary panel in Nepal has proposed to amend the country’s Citizenship Act that would require a foreign woman married to a Nepali national to wait seven years for naturalised citizenship. Nepal’s main opposition parties decried the move, saying it would inconvenience people living in Madhes as cross-border marriage is prevalent there. Both Nepali Congress (NC) and Janata Samajbadi Party (SJP) have said that such a provision could also affect the ‘bread and bride relations’ that Nepal has had with India for ages. The Madheshi are residents of Terai region in the south of Nepal at the foothill of the Himalayas on the border with India in Bihar. The bill to amend the existing Citizenship Act was registered at the Parliament on Sunday. It includes seven rights that a foreign woman married to a Nepali national can exercise till she acquires citizenship certificates. Lack of a citizenship certificate will not bar them from running any businesses and earn, use and sell any fixed and movable assets, make profits through businesses and get involved in transaction of property of any kind. The move to amend the citizenship act comes days after the Nepal government completed the process of redrawing the country’s political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas, a move that could severely jolt relations with New Delhi. Watch Nepal parliament proposes citizenship law amendment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-eyes-citizenship-law-tweak-roti-beti-ties-with-india-at-stake/articleshow/76501044.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Nearly one lakh people celebrate Yoga Day from home||Nagpur: Observing International Yoga Day amid the Covid-19 pandemic seemed like a Herculean task but Janardhan Swami Yogabhyasi Mandal (JSYM) made it possible to unite people for performing yogasana together by livestreaming yoga sequences on their website, Facebook, YouTube and UCN. Around one lakh people performed yoga on Sunday morning from their homes. JSYM organized the programme with support of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and South Central Zone Cultural Centre (SCZCC). Union minister Nitin Gadkari, mayor Sandip Joshi, Govindgiri Maharaj, Jitendra Maharaj, Shriram Joshi and SCZCC director Deepak Khirwadkar joined the telecast to highlight the importance of celebrating the day. They acknowledged JSYM’s efforts to make this a remarkable day for people who actively practice yoga and urged others to adopt this healthy lifestyle for their mental and physical well-being. In his opening remarks, JSYM secretary Ram Khandwe said, “In 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed the idea of celebrating International Yoga Day on June 21 during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly, in order to promote the importance of yoga globally. As we are facing the challenge of Covid-19, JSYM workers suggested that we should perform yoga from our homes while being connected digitally.” Rahul Kanetkar showed various postures, breathing techniques and meditation during the live telecast while Dinesh Bapat’s videos were shown to teach a few asanas. Speaking on the occasion, Gadkari said, “Janardhan Swami devoted his entire life to disseminate the importance of yoga and it was his mission to promote it among maximum people so that all we lead a healthy life. We are working for JSYM inspired by Swami and we were disheartened about not being able to mark this day with the usual programme organized at Yeshwant Stadium that witnesses participation of around 40,000 people. But, using technology this programme has reached lakhs of people.” Gadkari added that the dream of instituting a university dedicated towards the study of yoga will become a reality soon. He spoke about the lucrative opportunities lined up ahead of yoga instructors globally. In his speech, Joshi said, “Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, we have not been able to celebrate this day with the community. Thus, the significance of this day has increased manifold. All of us should observe this day from our homes with the vision of making our city, and eventually our country, hale and hearty.” Varsha Kaushik was the anchor of the programme. (Reporting by Manshika Vaikkath)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nearly-one-lakh-people-celebrate-yoga-day-from-home/articleshow/76500570.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||High Noon: Celestial treat dazzles Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Superstitions and a day curfew in Panchkula aside, many eyes turned to the skies to catch the celestial treat of moon passing between the earth and the sun. Tricity residents adopted different ways to catch the annular solar eclipse. Some took to their cameras, a few wore sunglasses and many downloaded mobile applications. “We were trying to find X-ray film or sheet as I remembered using this method to watch the solar eclipse the last time. As we could not find one, we made use of old sunglasses. Of course, it was not very clear, but we caught a glimpse. We tried clicking pictures through our mobiles too, but finally, we saw the wonder clearly on television,” said Azad Singh, a resident of Sector 15. Many succeeded in capturing the eclipse on their high-tech cameras. “Children were eager to watch the solar eclipse as it was their first time. But we did not allow them to go outside and clicked pictured for them,” said Amit Roshan, a resident of Zirakpur. Advice of astrologers to stay indoors and restrict intake of food were paid heed to. “Usually, we eat late on Sundays. But as it was being suggested one should not eat during an eclipse, we finished our meal before it started and had lunch only after 2.30pm. Our parents also used to do the same when they were kids,” said Simran Dhaliwal, a resident of Sector 34. Temples were shut. Ram Singh, a priest at a temple in Baltana, Zirakpur, said, “We kept the doors of the temples closed. During a solar eclipse, it is preferred not to touch or worship the idols. When the eclipse got over, we washed and purified the premises with gangajal.” CURFEW IN PKL, NO FOOD Prof Sandeep Sahijpal of physics department, Panjab University said the umbra phase of the eclipse started around 10.30am and reached its peak around 12 noon Sahijpal said the eclipse does not bring any good or bad influence on any individual and there is no correlation between it and coronavirusThe authorities imposed a curfew in Panchkula on Sunday till 6 pm owing to the solar eclipse Temples were closed during the solar eclipse in the Tricity A few residents did not have food during the time of the solar eclipse||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-noon-celestial-treat-dazzles-tricity/articleshow/76500509.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Postpone IIIT-Hyderabad test, say students citing Covid-19 numbers||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of students, who are set to appear for the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad’s (IIIT-H) entrance exam for undergraduate and postgraduate courses on June 24, have demanded its postponement over increase in Covid-19 cases and lockdown across states. The institute is set to conduct an online entrance test at 74 centres across the country. Citing a spike in Covid-19 cases, lockdown regulations and travel issues, many candidates took to social media seeking postponement of the examination. In a Twitter storm using #postponeugee, many candidates from various states raised concerns over conduct of the online examination. “The examination centre is 200 kms away from my hometown and falls in the red zone where no gathering is allowed till June 30. How does the institute expect me to appear for the exam amidst all this?” said a candidate from Uttar Pradesh. Although the admit card issued by the IIIT-Hyderabad can be used as an e-pass in many states, students are unwilling to appear for the examination. “@iiit_hyderabad if you are so stubborn and providing e-passes for travelling, also provide the financial allowance for those kids who are coming by private cabs and other transport. And also give full surety that no student will get corona (sic),” tweeted Sanket Gedam. Many have asked the institute to reconsider its decision and conduct the entrance exam at a later date when the situation is conducive across the country. “@KTRTRS sir pl respond on this issue as it is concerned with intermediate students who have just passed out and appearing for competitive exams. But is it safe for conducting exam by @iiit_hyderabad when Hyderabad is in red zone? Pl take action (sic),” tweeted Kranthi. The IIIT-H officials could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postpone-iiit-h-test-say-students-citing-covid-19-nos/articleshow/76500519.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Solar eclipse keeps people in voluntarily this Sunday||Ludhiana: This Sunday lockdown, the police had it easy, at least as long as the solar eclipse lasted. People preferred to stay at home voluntarily, as is tradition, for the solar eclipse. Even as there was no restriction on movement of people between 5am and 9pm, most markets in the city didn’t have many people moving around, especially between 10am and 3pm. Even otherwise busy markets in Karimpura Bazar, Kesar Ganj, Field Ganj, Subhani Building, Chaura Bazar, Gur Mandi in Old city and Jawahar Camp area, Model town, Dugri, Civil Lines, Sarabha Nagar, Haibowal didn’t witness much activity. The every busy Ferozepur road, Mall road, Model Town roads, Sarabha Nagar Road, Hambran road, Pakhowal road and Dhandran road also didn’t see many vehicles during the day time. Even in the evening the shops selling essential commodities didn’t have many buyers. Many residents said the since it was a solar eclipse, they preferred to stay indoors and also didn’t allow their children to go out. “I told my children not to go out as sun rays during solar eclipse can be harmful to skin and even to eyes and they obliged. Also, since the number of cases are rising daily, I feel it is better to stay indoors. We are getting the grocery, vegetable, milk and fruits online and go out only if very necessary,” said Harpreet Kaur, a homemaker of Pakhowal road. Police officials said the response to the lockdown was good even as there were no curb on movement of people. “People imposed lockdown on themselves and also solar eclipse did play a part in ensuring that not many people were on the roads. It is very important to remain at home and go out only if it is very urgent,” said a police officer. Health department officials said the social distancing and wearing of masks are key to fight against Covid-19. “My advice to people is to stay indoors and go out if it is very necessary. We also request people to avoid gathering and maintain social distancing. Also wearing of masks and maintaining hand and respiratory hygiene is necessary in fight against Covid,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/solar-eclipse-keeps-people-in-voluntarily-this-sunday/articleshow/76500507.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||12 held for gambling, 3.45L seized||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police have busted a gambling racket with the arrest of 12 persons in Jawahar Nagar on Saturday evening. The police have also recovered Rs 3.45 lakh in cash from their possession. The arrested have been identified as Rajan of Prem Nagar, Pardeep Kumar of Nali Mohalla, Raman Kumar of New Aman Nagar, Sagar of Railway Colony, Sahil Bhatia of Joshi Nagar, Roop Lal of Jawahar Nagar, Sanjiv Kumar, Lakhan of Chhawni Mohalla, Raman Kumar of Ghumar Mandi, Chand Kumar of Salem Tabri, Joginder Kumar of Ghumar Mandi and Satvir Singh of Bharat Nagar. Investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector Malkit Singh, said the police conducted a raid in a house in Jawahar Nagar, on a tip-off. The police were tipped that Jawahar Nagar resident Roop Lal was organising a a gambling party for his friends. A case under sections 13, 3, 67 of the Gambling Act and sections 188 and 269 of IPC has been registered against the accused at police station Division number 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-held-for-gambling-3-45l-seized/articleshow/76500512.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Low prices disrupt mango jelly trade in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: In Bheemali and Alamanda villages, situated in L Kota mandal in Vizianagaram district and famous for mango jelly, makers of the traditional sweet hope that this season may yet see a change in their fortunes. Hit by the lockdown and low prices, villagers in Bheemali, Alamanda, L Kota and Bhimasingi engaged in making mango jelly are struggling to make ends meet. Bheemali mango jelly, in particular, is known for its aroma and prepared without artificial additives. Demand for the sweet continues to be high, however, sweet makers have not got a remunerative price so far this year. Every summer, over 1,000 families in the region prepare mango jelly between April and the first week of June. That number has dropped to 500 this year after lockdown restrictions led to difficulties in procuring mangoes from Krishna and other districts, said 70-year-old M Simhadri Naidu, who has been making the sweet for over five decades in Bheemali. “We bought Collector, Kolam Gova and Thotapuri varieties of mangoes from parts of Krishna district as well as other districts for making the mango jelly. The makers will paste the mango pulp mixed with sugar on mats till the jelly reaches a thickness of three inches. The jelly should be dried for at least four weeks. Due to the lockdown and restrictions on the transport of fruit, we failed to procure the mangoes and managed to produce the jelly with available mangoes in Vizianagaram district,” said Ramunaidu G, a jelly maker at Bheemali. On average, jelly makers in Bheemali village alone produce 5,500 quintals of the sweet in a year. But this year, production has declined to around 1,800 quintals, Ramunaidu added. “We used to dispatch some quantity of jelly to parts of Telangana, Odisha and also Bengaluru while 70 per cent would be dispatched to Vizag, Vijayawada and other areas in the state. However, this year we are not able to export because of low production,” he said. Low prices have added to woes, jelly makers said, with traders offering only Rs 100 for one kilogram. “This year, we had expected to get at least Rs 125 per kg,” they said. “We have been making mango jelly for decades as a tradition. It is difficult for us to continue this seasonal business as the prices of mango, sugar and labour charges have increased by several times. But traders are offering low prices. In other words, we are in a quandary. Though there is good demand for our mango jelly, wholesale traders are not coming forward to offer a good price to the jelly makers, forcing us to sell at lower price. Some jelly makers have preserved their produce in cold storage units, expecting a good price later,” Simhadri Naidu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-prices-disrupt-mango-jelly-trade-in-vzm/articleshow/76499861.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada records seven positive cases, Udupi zero||Mangaluru/Udupi: Two primary contacts of the patient designated P-6618, who are in quarantine, three returnees from Kuwait and a case each of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) comprised the tally of seven Covid-19 cases recorded in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. Udupi on the other hand recorded zero cases, keeping its tally of overall positive cases at 1,063. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said a 70-year-old in Puttur was diagnosed with ILI. Three passengers aged 26, 32 and 59, respectively, who returned from Kuwait on June 17, and were lodged in a quarantine facility, tested positive. The primary contacts of P-6618 are a 38-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman, respectively. A 56-year-old man from Belthangady was diagnosed with SARI, said the deputy commissioner. District health authorities discharged 17 patients from Wenlock Hospital on Sunday, taking the total number of those discharged in the district to 238, and bringing down the active cases to 187. Overall positive cases recorded in the district as on date is 423. Health authorities screened 259 domestic and international travellers during the day. The district, as on date, has recorded 8 fatalities due to this global pandemic. In a related development, department of health and family welfare approved 36 private hospitals in the two coastal districts as Covid-19 private hospitals, including 25 in Dakshina Kannada. Sindhu said health authorities could refer patients to these hospitals only when facilities at the designated Covid-19 hospital were under strain, with a clear undertaking from the patient that he will meet the treatment cost specified by the receiving hospital. Private hospitals on referral by the competent authority will have to follow the treatment protocol issued by the state government periodically. The hospital will be paid as per the appropriate package rate for Covid-19 management. Further, additional package will also be applicable for patients with co-morbidities, stated an order issued by Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, department of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-records-seven-positive-cases-udupi-zero/articleshow/76498950.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Lest we forget our war martyrs ever||The loss of scores of lives of youthful Indian Army soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley scuffle with Chinese is very painful. The families will never be able to reconcile to the loss, irrespective of posts, martyrdom, and rewards we may bestow on them. Although the nation mourns with them, the sacrifices of such martyrs and their families need more from us. Put martyrs details on govt websites Our children will never know the names of martyrs as long as we don’t create a permanent database of such sacrifices with timelines on official websites. Let the deputy commissioner’s portal of each district have a link from where all martyrs details of that district — their villages/place of birth and their unit and regiment details and decoration details — be given. War is not something that should be encouraged as it robs youthful lives from us, but remember we must our heroes always. These details will also help the donors/NGOs to reach out to the families. Institute scholarships in martyrs’ names The other best way to remember our martyrs is to institute scholarships in their names, to be given in their respective home district to those students who excel in NCC activities and other such pursuits of bravery. This will also encourage youth to join forces. NCC training will be incentivised too. Free education to children of martyrs Governments, both at the Centre and states, must pass a legislation to give free education, including free books and examination fees, to children and the immediate family of martyrs. There should be no limiting factor to the education and the government should support till the completion of career. There should be a priority quota for admission of wards of martyrs. Free medical facilities to parents of martyrs It has been often seen that monetary compensation given to the youthful martyrs’ spouses, who have no children or were recently married. They often leave the family of martyr to remarry. Thus, the aged parents of martyrs remain neglected and frustrated. No one is there to care for them thereafter. There should be a provision of regular free medical aid/hospital treatment for such aged parents of martyrs. Most of the youthful martyrs are from poor families. Their parents must get a regular governmental pension to support them. Honouring of families at public functions Although it is customary to honour martyrs’ families on Independence Day and Republic Day, giving them souvenirs, this is too little. It is more befitting to honour them exclusively at a larger public gathering. Wars are not likely to end any time soon. The least we can do is remain grateful to our heroes and their families always. Let us formulate a clear and concrete mechanism to help such families so that they can be in contact with the administration in case of need. A grateful nation is recognised in the way it remembers its martyrs. (The writer is a social activist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lest-we-forget-our-war-martyrs-ever/articleshow/76500522.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Rly to seal unmanned crossings||Ludhiana: After hearing the reports about people crossing railway tracks from unmanned crossing that falls under Giaspura railway limits, the authorities have decided to seal all unmanned crossings. The action is being taken after a video showing passersby putting their lives at risk by crossing the railway tracks from unmanned crossing went viral on social media. The higher authorities have directed the local officials to expedite construction of boundary wall alongside all major railway crossings so that such incidents are not repeated. The railway will also soon commence the work of replacing the rest of 15 mechanical barriers with electric ones at various levels crossing to ensure the safety of road commuters. There are 20 barriers at various railway crossings in the district, among them five have been replaced with electric ones. Station director Tarun Kumar said “The railway has given directions to the engineering department to prepare a proposal to construct boundary walls or seal all unmanned entries in a sufficient way so that no passerby can cross the tracks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rly-to-seal-unmanned-crossings/articleshow/76500515.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh likely to get four new officers||CHANDIGARH: Major bureaucratic changes are expected in the next two months, with four senior IAS and IPS officers completing their three-year deputation period in the city. A K Sinha, finance secretary, and Harish Nayyar, special secretary, finance, are two of them. Both are from Punjab cadre. The other two are SSP (law and order) Nilambari Jagdale and SSP (traffic and security) Shashank Anand. Jagdale is an IPS officer from Punjab, while Anand is from Haryana. “We have received a panel of three IPS officers from Punjab for the post of SSP (law and order). One of them will be selected following the procedure in which besides the UT, the ministry of home affairs will play a vital role,” said a senior UT officer. The panel comprises Kuldeep Chahal, who is currently Mohali SSP, Vivek Sheel Soni, SSP (rural), Ludhiana, and Ketan Pati, AIG Amritsar. “All of them have good experience, but since multiple aspects are involved in the selection, it is too early to comment on any single name,” sources said. The UT has not received any name from the Haryana government for the post of SSP (traffic and security) despite seeking a panel. “The panel of the officers for the posts of finance secretary and special secretary, finance, is yet to be sought from the Punjab government. We will start the process soon,” the UT officer said. Sources in the UT said the administration is not keen on relieving Sinha in August when his three-year deputation ends, eyeing his services for a longer duration. “He is an upright officer with tremendous professional skills. We will try to take his services for some more time,” sources said. Box: Hectic lobbying has started for the post of SSP (law and order). Different political parties, RSS and other pressure groups are eager for a man of their choice to be chosen for the post in Chandigarh. Though the UT administration will recommend the name, the final call will be with the ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-likely-to-get-4-new-officers/articleshow/76500516.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal receives 30% rain quota before monsoon hits||Bhopal: Even before the arrival of monsoon in the state capital, the city has received over 30% of its rainfall quota till Sunday. On June 18 and June 19, Bhopal received 91mm and 126mm of rainfall respectively. So far, Bhopal has received 327mm rain which is 270mm more than normal for June. The city receives an average rainfall of 1090mm annually. Light showers greeted Bhopalis on Sunday evening after a hot and humid day. The upcoming week is expected to wet, said the weather office. The maximum temperature recorded in Bhopal was 33.4 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 25 degrees Celsius. Weather office said that except Gwalior and Bhind districts, the whole state received good rainfall till Sunday. Many of the districts are rain surplus. Gwalior was the hottest place in the state again with a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius recorded on Sunday. Weather office said , high speed winds, thunder and lightning at some places is expected in Gwalior and Chambal divisions.” On Sunday, the city office of the India Meteorological department was expecting further advancement of the monsoon . “ There was no change in the northern limit of monsoon and it is still stretched over Indore Raisen and Khajuraho among other districts of the country,” an official said on Sunday. Weather office issued warning for heavy rainfall in the districts of Rewa an Shahdol divisions and also in the districts of Chindwara, Seoni, Balaghat, Betul Hoshangabad, Raisen and Sehore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-receives-30-rain-quota-before-monsoon-hits/articleshow/76500868.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Third flight from Dubai brings back 177 expatriates||MOHALI: Third flight from Dubai with 177 stranded Indians, most of them laid off by their companies, landed at Chandigarh International Airport on Sunday. The Air India Express flight was sixth one to arrive here with people stuck overseas. Earlier, one flight each had brought back people from the USA, Ukraine and Auckland in New Zealand. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers arriving from Dubai, who hail from Punjab, Haryana and other states in the region, have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine in their respective districts. The administration has taken possession of their passports. The previous two flights from Dubai arriving on June 2 and 15 had ferried total 345 passengers. Those returning on Sunday said around 5,000 more are waiting in Dubai to be transported back. The officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) at the airport said an Air India flight arrived from Auckland on June 17 with 98 passengers on board. On May 22, a flight from the USA had arrived with 100 passengers, and one on May 31 had brought back 144 passengers from Kiev (Ukraine), they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3rd-flight-from-dubai-brings-back-177-expatriates/articleshow/76500514.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Video of KIMS patient holding saline bottle goes viral||Hubballi: A video clip of a patient holding his own saline bottle in his hand, allegedly in KIMS, has gone viral in social media. In the clip, the patient says his name as Shankrappa Angadi and asserts that he was instructed to hold the saline bottle, administered to himself, due to lack of stands. The person, who interviews him, asks whether KIMS is suffering lack of funds. The patient just smiles at him. However, KIMS medical superintendent Dr Arun Kumar C told TOI that no such patient was admitted in the hospital in the recent days. “It looks like it was shot intentionally to defame KIMS. It must have been shot somewhere else. Or it must be an old one. Normally, our personnel won’t suggest patients to hold the bottle in their hands. They may suggest it only for a few seconds while arranging the stand for the patient. However, we will inquire further on this video and take appropriate action,” he stated. Watch Viral video: Patient holds his own saline bottle in Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/video-of-kims-patient-holding-saline-bottle-goes-viral/articleshow/76499489.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to help UT administration in clearing biomedical waste||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board has agreed to help the UT administration in disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste if an emergency situation occurs, like the breakdown of Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility of Chandigarh. At present, one incinerator operated by Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility has a capacity of 200 kg/hour in the city. All waste from private and government hospitals is being collected and treated by the facility, provided by Alliance Envirocare Company Private Limited in Industrial Area, Phase I. “Keeping in view of the condition arisen due to the pandemic, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee has requested Haryana State Pollution Control Board and Punjab Pollution Control Board to facilitate Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility of Chandigarh to use their Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility as an alternate/standby arrangements for the final disposal of Chandigarh’s biomedical waste during any emergency, breakdown/maintenance of incinerator plant. Haryana State Pollution Control Board has agreed upon it in principle,” said a report submitted by the UT administration to the central government. In the report, the UT had submitted that the Chandigarh city has generated 39,837.1kg of biomedical waste related to Covid-19 in May. The report was submitted following the directions of National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Central Pollution Control Board. The waste came from top three medical institutes like PGI, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and other civil hospitals, quarantine centres and municipal corporation. PGI topped the list, with 2,7280kg waste followed by GMH (5,475kg) and GMSH (2,511) The NGT had observed that dumping Covid-19 waste in general bins or sewage without safeguards is hazardous. It recommended using best practices and new ideas under supervision, besides compiling data from the tracking of Covid-19 waste from all sources, to prevent accidental spill, aid strategic planning, and improve software. The order said to educate waste handlers, staff, and citizens about the precautions they must take, and demanded a local model plan. The green court told Central Pollution Control Board to coordinate with the media and central/state departments for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-help-ut-in-clearing-biomedical-waste/articleshow/76502101.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula sets up helpdesks for migrant labourers||PANCHKULA: The district administration has set up four helpdesks for migrant laborers in all four blocks of the district. It has also issued mobile numbers to help labourers in getting work and avail benefits of welfare schemes run by the government. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja said each helpdesk will have two supervisors. They will provide information about jobs and government policies. The supervisor will also assist them in getting jobs in their nearby areas. Officials said in Pinjore block, the supervisors are Sarita (9416725122) and Mahesh Kumar (9466284029). The helpdesk number is 01733220046. In Barwala block, one of the supervisors is Sapna (9467920742), while the helpdesk number is 01733256413. Similarly, in Raipur Rani block, Poonam (8053367092) and Madan Pal (9416227917) are the supervisors, with 01734256628 the helpdesk number. In Morni block, Sunil (9466949025) and Sumit Dutt (9467180005) are the supervisors, with 01733250103 the helpdesk number. The supervisors will assist the laborers from 9am to 6pm daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-sets-up-helpdesks-for-migrant-labourers/articleshow/76500525.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Pandemic-hit genome saviour farmers seek government help in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: They have been at the forefront of conserving the state's rich plant genetic resources. As many as 21 of them have been awarded the central government's plant genome saviour awards for saving agro biodiversity of crops ranging from rice and tuber varieties to betel and leafy greens. Now with the Covid-19 lockdown and market disruptions affecting their farm incomes, many of the conservation warriors are finding it difficult to continue their activities. Shaji N M from Wayanad has for instance spent over Rs 2 lakh to replant over 200 tuber varieties he has been conserving amid the financial setbacks caused by the lockdown. “I have been engaging in the protection of rare tuber varieties using the income from banana cultivation and other crops. But this year, the farm income has been severely hit leaving me and many other plant genome-award winning farmers in distress,” said Shaji, who was forced to sell plantain for a lowly price of Rs 10 per kg. He said farming to conserve indigenous plant varieties and wild landraces is costlier. “The state government should extend support to the agrobiodiversity-conservation initiatives, at least to cover the labour charges involved. Many crop varieties itself would be lost if custodian farmers stop the practice,” he said. Melethil Beeran Kutty near Tirur, who preserves four betel varieties and also the traditional methods of betel cultivation, has called for government to introduce a project. “We are hit by the price fall of produce following the lockdown and loss of many traditional markets,” he said. Sajeevan Kavumkara hailing from Thalassery in Kannur, who won the award in 2012, has been preserving 125 edible leafy greens for over a decade. “Most of the farmers have been pursuing the passion of conserving crop varieties by spending a lot of personal time and money and have never complained to anyone. But the current conditions require a helping hand from the government,” said Sajeevan. The leafy greens conserved by Sajeevan also include 65 varieties of spinach. Kerala Agricultural University Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) cell coordinator Dr C R Elsy said that the custodian farmers have been making significant contributions to preserve the state’s agrobiodiversity. She said the state has the most number of plant genome saviour award recipients in the country. It also has seven community award winners. “It is a result of the support extended by the varsity and the state authorities to support the conservation activities of the farmers. No farmer can continue with the conservation activities without adequate income from crops and it is to ensure better incomes for farmers that we have been helping secure GI tags for crops ranging from Pokkali rice to Tirur betel leaves. The state agriculture department and the minister have been very supportive in the initiatives,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pandemic-hit-genome-saviour-farmers-seek-govt-help/articleshow/76499079.cms||K R Rajeev
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Biggest surge: 62 test positive for Covid-19||LUDHIANA: In the biggest surge in a day, 62 patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 561. Besides them, 156 patients from outside Ludhiana have tested positive here to date. At present, 223 patients from Ludhiana district and 55 from outside are admitted to city hospitals as active cases. “On Saturday, 1,129 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, of which 1,059 have tested negative and 70 reports are pending. Out of other 155 pending samples, 52 tested positive,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. “Other 10 samples that have tested positive are from DMCH. So now, 57 from Ludhiana district and five from outside are among positive cases,” he added. Containment zone Prem Nagar reported 24 cases, including a six-year-old boy, while four cases are from Habib Ganj and Sensi Mohalla containment zones. Seven cases are contacts of positive patients, while three were reported from Punjab Mata Nagar, Pakhowal Road. A man from Meharban and a 50-year-old from Payal too have caught the virus. A 16-year-old boy and a 42-year-old man from Truck Union Dera, Sahnewal, also tested positive. Five pregnant women positive Five pregnant women have contracted the virus. They are from LIG Flats, Phase I, Dugri; Rishi Nagar, Haibowal; Raniyan village, Sanghowal; Kailash Nagar, Preet Vihar, Basti Jodhewal; and Dehlon village. Ten from DMCH Ten tested positive at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, including eight from Ludhiana and two from Sangrur. The eight are from SBS Nagar, Pakhowal Road; Durgapuri, Haibowal Kalan; PNB Bank, Millerganj; Basant Avenue, Dugri; 4 Khamba Chowk; Vishwkarma Colony; Amarpura; and Barewal Road. Travel history A 32-year-old defence personnel from Halwara with travel history of Rajkot tested positive. City patient in Patiala A Ludhiana patient from Mandiyan Kalan is admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He was referred from the civil hospital. Four others A two-year-old boy from New Kartar Nagar, Salem Tabri, a 42-year-old woman from Mundian Kalan, a 41-year-old cancer patient woman from Jappan Colony, Jamalpur, and a 23-year-old woman, also from Jamalpur who is an employee of a private hospital, tested positive. 39 cured On Sunday, 39 patients were discharged, of which 38 belong to Ludhiana district and one to Sangrur. With them, 321 patients from the district have been cured so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/biggest-surge-62-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76499045.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown lessons forgotten? 1K corona cases in three wks||Bhopal: Basic preventive measures are the only way to curb the spread of Covid-19 and everyone has to play a role in it, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, on Sunday. The number of active cases in the state capital has increased to a new high of 679.The total number of deaths reported on June 1 stood at 59. It has gone up to 79, as of Saturday, it has gone up to 77. Total number of positive cases at the beginning of the month stood at 1,511. It has increased to above 2,500. Unlock-1 is proving to be dangerous for the state capital. In the first three weeks, over 1,000 new Covid-19 patients have been diagnosed. Lockdown remained in force from 25 March to 31 May. After the opening up of the lockdown, in first ten days alone, 501 patients were reported. The next ten have added the same number. Covid-19 containment zones have been hovering above the 200 mark.On an upbeat note, the recovery rate of patients has increased during this unlock period, said Dr Tiwari. Earlier the recovery rate was 61%, which has risen to 66% in June. While the number of patients in the city increased in Unlock 1, the containment areas has increased. In June, patients have been found in areas like Kolar, Hoshangabad, Misrod, Karond, Ratibar, Neelbad among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-lessons-forgotten-1k-corona-cases-in-three-wks/articleshow/76500880.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Six booked for harassing hospital staff||HYDERABAD: At least six people have been booked for creating nuisance in the emergency ward of Care Hospital, Banjara Hills, based on a complaint filed by a hospital staff. The incident occurred in the wee hours of Saturday when a 55-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient from Yakuthpura approached the hospital, which refused to admit her due to shortage of beds. “We are catering to many patients, due to which, we are short on beds for Covid-19 patients and we were not able to admit any more suspected cases. The same was informed to the patient’s family and they were counselled,” said the complaint, who is the head of operation care at the hospital. Following this, at least six people trespassed the restricted area, abuse and tried to assault the staff. A case was registered under Sections 448 (house-trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of IPC apart from sections of Epidemic Decease Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-booked-for-harassing-hosp-staff/articleshow/76500527.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to help UT administration in clearing biomedical waste||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board has agreed to help the UT administration in disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste if an emergency situation occurs, like the breakdown of Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility of Chandigarh. At present, one incinerator operated by Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility has a capacity of 200 kg/hour in the city. All waste from private and government hospitals is being collected and treated by the facility, provided by Alliance Envirocare Company Private Limited in Industrial Area, Phase I. “Keeping in view of the condition arisen due to the pandemic, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee has requested Haryana State Pollution Control Board and Punjab Pollution Control Board to facilitate Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility of Chandigarh to use their Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility as an alternate/standby arrangements for the final disposal of Chandigarh’s biomedical waste during any emergency, breakdown/maintenance of incinerator plant. Haryana State Pollution Control Board has agreed upon it in principle,” said a report submitted by the UT administration to the central government. In the report, the UT had submitted that the Chandigarh city has generated 39,837.1kg of biomedical waste related to Covid-19 in May. The report was submitted following the directions of National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Central Pollution Control Board. The waste came from top three medical institutes like PGI, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and other civil hospitals, quarantine centres and municipal corporation. PGI topped the list, with 2,7280kg waste followed by GMH (5,475kg) and GMSH (2,511) The NGT had observed that dumping Covid-19 waste in general bins or sewage without safeguards is hazardous. It recommended using best practices and new ideas under supervision, besides compiling data from the tracking of Covid-19 waste from all sources, to prevent accidental spill, aid strategic planning, and improve software. The order said to educate waste handlers, staff, and citizens about the precautions they must take, and demanded a local model plan. The green court told Central Pollution Control Board to coordinate with the media and central/state departments for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-help-ut-in-clearing-biomedical-waste/articleshow/76500524.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Clash breaks out in containment zone||NEW DELHI: People living in a containment zone in west Delhi’s Naraina attacked police personnel and civil defence volunteers on Saturday when they were stopped from removing the barricade installed to curb free movement of the area’s residents. There apparently were frenzied arguments when some of the area’s residents wanted to come out of the containment zone to avail of food packets being distributed. A video of the incident, which went viral on social media, shows the residents trying to push away the policemen who were trying to deter them from crossing the barricades. A group of people can be seen arguing heatedly with the policemen on duty and shoving them. A tin-shed used to block the road is also brought down by the agitators. Cops can be seen restraining an old lady engaged in the scuffle. According to the cops, a call regarding “a quarrel in the area” was made to the police station from the WZ locality in Naraina around 12.15pm. This locality has been notified a containment zone after 10 cases of the Covid-19 was reported and free movement curtailed. When a police team reached the problem site, constable Mahesh and civil defence volunteers were present there. “They informed us that some residents of the containment zone had got angry on being prevented from stepping out of the zone to get some free food,” said Deepak Purohit, DCP (West). “The residents also brought down a tin shed at the spot. In the scuffle, a civil defence volunteer was injured.” Based on the complaint of Suraj, the civil defence volunteer, a case was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) and Section 3 of the Epidemics Act. Police arrested Sampurna Anand Bharti, one of those identified as participants in the ruckus. Two women alleged to be involved are yet to be arrested because one of them is awaiting Covid test result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clash-breaks-out-in-containment-zone/articleshow/76518968.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Congress demands resignations of Rajnath Singh, Shripad Naik||Margao: The statement made by the minister of state for defence Shripad Naik that the attack on India was pre - planned by China is a clear admission of the fact that Indian government was in deep slumber and had no clue of developments happening on the border, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar . Congress has demanded resignation of defence minister Rajnath Singh and Naik taking moral responsibility for the blunder which costed 20 lives of our brave soldiers. Chodankar said the Modi government needs to answer how the intelligence agencies did not get any information about the preparedness of the Chinese Army along the border. How come the satellite information was not gathered by the defence intelligence, Chodankar questioned . He said BJP has been able to fool the people with its fake nationalism. Stating that the BJP stands exposed again, Congress said that BJP plays the card of nationalism and patriotism only to garner votes during elections. Accusing BJP government of not guarding the borders of the country, he said Modi’s main focus was to click photographs with the Chinese President Xi Jinping sitting on a swing in Ahmedabad and at Mahabalipuram wearing South Indian attire In the backdrop of development in Nepal, Chodankar said PM Narendra Modi has miserably failed on foreign policy of the country. It is unfortunate that a small nation like Nepal is flexing its muscles to India, he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-demands-resignations-of-rajnath-singh-shripad-naik/articleshow/76500528.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers may be roped in for door-to-door survey||LUDHIANA: In a bid to handle Covid-19 pandemic effectively in high-density areas of the district, the health department has written to the district development commissioner for permission to use Anganwadi workers in their ongoing door-to-door survey. Giving details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said as of now, they are using the services of Asha workers, ANMs (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife) and volunteers to conduct house-to-house survey in the district. If Anganwadi workers also join the drive, it would facilitate the survey, he said. During the survey, the department collects various details of people, which helps trace and track symptomatic Covid-19 patients and also those suffering from comorbidity, who are more prone to catching the virus infection. “We capture through an app the details of people’s comorbidity conditions, including blood pressure, diabetes, hypertension, cancer, etc during the door-to-door survey,” said the civil surgeon. He added that they are focusing on high-density population localities in both urban and rural areas. The health officials said apart from tracing the patients, during the survey they also collect samples of people and arrange for quarantine of those testing positive. The data on persons with comorbidity could help the department prevent death of such persons by diagnosing the infection at an early stage, as most of the 14 persons dying in the district had one or the other such conditions, they said. Confirming about the request letter from the health department, additional deputy commissioner (development) Amrit Singh said the civil surgeon has received it and the same has now been sent the district programme officers (DPO)’s office. She added that a decision in this regard could be taken on Monday itself. According to DPO Jagmel Singh, there are 2,487 Anganwadi workers in the district, who could help in door-to-door collection of the data and also create awareness about the disease and the people. BOX Some Covid-19 casualties that had comorbidities 1. ACP Anil Kohli, who had died of Covid-19, had comorbidity 2. A 70-year-old woman dying in Gopalpur village on Saturday suffered from diabetes and heart disease 3. An 86-year-old former subedar, who died of Covid-19 on June 2, had coronary artery diseaseBox 2: Corona Count (Up to June 20) Total Cases – 505 Deaths – 14 Active – 208 Cured - 283||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/anganwadi-workers-may-be-roped-in-for-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/76499058.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP to physically verify 12.5 lakh beneficiaries of PM’s kisan dole||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government is set to embark on a mammoth exercise to physically verify beneficiaries of PM Kisan Samman Scheme that envisages an annual Rs 6,000 grant to small and marginal farmers. The exercise, scheduled to be conducted between July 1 and August 15, will cater to 5% of target beneficiaries. On Friday, principal secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi, wrote to district magistrates, stating that of 5% beneficiaries, 2.5% comprise those selected by the Centre while the rest would be chosen by the state. The verification exercise would ensure transparency in execution and cover farmers who are already beneficiaries. With nearly 25 million (2.5 crore) farmers, UP has the highest number of beneficiaries among all states. And a number crunching shows the state government would have to physically verify nearly 12.5 lakh farmers who benefitted from the scheme since its rollout on December 1, 2018. In Uttar Pradesh, those farmers who received benefit of the scheme by May 31 would be verified and the procedure is mandatory, Chaturvedi said in the letter. The exercise would be jointly conducted by the revenue and agriculture department. Officials would be required to receive signatures of farmers or their spouse. On February 4, chief secretary R K Tewari had shot a missive to all DMs, seeking correction of farmers’ records on a war footing and had set a deadline of February 22. According to Tewari, records of at least 1.27 crore farmers were found incorrect during Aadhar authentication. On August 28, 2019, the Centre informed all states, including UP, that the first instalment of the scheme has been transferred to approximately 6.2 crore farmers of the 8.3 crore target nationwide. The farmers essentially included those whose data was uploaded on PM-KISAN portal. The scheme envisaged a structured mechanism at the district level for ensuring verification under the leadership of the district magistrate. At the same time, the state government was also asked to appoint nodal officers for regularly supervising the verification process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-physically-verify-12-5-lakh-beneficiaries-of-pms-kisan-dole/articleshow/76500881.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||18-yr-old vehicle-lifter, 2 others found dead in Sidhwan Canal||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) police recovered three bodies from a canal near Sidhwan Bet on Saturday. While two bodies are yet to be identified, the third is that of Makhan,18, a vehicle-lifter and resident of Dashmesh Nagar. A passerby called up the police after spotting the bodies in the canal near Purain village in Sidhwan Bet. A police party led by Sidhwan Bet police station SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur reached the spot, recovered the bodies and shifted them to Jagraon civil hospital for identification. “During preliminary probe, it was found that one of them was Makhan, against whom Sadar police station’s Marado police post had recently registered a case,” said a cop. Marado police post ASI Hardev Singh said, “On June 14, we had intercepted a bike that was without a registration number plate at a Sangowal Chowk checkpost. The bike driver identified himself as Makhan and the pillion as Swaran Singh of Dashmesh Nagar. While Makhan managed to give cops the miss, Swaran, who was injured, was arrested in the case of bike theft.” “We contacted Makhan’s family to know about his whereabouts, but to no avail. And on Saturday, we learned that he had committed suicide and his body was found in the canal near Purain village,” he added. The Sidhwan Bet SHO said, “Efforts are being made to identify the two others, whose bodies are decomposed. Their post-mortem will reveal the cause of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/18-yr-old-vehicle-lifter-2-others-found-dead-in-sidhwan-canal/articleshow/76499068.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Check the colour code before you head out this rainy season||NEW DELHI: The India Meteorological Department has come up with a new ‘impact-based forecast system’ for the capital, which will be utilised during the monsoon season to give advance warnings to people heading out during the rains. Launched on Monday, the system uses four colours for four rain categories — green (no risk), yellow (low risk), orange (medium risk) and red (high risk) — based on which IMD will suggest precautionary measures. Met officials said the system will help people plan their activities better during the monsoons, with the rain forecast to be made along with what its impact could be. “The new feature introduced aims to quantify the impact a moderate to heavy spell of rain might have on people commuting across Delhi or on their daily lives,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi. Srivastava told TOI that an impact-based system had been started for north-west India, while another will solely focus on giving updates for the capital. For the next four days (June 23-26), the system has categorised showers in the orange category (medium risk), stating the ‘impact’ could be major traffic disruption on roads, increased chances of vehicle accidents and waterlogging in low-lying areas during this spell. Heavy rain is forecast for isolated parts of the city on June 25, where its impact may be the strongest. “One can check for traffic congestion on their routes before leaving for their destination to avoid causing further jams. Avoid going to areas that face water logging problem often during this spell,” the impact-based forecast system’s bulletin has stated for the next four days. Srivastava said they plan to update the bulletin daily so that commuting during the monsoon becomes easier. The bulletin would be uploaded on IMD’s website — http://rmcnewdelhi.imd.gov.in — alongside the daily forecast as well as the seven-day forecast. “We aim to assess its accuracy and even if it is around 50% early on, it should help people a lot. Once people know on what day heavy rains could occur, they could plan their commute accordingly. People generally tend to know what routes to avoid, but often get caught in a sudden spell of rain,” Srivastava added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-check-the-colour-code-before-you-head-out-this-rainy-season/articleshow/76518995.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Three peddlers held in Hyderabad, drugs seized||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths arrested three peddlers on Sunday and seized a variety of drugs including cocaine and MDMA from their possession. Acting on specific information, the enforcement team of the Prohibition and Excise department arrested Bharath Thukral (48) a business strategy planner and his associates — M Rana Pratap (29) from Balkampet and Sk Feroz Ahmed (29) from Inrdanagar in Banjara Hills. The three were arrested in Madhuranagar on Sunday. Sleuths seized 105 grams of MDMA, 25 grams of cocaine, 25 grams of hasish oil, four LSD blots, 250 grams of ganja, two cars, a bike and seven cellphones. They team also found 18 syringes, nine sterilised water vials and passports of Bharath Thukral and M Rana Pratap. “Bharat confessed he had purchased hashish oil from one Akhil Aditya of Borabanda. He purchased cocaine, LSD and MDMA from James in Banglore, Jamy in Delhi, Irfan and Abdul in Chennai and ganja from one Bharath Singh of Langar Houz,” assistant excise superintendant, N Anji Reddy said. The accused have allegedly been supplying drugs to their clients in the city for the past two years. “They are selling cocaine for Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 per gram and MDMA for Rs 6,500 a gram,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-peddlers-held-drugs-seized/articleshow/76500530.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Kalyan gynaecologist, a Covid warrior, dies after month-long battle with virus||MUMBAI: A 52-year-old gynaecologist from Kalyan, Dr Parag Patil, died at Jaslok Hospital on Sunday after a month-long battle with Covid-19. An alumnus of Parel’s KEM Hospital, Dr Patil is believed to be the ninth medical practitioner from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to succumb to the infection. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said that at least 13 allopathic doctors have died in Maharashtra since March. A Covid warrior, Dr Patil was a part of the Kalyan Doctor’s Army formed by the IMA-Kalyan to help the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) tackle the rising number of infections. He had actively worked in the civic-run fever clinics, besides providing maternity services at his own facility, Shubhamkar Maternity Hospital, which he managed with his gynaecologist wife. The last time he attended the fever clinic was on May 8, said members of the Doctors’ Army. “Dr Patil was a true Covid warrior. He treated patients in the civic-run fever OPD for free,” said Dr Nitin Zabak, a close friend. The doctor is said to have developed the initial symptoms of fever around May 23 and sought treatment under a local physician before getting admitted to Meera Hospital in Kalyan on May 29. Despite all the initial medications, including oseltamivir, hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, his fever didn’t subside. A high resolution CT scan revealed changes in his lungs around the same time he developed breathing difficulty. The doctor was subsequently moved to Horizon Hospital in Thane on June 2, where he was put on a non-invasive ventilator. “He would update us about his health condition and treatment protocol on our alumni group. We were all hopeful he will come out,” said gynaecologist Dr Niranjan Chavan, who had known him for 33 years. As his condition didn’t show much improvement, his family decided to move him to Jaslok Hospitalon June 7. “We had managed to get even the antiviral Remdesivir. Our batchmates from the US discussed his case and shared their treatment protocol,” Dr Chavan added. Dr Patil had to be intubated the next day. “There were good days and bad days. He managed to wave to his family through a video call once,” said a friend. After being on ventilator for nearly two weeks, the doctor passed away early on Sunday. Dr Prashant Patil, secretary of IMA-Kalyan, called the death shocking and added that the doctor would always take added precautions while handling Covid-19 patients. “We still can’t understand how he got infected.” Dr Pratibha Panpatil, KDMC health officer, said, “He was also providing service at Tisgaon primary health centre, where he treated pregnant women infected with Covid.” The doctor is survived by his wife and two daughters. Dr Avinash Bhondawe said that the IMA has created a national registry to keep a count of the infections and deaths among doctors. “There have been 13 deaths so far in the state among IMA members. Around 458 doctors have recovered from the infection, while 26 are currently under treatment. As many as 800 doctors have been under quarantine in the state so far,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kalyan-gynaecologist-a-covid-warrior-dies-after-month-long-battle-with-virus/articleshow/76499953.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 22, 2020||Delhi||More rain, monsoon in a hurry to keep its date with capital||NEW DELHI: After witnessing overnight rain, parts of Delhi woke up to a wet Monday morning. Safdarjung recorded 43.8mm rainfall till 8.30 am, while the Lodhi Road station recorded 44.4mm rainfall in the past 24 hours. However, these are still pre-monsoon showers. Monsoon is likely to hit NCR on Wednesday, say Met officials. Meanwhile, temperatures in the capital have already fallen below 40 degrees. Last week, the mercury had touched as high as 46 degrees in several parts of Delhi. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said that conditions were favourable for further advancement of the south-west monsoon, adding the western Himalayan region, Haryana and Delhi should get covered in the next 48 hours. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of monsoon over some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand during the next 24 hours. It is likely to cover the western Himalayan region, Haryana, Delhi and east Rajasthan during the subsequent 48 hours,” added Srivastava. “Delhi and other parts of the NCR are likely to receive strong showers on both June 24 and 25. A good spell of rain may occur on Tuesday as well,” he added. “We have already recorded moderate rainfall activity in the last 24 hours at two stations, but these are still pre-monsoon showers. We expect parts of Noida and Ghaziabad to receive monsoon showers by June 24. Monsoon is likely to hit Delhi the same day or by Thursday.” “We had expected a strong spell of rain from June 24 to June 26, but now June 23 is also expected to see light to moderate showers,” said a Met official. Delhi’s maximum temperature on Monday was recorded at 36.7 degrees Celsius – two notches below normal for this time of the season. The minimum temperature was recorded five degrees below the normal mark. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature is likely to be around 35 degrees Celsius. The spell of rain has, meanwhile, helped Delhi’s air quality improve even further, dropping to an overall AQI reading of 92 (satisfactory) compared with a reading of 98 (satisfactory) on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-rain-monsoon-in-a-hurry-to-keep-its-date-with-capital-/articleshow/76519005.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Agra||28 Covid patients die in Agra hospital within 48 hours of admission, govt panel orders probe||AGRA: At least 28 Covid-19 patients succumbed within 48 hours of their admission at Agra’s SN Medical College (SNMC), revealed an audit done by a UP government panel which has now sought a detailed report on it from the government hospital and health authorities. The report will also include the feedback of the victims' families. So far, Agra has witnessed maximum 75 Covid-19 deaths in UP, followed by Meerut with 61 casualties. The two-member panel, headed by UP’s power secretary M Devraj, ordered the probe on Saturday after auditing all the 75 deaths in the district. Devraj was appointed Covid-19 nodal officer for Agra district by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The special team was sent to review the pandemic situation in Agra district. Seeking details about the 28 patients, the panel has asked the health department to tell it about the date of their admission, health issues they were facing apart from the Covid-19 infection, treatment and medicines given to them as well as the names of the doctors who attended them and the exact cause of death etc. In a departure from the past, the probe will also include the feedback of the family members of the deceased. According to the norms, after the death of a Covid-19 patient, a death audit report is prepared. This is done by a team headed by the additional director of the health department. On Saturday, the panel which has senior professor of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow, Dr Rahul Janak Sinha, as its other member reviewed the death audit reports. After the inspection, it arrived at the conclusion that the 28 deaths needed to be probed. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The death of 28 Covid-19 positive patients will be probed. A detailed report will be sent to the state government”. At least 32 people who tested Covid-19 positive have died in Agra district in the last 20 days alone. On an average, 3 Covid-19 patients are dying every 48 hours since June 1. According to the health department, the majority of the Covid-19 patients died due to comorbid conditions and around 85% were above 50 years of age. Besides Covid-19 infection, these patients were suffering from respiratory ailments, diabetes and heart and kidney problems. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “Some of the patients who died were brought after much delay and in critical conditions. Our doctors are trying hard to save the lives of the patients. The number of patients admitted under critical conditions and getting tested positive for Covid-19 has significantly increased in the last few weeks. Patients having breathing troubles are being provided with oxygen support.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/28-covid-patients-die-in-agra-hospital-within-48-hours-of-admission-govt-panel-orders-probe/articleshow/76498073.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools tweak online teaching pattern||KOLKATA: Many city schools that have been sanitised are gearing up to ferry teachers to and fro campuses from Monday. The schools hope this will help improve the quality of online classes because most of them have Wi-Fi connectivity. While some schools have also decided to send laboratory equipment to the teachers’ residences to help them set up makeshift laboratories for online demonstrations, others have equipped Wi-Fi at teachers’ homes. The measures are being implemented keeping in mind the fact that students may not come to school till August 15 and online modes of teachings need to be scaled up to accommodate such long-term virtual teaching-learning requirements. Teachers of South City International School will start taking online classes from the campus on Monday. DPS Howrah has done up its laboratories since the lab assistants have started coming to school. It’s now planning to set up a special routine for its physics, chemistry and biology teachers so that they can be brought in once or twice to school in private vehicles for online practical classes. “We are bringing in the lab assistants and administration staff already. This can now be extended to the teachers as well,” said principal Sunita Arora. Heritage School has sent physics lab equipments to the head teacher’s house and the chemistry head of the department has also set up a laboratory at his residence from where online practical classes are being streamed, confirmed academic co-ordinator, Souvic Jati. New Town School has not only set up portable Wi-Fi at the homes of 70 teachers, it has also offered to bring back teachers to campus if they feel that they can perform better using school infrastructure, said principal Shatabdi Bhattacharya. Most schools agreed that there will be a sea change as the dependence on texts will reduce. Each concept will now have to be taught through projects or do-it-yourself assignments. While many schools had started their online assessments on topics covered, they agreed that only the brilliant or above average could assimilate and perform well and that it will take time for the average and below average students to start responding. Teachers have been asked to slow down and ensure that there is no learning lag. DPS Ruby Park has decided to stress on project-based learning and a complete overhaul of its assessment pattern where students will be encouraged to write small concept notes. “The teacher has to surprise the class repeatedly by asking questions and getting kids to do small tests frequently. The teacher knows her class response by now and should be able to identify kids who need greater attention,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School for Boys. Quiz and multiple-choice questions will be mandatory at Asian International School, said principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. Schools like Apeejay, are either asking teachers to work on Saturdays or for an extra hour every evening to hold special sessions to clear doubts. “We can revise the syllabus up to class VIII because the board allows that,” said S Ganguli, principal of Calcutta Public School. La Martiniere schools have told teachers to re-structure syllabus till middle school in such a manner that reduces stress on kids. “We are preparing to stay with this mode for at least three months, pending guidance from governments,” said secretary of the two schools, Supriyo Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-tweak-online-teaching-pattern/articleshow/76499922.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Campaign for fee waiver picks up pace in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Following UP government’s advisory to schools not to hike fees during the pandemic, at least 30 schools in Ayodhya district waived fees during the three-month lockdown, but several elite schools not only refused to comply despite SOS calls from parents, but also held out covert threats to guardians to withdraw wards if they failed to deposit fees. Social organisations like Guardians Committee of Ayodhya, Bar Association of Faizabad and Sindhi Youth Federation submitted a memorandum to the chief minister, MP Lallu Singh, Ayodhya BJP MLA Ved Gupta and BJP district president Sanjeev Singh seeking fee waiver during the lockdown period, when people faced acute financial crisis. On Sunday, a ‘Waive Fees Struggle Committee’ was formed under the leadership of high court advocate and Karni Sena leader Shweta Raj Singh. Talking to TOI, president of Guardians Committee Nawab Singh, said: “In the district, many are involved in small trade and their businesses have sunk. At least 30 schools announced fee waiver, but prominent institutions are yet to provide relief.” President of Association of Schools affiliated to CBSE Board, Atul Kumar Singh, said parents were free to admit their wards in government schools, which charge nominal fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/campaign-for-fee-waiver-picks-up-pace-in-ayodhya/articleshow/76500888.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers in Telangana lose jobs as schools tie up with e-learning platforms||HYDERABAD: With schools tying up with online learning platforms to deliver virtual classes to students (class 6 to 10), majority of the teachers working with private budget schools are completely sidelined as most educational institutions have not renewed teachers’ contracts. The e-learning firms are offering either recorded lessons or live classes or both to several schools based on a school’s requirement, with a few charging less than a teacher’s monthly salary for a year’s subscription. “We have got into an agreement with a firm to create, manage and run virtual schools. The firm agreed to provide recorded lessons to our students for Rs 10,000 per school for the academic year 2020-21,” Telangana Recognised School Management Association president Y Shekar Rao said, adding several schools in the state, especially in Karimnagar, Sircilla, Mancherial districts, have already started virtual classes through their app. He said the managements have taken this decision to ensure that budget schools survive in these circumstances. “Once schools reopen and parents start paying fee, we will be renewing contracts of our teachers,” Rao said. The e-learning firms confirmed they were receiving many enquiries from schools and tied up with quite a few to offer virtual classes. “All video lessons are available in our repository. It’s up to the correspondents or teachers to decide what students need to watch on a particular day,” said managing director of EkaLavya,Y Sumanth Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-lose-jobs-as-schools-tie-up-with-e-learning-platforms/articleshow/76500541.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 22, 2020||Allahabad||Campaign for fee waiver picks up pace in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Following UP government’s advisory to schools not to hike fees during the pandemic, at least 30 schools in Ayodhya district waived fees during the three-month lockdown, but several elite schools not only refused to comply despite SOS calls from parents, but also held out covert threats to guardians to withdraw wards if they failed to deposit fees. Social organisations like Guardians Committee of Ayodhya, Bar Association of Faizabad and Sindhi Youth Federation submitted a memorandum to the chief minister, MP Lallu Singh, Ayodhya BJP MLA Ved Gupta and BJP district president Sanjeev Singh seeking fee waiver during the lockdown period, when people faced acute financial crisis. On Sunday, a ‘Waive Fees Struggle Committee’ was formed under the leadership of high court advocate and Karni Sena leader Shweta Raj Singh. Talking to TOI, president of Guardians Committee Nawab Singh, said: “In the district, many are involved in small trade and their businesses have sunk. At least 30 schools announced fee waiver, but prominent institutions are yet to provide relief.” President of Association of Schools affiliated to CBSE Board, Atul Kumar Singh, said parents were free to admit their wards in government schools, which charge nominal fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/campaign-for-fee-waiver-picks-up-pace-in-ayodhya/articleshow/76500888.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ex-serviceman, wife booked for job fraud||LUDHIANA: The police on Sunday booked a former Armyman and his wife for duping his ex-colleague of Rs 12.50 lakh on the pretext of helping his kin get jobs in Army. The accused have been identified as Swarn Singh of Noorpur Bet village of Ladhowal and his wife, Mandeep Kaur. Manjit Singh of Jawanda Kalan village in Tarn Taran said in his police complaint, “Swarn and I were posted in the same unit. In 2017, when I met Swarn, he claimed that he had links with high-ranking Army officers and could help my relatives secure jobs in Army.”  Manjit then introduced three of his relatives to Swarn, who sought Rs 5 lakh per person. “After handing over Rs 8.50 lakh in cash to Swarn, I transferred Rs 4 lakh to his bank account. We were supposed to give him the rest of the money after my relatives joined the Army. But after sometime, Swarn stopped taking my phone calls. It was then that I realized that he has duped us,” he added. Ladhowal assistant sub-inspector Sandeep Singh said that the accused would be arrested soon. Swarn and his wife have been booked under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-serviceman-wife-booked-for-job-fraud/articleshow/76499088.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||5 cops, VB official contract the virus||LUDHIANA: Five Ludhiana Police personnel and a Vigilance Bureau officer tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The five cops include a 26-year-old woman sub-inspector, who belongs to a village in Machhiwara. She has been shifted to Meritorious School in Ludhiana and is asymptomatic. Her contacts and family, including parents, brother and sister, have been quarantined and their samples collected, said Machhiwara zone SMO Dr Jaspreet Kaur. A woman constable, who is posted at the same station as the sub-inspector, has been home isolated as she is asymptomatic. The third positive case is a 53-year-old ASI, who had high fever and cough for the past two days. “He has BP and heart problem, too. As he was at his home in Hoshiarpur, he has been quarantined at civil hospital there,” said an official. A police station munshi, 32, who belongs to Dehlon, too, is asymptomatic. He will be home quarantined. An ASI, 49, posted with Ludhiana PCR, too, has caught the virus. He was on medical leave as he had fever. As he was at his house in Jalandhar, he would be shifted to civil hospital there. The 49-year-old VB officer belongs to Samrala town. Samrala senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Tarikjot Singh said, “His sample was taken at Police Lines. His positive report came on Sunday. He is asymptomatic. We have home quarantined three members of his family. Besides, his milkman, ration shop owner and his employee, too, have been quarantined.” He would shuttle between Ludhiana and Samrala on his motorcycle and wouldn’t go home daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-cops-vb-official-contract-the-virus/articleshow/76499096.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||510 more tribal families to get forest land soon in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The land for tribal community members as per Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, will be distributed to 510 beneficiaries at the earliest, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said ever since the LDF government assumed the office, 3,588.52 acres has been distributed among 4,361 tribal families. He said 1,804.75 acres of vested forest, which has been taken into the possession by the government on the basis of a Supreme Court order, has been distributed to 2,568 families. As much as 174.77 acres have been distributed to 478 families through the state land bank. In addition, record of rights (ROR) for 1,609 acres has been issued to 1,315 families. The ROR will be immediately distributed to 5,111 families of the remaining 10, 944 families. This will be completed within two months. Also, land is ready for distribution for 310 families through the state land bank which will be distributed in a month, the chief minister said. The remaining of inhabitable land among the vested forest that has been taken over on the basis of the Supreme Court verdict will be distributed soon. The forest department has been asked to find alternate land for the 8,145 acres that is non-inhabitable in the vested forest. The land is distributed to the tribes people after a joint verification of the forest and revenue department officials. The government had also decided to purchase the additional land for distributing among tribal communities, after distributing the land which has been taken possession of on the basis of the Supreme Court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/510-more-tribal-families-to-get-forest-land-soon/articleshow/76499100.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Head constable dies, Mumbai police toll 32; all 46 infected JJ Marg cops out of hospital||MUMBAI: A head constable attached to the intelligence wing of the Mumbai Police died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total death count of city policemen to 32. This is the first death in the intelligence wing. Head constable Rajendra Shelar, who was a diabetic patient and had undergone a bypass surgery, was at home in LT Marg police quarters since April when the police commissioner had exempted personnel above 55 years of age from office duty. He had tested positive on June 3, and the next day was admitted in Bombay Hospital, but he succumbed to the infection on Saturday. His high-risk contacts, including his mother, wife and three children, have been quarantined. Meanwhile, four constables attached to the Thane Central jail have tested Covid-19 positive. Their treatment has started and their close contacts have been quarantined. Of the total 2,428 Mumbai Police personnel found Covid-19 positive so far, 1,702 have recovered and 688 are still undergoing treatment. Of the 1,702 cops who have recovered, 46 are from J J Marg police station. Most of them have resumed duty. Till recently, JJ Marg police station was facing a severe staff shortage as it had the maximum number of infected cops—46 including three women personnel—in the city in April-May. “While 60-80 cops were quarantined, 34 others were asked to stay at home as they were above 55 years of age. At one time, there were only 20 cops in one shift,” said a senior officer. The first case from this police station was reported on April 24. There was not a single death reported from here. Senior inspector Sanjeev Bhole attributed the recovery of his personnel to medication, counselling, and motivation. “We had formed a dedicated Covid-19 coordination team that would visit them every day and enquire if they were facing any problems like procuring medicines or groceries,” he said. A source said: “Last month, when a sub-inspector from J J Marg police station and his wife, who lived in Navi Mumbai, had tested positive, the team took their two children to their grandparents’ place in Pune as a resident raised objection to the presence of high-risk contacts in the building.” In another incident, a constable, who resided in Kalyan, was admitted in a private hospital and the doctors advised an injection worth Rs 35,000. He sought help from the team and they rushed him to Nair hospital where he was treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/head-constable-dies-city-police-toll-32-all-46-infected-jj-marg-cops-out-of-hosp/articleshow/76499977.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 22, 2020||Surat||Diamond workers popping paracetamol to ‘hide’ fever||SURAT: The Diamond City on Sunday reported the highest-ever single day explosion in Covid-19 cases with as many as 150 people testing positive. This is the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported on a day ever since the breakout of the pandemic. Official sources said that 31 of the fresh cases were those related to diamond industry, mostly in Katargam. Even as cases continue to spike in Katargam, the health teams of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) got to know that many diamond unit workers were popping paracetamol tablets to conceal the fever symptoms while going to work. "We have come across cases of diamond workers taking paracetamol when they have cough and fever. Still, they report to work and don’t inform their managers about their health condition. This needs to be taken seriously as around 50% of daily Covid-19 now are linked to diamond polishing units,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, said. Five more patients also succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the death toll to 132 in the city. In other parts of Surat district, 22 fresh cases were reported, of which 14 were in Kamrej, five in Olpad and two each in Choryasi and Mandvi talukas. Valsad district, which borders the union territories of Daman and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Maharashtra, reported five more Covid-19 cases on Sunday. These were reported from Pardi, Vapi Sanjan village and Ukta village in Dharampur taluka. Bharuch district too reported 10 more cases which included six from Jambusar and four from Bharuch town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-workers-popping-paracetamol-to-hide-fever/articleshow/76499116.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools must utilise services of staff: Forum||HYDERABAD: Even as school managements claim that they are tying up with e-learning firms to ensure the survival of budget schools, teachers said that this is going to do more harm than good as the students will not be benefited much and they might not have any income for the entire academic year.  “If schools really want to conduct online classes, they should use the services of their teachers who have been working for them. “Tying up with agencies will only be beneficial for the management and that firm,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. They said that these budget schools should take a cue from corporate schools and utilise their teachers and pay at least half of their salaries. “The school management did not renew contracts of any teachers,” said a private teacher, whose contract was not renewed this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-must-utilise-services-of-staff-forum/articleshow/76500551.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Special drive to collect Rs 160 crore property tax due in Salt Lake||KOLKATA: With over Rs 160 crore of property tax pending from the 14 wards of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation falling in Salt Lake jurisdiction area alone, the civic body is taking up a special drive to collect the dues. All the councillors are being given the due property tax bills of their respective wards. On Sunday, the councillor of Ward 41 Anindya Chatterjee personally visited a few tax payers who have huge outstanding left to be paid and handed them the tax bills, requesting them to clear the dues as early as possible. “I personally visited some houses in my ward and requested the residents to pay the bills as early as possible. I will continue to visit several houses to hand over the tax bills in the next few days,” said Chatterjee, adding that about Rs 12 crore of property tax dues are pending from Ward 41 alone. The civic authorities have stressed on increasing revenue earning from property tax collection in the budget proposal that was placed last week. The authorities are trying to mop up around Rs 100 crore from property tax by October this year before the tenure of the present board of councillors ends. Tax payers can avail themselves of several options to clear their property tax dues. They can pay online from home or can pay through the kiosks installed in the civic body headquarters or can visit banks for the payment. Out of 41 wards under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, 14 wards are in Salt Lake while the rest fall under the civic body’s Rajarhat jurisdiction. “Apart from Salt Lake, more tax is due from the residents of Rajarhat. Most of them want to pay their dues, but are confused about calculating the amount,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-drive-to-collect-rs-160cr-property-tax-due-in-salt-lake/articleshow/76499943.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Lower courts to work in one shift till June 30 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Modifying the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued for lower courts in light of the coronavirus pandemic, the principal judge of sessions court on Saturday ordered that they will work only in one sitting with limited judges from 11am to 2pm till June 30. Earlier this month, as per the high court directions, courts were functioning in two shifts, with the seco-nd session ending at 5.30pm. The circular issued by principal judge MW Chandwani iterated that courts will hear only urgent matters and added that the rest of the provisions from the SOP will continue like those attending courts should wear masks and follow hygiene practices and social distancing. On June 9, citing the deaths of advocates due to Covid-19, the Bombay City Civil and Sessions Court Bar Association had written to the HC chief justice requesting him not to start physical courts for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lower-courts-to-work-in-one-shift-till-june-30/articleshow/76500000.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||3 give up on life, 2 were facing financial straits||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Three suicides were reported in Ludhiana in the past 24 hours.In the first case, a 26-year-old man ended his life at his house in New Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road, on Sunday. Sameer was upset as he had lost his job following the lockdown. He was the lone breadwinner of his family comprising his wife and a 2-year-old daughter.His mother Surinder Kaur said, “Sameer was a daily wager. He was depressed after losing his job. Early on Sunday, he hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house.”Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.In another case, a 35-year-old resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Jamalpur, consumed a poisonous substance at his house. Pankaj Kumar Sharma, a factory worker, was depressed as he was unable to pay his house rent and electricity bills after being sacked.His wife, Pooja Sharma, said in her police complaint, “We have been living in a rented accommodation from the past few years. Due to lockdown, my husband was home. We had limited money to run the house. But our landlord, Vishal Sethi, was pressuring us to pay the electricity bill and the house rent of two months. A few days ago, he came to our house along with an unidentified man and threatened to throw us out if we failed to clear the dues. Disturbed over it, my husband consumed a poisonous substance on June 6. He was admitted to a hospital, where he died on Saturday evening.” Jamalpur police station ASI Harjinder Singh said, “Pankaj had lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have booked their landlord, a resident of Jamalpur, under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.”In the third case, a 20-year-old man hanged himself to death at his house in Jawahar Nagar on Saturday. His kin said Des Raj had an affair with his neighbour, but her family was against it. As the woman’s brother and father harassed and threatened him, he took the extreme step, they added.ASI Tarlochan Singh said, “While the family of Des Raj, who worked at a shop in Old City, had agreed to their marriage, the woman’s kin opposed it. Des Raj tried to convince them, but in vain. The woman’s father and brother used to threaten Des Raj, asking him to stay away from her. This drove Des Raj to suicide. The two accused were arrested on Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-give-up-on-life-2-were-facing-financial-straits/articleshow/76499101.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||A hotelier & an actor moonlighted as auto-lifters, stole Mercedes, BMWs||LUCKNOW: BMW, Mercedes, Fortuner, Pajero, Innova, Honda City, Hyundai-Elantra, Breeza, Swift, Accord, Safari, Scorpio and Civic are some of the brands Lucknow cops recovered after they busted a gang of five auto-lifters on Sunday. In all, more than 50 high-end cars were recovered from three different locations of the city. The leader of the gang is a hotelier in Bangkok. Another member is a Bhojpuri film actor who has played the role of a policeman in a few movies. The gang stole luxury cars from upscale localities in as many as 18 states and then routed the vehicles to Nepal, Nagaland, Manipur and Assam within 24 hours. So far, they must have stolen more than 2,000 cars, cops say. “One of the main accused, Mohammed Rizwan, 50, who is also a hotelier in Bangkok, had allegedly masterminded several hundred vehicle thefts. Another key member of the gang, Nasir Khan 42, was a hero in Bhojpuri movies,” said Lucknow police commissioner, Sujeet Pandey. His other aides, who have been arrested, are Shyam Jaiswal, who is also a dealer of second-hand four wheelers, Vinay Talwar, who owns a vehicle modular showroom and Moinuddin Khan who also has a vehicle business, said the CP. All the 50 vehicles were recovered from three places in Lucknow -- a parking stand in Hazratganj, a temple in Haridas Kheda in Chinhat and a Chinhat storage. With the arrests, Lucknow Police claims to have solved around 50 car theft cases in the city and 18 other states. The accused reportedly carried out many more all over the country. Explaining the modus-operandi, the CP said that the gang used well-oiled machinery and aides to lift and hunt for targets. “First they would purchase the cars which met road accidents and which were declared as total loss by the insurance companies after a spot inspection as per their plan. The gang then would use the registration number and chassis number of these cars to replace the details of stolen cars. They then used to sell these cars -- with changed registration and chassis numbers -- to gullible customers. The gang also used to change the ECN and identification chip of the stolen cars by grinding work,” said CP. The police also said that gang members Jaiswal and Talwar used to visit places hit by natural calamity and would stole vehicles from there. Some of the vehicles recovered show numbers of the districts of Odisha and Kashmir where natural calamities took place recently. Police also said that gangs used to transport vehicles stolen from Lucknow and neighbouring cities to Guwahati using forged vehicle documents and fake number plates. From Guwahati, the vehicles were handed over to people in other North eastern states. The CP also said that units of deputy Commissioner of police, east zone -- Somen Barma, additional deputy commissioner east zone -- Amit Kumar, and assistant commissioner of police, Chinhat -- Swatantra Singh worked out the case. DCP Barma said that the fraud was exposed after the Chinhat police recovered a car, occupants of which abandoned it after seeing the police during a check drive on June 15. The police seized it as unclaimed and checked its details using an app. “It surfaced that the car was of 2013 make and was in the name of a Kaiserbagh resident. What made me doubtful was the look of the car. It seemed to be of current model but it was being shown as of 2013,” said Barma. The cops sent it to forensic test and its real chassis number was found to be belonging to a car having registration number as UP 32 KW 3999, which was quite recent. The team worked further on the lead and it surfaced that the car was stolen from Gomtinagar on June 5. This made the cops guess the modus operandi and they reached the racket later, said the DCP. The CP told TOI that teams were still working on the case and trying to expose the nexus between the private insurance companies and those arrested while seven other members of the gang are also on the run. “A cash reward and commendation disc from the DGP has been recommended for the team,” the CP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-hotelier-an-actor-moonlighted-as-auto-lifters-stole-mercs-bmws-/articleshow/76500562.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Samajam flays payout for Cheruvally Estate||Thiruvananthapuram: Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajam has expressed reservations over the state government move to take over Cheruvally Estate by paying compensation to Believers Church. The government move to pay compensation to a third party in the course of affirming the government’s right over its own property was of dubious nature and it smacked of corruption, the Samajam said. “It’s illegal to claim that Believers Church had purchased from Harrison Malayalam company the Cheruvally Estate which was supposed to be taken over by the government following the termination of lease agreement with Harissson Malayalam. Since the high court has already ordered the government to take over the said land, it would be illegal and wrong on the part of the government to pay compensation to someone who claims ownership of the estate,” said Samajam general secretary M K Aravindakshan and president Akeeramon Kalidasa Bhattathirippad in a statement. The government need not pay anybody for asserting the state’s right over its own property. Since the government is planning to set up an airport in the estate, utmost care should be exercised to ensure that development of new township around the airport doesn’t pose ecological dangers to the surrounding areas or sullies the spiritual environment of centres of worship in Sabarimala, Pampa and Erumeli, the statement said. Once it comes up, the proposed green field airport should be environment friendly in letter and spirit, the Samajam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/samajam-flays-payout-for-cheruvally-estate/articleshow/76499120.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal testing figure crosses 4-lakh mark||KOLKATA: The number of Covid-19 samples tested in the state crossed the 4-lakh mark on Sunday when the total tests count stood at 4,01,491. Currently, 49 labs in Bengal are conducting Covid tests. Health department officials said that more labs would be added to the list enhancing the number of tests further. The government started scaling up the number of tests since mid-May to perform about 6,000 to 8,000 tests per day on an average. Even as the aim was to hit to 10,000 tests a day, cyclone Amphan halted the pace for quite a few weeks. Finally, the 10,000-mark was achieved last Friday with 10,321 tests on that day. Saturday witnessed 10,330 tests and on Sunday it went up to 10,549 tests. “We are expecting a few more labs, including some in Nadia and Purulia, to get licences and become operational soon. We will be equipped to increase the number of tests further,” said a highly placed health department official. Till June beginning, 41 labs were testing Covid samples. Eight have already been added after that. Out of the total 4,01,491 tests, 1,91,260 were conducted in the past 20 days. Sources said even as number of labs has gone up, many of them have limited automatic RNA extractor, crippling their pace. If they had enough such extractor, testing could have been faster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-testing-figure-crosses-4-lakh-mark/articleshow/76499959.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||3 give up on life, 2 were facing financial straits||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Three suicides were reported in Ludhiana in the past 24 hours.In the first case, a 26-year-old man ended his life at his house in New Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road, on Sunday. Sameer was upset as he had lost his job following the lockdown. He was the lone breadwinner of his family comprising his wife and a 2-year-old daughter.His mother Surinder Kaur said, “Sameer was a daily wager. He was depressed after losing his job. Early on Sunday, he hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house.”Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.In another case, a 35-year-old resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Jamalpur, consumed a poisonous substance at his house. Pankaj Kumar Sharma, a factory worker, was depressed as he was unable to pay his house rent and electricity bills after being sacked.His wife, Pooja Sharma, said in her police complaint, “We have been living in a rented accommodation from the past few years. Due to lockdown, my husband was home. We had limited money to run the house. But our landlord, Vishal Sethi, was pressuring us to pay the electricity bill and the house rent of two months. A few days ago, he came to our house along with an unidentified man and threatened to throw us out if we failed to clear the dues. Disturbed over it, my husband consumed a poisonous substance on June 6. He was admitted to a hospital, where he died on Saturday evening.” Jamalpur police station ASI Harjinder Singh said, “Pankaj had lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have booked their landlord, a resident of Jamalpur, under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.”In the third case, a 20-year-old man hanged himself to death at his house in Jawahar Nagar on Saturday. His kin said Des Raj had an affair with his neighbour, but her family was against it. As the woman’s brother and father harassed and threatened him, he took the extreme step, they added.ASI Tarlochan Singh said, “While the family of Des Raj, who worked at a shop in Old City, had agreed to their marriage, the woman’s kin opposed it. Des Raj tried to convince them, but in vain. The woman’s father and brother used to threaten Des Raj, asking him to stay away from her. This drove Des Raj to suicide. The two accused were arrested on Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-give-up-on-life-2-were-facing-financial-straits/articleshow/76499135.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown helps Bengal Inc sons bond with dads||Kolkata: For Umesh Chowdhary, vice chairman of Titagarh Group, it is the longest stay in his home town after almost 25 years while for Rudra Chatterjee, MD of Luxmi group, this is his longest stay in the City of Joy ever since he had left school for higher studies. The story is same for Sanjay Budhia, MD of Patton, Neetish Sarda, director of Sarda Group, and Saket Mohta, MD of Merlin Group. The Covid 19-induced lockdown and the ban on international travel became an opportunity for Bengal Inc to spend some time with family, especially on the Fathers’ Day. Rudra Chatterjee, who is a frequent flier to US for his business, said he was enjoying his stay in the city. On Father’s Day he had cup of tea with his father Dipankar Chatterjee in the morning. “I have been eating my favourite home-made dish every day for the last three months, apart from spending time with my daughter and teaching her mathematics. Rest of the time is spent in doing some webinar related to business,” said Rudra. Umesh Chowdhary said, “It was probably for the first time since my son was born that I could spend three consecutive months in Kolkata with my family. My son, my father and me, celebrated Father’s Day together.” Neetish Sarda, son of top jute industrialist, Ghanshyam Sarda, was stranded in Kolkata due to the lockdown. “I am with my father for the past 90 days,” said Neetish. For Saket Mohta, too, it’s a new experience in life. He and his father Sushil travel 60-70 days a year.“There are very few common days when both of us stay together in the city,” he added. Budhia said he has been with his family and daughter Preeyam for three months. “We are together at home and I don’t remember whether the same happened earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-helps-bengal-inc-sons-bond-with-dads/articleshow/76499984.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Surat||Demonetized notes of Rs 51,500 face value seized from businessman||SURAT: A team of Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) from Ahmedabad and Special Operation Group (SOG) of city police raided and seized Rs51,500 in demonetised currency notes from a residence in Rani Talav area of city on Saturday. Police suspect that the person found in possession of the defunct notes, Faisal Mohammad Habib Chandiwala, 26, a textile businessman, at Bharbandhwad in Rani Talav, was running a cheating racket by offering these in exchange of legal currency. Chandiwala’s father-in-law Zuber Jariwala was caught in Navsari with demonetized notes while trying to exchange it, police informed. Chandiwala runs textile business in Raj Textile Market. “Initially it was an information of major racket of counterfeit currency notes of Rs 50 lakh face value. But during checking it was found that the suspect had kept demonetized notes in suspicious manner,” said a police officer. Chandiwala was questioned and allowed to go after registering his statement. No offence in the recovery of the notes has been registered as yet. “Possession of demonetised notes does not fall under any crime and hence police cannot take actions. We registered an informal complaint and seized the notes,” said a police officer. The suspect had prepared 68 bundles of scrapped notes in cardboard pieces, cut in shape of currency notes. On top of the bundles currency notes were placed and rubber band was tied on it. The bundles were kept in empty air conditioner boxes in between pillows. “Pillows were placed at the bottom and on top of the bundles to make it appear as if the box is full of currency notes. Before they could cheat anyone police seized the notes,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/demonetized-notes-of-rs-51500-face-value-seized-from-bizman/articleshow/76499149.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bhopal||47 new cases take Bhopal Covid tally to 2,599; recoveries rise||Bhopal: The Covid-19 case tally in the state capital reached 2,599 here on Sunday. Idgah Hills, Bairagarh and Shahjehanbad are the new hotspots, according to the health department. Over 47 new positive cases were reported on Sunday. One person died, taking the total number of deaths to 78. Six members of the same family tested positive in Shahjehanabad on Sunday. Four more people were diagnosed with the infection in Bairagarh. According to a district administration official, the family testing positive in Shahjehanbad are residents of Yadavpura. Earlier, 14 members of the same family had tested positive. Resampling of the family was conducted after a woman tested positive on Friday. A team has been deployed for contact tracing. A healthcare worker in a private hospital near Danapani has tested positive for the infection. Contact tracing of patients and other staff has been initiated. The 22-year-old paramedical staffer has been hospitalised. A seven-year-old girl also tested positive in Kotra Sultanabad area. Jehangirabad, Kotwali and Aishbagh reported one Covid-19 case each. There was relief from Mahamai Ka Bagh, where after a long gap, no positive person was diagnosed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/47-new-cases-take-bhopal-covid-tally-to-2599-recoveries-rise/articleshow/76500900.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt withdraws online puja booking, to launch software for same||Mangaluru: With several complaints from the public in connection with online booking of pujas and sevas at more than 50 prominent temples, including the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada, district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said that the muzrai department will soon launch its own software for the same. Poojari was addressing the media at Guttigar on Sunday, after launching several development works. He said that the government had given the responsibility for online booking of pujas and sevas to a private firm. However, several complaints against the firm were registered, including mismanagement of funds received through online bookings. “Considering this, we have stopped their services, and within a month, the department will launch its own software for the purpose,” he said. According to sources, Kukke Subrahmanya Temple authorities have filed a complaint against the private firm at the cyber police station here, in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-withdraws-online-puja-booking-to-launch-software-for-same/articleshow/76498221.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Get parents’ consent to take final-year exams on campus, Nair dental students told||MUMBAI: Final-year students from Nair Dental College have been asked to get a consent form signed by their parents for taking the examinations from the Mumbai Central campus. The form, emailed by the college on June 12, states that it would be the parents’ sole discretion to send the child to Mumbai and reside in the hostel during the exams that are currently scheduled from July 16 to 22. The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences had given allowed students to opt for an exam centre close to home. However, among the nearly 40 outstation students at the college, only two took the option. The college is a Covid-19 care centre. “Travelling inter-district is risky and the letter puts the onus on the parents and students. Why is the college trying to shirk responsibility? It wasn’t possible for me to opt for a centre close to home since my journals and other exam-related material is in Mumbai,” said a student. The Maharashtra Students’ Union, a non-political students’ organisation, has written to the governor, chief minister and medical education minister demanding action against the college. College authorities, however, said that the letter was only to ensure that parents were aware of the choice students were making. “We have space restraints on campus, but are taking utmost care and precaution for when they come to appear for the examinations. We had held several counselling sessions with the students to encourage them to opt for a centre in their hometowns, but only two students opted for it. We wanted to make sure that the parents are aware that students had the option...and still decided to come to Mumbai for the exams. The consent isn’t a way to shirk responsibility,” said acting dean Dr Freny Karjodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/get-parents-consent-to-take-final-year-exams-on-campus-nair-dental-students-told/articleshow/76500056.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rath Yatra on the temple premises: Mahant||AHMEDABAD: Putting a full stop to ongoing speculations, the Mahant of Jagannathji Temple in Ahmedabad on Sunday announced that there will be no traditional city-wide procession on Ashadhi Bij – June 23. Mahant Dilipdasji told reporters that the three chariots will make a ritualistic round in the temple premises after which they would be kept in the premises the whole day for devotees. This will be the first time in its history of 143 years that the annual procession of about 18km will not take place in the city. The procession is the second-biggest in India after Puri.  “The decision has been taken keeping in mind the epidemic and people’s safety – the spread has reduced recently but if we can’t control the crowd, the scenario could aggravate,” said the Mahant. The decision came after a high-level meeting with MoS (home) Pradipsinh Jadeja, DGP Shivanand Jha, city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia and city mayor Bijal Patel at the temple premises on Sunday evening. Earlier, sources had indicated that the temple could take the option of approaching the Supreme Court (SC) against the ruling of the Gujarat high court (HC), staying the procession.  Upon questioning whether Union home minister Amit Shah – who regularly participates in the Mangala Aarti, the first prayers on the day of Rath Yatra – along with Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel, who perform Pahind ritual of cleaning the chariots’ path, will be part of the events this year, the Mahant said that the invites have been extended. “We are hopeful that they would participate,” he said. “Mangala aarti and Pahind ritual will take place as usual on Tuesday. Thereafter, the chariots will be brought in and they will make a round in the temple premises,” said Dilipdasji. “We appeal to the citizens not to visit the temple as far as possible to maintain social distancing. ” Meanwhile, the traditional Netrotsav ritual took place at the temple on Sunday where a new flag was fixed atop the temple signifying the return of the deities to the temple, and blindfolds were applied to their eyes. The blindfolds are opened on the day of Rath Yatra. Hundreds participated in the event amid a few complaints of non-maintenance of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rath-yatra-on-the-temple-premises-mahant/articleshow/76500021.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Corona claims 2 more lives, 10th death in 16 days||Lucknow: Coronavirus claimed two more lives in the city taking the toll to 13, of whom 10 have died in last 16 days with one death every 28 hours. Pratap Singh, a 55-year-old resident of E Block in Rajajipuram, died at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Sunday afternoon, while the test report of the other patient who died at a private hospital on Thursday came out to be positive on Sunday evening. A heart patient and diabetic, Singh was the chief office superintendent of railway’s general store depot in Alambagh. He was admitted to a hospital on Saturday with complaint of breathlessness and was tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. As his condition was critical, he was shifted to KGMU where he was admitted at intensive care unit. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said, “The patient’s lung was severely damaged due to infection. He died of respiratory failure despite our best efforts to save him.” Health officials said Singh was experiencing breathlessness since June 14 but the family thought it was due to his health condition. However, when his condition did not improve they hospitalized him after six days. “The source of infection in the man is yet not known. What we know is that he went to the office till June 13 and his son returned from Delhi on June 12. All family members and office contacts are being tested,” chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal said. The second death was of a 55-year-old resident of Vinayak Puram in Vikasnagar who was admitted to a private hospital on Faizabad road on Thursday following difficulty in breathing and fever. He collapsed hours after admission. As per protocol, his sample was sent for testing before death. CMO office spokesman Yogesh Raghuvanshi said, “The report came positive on Sunday. Family members of the deceased were asked to remain in home quarantine till the report arrives. Now, our team will test all his contacts. Death audit will would also be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-claims-2-more-lives-10th-death-in-16-days/articleshow/76500571.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolkata||S Kol TV screens go blank after cable snag||Kolkata: Cable TV services were disrupted across a large area in south Kolkata on Sunday following a fire at Dhakuria. Screens went blank in hundreds of cable homes between Kasba and Dhakuria for several hours. Cable operators said the fire had led to a shutdown of power affecting transmission and also snapped wires that severed connections. Repairs went on till late on Sunday evening. Services were disrupted in the areas like Rajdanga, Kasba, Ballygunge, Gariahat, Dhakuria and EM Bypass. “There has been a power supply issue following the fire and the CESC is supposed to look into it. Cables have been affected and the repairs could take time,” said an operator. The disruption comes exactly a month after cable services had been snapped in most parts of the city due to the Cyclone Amphan. Meanwhile, dead cables have been pulled down in a major part of south Kolkata following urban development minister Firhad Hakim’s warning that the civic authorities would snap them indiscriminately, if operators didn’t act. Last week, Hakim had set June 15 as the deadline to remove the defunct TV and broadband wires perched on lampposts and trees. “Most of the dead wires have been removed from the Bhawanipore-Alipore area till the second Hooghly Bridge. In some areas, the work has come to a temporary halt but will soon resume,” said Tapash Das of Ideal Cable TV Operators’ Association. Some cable operators claimed they were being wrongly held responsible for the wire mess. “Most cables that you see on the major thoroughfares belong to the MSOs.The wires on lamp posts were put up by telecom companies and internet providers who never pull down dead wires,” said an operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-tv-screens-go-blank-after-cable-snag/articleshow/76500018.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bareilly||House wall collapse kills two, injures three kids||Bareilly: A small farmer and his wife were killed and their three children were critically injured when a portion of their house wall collapsed due to heavy rain in Jhakroli village of Kalaan area in Shahjahanpur district on Sunday. The family was having breakfast together at the time of the incident. Locals tried to remove the debris and rescue the family. They informed the police. Kallu and his wife Anita Devi, who died on the spot, had five children and lived in an old house with a roof which required an urgent repair. And Kallu had even started renovating the roof. Kallu's eldest daughter Khushboo, 11, and one of his sons were playing outside when the wall collapsed at 9.30am. Emergency medical officer Dr Mohammed Meeraz said, "Five persons, including three children, were brought to the hospital for treatment. But, two of them had already died while the children were admitted at the emergency ward. The condition of two of them is critical. They sustained severe head injuries." SHO of Kalaan police station Anantram said, "Five members of a family were trapped under the debris when a portion of the house wall collapsed in the morning. A couple died in the incident and three children survived with injuries. We have sent the two bodies for autopsy."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/house-wall-collapse-kills-two-injures-three-kids/articleshow/76497371.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 22, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Nepal officials bury body in DTR, agree to exhume it later||BAREILLY: An incident involving burying the body of a Covid-19 patient by the Nepalese authorities on Indian soil falling within Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) spread panic among the local officials who quickly raised the issue at a coordination meeting. Following this, the Nepalese officials conceded their “mistake” and added that the burial took place on the India soil because of a confusion caused by the changing course of the Mohana river. After the meeting, the Nepalese officials on Sunday agreed to exhume the body. Sanjay Pathak, field director, DTR, told TOI, “It was raining heavily on Thursday, when health officials from Nepal along with their police buried the body of a Covid-19 patient in the Gaurifanta range of the reserve. When we came to know about it, we intensified patrolling in the area and found that they were trying to cremate another body here on Friday, but we stopped them immediately with the support of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and sent them back. We wrote to the district administration adding that such burials may spread infection amongst the reserve’s big cats.” After DTR deputy director Manoj Sonkar raised the issue, commandant, SSB’s 39th Battalion, Munna Singh, Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate Shailendra Singh, SSP Poonam met their Nepalese counterparts to discuss the issue on Saturday. Kheri DM Shailendra Singh said, “Chief development officer of Nepal’s Kailali district, Yagya Raj Bohra, along with CDO of Nepal’s Kanchanpur district, Narhari Khati, and other officials from Nepal participated in the coordination meeting held on Saturday. The Kailali CDO admitted their mistake and assured us that such a thing will not happen in future. We have always shared good relationships and the Nepalese officials have always been supportive.” Pathak said, “The Nepalese said they thought they were burying the body in no man’s land. They have assured that they will exhume the body and won’t repeat this. Fortunately, the area where the body was buried is a barren land.” Notably, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had alerted chief wildlife wardens of all tiger range states shortly after the Union environment ministry advised states to curb human visits and movements in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries as a precautionary measure against the transmission of the infection from humans to animals. The entry of tourists in the reserve was banned before the first lockdown was imposed in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-officials-bury-covid-patients-body-in-dudhwa-reserve-by-mistake-agree-to-exhume-it-after-india-raises-issue/articleshow/76497377.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||Illegal mining racket busted in Devbhumi Dwarka||RAJKOT: The rapid response (RR) cell of Rajkot range police busted an alleged illegal mining racket in Devbhumi Dwarka on Sunday. During patrolling at Mevasa village, RR cell sleuths conducted a raid following intense mining activities being undertaken on a land parcel. Police said that three excavating machines and four dumper trucks were involved in the mining activity in the land of one Dadu Kandoriya. As they could not furnish proper documents, the vehicles were seized and the operators and drivers of the vehicles along with Kandoriya were detained. The custody of vehicles and eight detainees were handed over to Kalyanpur police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegal-mining-racket-busted-in-devbhumi-dwarka/articleshow/76499163.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bareilly||Shahjahanpur: 15-year-old boy brutalised after buffalo damages crop||BAREILLY: Three men thrashed a 15-year-old boy to death after the latter's buffalo damaged their sugarcane crop in Sindhauli area of Shahjahanpur. Political rivalry cannot be ruled out, police said. An FIR has been registered against the three people under section 302 (murder) of IPC. The accused are on the run. Members of the boy's family along with Samajwadi Party district president Tanveer Khan staged a protest outside the SSP's office in Shahjahanpur alleging that police were "trying to shield the accused". The incident was reported from Sisaiya village on Saturday evening when the boy, identified as Kuldeep Yadav, was playing with his friends and his buffalo entered the sugarcane field of farmer Sadhu Singh and his brother Dharmendra Singh. Sadhu and Dharmendra were reportedly inebriated and refused to return his buffalo. After an argument, Dharmendra, his son Bhupinder, and Sadhu started beating Kuldeep brutally with sticks until he fell unconscious. Thereafter, the accused fled the spot. Kuldeep’s father Mahesh took his son to a hospital in Shahjahanpur city. The condition of Kuldeep was critical and doctors referred him to Bareilly for higher treatment on Sunday but he died on his way in an ambulance. Kuldeep was the only brother. He had two minor sisters. His mother Rani Devi fell ill after hearing the news and is in hospital. SHO Jagnarayan Pandey told TOI, "We have registered an FIR under the section of murder and the accused will be arrested soon. The motive behind the murder could be election related rivalry. We are not under any political pressure and action would be taken against the accused."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-year-old-boy-brutalised-after-buffalo-damages-crop/articleshow/76497380.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 22, 2020||Goa||La Nina in Pacific Ocean could ensure ‘near normal’ monsoon||Panaji: After a thunderous first fortnight of June yielding about 600mm rainfall, the recent long dry spell has baffled many. But meteorologists say the monsoon, being driven by the global weather processes - La Nina conditions - over the eastern equatorial Pacific, may favour normal or excess rainfall over India. The glorious romance of the southwest monsoon - with its onset in Kerala on June 1 - is keenly awaited by the entire country. But it is understood more as a local phenomenon. Scientists, however, say that the oceanic and atmospheric vagaries and fluctuations thousands of miles away in Peru or Indonesia - and not just the Arabian Sea-Bay of Bengal phenomena – significantly increase or decrease monsoonal intensity in the subcontinent. This year, as per model predictions, there is a 60% probability that normal conditions occurring in the Pacific Ocean and continuing through June-August 2020, are likely to produce a near-normal monsoon. “The seasonal total of the southwest monsoon 2020 will be 103% of long period average value with a model error of plus or minus 8% and for the whole country 102% with an error of plus or minus 4%,” India Meteorological Department (IMD), Panaji, scientist, Rahul M said. Last year, Goa witnessed an unprecedented deluge due to various systems, including a series of eight cyclones in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. The recent break in the monsoon is part of an active break-cycle that sees heavy rainfall interspersed with reduced rainfall activity. “During a break, the monsoon trough shifts to the foothills of the Himalayas,” retired meteorologist of the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Dona Paula, M R Ramesh Kumar said. But monsoon phenomenon being interesting and intricate, the trigger for this break lies in distant corners of the world. “What happens in the Pacific Ocean - whether eastern equatorial Pacific called El Nino or central equatorial Pacific called El Nino Modoki - adversely affects our subcontinent’s monsoon activity. La Niña, meanwhile, creates conducive rainfall conditions,” Kumar said. “This season, there is a 30% chance of La Niña. Further, La Niña chance may rise to 40%, which in turn will increase the probability of normal to excess monsoon over the subcontinent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/la-nina-in-pacific-ocean-could-ensure-near-normal-monsoon/articleshow/76680282.cms||Paul Fernandes
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Two-month-old baby hit by dad remains critical||Kochi: The condition of a 55-day-old baby, who sustained severe head injuries after getting slapped on the head by her father and thrown on to a bed, continues to remain critical at MOSC Medical College Hospital at Kolencherry. According to sources with the hospital, a clear picture can be obtained only after 48 hours. “The baby was getting continuous seizures initially but now the frequency has come down. Though it is a positive sign, it is too early to say anything conclusive. At the moment, the child is still in a critical condition,” said a source with the hospital. The child was admitted to the hospital with bleeding in the brain. The accused father, Shaiju Thomas, 40, is now remanded in judicial custody. Meanwhile, sources with Ernakulam rural police said that Angamaly police probing the case are unlikely to seek the accused in custody. “We have collected enough evidence within the first 24 hours of the arrest. The presence of the accused is not necessary for the forthcoming investigation. So, it is unlikely that we would seek him in custody,” said a police official. Police officials said that they have received enough background information on the accused. “He has been staying in Angamaly for over 10 years. A BCom graduate, he has worked in various states as a teacher. We have learnt that the accused met his wife of Nepali descent via Facebook and later married her,” said a police official. Earlier, police had questioned the parents after doctors flagged irregularity in the statements of the parents on how the child sustained the injury. Shaiju was arrested after the mother of the child, with the help of a translator, gave the statement that the accused used to slap the child whenever she cried. She also told cops that the accused hit the child and threw her on to the bed on Thursday, leading to the child becoming unconscious. Doubts over the child’s parenthood is considered as the motive behind the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-month-old-baby-hit-by-dad-remains-critical/articleshow/76499181.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Beef transporter assaulted||Mangaluru: A person, who was supplying beef from Kudroli abattoir to Kankanady market, was waylaid and attacked by unidentified miscreants here on Sunday morning. The incident took place when Rasheed Kudroli was transporting about 200kg of beef to a shop in Kankanady market. The miscreants, who arrived in a car and a bike, stopped him near Falnir and assaulted him. Later, they damaged his vehicle and poured kerosene on the meat. The fled from the spot after people gathered there. Rasheed was carrying documents related to transport beef in his vehicle, said police. A case has been registered at Mangaluru East police station. One held, 5 cattle rescued The Dakshina Kannada district police rescued five heads of cattle, which were illegally transported to a slaughterhouse near Sarapady in Bantwal taluk late on Saturday late evening. They also arrested a person and seized a vehicle in connection with the case. The accused is driver Mohammed Hanif. Acting on a tip-off, police intercepted the pick-up vehicle, and found five heads of cattle, including two three calves. According to police, cattle were purchased by Ibrahim, a resident of Birpugudde, Kannur, from Balakrishna Poojary, a resident of Kottunja. A case has been registered at Bantwal Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/beef-transporter-assaulted/articleshow/76498255.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bootleggers throw bottles at Gujarat cops||AHMEDABAD: Bootleggers in the state use many innovative tricks to get the better of cops. This time, a Mehsana-based bootlegger and his aide kept throwing liquor bottles at police vehicles that were chasing them near Amirgadh in Banaskantha district, when they were smuggling liquor into the state. An official of Amirgadh police said that they got an input that Mayurji Thakor and his aide Kaushik Badhia, residents of Mehsana, were carrying liquor in their car and were travelling from Abu Road towards Amirgadh.  When they saw Thakor’s car, the cops gave chase in a police van and a private car. As Thakor saw the cops, he sped up. The cops, led by a PSI T J Desai, were in no mood to let them get away and a hot pursuit followed. The twist came then when Thakor and Badhia began throwing liquor bottles at pursuing police vehicles at regular intervals. They ended up throwing some 25 bottles out of the car. During the chase, the private car carrying two cops turned turtle and the duo had a close shave. Thakor and Badhia kept throwing bottles at the cops pursuing them. However, in a short while, Badhia, who was driving the car, lost control over it and it turned turtle as well. The two got out of the wrecked car and began running. The cops pursued them on foot and finally nabbed them. Desai said this was an unusual incident because the bootleggers began throwing their contraband at them. He said Thakor had been booked for bootlegging at Amirgadh police station earlier too. Both the accused were booked .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bootleggers-throw-bottles-at-cops/articleshow/76500039.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s population 2.2% of India’s, but its coronavirus share under 1%||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is home to about 2.25% of the country's population, but its share in total number of cases stands at 0.98%. From March 1, when the first case was reported, to June 20, the state has been recording 34.36 cases every day on an average. The state, which appeared to be on the road to recovery till the end of May, has been hit by a massive wave of cases since commencement of Unlock 1.0 from June 1. In 20 days, 1,689 cases have been reported, accounting for 42.73% of total cases. The surge has taken a toll on the recovery rate, which has dropped from 88%, highest in the country among bigger states, on May 31 to 68%. In contrast, the fatality rate increased from 2% to 2.4% during this period, with the number of deaths rising from 45 to 98. During Unlock I.0, a majority of positive cases has come from populated districts, havinag a population density of 469 persons to 978 persons per square kilometre, as per Census 2011.Such districts include Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur. In the last week alone, of the 889 cases which surfaced, 213 were from Jalandhar, 163 from Ludhiana and 153 from Amritsar. Of 34 deaths in the last week, 14 were in Amritsar, and four each in Ludhiana and Jalandhar. The rise in fresh cases has shortened Punjab's doubling rate, the number of days it takes for cases to double. After rising to 102 days on May 24, the rate has narrowed down to 21.3 days. After initially struggling with testing, Punjab has increased its testing per million from 70 tests per million population per day on April 1 to 7,074 per day, which is better than the national average of 4,771 tests per million per day. Punjab rapidly ramped up testing by increasing laboratory capacities, which went up from 80 on March 15 to 6,810 tests on June 20. The state had tested 20,000 samples by May 2, the number of which touched 2,27,012 by June 20. To increase testing capacity, the state government has sent a proposal to the central government to set up four laboratories in district hospitals, besides starting testing at four state government labs. The Punjab government has been improving infrastructure to cater to projected rise in number of cases. At present, the government is equipped with 5,000 isolation beds, 1,916 ICU beds and 197 ventilators in government and private health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-population-2-2-of-indias-but-its-coronavirus-share-under-1/articleshow/76500042.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 22, 2020||India||Dubai opens up for residency visa holders from today||NEW DELHI: Dubai, among the biggest magnets for Indian globetrotters, will conditionally reopen its doors for tourists from July 7 and will allow foreign nationals holding residency visas issued in Dubai to return to the Emirate from Monday (June 22). The Dubai government’s media office tweeted on Sunday that the Emirate will “welcome tourists from July 7.  Tourists are required to present recent Covid-19 negative certificate or undergo testing at Dubai airports.” It also announced new air travel protocols for Dubai citizens, residents and visitors on Sunday. “… taken a decision to allow foreign nationals holding residency visas issued in Dubai to return to the Emirate starting Monday (June 22). It will also allow citizens and residents to travel to any foreign country starting Tuesday (June 23) provided the destination countries agree to receive them. Furthermore, they should commit to observing precautionary measures outlined by the countries they are visiting... has also decided to start welcoming visitors and tourists from overseas beginning July 7, 2020,” the government of Dubai’s media office said on its website on Sunday. On the issue of “return of UAE residents”, it said: “Residents holding Dubai-issued visas are permitted to return to the Emirate by pre-booking flights on any airline on the condition that they obtain an approval coordinated between the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs and the airline. Residents must fill a ‘health declaration form’ before embarking on their journey to confirm they do not have Covid-19 symptoms. The airline has the right to refuse boarding if passengers display any symptoms.” Upon arrival at Dubai airports, all residents will have to undergo a PCR test to screen them for Covid-19. Residents will need to register their complete details in the Covid-19 DXB smart app available online on arrival and before leaving the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dubai-opens-up-for-residency-visa-holders-from-today/articleshow/76501058.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||One day ahead of Rath, all eyes on SC move today||Bhubaneswar: BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra on Sunday filed an application in the Supreme Court praying for Rath Yatra to be held with restrictions, adding to the raft of petitions filed regarding the chariot festival in Puri. At least 15 applications have been filed in the Supreme Court by individuals, religious bodies and private organisations, with an appeal to modify its June 18 order and allow Rath Yatra to be held on Tuesday in a restricted manner. But Patra’s petition assumes significance as several BJP leaders have been demanding the car festival to go ahead sans devotees. “Today I filed an application for clarification/modification of earlier order of SC and sought permission for the Holy Rath Yatra of Shri Jagannath Mahaprabhu in Puri scheduled for 23rd June. Hope all our prayers are answered by the Lord of the Universe,” tweeted Patra, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 elections from Puri Lok Sabha seat. The development coincided with Puri’s BJP MLA Jayant Sarangi asking for a restricted Rath Yatra. On Sunday, Sarangi wrote letters to governor Ganeshi Lal and chief minister Naveen Patnaik and sought the duo’s immediate intervention to file review petitions in the Supreme Court. BJP state president Samir Mohanty, who had earlier supported the Supreme Court order, on Sunday said the government should take steps to ensure that the Rath Yatra takes place as per schedule on Tuesday even as Congress also upped the ante. “Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra is not just a festival for Odias, it's an intrinsic part of our life. Whatever may be the decision of the Supreme Court, the rituals, culture and traditional practices of the Jagannath Temple must be upheld at any cost. Unfortunately, the Odisha government wakes up only when the crisis hits a peak. The government must initiate a discussion with stakeholders and find a way to preserve our traditions. Otherwise, history will not forgive it,” Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik tweeted. The state government continued to remain tight-lipped on the growing public outcry. The BJD asked the opposition parties to refrain from politicizing the Supreme Court order and Rath Yatra. “The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the petitions on Monday. We should wait,” a BJD spokesperson said. Puri, which is normally a hive of activity during this time of the year, seems to be in a despondent mood. Locals are waiting for Monday’s Supreme Court hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/one-day-ahead-of-rath-all-eyes-on-sc-move-today/articleshow/76498272.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||Porbandar gets season’s first rain, more spells likely||RAJKOT: The cyclonic circulation over Saurashtra brought heavy rain to coastal districts of Saurashtra with Porbandar, Devbhumi Dwarka, Kutch and Junagadh receiving significant rainfall since Saturday night. All the main markets, roads, farms, rivers and streams were overflowing in these districts which received the first significant rainfall conducive for sowing. Porbandar town and taluka were pounded by nearly 155mm rainfall in 24 hours ending Sunday 1pm. Heavy rainfall was also reported from Kutiyana which got 112 mm and Ranavav that recorded 125 mm, said flood control room officials. This was the first rainfall of the season in Porbandar. For several hours, many areas in the coastal town were in waist-deep waters due to heavy water logging. However, the water flowed away into the sea during the day. In few hours of the morning, Porbandar got 102mm rainfall, according to district flood control room sources. Picturesque scenes were witnessed in and around Girnar in Junagadh as downpours infusing life into the dried up streams and fresh inflow of water into the rivers and lakes. Flash flood was reported in Pulku River of Dwarka district's Bhanvar village which was pounded by three inches of rainfall within a few hours on Sunday. In Khambhaliya, the headquarter town of Devbhumi Dwarka district, was also lashed by incessant rainfall that left the main markets and the roads heavily waterlogged. Rajula and nearby coastal villages in Amreli district too reeled under a wet spell. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted more heavy rain in Porbandar, Dwarka and Junagadh on Monday and Tuesday. On Monday thunderstorm with lightning accompanied with moderate rain and winds gusting up to 40 km per hour are very likely in all districts of Saurashtra, Kutch and Diu and isolated places in Ahmedabad, Anand, Patan and Kheda, Dangs, Navsari, Surat, Tapi, Valsad and in Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/porbandar-gets-seasons-first-rain-more-spells-likely/articleshow/76499196.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Flesh trade goes online, sees boom as cops busy with lockdown||NAGPUR: Taking advantage of the cops’ focus on the lockdown enforcement and other Covid related duties, flesh trade racketeers have shifted to online mode even as all other businesses nosedived due to restrictions. With the resumption of flight services, it’s learnt young girls masquerading as students are also coming to the city from Mumbai and Pune. They are even charging almost double for services, citing the hardship during lockdown. Several young girls from the city, including students, too have become part of the sex rackets during lockdown to fund their narcotics addictions, like MD drugs, which were available only at very high prices during the lockdown. Police said several escort agents and women, unregistered friendship clubs and massage services have cropped up with online contact facility. An officer said there were plenty of websites where mobile numbers, photos of young women with assumed names and message reading ‘call me’ could be seen during the lockdown. “These mobile numbers mostly remained switched off. We believe they call back after seeing the missed call alerts, responding only to numbers they find safe,” said an officer. Sources said the flesh trade rackets also found that their economically well-off customers were more eager than in the past to use their services. Apart from service apartments, some lesser known hotels and lodges were being illegally made available for the customers. It’s learnt that these places too were booked through online services. The payments too were received through mobile apps to avoid being caught by the police department, who find it easy to make stronger cases against pimps, brothel owners and escort agents when caught red-handed with cash. The racketeers, after a spate of action by cops, shifted their activities online to avoid being traced and trapped. An insider said the racketeers had also raised the charges for the services offered by their women manifold during lockdown. “The racketeers were charging Rs8,000-10,000 for a night, which earlier used to be Rs5,000 for local women during normal times,” he said. “They were charging Rs5,000 for an hour during the day, claiming women were not available or not ready to provide services due to lockdown,” he said. Senior PI Kishor Parvate of social service branch of crime branch admitted the racketeers have felt it easier to operate during lockdown as cops were busy in the Covid fight. “The racketeers are now asking clients to book rooms at hotels or lodges, or directing them to certain service apartments. All payments are through apps. It’s only after online transactions are completed that they are directly sending the women or girls to such hotels. They no longer accompany the women to the locations like in the past,” said Parvate, who has busted several such rackets in the past. Tejinder Singh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotel Owners Association, said civic or police administration should take strict actions against such illegal use of hotels through online portals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flesh-trade-goes-online-sees-boom-as-cops-busy-with-lockdown/articleshow/76500589.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 18 more PAC jawans land in Covid net||LUCKNOW: Eighteen more jawans of 47th battalion of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the total to 63 from June 15, about 70% of total 85 in the unit. A jawan of PAC 32nd battalion based in Krishna Nagar was also found positive. With this, total 66 PAC constables have been found infected so far. The two sections of the 47th battalion had moved from Meerut and Ghaziabad to Lucknow on June 5 and 7 respectively and were camping at an institute near polytechnic crossing and Bandariya Bagh near Gautam Palli. After the first case was reported on Monday the entire battalion was quarantined at the Police Modern School, Gomtinagar. Later, when all jawans were tested 42 came positive on Tuesday. "As one of the constables developed fever and respiratory problems in quarantine, the PAC administration requested us to test again those who had come negative earlier. In the second round of tests, 18 came positive for infection," said Dr KP Tripathi, incharge, district infectious diseases unit. Two PAC constables -- one each of 10th and 12th battalion -- had also tested positive. A similar outbreak has been witnessed among railway cops deployed at Charbagh railway station with 43 railway cops being diagnosed with the disease so far. At the call centre monitoring CM’s helpline, 88 staff members and their 16 contacts have tested positive till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/18-more-pac-jawans-land-in-covid-net/articleshow/76500572.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man elopes with musician’s wife||AHMEDABAD: A musician, Gaurav Pathak, 31, from Vejalpur filed a complaint with police on Saturday alleging that one Mahendra Rajpurohit has allegedly eloped with his wife Mala to rape her. The complainant also alleged that the accused had attacked and threatened him with dire consequences if he interfered in his relation with the complainant’s wife. Pathak, who runs a music class in his home, stated he had wed Mala Dave in 2012 according to social customs and the couple has a five-year-old son. Mala ran a beauty parlour from home and used to visit accused Mahendra Rajpurohit’s house when he lived in the same housing society. Later, Rajpurohit moved to an apartment in the same locality. In November 2019, Pathak learned that Rajpurohit had bad intentions towards Mala and he rebuked Rajpurohit. In spite of that Rajpurohit continued to meet Mala but Pathak did not take any actions fearing some untoward incident, states the FIR. On June 17, at around 8pm, Rajpurohit called up Pathak and told him to come to his home. When Pathak went to Rajpurohit’s home, he threatened Pathak to stay out of his and Mala’s relationship. Rajpurohit allegedly attacked and slapped Pathak, states the FIR. On June 19 at around 9am, Rajpurohit called up Pathak and told him that he had eloped with Mala and anyone who tried to find them will face dire consequences, adds the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-elopes-with-musicians-wife/articleshow/76500041.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Brothers shared old family photos on day of death||AHMEDABAD: More details have emerged in the Hathijan murder-suicide case in which two brothers, Amrish and Gaurang Patel had killed their four children and then committed suicide. Police sources said that the Patel family had a WhatsApp group. On May 17, both the brothers had shared some old family pictures on the group. “This was the day of their deaths. They had also shared a Hindi film song, “ Zindagi ki talash mein hum....” Police said the family had been surprised by the pictures and song the brothers had shared on the family group. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, ACP Rajpal Rana shared the latest case details. Rana said a special team was probing the financial angle based on PAN cards of the brothers and have obtained further details from the banks. “There were 37 loan accounts in their names and most loans had the address of the flat at Prayosh Residency. Twenty-three of the loan accounts were active and they had dues of Rs 32 lakh. Among the loan accounts still active, Amrish held seven, eight had been taken in the name of Amrish’s wife Jyotsna and eight in the name of Gaurang’s wife Hetal. They had taken personal loans, house loans, vehicle loans, credit card loans and loans on gold,” said a police official. Gaurang was a fabric checker and his elder brother used to drive a cab.Rana said all sources of income of the families had dried up. “This could be the reason behind the brothers taking the extreme step,” added the ACP. “Such was the bonding between the two brothers that they used to even share their income,” Rana said. Civil suit pending over land plotACP Rana said that the family owned a piece of land at Pirana. “However a civil suit was pending in the court about the land. We will shortly record statements of the family members and the opposite party about the land dispute,” he added. Nothing found from their mobile phonesPolice said they had recovered mobile phones of both the brothers but nothing suspicious had been found from their phones. “They had not received any threats for recovery of debts,” said police. When asked about the liquid found in the four glasses in the flat, cops said the glasses have been sent for forensic examination and the cause of death is still pending. The viscera from the dead bodies have also been sent for forensic examination, added a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brothers-shared-old-family-photos-on-day-of-death/articleshow/76500050.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Raped by dad, girl delivers baby in Karnataka||HUBBALLI: An incident of a father impregnating his daughter was reported from Koppal district on Sunday. The girl’s mother told Koppal rural police that her husband used to take the 14-year-old daughter to graze cattle. “He raped our daughter in an inebriated state many times while grazing cattle. He had threatened to kill her if she disclosed his act. When she suffered from stomach pain on Saturday night, we brought her to the district hospital, where she delivered a baby in the eighth month of her pregnancy,” she added. Police have arrested the accused and sent him to judicial custody. It’s learnt that the accused has six daughters and victim is the eldest. “We have registered a case under Pocso Act,” police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/raped-by-dad-girl-delivers-baby/articleshow/76498278.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bhopal||179 fresh cases in a day; MP corona count nears 12,000-mark||BHOPAL: With 179 positive cases reported on Friday, the tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 11903. Apart from the new cases, 14 casualties were also reported in the state in a day. The districts where these cases were reported include Indore (4), Bhopal (5), Ujjain (2) and 1 each in Jabalpur, Sidhi and Katni districts. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 515. Of the 51 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 21 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures includes Bhopal (47 new cases), Indore (41 new cases), Rajgarh (18 new cases), Khargone (18 new cases) and Jabalpur (13 new cases). On the brighter side, 135 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 9015. Thus, 75.7% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on June 21. There are only 2373 active patients in the state, while 9,105 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 2.96 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 11903 have tested positive. Meanwhile, the administration has announced 1,082 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones is strictly prohibited. Madhya Pradesh government has established 1,197 fever clinics in the state, where primary treatment is being provided and samples on the basis of the symptoms are being taken, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/179-fresh-cases-in-a-day-mp-corona-count-nears-12k-mark/articleshow/76500917.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cybercrook dupes man with scooter offer on portal||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Ramol, Sachin Patil, 32, filed a complaint of cheating with Ramol police on Saturday. Patil, who works in a pharma company, stated he had lost Rs 1,26,000 by trusting a cheat who had posed as an army jawan and offered a used motorcycle for sale on a portal for buying and selling goods. “While browsing the portal, Patil came upon the offer for the scooter on May 21. He contacted the seller on the number given in the advertisement. The seller told him he was an army jawan. They settled on a price of Rs 22,000 for the scooter and exchanged identity documents through WhatsApp,” said a police official. The seller, however, told Patil to pay through PhonePe and sent him a link to fill the form for buying the vehicle. When Patil clicked on the link after filling in details, Rs 1, 26,000 was stolen from his bank account linked to PhonePe. Patil first went to cybercrime police station, and from there he was sent to Ramol police station to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cybercrook-dupes-man-with-scooter-offer-on-portal/articleshow/76500047.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Trichy||As Covid-19 cases spike, Trichy readies schools for quarantine||Trichy: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the city within a few days has made Trichy Corporation identifying schools and community halls to set up makeshift quarantine centres. As a precautionary measure, makeshift beds were set up in at least two schools in the city. Corporation sources said that they were instructed by the district administration to identify schools and community centres in all the four zones namely Srirangam, Ariyamangalam, K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai. The civic body commences cleaning activities in the schools for arranging the beds. A quarantine facility was established at PS Hindu Corporation Primary School on Butterworth Road falling under Srirangam zone. Makeshift cots were arranged in four classrooms to accommodate three people per classroom. Similar bed arrangements were made at the Corporation school in Pandamangalam South, Woraiyur. Community hall at Pappakurichi and a corporation school in Senthaneerpuram were also identified to set up quarantine centres in Ariyamangalam zone. While officials claimed that the schools and community halls will be used as storerooms, well-placed sources in the corporation acknowledged that the schools were readied as temporary quarantine centres. “We were instructed to keep a few schools ready for quarantining. As there was opposition from people to use the corporation school in Sengulam, we changed the plan,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation told TOI. A section of corporation officials are doubtful of establishing the temporary quarantine centres as a section of residents had raised concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-covid-19-cases-spike-trichy-readies-schools-for-quarantine/articleshow/76500575.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Solar eclipse: Clouds black out Ring of Fire||LUCKNOW: Cloud played spoilsports for Lucknow astronomy lovers who were all geared up with special goggles, photography lenses and personal telescope to witness the event. But the cloud cover made it difficult to get a glimpse of the ‘Ring of fire’ solar eclipse. The disappointment further doubled when Indira Gandhi Planetarium could not live stream the event due to bad weather and later used Stellarium astronomy software to capture the eclipse. Only a few were fortunate enough to capture photographs of the solar eclipse using special lenses amid the hide and seek by clouds. “Since morning I was waiting for this rare celestial event. It was a breathtaking and best experience of my life . I have captured the photographs of the eclipse using Eclipse white light filter lens,” said Astro buff,Utkar Mishra , a student of Amity Law school Lucknow. The young astronomer had posted his disappointment on Facebook on witnessing the cloud cover, but after a struggle of hours when he managed to witness eclipse he was happy like anything. Another astro enthusiast Arti Nainwal said, “I was disappointed when the planetarium could not livestream the event. I too didn’t have special lenses or telescope to witness it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-eclipse-clouds-black-out-ring-of-fire/articleshow/76500583.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City’s TPR lower than state’s, but testing still a concern||Bhubaneswar: After showing signs of having brought the coronavirus outbreak under control, the capital city has again started recording more and more cases of the virus in June. It even got its first containment zone in almost two months this week. However, the city’s overall test positivity rate or TPR (from March 15 to now) remains below the state’s figure. The TPR of the city in June is 1.5 per cent. The overall TPR of the city since March 15, when the disease made an appearance in the capital, is 0.74 per cent. June’s test positivity rate of Bhubaneswar is higher than the city’s overall test positivity rate — meaning that a higher chunk of samples tested this month have returned positive. The capital city has tested around 8,000 samples in June, averaging about 400 a day, and has recorded 120 cases till Sunday. This amounts to a TPR of 1.5 per cent. Since March 15, the city has tested more than 25,000 samples, with 185 returning positive (thus recording a positivity rate of 0.74 per cent). The state overall has tested 2,24,402 samples, of which 5,160 have returned positive. This works out to a TPR of 2.3 per cent. While a lower TPR is good news for the city, the figure has to be balanced against the number of tests being carried out every day. Testing in the state overall has declined significantly in June in spite of a rise in the number of cases, as it has in Bhubaneswar. On Sunday, the city reported one positive case, a person from Niladri Vihar. He was under treatment in a private hospital and tested positive for Covid-19. The city also saw seven patients getting discharged from hospital, including a four-year old boy of Patrapada. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is in charge of Covid management in the city, said there was no room for complacence. “Active surveillance is on in areas that have reported cases and in other areas too,” said a BMC officer in charge of Covid management. The BMC on Sunday began supplying essentials including milk, grocery and vegetables to Subash Nagar slum in Dumduma area — the city’s newest containment zone — where six people have tested positive. The BMC on Sunday also tweeted a poll, asking people questions on whether they wore masks while going out or whether they spat in public. The aim of the poll is to bring about behavioural change by generating awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/citys-tpr-lower-than-states-but-testing-still-a-concern/articleshow/76498292.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Call to expedite VC appointment||Kozhikode: The Confederation of University Teachers Organisations of Kerala (CUTOK) has urged the governor and chancellor to expedite the appointment of new vice-chancellor of Calicut University. In a representation to governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Prof Junaid Bushiri, general secretary of CUTOK, said that though one month has lapsed after the search-cum-selection committee had submitted lists to the governor, the appointment of vice-chancellor has not been made yet. “This has created a lot of apprehension, uncertainty and confusion among the academics, the stake holders of the university, general public and the academic pursuit of the university,” the letter said. Calicut University had been without vice-chancellor for seven months now. The confederation has urged the governor to appoint the most competent and academically meritorious person as vice-chancellor at the earliest to provide academic leadership in one of the most important universities in Kerala. The three-member search committee had submitted two separate lists to the governor with state government putting its weight behind Prof K M Seethi of the School of International Relations and Politics, Mahatma Gandhi University, who topped the list submitted jointly by two search committee members V K Ramachandran, planning board vice-chairman, and Tom Jose, former state chief secretary. But the other search committee member M Jagadeesh Kumar, vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, submitted another list which was topped by C A Jayaprakash, principal scientist at Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram. CUTOK is an organization of university teachers affiliated to the Congress party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/call-to-expedite-vc-appointment/articleshow/76499207.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||Students booked for recording video inside police station||RAJKOT: Two college students were booked for recording a video inside Rajkot Taluka police station and sharing it on TikTok. Police said that Kamlesh Dafada, who lives on MG Road, had recorded the video in February. In the video, the lock-up of the police station and gate are visible. Dafada had recorded the video without the knowledge of any staffer of the police station when he went there for some work. Later, Dafada shared the video with his friend, Satish Solanki, who is also a college student. Solanki recently edited the video and shared it on TikTok. When cops came across the video, they investigated it and traced the source of the video. The duo is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/students-booked-for-recording-video-inside-police-station/articleshow/76499216.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Call for total lockdown as cases continue to rise||Trichy: The surge in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths have made a section of people make a u-turn and push for a total lockdown like the one imposed in Chennai and other hotspots. Understanding the gravity of the situation, Trichy Corporation had closed congested fish and meat markets in the city on Sunday. On Sunday, a senior citizen in Thiruverumbur died of Covid-19, sending shockwaves among locals. From 109 cases on June 17, it has climbed to 147 on June 20, a 35% increase in three days in the city. The sudden turn of events has made a section of people including entrepreneurs wanting a lockdown. Since shops were permitted to operate from 10am to 8pm, vehicular movement on roads have returned to near normalcy. Neighbouring districts like Karur and Pudukkottai have reduced the operating hours of commercial establishments. Though Trichy Corporation had closed the Gandhi market and Puthur fish market on Sunday, people opted nearby meat shops on Sunday, but social distancing went for a toss indicating that the gravity of the spread was not realised by everyone. Social distancing is being flouted in many of the commercial establishments and venturing without facemask has become a routine. “Cases are gradually increasing and frontline workers are getting infected too. Lockdown is imminent to bring down the spread,” said Dr A Mohamed Hakkim, an emergency physician. Even a section of traders acknowledged the need for a lockdown by stating that business can wait to safeguard lives. As people from hotspots have entered the city, residents said that the lockdown will help officials track returneesand also bring down fresh infections. “Staying home is the best solution to overcome the infection. As some fish stalls voluntarily closed on Sunday, not waiting for the government, people can also cooperate by self-imposing a lockdown like situation,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/call-for-total-lockdown-as-cases-continue-to-rise/articleshow/76500574.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana govt orders 50 random tests a day in each district as cases spike||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases soaring in the hinterland, the state has decided to increase testing in districts. As 611 cases have been reported from the districts save GHMC area in last 10 days, the government has directed district authorities to conduct 50 random tests daily in their jurisdiction. Though initially Covid-19 cases were less in the districts, the trend has changed in the past few weeks. Till Friday, the state had logged 6,526 cases of which 58% were from the districts and the rest from GHMC area. Recently, Indian Council of Medical Research ( ICMR) has asked states to conduct random tests, mostly on frontline workers and pregnant women. Director, public health, Dr Srinivasa Rao has directed health officials to conduct 200 tests a week in the districts. The number of Covid-19 positive cases was increasing mani-fold and it could be understood from a simple fact that in Medchal and Rangareddy districts (in areas which are not part of GHMC area) have recorded over 1,000 cases till now. Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, which was in the green zone for a long time, now has over 50 Covid-19 cases, while Nizamabad district is close to the 100 mark. In view of the increasing cases, the state has now reopened isolation centres, which were shut after Markaz Nizamuddin and foreign returnees were cured of the infection, in the districts. “According to ICMR guidelines, Covid-19 patients can stay at home depending upon their choice, but in villages people are not accepting them. So, we have increased and reopened the isolation facilities,” a top official said. However, experts said there was need to increase the number of tests. “There is need for more testing as the cases are increasing. It is best to increase testing to break the chain of virus spread as many countries have proved it,’ a public health expert, currently working with the government and requesting, anonymity, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-orders-50-random-tests-a-day-in-each-dist-as-cases-spike/articleshow/76500062.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Franchise-seeker cheated online in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In an example of online search optimization by fraudsters, a man fell in their trap when a tab, offering franchise for a namkeen brand he was searching for, opened automatically in his browser. The victim, Hemal Dalwadi, 45, of Vastral, lost Rs 99,999 by following the instructions on the site displayed in the tab. Dalwadi, who owns a factory in Odhav GIDC, contacted cybercrime police station after he realized he had been cheated, and from there he was sent to Ramol police station to file the complaint on Saturday. Dalwadi stated he wanted to enter food business and was searching to learn how to get the franchise of a prominent namkeen brand when the incident happened. “When the tab opened claiming to be the franchise offer page of the same brand, Dalwadi thought it was true and filled in his details on a form,” said a police official. He then received a call from a man posing as a representative of the company who sent him terms and conditions of the company franchise on WhatsApp. He also asked for photos of the place where he wanted to open the franchise and other details, which Dalwadi sent on the WhatsApp number. “The caller approved the location, and asked Dalwadi to pay Rs 99,999 to get the franchise form and for initial processing. He transferred the money from his bank account to the given account on February 12,” a police official said. Thereafter, the cheats sent Dalwadi a franchise agreement form and asked him to deposit Rs 15,00,000. After reading the agreement, Dalwadi felt something was wrong and he again searched on the internet and this time managed to reach the correct website of the brand. “When he called up the number given on the webpage, a representative of the company told him the brand followed no such procedure to give a franchise. Dalwadi immediately called on the numbers from which he had been receiving calls but found them switched off,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/franchise-seeker-cheated-online/articleshow/76500051.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Chief secy orders DMs to restrict movement of elderly, kids and pregnant women in markets||DEHRADUN: Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, in a meeting held with district magistrates (DMs) on Saturday ordered the officials to identify children below 10 years, elderly persons and pregnant women in their respective areas and strictly restrict their movement in market places or any crowded areas. The DMs have also been asked to prepare a database of such people and create awareness among masses on Covid-19. The review meeting, which was also attended by health secretary Amit Negi, was held via video conferencing at the secretariat on Saturday. While talking to DMs and other senior officials of the respective districts, Singh said that contact tracing must be done by obtaining travel history of each returnee. He also insisted that every district must ensure decent number of Covid tests. The official further directed government employees engaged in controlling the spread of Covid-19 to coordinate among themselves and take care of their own safety. He instructed the DMs to provide security kits to all the officers and employees engaged in the work. "Data of migrants should be prepared so that if found Covid positive, information about their travel history is available immediately and spread of infection can be checked. The DMs must also prepare data of children, pregnant women, elderly and people suffering from serious diseases in their districts and completely ban them from moving in public places," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chief-secy-orders-dms-to-restrict-movement-of-elderly-kids-and-pregnant-women-in-markets/articleshow/76498286.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Helped 20,000 migrants reach home: CR to HC||Nagpur: The Central Railway (CR) has transported over 20,000 migrants to their native places from the Nagpur station with the help of 22 Shramik Special trains. In an affidavit filed in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday, CR’s senior divisional commercial manager Krishnath Patil informed that all these migrants were transferred between May 3 and June 13. The affidavit was filed in response to the court’s poser while hearing a suo motu PIL based on plight of migrants walking hundreds of kilometres to their hometowns in states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, and others. Deven Chouhan was appointed as amicus curiae in the PIL. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor then adjourned the hearing, stating that the Supreme Court had already taken suo motu cognisance of migrants’ sufferings and issued a series of directives to the states. Patil informed that out of 22 Shramik Specials, 14 originated from the city while eight others passed through the city. “Till June 16, about 720 Shramik Special trains have passed through CR’s Nagpur Division stations. Of them, 350 halted in the city, from which about 4.09 lakh passengers were moved to their respective places and another 2.72 lakh from Ballarshah station, from where 194 trains passed,” he said. The senior manager informed that CR with the help of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and NGOs has provided breakfast, meals and drinking water to the migrants in all trains. “The CR is permitting district administration to allow stranded labourers to travel on route and permitting them to board and deboard trains as per the railway board’s policy,” he said. Patil further mentioned that they had arranged a desk officer at the railway station to guide migrants on train schedules. “Railways administration is fully geared to run the Shramik Special trains as and when demand comes from the district administration. As of today, there is no pending request,” he said. TRAIN TO HOME 20,840 | Total migrants departed from Nagpur (May 3 to June 13) 14 | Trains originating from city 6 | From other places (Akola, Wardha) 350 | Total trains that passed through city 4,96,099 | Passengers transported 194 | Total trains passed via Ballarshah 2,72,988 | Passengers transported||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/helped-20000-migrants-reach-home-cr-to-hc/articleshow/76499743.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Four cases in Soudha; staff want ban on public entry||BENGALURU: With yet another Covid-19 case recorded in the corridors of power, secretariat employees are worried. Fearing they may contract the infection, the staff will urge the government to ban public entry to Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and MS Building for at least a few weeks. On Sunday, one more positive case was identified in the government printing press located at Vikasa Soudha. This takes the count of infected secretariat staff at Vikasa Soudha, Vidhana Soudha and the chief minister’s home office, Krishna, to four. “With each passing day, it’s becoming increasingly worrisome as one or the other secretariat employee is turning positive for Covid-19. Most of us are even considering not going to office as it is a scary situation for us and our families,” said a secretariat employee. Government employees say they also have concerns regarding the entourage of legislators and ministers, who visit the premises to meet their patrons. “Despite all efforts, the situation hasn’t been brought under control. We will request the government to enforce strict measures for people entering the secretariat and major government buildings. We want the public and non-essential staff to be banned from these buildings for a few weeks,” said government secretariat employees’ association president CS Shadakshari, adding the association will meet the chief minister on Monday morning to ensure stringent measures are taken in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-cases-in-soudha-staff-want-ban-on-public-entry/articleshow/76499508.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||I-T officer booked for taking Rs 15,000 bribe||RAJKOT: An income-tax officer in Rajkot was booked by the anti-corruption bureau on Sunday for accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 before lockdown. The grade 2 officer Maulesh Mehta had initially demanded a bribe amount of Rs 20,000 and later accepted Rs 15,000 to solve a query in the tax return. The victim had approached the anti-graft agency after paying the bribe amount. According to ACB officials, Mehta had issued the notice to the victim by raising a query in his income-tax return of the financial year 2011-12. On March 8, Mehta told the complainant that he would solve the query if paid Rs 20,000 cash. After some negotiations, Mehta settled for Rs 15,000 and accepted the amount on March 12. ACB officials said that the victim had recorded the audio and video of his conversation with Mehta and submitted it with his complaint. On the basis of the video, it was prima facie evident that Mehta had accepted the bribe amount. Therefore, an offence under Prevention of Corruption Act was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/i-t-officer-booked-for-taking-rs15k-bribe/articleshow/76499231.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Vadodara||NRI booked for Rs 20 lakh extortion||VADODARA: Three persons were arrested while another man from Kheda, who is a Kenyan resident at present, was booked on Sunday on charges of blackmailing and extorting a Harni-based woman. While police laid a trap to catch two accused, Dashrath Desai and Durgesh Patel, both residents of Ahmedabad, the third accused Brijesh Patel was arrested from his home. Cops declared Ishwar Rabari, a native of Kheda and currently living in Nairobi, as wanted in the case. Police said that the harassment started with Brijesh calling the woman’s daughter, who is currently studying biochemistry in USA, for the past four months to abuse her as he too wanted to go there and live with her. The woman’s daughter and Brijesh had secretly tied the knot in a registered marriage, an information that the mother came to know only when the daughter informed her recently after Brijesh’s harassment had become intolerable. Police said that Brijesh used to threaten the girl of defaming her mother and relatives in the society and even used to call her relatives. When the student changed her phone number, Brijesh started harassing her mother here. He made obscene gestures at her and also threatened to defame her. When she disregarded his threats, he made Rabari call her up on June 16 to blackmail her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nri-booked-for-rs-20l-extortion/articleshow/76499109.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Couple allegedly attacks cops in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A man and his wife from Thaltej, who were travelling with other passengers in a car, allegedly attacked police personnel when the car was stopped on Saturday night as none inside were wearing masks, and they were travelling during curfew hours. According to an FIR filed with Sola police, the cops were deployed at Sola Bhagwat Crossroads on curfew duty after 9pm on Saturday. They stopped a car at around 9.30pm, which was being driven by Purvesh Chauhan, 39, resident of Thaltej. His wife Alpa, was sitting beside him. In the rear seat, a man, a woman and a three-year-old girl were sitting, states the FIR. Complainant PSI J J Rana stated that none of them were wearing masks when they were stopped. When cops said they will be fined, the man got angry and began telling police that there was no such order which necessitates everyone to wear a mask. During heated arguments he termed the the rule as “nonsense” and termed the cops as “goons”, states the FIR. Rana alleged that Chauhan also had a scuffle with cops, and his wife quarrelled with them. Sola police registered an FIR for violation of notification, hindering work of a government servant on duty, causing hurt and criminal intimidation and added charges under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-allegedly-attacks-cops/articleshow/76500057.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Residents of Karnaprayag face powercuts of over 12 hrs despite living in area that has huge hydropower projects||DEHRADUN: Residents of Karnaprayag – where hydropower projects of several 1,000 MWs are operational – are ironically facing acute electricity issues in their area. With just a single feeder to supply power in Chamoli district and parts of Karnaprayag town, residents said that they are forced to survive without electricity for several hours during power breakdowns. According to residents, the power cuts are often more than 12 hours. Sometimes, it takes a day and even more for the power to resume in the district, they said, adding that a 33KV feeder was proposed in the area a few years ago which is still not operational. Sameer Bahuguna, a lawyer and resident of Nandprayag, said, "There are several blocks, including Joshimath, Dasoli, Ghat, Pokhi and a portion of Karnaprayag that are affected the most during power cuts. It is highly deplorable that the area which produces thousands of megawatts of electricity is being deprived of power. Officials as well as the MLAs of the area have been intimated about the problem many times but nobody has bothered to take any action.” Reacting to the issue, BCK Mishra, MD of Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL), told TOI, "Work is already underway for strengthening the power supply in the areas. In case people from specific localities have a problem, the issue will be resolved with the help of the local officials on priority." Karnaprayag MLA Surendra Singh Negi when queried about the matter, said, "We have enough feeders for ensuring regular power supply. However, we have also received complaints from some areas and the lines are being repaired now." Badrinath MLA Mahendra Bhatt added that though there is adequate power supply for the state, there might be some pockets where residents are experiencing long powercuts. "I have personally met officials and the issue will be resolved at the earliest."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-of-karnaprayag-face-powercuts-of-over-12-hrs-despite-living-in-area-that-has-huge-hydropower-projects/articleshow/76498307.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Urgent loans seen as a cheaper finance option||NAGPUR: Even as the response to government’s Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) was moderate initially, businessmen with unutilized limit in their earlier cash credit (CC) facilities too are going in for the debt. More than emergency funding, they are seeing it as a cheaper option compared to existing unutilized limits, and a buffer against future liabilities, said sources. Under the scheme, banks are giving collateral free additional loans upto 20% of the businesses’ existing debt as on February 29, 2020. The loans are available at 8.5 to 9.25% interest and are backed by a government guarantee. As against this, the regular loans were at 11% and even higher rates.  In a bid to push the scheme, banks are sending pre-approved offers of emergency loans to their clients. State Bank of India’s (SBI) industrial credit branch at Nagpur, which covers borrowers having individual loans of Rs50 crore and above, has granted over Rs55 crore of the additional loans to 13 accounts so far, said a source. A source in Punjab National Bank’s (PNB)’s circle office said so far nearly Rs4.27 crore of loans were granted under the scheme to over 700 customers. Before this, the bank had disbursed Rs80 crore under its own Covid-finance scheme, a source said. The Nagpur zone of Bank of India has provided Rs36 crore to 1,385 accounts. “A majority of my clients have preferred not to avail the loan because business itself has not taken up. It may only add to additional liability if loans are raised without any means of using the amount,” said Julfesh Shah, a chartered accountant and project finance expert. Shah accepted some businesses were taking it as a cheaper option for working capital, and said it is not a violation of any norms. Amir Raja, a chartered accountant, said, reduction in repo rate has also bought down rates for loans in general, and good borrowers are getting funds at around 8.5%. However, as cooperative banks are not included in the scheme, a number of smaller businesses have been left out. Former VIA president Pravin Tapadia said the move has infused enough liquidity in the system and he had availed the facility too. “SBI provided me loans on suo motu basis. I was just asked to sign a few papers. This was of major help,” he said. Nitin Lonkar, former president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), however, said that 80% of his members were having difficulty in getting extra loans from banks. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of Hingna MIDC Industries Association (MIA), said that while industrialists who had been prompt in paying instalments were being sanctioned loans on suo motu basis, those who had delayed repayment were being harassed. Madhusudan Rungta of Chandrapur MIDC Industries Association also said the same thing. Shegaonkar said the additional loan should have been 50% of the outstanding loan. “The 20% limit is too less, and does not meet working capital requirement of many industries. We have made several representations to the government, including Gadkari, but have not received any response so far,” he told TOI. Jaspal Singh Arora, a hotelier, said he had repaid his loan in January this year and hence was not eligible for any loan. “My establishment is closed since March, and the government is yet to let us reopen. How will I operate without cheap loans? I have to pay salaries to my staff,” he added. Atul Pande, former president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), also said he had been sanctioned 30% extra loan at lower rate of interest. “The government has done a big thing for MSME sector. I am thankful to MSME minister Nitin Gadkari for that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/urgent-loans-seen-as-a-cheaper-fin-option/articleshow/76499686.cms||Shishir Arya
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Tender floated for Ajni intermodal station||Nagpur: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has finally floated the tender for phase I of intermodal station (IMS) at Ajni. The cost of the project is Rs 1,053.38 crore. It has to be completed in 2.5 years and the contractor will have to maintain the facility for ten years. The bhoomipujan of the project was performed by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in March 2019. After the bhoomipujan, NHAI had to get its design approved by Central Railway (CR) on whose land the project will come up. The tender was floated after all the formalities were over. The IMS will have connectivity between long distance buses, city buses, railways, Metro and indirect link with the city airport. The IMS will have parking for long distance buses and it will act as a departure and arrival point for private buses. City buses will stop at IMS. When the IMS is ready, railways will be asked to convert Ajni into the main railway station of the city. Nagpur Metro’s Congress Nagar station will be connected to the IMS with a foot overbridge (FOB). You can reach the city airport directly by boarding the Metro at Congress Nagar station. The contractor will have to build the main IMS building, a new railway station building, FOBs, subways, internal roads, new railway quarters, etc. IMS is coming up on CR land and some railway quarters will have to be demolished. NHAI will build new quarters in lieu of these. IMS will have space for parking 590 cars in the main building. The ground floor is reserved for arrivals. There would be 40 bus bays while 28 would be idle. The railway amenities include ticket counters, toilets, waiting room for 1,600 passengers, cloak room, VIP room, parcel office, 12 retail shops, etc. Four extra railway platforms will be built at Ajni. The main building will be connected to Ajni railway station by a FOB. The first floor is reserved for departures. The bus station will have waiting room for 1,600 people, 80 bus bays, 10 retail shops, etc. The second floor will have ticket counters, food court, restaurants, hotels and lounges. The facility is expected to handle 3 lakh passengers per day by 2050.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tender-floated-for-ajni-intermodal-station/articleshow/76499782.cms||Ashish Roy
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy gets three more containment zones in city||Trichy: Three new containment zones have cropped up in Trichy’s most congested streets including two near Big Bazaar Street. Trichy city now has eight active containment zones, the highest so far. A new containment zone was established at Kamarajar Nagar in Kattur falling under Ariyamangalam zone as 10 positive cases were reported here in the past three days. The source was identified as a 17-year-old college student but officials are unclear about how and where the youth had contracted the infection since he had no travel history. At least two neighbours had also contracted Covid-19 while visiting the youth’s house. Similarly, White Betal Street in Big Bazaar Street area, which had already reported four positive cases in the same family after conducting an engagement event on June 7, has recorded one more positive case making it a containment zone. A new containment zone was setup at Boologanatharkoil Street, which is not too far from the White Betal Street, after seven positive cases were reported. Many of them were attendees of the engagement held at White Betal Street, corporation officials said. Positive cases were also reported at Chinna Kammala Street, Chinna Setti Street and Takkar Street, all located within a kilometre of Big Bazaar Street. The Trichy Corporation has brought the cross streets of Big Bazaar Street under a scanner to trace the contacts of positive cases reported in the closely packed containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-gets-three-more-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/76500586.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Tension over delay in declaring Covid results of traders||Trichy: The inordinate delay in publishing Covid-19 test results of traders who underwent a mass screening in the city has caused concern among the residents in the Gandhi market locality as a section of traders among them has been moving freely in the public.After a senior functionary of a traders’ organisation tested positive for Covid-19 on June 14, his contacts including traders and journalists were called for a mass screening at Thevar hall here on June 15. After a close relative of an onion trader tested positive, a similar mass screening was held at the onion market near Palpannai the same day. Around 246 people including journalists gave their samples for Covid-19 mass screening tests. Usually test results are disclosed within a couple of days, but several people who underwent the mass screenings were not informed about the results as till Friday evening. “I managed to get my result, it was negative. But several traders are yet to get their results. Most of them are venturing out,” Abdul Hakkim, a trader from Gandhi market, said.The traders who await their results think that they are negative for Covid-19, unless they would have been quarantined by the health officials. However, residents and fellow traders from the area are a distressed lot as the results of the mass screening is not yet out. “Results of half of the samples have come. The rest of the cases are under progress,” a medical officer with Trichy Corporation said. It is to be noted that the at least six contacts of the trader who attended the peace talks has tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tension-over-delay-in-declaring-covid-results-of-traders/articleshow/76500591.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Monsoon plan in flow, GHMC continues its demolition drive||HYDERABAD: Of nearly 700 buildings identified as being structurally unfit, 56 were demolished and two houses were sealed as part of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) monsoon action plan. “The demolition drive started on Friday and will continue till all such buildings, which cannot be repaired, are demolished,” said a GHMC official. Seethanagar Colony (Jubliee Hills), Raghavendra Colony (Serilingampally) and Begumbazar (Goshamahal) are among the areas where the demolition drive is currently in progress. After identifying 316 dilapidated buildings last year, the civic body identified another 377 unfit structures this year. “While there are close to 700 buildings which are structurally unfit, some of them can be repaired. In 2019, 453 buildings have been either demolished or sealed. Some people renovated their buildings and a few of them vacated. This year too similar activity will be executed,” said a GHMC official. As per the records, most of these dilapidated buildings are located in Charminar, Secunderabad, Goshamahal, Amberpet, Khairtabad and Karwan circles. Residents and activists said that people in the vicinity of these dilapidated building should be alerted. “Barricading the structure and pasting caution notices on old buildings should be taken up immediately for safety of the people,” said Harish Daga, a city-based activist. Meanwhile, GHMC officials have cautioned people living in these unfit structures. “People residing in dilapidated structures or in the huts near sloppy terrains have been cautioned to vacate the premises or get them repaired in order to protect themelves. Before demolishing, advance precautionary measures like evacuation of inmates and sealing of building are being taken up,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. However, many people are still staying in these old buildings. In some cases, buildings housing commercial establishments on Subhash Road, RP Road (Secunderabad), Rose Colony (opposite GHMC head office) and Chintal Basti (Khairtabad) are also in bad shape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-plan-in-flow-ghmc-continues-its-demolition-drive/articleshow/76500033.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Five cops from one station test positive as cases in Hyderabad rise||HYDERABAD: Coronavirus cases among cops in the state continued its rise with another five policemen from a station in Hyderabad testing positive on Sunday. The five officers, one of whom holds an inspector rank, were instructed to be in quarantine. All police officers who tested positive had been actively serving in the field and had interacted with several persons. On Saturday, the inspector had reported symptoms of fever following he was tested for Covid-19. After his samples returned positive, his subordinates who had come in contact with him were told to undergo tests immediately. It is learnt that as many as 20 policemen underwent the test of whom four tested positive for the virus. Till date, over 150 policemen in the state have tested positive for coronavirus. “The increase in policemen contracting the virus has started since the periodic relaxation of the lockdown,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Over the last few days, three IPS officers in Telangana have tested positive and are under home quarantine. In once case, 23 policemen from a single police station had tested positive for coronavirus. All of them are in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-cops-from-one-station-test-positive-as-cases-in-city-rise/articleshow/76500046.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana techie ends life over alleged harassment by husband, in-laws||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old software employee ended her life in Meerpet on Saturday night due to alleged harassment by her husband and in-laws. It is claimed that the woman, who has two daughters, was being harassed for not giving birth to a son. Police have registered an abetment case against the family members. The deceased, Shiva Kumari, was the wife of U Jayaram, a businessman from Hanumannagar in Meerpet. The couple got married in 2010 and Kumari’s father gave 200 square yards plot as dowry, Meerpet police said. Recently, Jayaram had sold the plot and purchased the house in Meerpet’s Hanumannagar. “According to Kumari’s father, after purchasing the house Jayaram registered it in his name and started harassing his wife,” Meerpet SI V Maraiah said. On Saturday night, Jayaram called his father-in-law Venkataiah and informed that Kumari had ended her life. Venkataiah reached the house and asked his nine-year-old grand daughter what had happened. “Venkataiah alleged that Jayaram and his mother Bala Kistamma harassed Kumari for giving birth to two girls. There was no suicide note,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-ends-life-over-alleged-harassment-by-husband-in-laws/articleshow/76500204.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru to get first private Covid-19 lab||MYSURU: Mysuru will soon get a private lab, a first in the Old Mysuru region, to test for the novel coronavirus, but people will have to pay to get tested. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar disclosed that people are unwilling to get tested at the Covid hospital because they fear getting infected there. Therefore, the district is opening a number of swab collection centres across Mysuru, to encourage the public to voluntarily get tested if they have any influenza-like symptoms or have a travel history. “People fear to step into government facilities where Covid tests are conducted for free. Measures are being taken to decentralize the examination and testing centres, to test more people,” he said. “Mysuru’s JSS hospital is ready with a testing facility, to conduct Covid tests, but are awaiting a nod from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Collecting samples requires skills and trained staff, or else it may lead to an incorrect diagnosis. NABL has to approve private labs but testing in such labs is not free,” the DC said. Currently Mysuru is testing approximately 500 samples daily, and so far 15,645 samples have been tested in the district. Of them, 151 were found to be infected. With an increase in the number of people coming from other states, there is every chance of a rise in positive cases. More tests need to be carried out on a daily basis, as from Rajasthan alone about 45 came in a group, and have been quarantined. “Testing is important to keep infection at bay. People must voluntarily maintain social distancing, wear masks and wash their hands frequently,” Abhiram stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-to-get-first-private-covid-lab/articleshow/76498893.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||International Yoga Day celebrations a subdued affair in Mysuru this year||Mysuru: It was the meeting of an ancient practice and modern technology, when the asanas that ten yoga experts demonstrated on the premises of Mysore Palace on Sunday was telecast live on Facebook to mark the occasion of International Yoga Day. Interestingly, Mysuru, which has been gunning for the record of the largest number of participants at a single yoga event for the past few years, was forced to settle for a symbolic event owing to the pandemic. Meanwhile, hundreds of yoga practitioners decided to celebrate the occasion within the confines of their homes. ‘Yoga for health – Yoga at home’ was the United Nations Organisation’s theme for this year’s International Yoga Day. In Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts, yoga enthusiasts came out on the terrace and balcony of their homes and performed asanas, which was in keeping with the guidelines issued by the government. In Chikkamagaluru, Karnataka tourism minister CT Ravi too performed asanas at his home to mark the occasion. In Mysuru, several yoga organisations and institutions were involved in arranging the marquee event at Mysore Palace. D Srihari of the Yoga Federation of Mysuru led the team of experts at the palace. The event, which was telecast on Facebook, was watched by hundreds of enthusiasts across the world. Those who marked the occasion by performing yoga at their homes have been requested to click photographs and send it to the AYUSH department, which will total the numbers to declare the number of participants in each district. Srihari said that tadasana, vrukshasana, pada hasthasana were among the various postures the experts assembled at the Mysore Palace performed on Sunday. “In 2019, more than 70,000 participants gathered at the Mysore Race Course for the event, and there was the air of a festival on the ground. This year, around 1.5 lakh people participated, albeit remotely, in the event, across Mysuru district, of which one lakh were from Mysuru alone. All of them will be given a certificate by the AYUSH department,” said Srihari, founder of GSS Yoga Foundation and head of Yoga Federation of Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/international-yoga-day-celebrations-a-subdued-affair-in-mysuru-this-year/articleshow/76499579.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Covid-19 showed world how important anaesthetists are’||During the Covid-19 pandemic, one specialty of modern medicine that has emerged into the limelight is anaesthesiology. Previously, anaesthetists used to be people behind the curtains. But in Covid-19 times, they are emerging as doctors working in ICUs, isolation wards and sharing the burden of physicians. TOI spoke to veteran anaesthetist from Chandrapur Dr Sunil Dixit, who has developed India’s own epidural syringe. He spoke about anaesthesiology as a pillar of modern medicine, how they are working for Covid-19 patients, and the future of the crisis.How do you see the contribution of anaesthetists during Covid-19 ? Present situation of Covid-19 pandemic is an emergency. All health workers, right from attendants to doctors are working 24X7 as warriors to save lives. We all know that doctors from medicine and anaesthesia fields are working in the forefront. For the first time in many years, we are seeing anaesthetists working in patient care so actively. People are now realizing that these doctors are also one of the four pillars of ICUs.What exactly are anaesthetists doing ?This is quite an obvious question because we have been watching anaesthetists only during surgeries. They enter the operation theatre before the surgeon and slip out after surgery quietly as we wait outside to meet the surgeon anxiously. But, during this pandemic, they have been working in isolation wards and taking care of patients. Anaesthesiologists are experts in emergent airway management, acute and intensive care. They know exact time of intubation and ventilation. This expertise helps open collapsed lungs, improve oxygenation, decrease the strain on lungs and help the lungs heal.Do they have the expertise in patient care must for working in front-line?Well, anaesthesiologists are silent and confident doctors. They are basic MBBS graduates like their other colleagues. They are experts in physiology, pharmacology, and physics. They have to know about everything from cellular respiration to how our drugs work, to the internal working of a defibrillator, ventilator. Anaesthetists are working with emergency medicine, critical care, pain specialists during Covid-19. They protect the body from collapsing. Do you think anaesthetists need to work more in expected peak of Covid-19 cases?According to Indian Society of Anaesthesiologists (ISA national) advisory, there can be a sudden surge of patients and health care demands. The hospital resources can get exhausted quickly and medical personnel can be under tremendous work stress, both clinical and psychological. In coming days, a large number of patients may suddenly require oxygen therapy, tracheal intubation and ventilatory support. So, anaesthetists will be on their toes. The experience in isolation ward will come handy for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-showed-world-how-important-anaesthetists-are/articleshow/76499761.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Rise in number of ILI Covid-19 cases a cause for concern||Dharwad: The rise in the number of people with influenza like illnesses (ILI), with no history of coming in contact with patients with Covid-19 infection, testing positive for the novel coronavirus has raised the hackles of the public, while also alarming the medical community. Most of the people with ILI subsequently being confirmed infected with Covid-19 in Dharwad district happen to be those aged above 60. In all cases, the patients have not been identified as contacts of a previously infected individual. Consequently, the district administration is trying to ascertain the exact reason behind patients with ILI contracting Covid-19. A retired medical officer said that, with the onset of the monsoon, a large number among the elderly community was likely to get influenza since they were more susceptible to it. “That many of them are testing positive for the novel coronavirus despite having no contact with other patients is a cause for concern,” he said. Dharwad district recorded 15 more Covid positive cases on Sunday taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 198, with three fatalities having been reported thus far. On the other hand, 12 patients were discharged on Sunday, and the number of active cases in the district now remains at 120.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rise-in-number-of-ili-covid-19-cases-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/76499242.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Lockdown exposes minors to risk of child marriage||HYDERABAD: At least two child marriages have reportedly taken place while another three have been stopped by officials during the lockdown period. Most alerts on child marriages usually come from schools, however with schools shut as a result of the lockdown, several children may have become susceptible to this practice. In May, a 13-year-old girl from Shadnagar was married to a 37-year-old man. After information reached officials, a suo-motu case was registered and the girl was rescued and shifted to a shelter home. In another case, a 14-year-old girl was married to a 23-year-old construction worker in Medchal district where even the municipal vice-chairman attended the marriage. A case was booked against the official along with the family of the groom. The girl was rescued. “After the tenth exam, many adolescent girls become victims of child marriage. In most cases, school teachers or their classmates reach out to helpline numbers informing about such instances. With schools closed, many girls may become victims of early marriage,” said child rights NGO Balala Hakula Sangham president, Achyuta Rao. During the lockdown, a state-level virtual workshop was conducted by Telangana Department of Women Development and Child Welfare in association with Mahita NGO to discuss strategies to end child marriages in the state. “In AP, over 100 child marriages were stopped by officials during lockdown. With rising concern over such instances, the workshop was conducted. The department discussed a need to spread awareness among other parties like-function hall owners, priests and others involved in such marriages apart from underprivileged families,” said Mahita’s child protection officer, Rubina Philip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-exposes-minors-to-risk-of-child-marriage/articleshow/76500055.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mechanic commits suicide due to 'financial problems' at Meerpet||HYDERABAD: An RTC contract worker allegedly died of suicide due to financial problems at Meerpet in the early hours of Sunday. Shortly before ending his life, he had made a video call to his mother-in-law informing her about his decision. The deceased was identified as Lavudya Santosh, 28, a contract mechanic at RTC bus depot, Midhani. “Around 1.20am on Sunday, Santosh, called his mother-in-law Santha Bai and told her that he was going to end his life by hanging himself. After disconnecting the call, Santosh switched off his phone,” Meerpet sub-inspector (SI) G Venkat Reddy said. No note was found. Santha Bai immediately informed her son Praveen about the phone call. Praveen called his friend A Sandeep, who stays near the house of Santosh. “By the time Sandeep reached Santosh’s house in Triveni Nagar near Balapur X Roads, the latter had ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan,” the SI said. When the incident happened, Santoh was alone at home as his wife was at their native place in Mahbubnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mechanic-calls-up-kin-before-killing-self/articleshow/76500181.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cabs being forced out of business over non-renewal of documents||HYDERABAD: While Ola and Uber resumed their services earlier this month, drivers allege that they are being forced off the road by the aggregators for not renewing vehicle documents. A few drivers told TOI that companies have blocked their IDs as they did not renew their fitness certificates. Drivers were upset with this move as the Centre had extended the renewal date to September 30 in view of the lockdown. “All documents for my vehicle were valid before the lockdown was imposed. During lockdown, the fitness certificate for my vehicle expired. I could not get it renewed immediately as the RTA office was closed. Though the Centre has extended validity of all vehicle documents, the aggregator blocked my ID saying that my documents are not valid,” said Syed Moiz, a driver with both Ola and Uber. “With no other option left, I went to the RTA office recently and got the fitness renewed. And now my insurance has also expired for which I need to pay Rs 30,000. I don’t have enough earnings to feed my family. These additional expenses at a time like this are only making our situation worse,” Moiz said. Members of Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers (IFAT) said that they have been receiving similar complaints from a number of drivers since the lockdown was eased. “This is a new problem that we are facing. How can the company expect us to spend so much immediately after the lockdown has been lifted? Shouldn’t they be following the central government orders and give us time until September 30?” questioned Shaik Salauddin, the national general secretary of IFAT. Earlier, the ministry of road transport and highways on June 9, had extended validity of all expired transport documents like driving license, fitness, permits, registration and related documents till September 30, 2020. The state government had also issued a statement saying that the validity of all types of motor vehicle documents, whose extension of validity could not likely be granted due to lockdown and which had expired since February 1 or would expire by September 30, 2020, be treated as valid till September 30. When contacted, both Uber and Ola said that they will not be able to comment on the issue at this point. However, a source said that once registered and if vehicles meet the standards, they can login.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cabs-being-forced-out-of-biz-over-non-renewal-of-docus/articleshow/76500075.cms||Moulika.KV
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: This cheetah in Kawal sends chills down poachers’ spine||HYDERABAD: Cheetah’s day starts pretty much the same way as many of us — waking up, getting ready, having breakfast and reporting to work. But this courageous canine’s work is more than duty, it’s an oath to protect us under his watchful eye. Recruited by Telangana government in December 2018, Cheetah is none other than a German Shepard who is part of the dog squad deployed in Jannaram division of the Kawal reserve since December 2018. Since its recruitment, the dog squad helped in busting the poaching network to a large extent in Kawal Tiger Reserve, which is considered a global hub, conducive for survival of many big cats and the epicenter of a fierce battle to keep poachers at bay. The squad consists of Cheetah and its handler J. Satyanarayana and second handler S. Srinivas. According to the handlers, the dog has so far helped in solving more than 13 cases of wildlife poaching and timber smuggling in and around the tiger reserve. “The poachers and smugglers who live in the surrounding villages are now very well aware that if Cheetah gets their scent, there is no way they can get away with their crime,” said J Satyanarayana, dog handler and forest beat officer, Jannaram division. All the three members of the dog squad completed nine months of training at National Training Centre for Dogs, a Border Security Force academy located at Tekanpur in Gwalior of Madhya Pradesh. The forest deparment purchased Cheetah for Rs 35,000 and spends around Rs 12,000 per month for maintenance which includes its food and healthcare. “Within a month after it was recruited, Cheetah solved a poaching case in Chintaguda beat compartment of Jannaram district. With the help of scent from a slipper which the poachers left near the kill, Cheetah traced the place where the villagers cooked its meat in one of the villages nearby,” Satyanarayana told TOI. The Kawal tiger reserve is spread over 983 sq km of core and 1,123 sq km of buffer across Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal districts. The dog squad usually travels to different place across the reserve depending on the incidents of illegal activities,” said Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-cheetah-in-kawal-sends-chills-down-poachers-spine/articleshow/76500068.cms||Moulika.KV
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Food delivery staff protest pay structure||HYDERABAD: Around 300 delivery executives of an online food delivery company have protested over reduction in pay as well as cut in incentives after the lockdown was imposed. Claiming that their income has reduced drastically following a new payment structure introduced by the firm, the delivery executives refused to take orders in Begumpet, Karkhana and Ameerpet. They also took to the streets seeking restoration of their payment structure that was applicable before the lockdown. “Earlier, we were receiving Rs 35 for every order within three km radius. Now, we barely receive Rs 2-5. Before the lockdown, we were able to make Rs 1,000-1,500 per day. But now, we barely make Rs 300-400,” said a delivery executive. They said that though the company is collecting delivery charges up to Rs 50 from customers, it is not incentivising them. Officials at an online food delivery company said they have introduced a standardised payout structure. “The new system eliminates any gap based on delivery partner tenure and offers new incentive slabs which enable partners to earn better incentives based on deliveries. This will enable more delivery partners to achieve their targets and also makes it simpler for them to understand what they need to do to earn more on the platform,” read a statement issued by the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-delivery-staff-protest-pay-structure/articleshow/76500098.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Online sessions, yoga at home mark Intn’l Yoga Day||DEHRADUN: The 6th International Yoga Day was celebrated across Uttarakhand on Sunday, largely at home with people doing yoga in the confines of their houses, or by participating in online sessions. In view of the Covid-19 spread, no public event was organised on the day. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat led the celebrations by practising yoga at his official residence. He said, “We can beat the novel coronavirus by building our immunity and yoga is a proven way to get good health and immunity. We should all dedicate at least an hour to our fitness and practise yoga everyday.” Yoga guru Ramdev along with teachers and students from Acharya Gurukulam and Vedic Gurukulam also practised yoga and pranayam and extolled the benefits of the practice. "Yoga has no religion and is equally beneficial for all," Ramdev said. He added that “it is a way to nirvana as well as a healthy body and sharp intellect." A webinar on yoga, presided by Gurukul Kangri chancellor Satya Pal Singh, was also held on the day. At Rishikesh’s Parmarth Niketan, a webinar, ‘Namaste Yoga - Community, Immunity & Unity’ was organised on the eve of Yoga Day on Saturday. The participants stressed on a “strong sense of community for the mind, immunity for the body and realisation of the unity within and outside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-sessions-yoga-at-home-mark-intnl-yoga-day/articleshow/76498295.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Door-to-door visits part of civic rapid action plan for the suburbs in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The BMC will launch a rapid action plan on Monday to control the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the suburbs. The case doubling rate in wards like R-Central (Borivli lies in it) is 18 days compared to the 34-day average for the city. In R-North (Dahisar is in it), the doubling rate is even worse: 16 days. The BMC will bring on board around 50 ambulances that would be donated by an NGO. These will visit high-risk localities for swab testing. Deputy municipal commissioner Vishwas Shankarwar said screening would be held in particular containment areas in the coming days. "As and when doctors suggest that a particular person with symptoms needs to be tested, swab would be collected," he said. "Many of the recent cases are of patients who were admitted in hospitals for other ailments and had to be tested for Covid-19 as well. Considering that their immunity was already low, these patients were found infected with Covid-19." In Dahisar and Borivli, the BMC has planned door-to-door screenings, especially in residential localities for early detection. In certain areas where the numbers are rising rapidly, a complete lockdown has been proposed not just in the area proper, but also a buffer zone, where nothing except for essential shops would stay open. Officials said that the police had suggested a similar lockdown of containment zones. In areas like Andheri in the western suburbs, where aggressive house-to-house screening in certain pockets has already begun, MLA Ameet Satam said that over the last week, the ward has screened residents of 120 buildings as well as over 200 hawkers and staff of grocery stores. "All buildings are also advised to have a screening counter at their entrance with a thermometer and an oximeter to screen all external persons entering the building," he said. BMC has okayed a lockdown in areas at Dindoshi in Malad, said additional commissioner Dilip Sawant. Police patrolling was carried out at Santosh Nagar and at Borivli's Shastri Nagar, a containment zone, on Saturday. People were asked to stay indoors and follow lockdown guidelines. (With inputs from Nitasha Natu)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/door-to-door-visits-part-of-civic-rapid-action-plan-for-the-suburbs-in-mumbai/articleshow/76501067.cms||Richa Pinto
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha GMCs report 88 deaths so far, curb mortality rate||Nagpur: Government medical colleges and hospitals across the state are playing a crucial role in treatment of Covid-19 patients. In Vidarbha, all six government medical colleges have been converted into Covid hospitals in record time. They are not only treating patients well but also have controlled mortality rate very effectively. A comparative data of deaths happened in GMCs across the state shows that Vidarbha medical colleges have done impressive work in curbing deaths. Going region wise, medical colleges in Marathwada have reported 148 deaths, Western Maharashtra (excluding Pune) 142 deaths and North Maharashtra 195 deaths. As Mumbai and Pune have very high number of cases, they are not being considered for comparison. Out of 125 deaths reported in Vidarbha till June 21, 88 have happened in the six government medical colleges. Chandrapur and Gondia GMCs haven’t reported even one death till date. Other deaths include 18 at Amravati’s Covid hospital, eight at Buldhana’s district hospital, two in Washim, two in Wardha and seven in private hospitals (acquired in Akola). Out of total 125 deaths in Vidarbha, 83 are from Akola and Amravati put together. Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gondia districts have not reported even a single death till date. A labourer from Gadchiroli, who tested Covid-19 positive in Telangana and died there during treatment, is the only death reported from the district which has more than 60 patients. “Controlling deaths is prime agenda of health department in state. In Vidarbha, we are doing a good work right from the start. Except Akola, no district in the region has a death rate of more than 2%,” said a senior official from department of medical education which controls the GMCs in state. GMCH can now treat 600 Covid-19 patients GMCH Nagpur has successfully established a new Covid facility in the new three-storey building its premises on June 20, taking the total Covid-19 capacity of GMCH to 600 beds. These include 200 ICU beds and 400 high dependency unit (HDU) beds. “Within three months, we have established 600-bedded Covid facility. The Covid hospital at trauma centre has 60 ICU beds and 160 HDU beds. The new facility will have 140 ICU beds and about 250 HDU beds. As per government projection, Nagpur may have 3500-plus patients by July 15. So, we are ready with all necessary infrastructure,” said Dr Sajal Mitra, GMCH dean. Nagpur has 1,298 cases till date. Out of these, 757 have been reported between June 1 and 21. DEATHS IN STATE GMCs North Maharashtra GMCs | 2 Deaths | 195 Marathwada GMCs | 3 Deaths | 148 Western Maharashtra (excluding Pune) GMCs | 3 Deaths | 142 Vidarbha GMCs | 6 Deaths | 88 60 | Highest deaths in Akola GMCH 19 | Total at two GMCs in Nagpur 9 | Yavatmal GMCH * No deaths in Gondia and Chandrapur GMCH||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-gmcs-report-88-deaths-so-far-curb-mortality-rate/articleshow/76500596.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, ARIES deploys four telescopes to live-stream rare celestial phenomenon on YouTube and Facebook||NAINITAL: Thousands tuned in as the Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) live-streamed the annular solar eclipse on social media platforms such as YouTube and Facebook for the first time. The Nainital-based institute had deployed four telescopes to capture the rare celestial event which was witnessed from most of Indian subcontinent as well as parts of Africa and Europe. Speaking to TOI, scientists at the institute said that of the four-and-a-half-hour-long eclipse, around two hours of footage was sourced from the Leh-based Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA) since the sky in Nainital remained overcast for most of the morning. “The view was somewhat hazy because of cloud cover in the morning. We, therefore, sourced the footage from IIA. However, as the sky cleared around noon we used two of our camera-mounted telescopes to telecast the eclipse,” said Shashi Bhushan Pandey, a scientist at ARIES. Pandey added that two other telescopes were installed at ARIES for research scholars who were at the institute to study the rare celestial phenomenon. Apart from YouTube and Facebook, scientists, including the director of the institute, Dipankar Banerjee, also interacted with students on video calls through Zoom. “We had shared the ID with over 100 students who interacted with us through video conferencing. Our scientists explained the phenomenon causing the eclipse to the students and also answered their questions,” Banerjee said. Scientists explain that there are three different types of solar eclipses, including the annular where the moon is the farthest from the earth. “The solar eclipse is a phenomenon when the moon, the sun and earth fall in one line. The sun is eclipsed by the moon, therefore blocking the sun’s light from reaching the earth. There are three kinds of solar eclipses; total solar eclipse, partial solar eclipse and the annular eclipse. The eclipse on Sunday was the annular solar eclipse. In these eclipses, the moon does not block the entire sun but because it’s the farthest from the earth, it looks like a ring of fire,” Pandey said. Banerjee, meanwhile, added that an eclipse like this will next be visible only on May 21, 2031. However, the ARIES will continue to stream and invite more and more people to witness these celestial events. “Because of the coronavirus pandemic, we decided to interact with the students through Zoom. However, as the situation becomes normal, we are planning to invite more and more students to the institute as well as stream these celestial events,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-aries-deploys-four-telescopes-to-live-stream-rare-celestial-phenomenon-on-youtube-and-facebook/articleshow/76498325.cms||Prashant Jha
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||No handshakes or hugs at UBSE examination centres||DEHRADUN: The examination centres, where the remaining board exams of the Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) will be held from June 22-25, will have the facility of thermal screening. The body temperature of the students will be checked and if found abnormal then either they will sit in some different room away from the rest of the students or in a nearby school. Each centre will be given facemasks to ensure that everybody in the centre wears one. Also, the invigilators have been directed to ensure no physical contact takes place between the students at the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-handshakes-or-hugs-at-ubse-examination-centres/articleshow/76498315.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Shankaracharya toughens stance against SC order, says ‘evil plan’ hatched to ‘sabotage’ Rath||Bhubaneswar: With just a day left for the Supreme Court to take up a raft of petitions seeking a review of its decision to cancel the Rath Yatra, Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati on Sunday said he suspected an ‘evil plan’ was afoot to ‘sabotage’ the festival. The Shankaracharya fell short of naming or blaming anyone directly, but in a video message on Sunday, he expressed displeasure at the apex court’s decision to cancel the Rath Yatra in Puri and elsewhere in Odisha because of the pandemic. “A number of people and organisations promptly moved the Supreme Court and filed applications seeking reconsideration of the order. The apex court could have considered the applications on June 20 (Saturday). Now, time is running out and only one day is left for the Rath Yatra. It seems a well-planned design was hatched to stop the Rath Yatra,” the Shankaracharya said. Although the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the petitions on Monday, the Shankaracharya said they could have been heard on Saturday or Sunday. “There are provisions for the Supreme Court to take up urgent matters for hearing on vacations and holidays,” the religious leader said. The Shankaracharya’s stance on Sunday marks a departure from his earlier reaction to the Supreme Court’s order. The seer had then said the court’s decision was understandable in the context of public health and safety, while urging it to review its order. Meanwhile, Puri’s titular king and chairman of the Jagannath Temple managing committee, Dibyasingha Deb, who also drew flak for failing to pursue the matter seriously, wrote to chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday and urged the government to immediately file a review petition in the Supreme Court. The Daitapati Nijog, an association of servitors of the Jagannath Temple, said their application for a review should be considered by the apex court. “The government could not convince the court that the Rath Yatra could be held without devotees. In our petition, we have highlighted that all the servitors tested negative for Covid-19 in the run-up to the June 5 Debasnan Purnima. The administration smoothly conducted Debasnan Purnima by banning public congregation. The same can be done for the Rath Yatra,” Nijog secretary Durga Dasmohapatra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shankaracharya-toughens-stance-against-sc-order-says-evil-plan-hatched-to-sabotage-rath/articleshow/76498316.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 22, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Neemuch tea seller’s daughter becomes IAF flying officer||INDORE: This year, Father’s Day was very special for the tea seller in Neemuch, Suresh Gangwal. His daughter, Aanchal, not only graduated as flying officer from Indian Air Force Academy, but also received President’s Plaque on Saturday. Talking to TOI, Suresh, who owns ‘Namdeo tea stall’ in said, “This is the best gift that any father in the world can ever get from his daughter. My daughter has always made me proud.” He said that though his financial condition was never strong, it didn’t deter him from providing proper education to all his three children. Recalling the days of struggle and hard work that led to success of his daughter on Saturday, Suresh said, “I never remember my wife making unrealistic demands for jewellery or expensive items. Even today, she wears artificial jewellery because we preferred our kids’ education over materialistic things in life,” he said. Suresh himself had to leave his studies after class 10 to support his family. But, he said that he had decided that he would make sure his children get what he could not achieve. “I took a loan to get my daughter enrolled in a coaching institute in Indore while also supporting my son’s engineering studies,” he said, adding, he was sure that the children would succeed and support them later to pay off the debts. Suresh said that he and his wife Babita were very happy when Aanchal was born. “I still remember how she used to come and sit at the tea stall and complete her homework while helping me with the work there,” he said. The proud father said that unlike others in small towns, they had always encouraged their son and daughters equally. “Even in today’s world, we see that there is still discrimination between a girl and boy and people choose to educate their sons over their daughters but we never thought that way,” he said. Suresh said that the family members were however sad that they couldn’t attend graduation ceremony of their daughter in Hyderabad. “The last time she came to Neemuch in December, she was really excited and had invited all of us to the ceremony. But, we were not able to make it because of lockdown. Our blessings are, however, always with her and I am sure she will do whatever she can for the nation,” he said. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/neemuch-tea-sellers-daughter-becomes-iaf-flying-officer/articleshow/76500923.cms||Karishma Kotwal
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Another Congress leader tests +ve for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Another top Congress leader, who is the AICC secretary and a former MP, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday and was admitted to a private hospital in the city. His driver and two personal assistants have been home quarantined. Earlier, Telangana Congress treasurer had tested positive. Three legislators from the ruling TRS too had tested positive in the recent past. The 72-year-old Congress veteran celebrated his birthday on June 16 with a small gathering. His samples were collected after he began exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 and the result came back positive. The Congress veteran said he had gone to Kothagudem to participate in a protest programme at irrigation project sites on Godavari river on June 13. “I had slept on the road as police prevented us from going to the project sites. I think I got infected in Kothagudem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-cong-leader-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76500076.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19’s low 'R0' helps quick unlocking of areas: Pune Municipal Corporation||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has said that a dip in the infection’s R(0) value is allowing it to speed up unlocking of areas within its limits. The R(O), often pronounced as ‘R nought’, is the basic reproduction number of an infection or simply, the average number of people expected to be infected by an individual. It’s widely believed an outbreak can be contained if its R0 is less than one, or R(1). According to data published by PMC on Sunday, Covid-19’s R(0) in its limits was over 3 in the third week of April. The value then dipped below 1 in the first week of May. But it has gone up again since June 2, with PMC estimating the value to be 1.4 by the end of June. However, for most days, the reproductive number was less than 1. Much of the analysis for the PMC is being carried out by an advisory group called the Pune Knowledge Cluster (PKC), which was established by the Union government through the office of the Principal Scientific Advisor. Members include scientists and data experts from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU); the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics; National Chemical Laboratory; the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER), Pune; Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Persistent Systems. Shekhar Gaikwad, commissioner of PMC, told TOI, “An assessment of the likely spread of the virus is done before deciding on relaxations to be offered in areas. The R0 has been a major source of information for decision-making. Analysis of Covid-19’s reproduction rate and the low R0 has increased our risk appetite, to take strong decisions for relaxation.” He said that measures such as sealing the municipal limits during the early stages helped confine the spread. “The civic areas, which had massive spread in early days of outbreak, have shown some resilience since. The reduced R0 is a sign of that,” Gaikwad said. A member of the PKC said the group has been working to acquire real-time R(0) value for different wards under PMC limit. “Besides that we are mapping the trajectory of the spread, efficiency of contact tracing and estimating the number of ICU beds and ventilators that may be needed in the coming months,” the member said. He added that although there are multiple computational models available to track an outbreak, cities and regions should have custom models that include city-specific parameters. “This is what the PKC has been doing. Instead of fitting the data to a universal method, we have developed a Pune-specific model that considers population across wards, demographics, known comorbidities and availability of healthcare resources,” the member said. Nitin Karmalkar, the vice chancellor of SPPU, said, “The industry and academia joining hands for development is the aim behind the PKC. Other international universities such as Stanford have models, but we wanted to develop an indigenous model, one that will help local needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covids-low-r0-helps-quick-unlocking-of-areas-pmc/articleshow/76500072.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||Three sadhus arrested for raping woman in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Amreli police arrested three sadhus, including two from Swaminarayan temple in Gadhada village, on Sunday for allegedly raping a woman several times over the last 18 months. The three sadhus – Raghuram Bhagat, Jagdish Bhagat and Bhavesh Bhagat – were arrested within hours of the woman lodging a complaint with Damnagar police station on Sunday morning. In a statement, Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai said that the trio used to call the 30-year-old woman repeatedly for petty labour work at the ashram of Sant Devidas in Narayannagar village near Damnagar. They used to allegedly keep the woman confined in a room and then take turns to rape her. According to police, the sadhus allegedly even threatened the rape survivor to frame her for theft if she did not give in to their demand. While the woman kept mum all this time, he mustered courage and approached police on Sunday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-sadhus-arrested-for-raping-woman/articleshow/76499255.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy reports two Covid-19 deaths||MADURAI/TRICHY: Three Covid-19 related deaths were reported in the south and central regions of the state on Sunday. While Trichy district reported two deaths, Tirunelveli district recorded its fourth Covid-19 death on Sunday taking the death toll in south TN to 26. The ten southern districts reported 212 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total tally to 3,413, which include just six imported cases. The central region, meanwhile, recorded 152 new positive cases taking the tally to 1,713. A 74-year-old man, who had been admitted to the ICU at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on June 4 died on Sunday. Official sources said that the patient had several co-morbidities, including blood pressure, bronchial asthma. He had been on a ventilator for the last few days, sources from health department said. A 65-year-old grocery shop owner from Thiruverumbur also died of Covid-19 related issues on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-reports-two-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/76500593.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Visitors to PMC, ward offices to undergo checks||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will check and register each individual visiting its premises. Records of these visitors will be maintained in the headquarters at Shivajinagar and in the ward offices. The decision has been taken after a spike in cases among civic officials and elected members who tested positive. Over 100 civic employees and four corporators have been tested positive since the outbreak of the coronavirus. The PMC headquarters is among those government offices which the highest footfall in the city. On an average, around 8,000 people visit this office every day . The number has reduced nearly by half during this pandemic. Regular visitors include citizens, employees of other government offices, corporators, workers of various political parties, architects, developers, contractors, representatives of NGOs and social organisations and civic activists. Around 2,000 employees work on the premises, including full-time staff members and those on contract. Many are attached with over 20 different departments in the civic administration. Most departments have direct interactions and contacts with visitors. They include road department, buildings permission department, solid waste department, property tax department, water department, health department and urban community development department. Other sections with limited public interactions are accounts, sports department and law department. “Since the unlock 1 phase started, the PMC office is operating with around 50% staff. So now people have started coming out and visiting the PMC headquarters for their work. The civic administration has initiated steps to screen the visitors. After a few officials and elected members tested positive, the civic body has decided to intensify the drive,” a senior PMC official said.The civic body is checking the body temperature of all visitors, asking their medical history and details about a recent history of illness. Personal details like name, address, cellphone number and employment details are being checked. They will be used for contact tracing, in case any positive patients is found.The civic body had recently organised a general body meeting attended by around 100 corporators. Looking at the large presence, the meeting was adjourned to avoid any spread of the virus. Apart from the PMC headquarters, the civic administration’s works are also being carried out from 15 ward offices located across the city. The screening and record keeping will be done in those offices too.Head: Busy Place With Hundreds Of Footfalls Visitors to PMC on a normal day I Around 8,000Visitors during the unlock phase I Around 4,000 Infection and PMC Nearly 100 employeesFour corporators Most Visited DepartmentsRoad department, buildings permission department, solid waste department, property tax department, water department, health department, urban community development department||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/visitors-to-pmc-ward-offices-to-undergo-checks/articleshow/76500081.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre diverted kits for Telangana to other states: TRS||HYDERABAD: A day after BJP national president J P Nadda questioned Telangana’s low testing strategy, the ruling TRS on Sunday hit back at the national party asking it not to indulge in ‘cheap’ politics. Speaking at a press conference, health minister Eatela Rajender accused the Centre of diverting kits meant for Telangana to other states. “The Centre gave only 2 lakh N95 masks and some PPE kits as if it gave alms. But we procured 14 lakh N95 masks and 10 lakh PPE kits on our own to battle the virus,” he said. Addressing a virtual meeting on Saturday, Nadda found fault with the TRS government for not testing enough people for Covid-19. The fight against coronavirus had not happened the way it should be in Telangana. There is a corruption in many projects in Telangana, he alleged. In a strongly-worded response, Rajender said that the testing kits were diverted to West Bengal by the Centre. “Don’t make baseless allegations. Centre is not giving grants free. The states are paying taxes. Look at the coronavirus situation in BJP-ruled states before criticizing others. Telangana is racing ahead in healthcare sector and is a role model for the country. A Delhi level leader speaking gully language is unfortunate,” Rajender said. Finance minister T Harish Rao too lambasted Nadda and tweeted that it was not fair on the part of the BJP national president to hurt the morale of the frontline warriors of Covid-19. “Even PM Narendra Modi had said that the Covid-19 frontline warriors are no less than the soldiers protecting our national boundaries. Again, I am requesting you please do not belittle the frontline warriors of Covid-19. It is like belittling our soldiers. It is not fair to criticize any state government on coronavirus pandemic situation,” he tweeted. The ministers said that the central teams which visited Telangana had appreciated the state government’s efforts in containing Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-diverted-kits-for-t-to-other-states-trs/articleshow/76500083.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Centuries-old Maun ‘fish catching’ festival cancelled this year due to Covid-19||MUSSOORIE: The centuries-old Maun festival, a traditional fish-catching event organized in Tehri Garhwal’s Aglar river, has been cancelled this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Surat Singh Rawat from Khark village of Jaunpur said, “After much deliberation, we have decided to cancel the Maun festival this year, as it involves a large gathering and might have caused a Covid-19 outbreak.” Rakesh Rawat, the pradhan of Sainji village, said, “We are sad because the festival is not happening but the decision has been taken keeping everybody’s best interests in mind.” The last time the festival was cancelled was almost 70 years ago. “It was in 1948 or 1949, when the villagers got into a fight during the Maun festival and the then king of Tehri ordered that the event will never be held again. However, local villagers managed to convince the king to reverse his decision the next year. A decree of the king dated July, 1949, shows the festival was allowed to be held again,” said Nain Singh Rawat, a village elder. Held in the last week of June every year, Maun festival involves people immersing large quantities of powdered bark of the Timru tree (Zanthoxylum armatum) in the river, which causes the fish to become unconscious and float on the water’s surface. The participants then catch the fish using small nets or even bare hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centuries-old-maun-fish-catching-festival-cancelled-this-year-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76498334.cms||Anmol Jain
June 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Automated waste recycling plant to come up at Edayar industrial estate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is set to establish the first automated waste recycling facility at Edayar. The department of industries will allot two acres in Edayar Industrial Estate, managed by director of industries, to process waste from municipalities, plastics, construction and demolition and slaughter houses. Executive director, Suchitwa Mission, had earlier requested the department of industries for the land at Edayar Industrial Estate to set up a pilot automated waste recycling plant. The plant will be set up by private firms identified by Suchitwa Mission. The automated waste recycling plant is being planned at an industrial estate as part of the implementation of government’s decision to earmark 5% of land in industrial parks exclusively for recycling and recovery. As per rule 11(i) of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, the secretary-in-charge, urban development, in the state can direct the developers of special economic zone, industrial estate, industrial park to earmark at least 5% of the total area of the plot or minimum five plots or sheds for recovery and recycling facility. Suchitwa Mission had earlier invited expression of interest (EoI) from operators/companies/firms to setup and operate automated waste processing units (WPUs) for processing biodegradable and non-biodegradable municipal solid waste in land available at various industrial parks under the department of industries in the state. The state government is advocating automated WPUs as part of one of the key goals of Swachh Bharat Mission which is to achieve 100% scientific processing of municipal solid waste (MSW). Suchitwa Mission is focusing on achieving this target by ensuring modern waste treatment facilities with automated systems and advanced pollution control measures for various streams of waste generated. The state government has earmarked land of area up to one acre in select industrial parks under department of industries in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Thrissur districts for setting up such plants. All these industrial parks have support infrastructure facilities such as power & water, and the land will be provided at concessional rates. A special scheme has been framed for allotment of land at concessional rates, as per the expression of interest document published by Suchitwa Mission in 2019. The WPU will be PLC (programmable logic controller) operated requiring minimal manual intervention.The contractor will have to set up and operate the WPUs to process all forms of plastics — recyclable and non-recyclable. No form of incineration or landfill would be allowed on site. All waste received should either be recycled or packaged/baled for onward transmission to scientific disposal centres. LSG officials said that the mission will focus on engaging firms with capacity to also recycle garments, fabric and metallic waste and those which can process kitchen and slaughterhouse waste. All revenue from the waste would belong to the contractor. The government may accept a reasonable user fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/automated-waste-recycling-plant-to-come-up-at-edayar-industrial-estate/articleshow/76499244.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 11 die, 412 infected, 429 discharged in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The number of recovered patients surpassed new patients on Sunday as the overall Covid tally of Haryana reached 10,635 patients with 160 deaths. A total of 412 cases were added and 11 more deaths were reported. As many as 429 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking recoveries to 5,557 with a recovery rate of 52.25%. Now, Haryana has 4,918 patients. Of these, 67 are critical and 46 are on oxygen support. Doubling rate is 10 days. Now, the Covid positive rate in the state has gone up to 5% and death rate to 1.5%. According to the official bulletin, five deaths have been reported from Gurgaon and four from Faridabad. One death each is in Panipat and Palwal. NCR districts continue to dominate figures, with Gurgaon and Faridabad occupying top slots in deaths, new cases and overall count. With 134 new cases and four deaths, Faridabad reached the overall figure of 2,237 cases with 56 deaths. Gurugram recorded 120 cases but reached the overall count of 4,427 with 64 deaths. Active cases in Gurgaon and Faridabad have been recorded at 1,838 and 1,262 respectively. Sonipat got 40 new cases, third highest of the day in Haryana. It was followed by Bhiwani and Mahendragarh with 24 and 20 new cases respectively. Seventeen cases were reported in Hisar, 16 in Mahendergarh, six each in Nuh and Rohtak, five in Jhajjar, four each in Ambala, Palwal and Karnal, three in Jind, two each in Kaithal and Kurukshetra, and one each in Sirsa and Fatehabad. Testing rate has gone up to 8,592 tests per million per day with 2,17,797 persons tested so far. Of them, 2,01,984 were found negative. A total 55,225 persons have completed the quarantine period. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the district’s tally was now 221. Though the state bulletin did not report any new cases in Yamunanagar, district DC Mukul Kumar said there were four in Jagadhri. District civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya added a 56-year-old man from Kazi Bans village in Mustafabad block, with cormorbidities including chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension, died at a private hospital in Mohali. In Panipat, a 43- year-old woman with thyroid became the district’s second casualty. In Hisar, patients included seven members of a family and a doctor from Agroha Medical College. (Inputs from Karnal, Yamunanagar, Panipat and Hisar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/11-die-412-infected-429-discharged-in-haryana/articleshow/76500086.cms||Manvir Saini
June 22, 2020||Pune||Six saloon owners booked||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Sunday registered an offence against six salon owners in Hinjewadi on the charges of secretly operating their facilities in violation of lockdown directives. Assistant sub-inspector Kiran Pawar of the Hinjewadi police told TOI that there are about six salons along the road in Hinjewadi between Shivaji and Bhumkar chowks. “The owners were allowing entry to their clients via the facilities’ back doors,” Pawar said. Pawar said a the police team raided these salons based on a tip-off and found customers inside while the main shutters were down. “We have registered offences against the owners under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, National Disaster Management Act and Covid-19 rules,” Pawar said. Senior inspector Yashwant Gawari of the Hinjewadi police has made an appeal to all salons, beauty parlours and spa owners that they should not operate till permission is granted by the government. “The shops which have been permitted to operate should follow social distancing norms to control the spread of the pandemic,” Gawari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-saloon-owners-booked/articleshow/76500084.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Uncertainty over new train proposed on Tiruvarur section||TRICHY: There is confusion on new and extension of train proposals in Trichy division discussed at the Indian Railway Timetable Conference (IRTTC) in Bengaluru, as the tri-weekly train introduced via Tiruvarur section was mentioned as ‘not feasible’ in the minutes of the meeting, which was obtained under the RTI Act. The conference, chaired by a member from Railway Board, was held at Bengaluru in the last week of February. Normally a new timetable is released in July in which changes and new train proposals which have been discussed in IRTTC. Notable mentions for Trichy division were introduction of new train between Trichy and Prayagraj, extension of (Chennai) PT MGR Central - New Jalpaiguri express upto Trichy, a tri-weekly train between Tambaram and Sengottai and bi-weekly express between Ernakulam and Velankanni, both via newly laid Karaikudi- Pattukottai-Tiruvarur broad gauge section. Rail enthusiasts welcome the introduction of new trains in their route via Tiruvarur. However, there is uncertainty over the Tambaram-Sengottai tri-weekly express, as ‘not feasible’ was mentioned with inked superscription next to it in the agenda. “This train is said to be operated in the unserved sector between Tiruvarur-Karaikudi. But in reality it is timed to cross the section around midnight in both direction and will have stoppage only in Pattukottai. This will no way benefit passengers in the section”, said a railway enthusiast who did not wish to be named. “If it was really going to be introduced, it should be timed as a perfect overnight train in Karaikudi-Tiruvarur section with additional stoppages at all important stations like Peravurani, Adiramapattinam, Muthupettai and Tiruturaipoondi since it will be the only direct train to Chennai for them,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/uncertainty-over-new-train-proposed-on-tiruvarur-section/articleshow/76500599.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||28-yr-old constable hangs self||ROORKEE: A 28-year-old constable, from Jhabreda near Roorkee, committed suicide by hanging himself on Sunday in a containment village near Roorkee. The deceased was identified as Amit Kumar. He was posted in Uttarkashi till May and was presently deployed in Roorkee to keep vigil over locals of Dhanora village near Piran Kaliyar who have been put under home quarantine. He had been serving in the village since May 23. Reportedly, he was under depression due to a strained relationship with his wife and in-laws, police said. “His family members have told us that Amit was married to a Saharanpur-based woman in 2019. However, there were differences between them. Two cases of marital dispute — physical abuse and dowry demand — was reportedly lodged by his in-laws against him. Thus, he was under depression for some time now. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/28-yr-old-constable-hangs-self/articleshow/76498326.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab crosses 4,000, over 100 cases for seventh day in row||CHANDIGARH: Punjab crossed the grim milestone of 4,000 Covid-19 cases as 122 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. This is for the seventh day in running when the state has registered cases in three figures — the longest such streak so far. A death was also reported in the state, taking the toll to 99. Eleven police personnel, a health worker and a cancer patient are among those who were found infected in last 24 hours. Twenty-two patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of patients who have recovered from the virus to 2,700. Ludhiana got 54 new patients, of which 35 were contacts of positive cases. It was followed by 16 cases in Pathankot, seven in Hoshiarpur, six each in Fazilka and Jalandhar, five each in Ropar and Gurdaspur, four each in Amritsar and Mohali, three each in Patiala and Kapurthala, two each in Sangrur, Muktsar and Nawanshahr, and one each in Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib and Faridkot. The death was of a man from Ferozepur. The deceased had been suffering from cancer and breathed his last at a hospital in Ludhiana. While state authorities claimed that four people had died in Amritsar, district officials said 21 persons had been found infected during the day. Of them, 16 persons had influenza-like illness and five were contacts of patients, according to a press release issued by the state government. The Ferozepur man who died is from Talwandi Bhai town. His samples were taking during treatment in hospital. A district official said Sangrur got 15 cases, and one of the patients was a cop. (Inputs from Ferozepur, Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-4k-over-100-cases-for-7th-day-in-row/articleshow/76500095.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cloudy skies block view of annular solar eclipse in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: People across Hyderabad were left disappointed on Sunday as the view of the partial solar eclipse was blocked by clouds, offering not even glimpses of the rare celestial spectacle. Many were seen on their terrace or in open areas, with all eyes glued to the sky to view the ‘ring of fire’. “We took all necessary precautions, used sun filter films that are used in telescope and sun goggles, and went on the terrace to get a glimpse of the eclipse but we couldn’t see anything. The sky was overcast the entire time. We expected at least a glimpse for a few seconds,” said M Ritwik, a resident of Begumpet. Many who were also seen with their cameras to capture the rare phenomenon had failed to catch a glimpse. “The clouds had played a spoilsport this year. We were advised not to go out during the eclipse but I was just too curious to witness the phenomenon. I was also hoping to get some good pictures of the ring of fire on my camera, but no luck,” said B Prateeka, an engineering student residing at Mehdipatnam. According to experts from BM Birla Science Centre, the eclipse was not visible in Hyderabad because of the cloud covering. “In any case, it was a partial eclipse in which 60% of the sun was cut off and then it started emerging from 11.55 am and it was all over by 1.20 pm,” said B.G. Sidharth, director of BM Birla Science Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cloudy-skies-block-view-of-annular-solar-eclipse-in-city/articleshow/76500094.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Landslide on Mussoorie-Dehradun highway disrupts traffic for hours||MUSSOORIE: A major landslide on the Mussoorie-Dehradun highway stopped vehicular traffic for nearly five hours on Sunday afternoon. The landslide occurred near Galogi (about 15 kilometres from Mussoorie) where road widening work was being undertaken by the Public Works Department (PWD). Following the landslide, long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the landslide site and commuters were held up for several hours. According to Sansar Chand, junior engineer at PWD, road widening work is ongoing at several points on Mussoorie-Dehradun highway to widen the road so that large sleeper buses can pass by smoothly. Soon after the landslide, JCB machines were deployed to clear the debris. However, it took nearly five hours before the traffic could be restored. Meanwhile, local residents have complained that unplanned and unscientific cutting of mountains for road widening could lead to more such landslides in the times to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-on-mussoorie-dehradun-highway-disrupts-traffic-for-hours/articleshow/76498354.cms||Anmol Jain
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Farmers worried as Covid-19 rumours hit poultry prices again||NAGPUR: Poultry farmers in the region have held back placing (starting to rear) new chicks after rumours of the birds spreading novel coronavirus went viral again. The wholesale prices of live broiler birds have crashed from Rs120 to Rs90 per kg in just two days. The poultry industry apprehends further downward spiral of prices, and already indebted farmers are reluctant to go in for fresh procurement of day-old chicks. Vidarbha Poultry Farmers Association (VPFA) president Raja Dudhabade said the situation had just began to improve but again “some anti-social” elements have created havoc. “During the March scare, farmers had even given away birds for free while some had culled them. As production had gone down, shortage increased the prices over last one month, bringing some much needed revenue for distressed farmers,” he said. Then last week, a Hindi daily published an unconfirmed report that coronavirus infection among some patients was traced to poultry in Madhya Pradesh. The MP government clarified there was no substance in the claim. However, the news clip was widely shared on social media, dealing a blow to farmers. Raju Jagtap, a farmer from Arvi, has cut his production to 1,000 birds from 3,000. “Any disease in the world hits poultry first. I have no money left to invest because of the Covid pandemic rumours. Feeding them is a big worry. We incur Rs140 per bird and are now getting Rs80 to 85. Recently, when there was a shortage, the prices had gone up to Rs120,” he said. Jagtap demanded that the government must protect poultry farmers too. Dinesh Shelar, deputy marketing manager of Venky’s, which holds substantial market share, said the placement of chicks is estimated to remain in 70-80% range till September. “Before March, Maharashtra poultry production stood at 4.5 crore birds per month. Now, it is 3 crore. Nagpur used to consume 300 tonnes per day before, but right now it is only 150. Rest of Vidarbha’s share is 50 tonnes,” he said. Dr Mukund Kadam, head of Nagpur Veterinary College’s poultry science department, said there is no connection between coronavirus affecting humans and the poultry. “But what happens, as per our observation, is that people easily fall prey to rumours. Though people have no technical information, they stop eating chicken,” he said. Dr Kadam said in case anyone has doubts about poultry consumption and coronavirus, they can consult him. “Anyway, we are here to alert society and government in case there is any harm from consuming poultry. Right now, there is no danger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-worried-as-covid-rumours-hit-poultry-prices-again/articleshow/76500601.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 22, 2020||Indore||Air India special flight brings 125 MP students from Kyrgyzstan||INDORE: 125 Indian students from Madhya Pradesh stranded in Kyrgyzstan during lockdown period were brought by an Air India’s special flight under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ that landed at Indore on Sunday evening. The passengers included 12 medical students from Indore and remaining were from other districts of the state. The students had earlier in a video appealed to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to arrange for their travel back home to districts and cities in Madhya Pradesh. “We were stuck there for the last three months. We are very thankful to the MP government for making arrangements to bring us back home,” Priya Patidar, one of the students from Neemuch told TOI after landing at the Indore airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ai-spl-flight-brings-125-mp-students-from-kyrgyzstan/articleshow/76500927.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM KCR directs officials to prepare district cards||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed officials to prepare ‘district cards’ with development and expenditure plans of all the municipalities and gram panchayats in respective districts. District collectors and additional district collectors were told to ensure that the year-wise development plans of each urban local body are prepared with details of how the elected body in coordination with official machinery plans to spend money given by the state and central governments. The CM further said that he would make surprise inspections soon to see whether the plans are in place and are being implemented or not. The CM reiterated that the state government is for strengthening the district collector set up in order to streamline the administration in towns and rural areas. Additional district collectors have also been appointed and given the task of gram panchayat development.“The collectors have been given the powers to take action against the elected representatives in the new Municipal and Panchayat Raj Acts, respectively. The chief minister wants development works, clean and green drives among other works to be carried out in towns and villages beyond the Pattana Pragathi and Palle Pragathi programmes,” said an official. Keeping in view the resources and needs, the town and village-wise plans are being prepared which will be part of an overall district card. The works will be executed in accordance with the district card. KCR said he will not tolerate political interference in the effective implementation of the district card plans. Officials said the district cards will focus on improving cleanliness, green cover, having a dump yard among other facilities in the limits of every urban local body and gram panchayat. The chief minister has also asked the officials to explore the possibility of adopting Miyawaki method to increase green cover in urban and rural areas. The CM reiterated that the state government is for strengthening the district collector set up in order to streamline the administration in towns and rural areas. Additional district collectors have also been appointed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-directs-officials-to-prepare-district-cards/articleshow/76500087.cms||Roushan Ali
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Partial lockdown in Pudukottai, Karur dists after cases increase||TRICHY: The manifold increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Karur and Pudukottai districts over the last two weeks has pushed the districts towards partial lockdown. While the increasing cases are attributed to the influx of people from other districts especially from Chennai, health staff said that lockdown has minimal effect on people, who take alternate routes to enter various districts. Positive cases have tripled in Karur district in the last one week. A total 21 positive cases have been reported in the last one week whereas only seven cases were reported in the week before that. Considering the alarming rate at which cases are increasing, Karur district collector limited commercial activity to 2pm from Sunday for containing the movement of people in public places. As Pallapatti village has also seen more number of people from returning from other districts, health officials carried talks with village heads to restart the quarantine facilities at two places in the village. As the village was most affected because of Tablighi cluster, a separate quarantine facility was created in the village. In the case of Pudukottai district, Covid-19 positive cases have doubled in the last one week to 42 from 21 in the week before that. Kaikani Viyabarigal Nalasangam – a vegetable sellers’ forum with over 120 members across Pudukottai district-- have decided to shut their shops by 2pm from Sunday. President of the forum, M Ramachandran said that the move was to limit movement of people in public places thereby limiting Covid-19 spread in the district. Health officials said that positive cases from Chennai continue to be a challenge and relaxation of lockdown norms has played a spoiler in preventing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/partial-lockdown-in-pudukottai-karur-dists-after-cases-increase/articleshow/76500600.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 22, 2020||Pune||Footwear dealers in Pune hope rains bring some shine to business||PUNE: After a failed summer and school season, footwear wholesalers and retailers in the city’s Peth areas are hoping that monsoon brings them along some revenue. Traders said they have incurred heavy losses, in terms of sale and stock damage, because of the closure for three months. As many as 100 footwear retailers, who run shops in previously sealed areas, and a similar number of wholesalers in Rasta Peth have suffered the same plight. Owner of the wholesale store Crown Footwear Mohammad Irshad said, “The stock at our shops and warehouses is ruined as we were unable to clean for months. The stock we had ordered for the wedding and school season is either spoilt or it will have to be stored until the next season. Meanwhile, we had already placed orders for rainwear but made no money to pay suppliers. If we refuse delivery, our suppliers will lose trust and stop dealing with us in future. We have to accept the stock and try to sell it this season to recover some of our losses.” Another footwear wholesaler from Rasta Peth said, “The wedding collection is often more expensive and even if one thread or bead is displaced, the footwear is considered damaged. On opening the store on Wednesday, we found that a large part of our stock was damaged. It is beyond the losses we incurred due to the lockdown. We will try to salvage as many pieces as we can.” Owner of Samudra Footwear Murtuza Poonawalla said, “Schools are unlikely to start soon so those shoes can be considered as dead stock. A lot of leather footwear has started showing signs of wear and tear due to lack of maintenance over the last three months. I still do not know the extent of damage as I have only just opened the store. It will take me at least one week to understand how much loss has been incurred. Layers of fungus has formed on fancy and leather footwear. Such pieces cannot be sold. Even the delicate wedding stock has been spoilt. We will eventually have to discard it.” Poonawalla added that plastic footwear that is largely used in the monsoon months has survived. “We have some stock of rain footwear, which we have started selling. Revenue will start flowing in with these sales. However, the stock is limited. Whatever is in warehouses or in shipping will reach us, but that will also be a limited supply. Due to the lockdown, even manufacturing units were shut and it will take some time before the supply chain is restored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/footwear-dealers-in-pune-hope-rains-bring-some-shine-to-business/articleshow/76500091.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 22, 2020||Pune||Avoid picnic spots to curb Covid-19 spread: Pune cops||PUNE: Several police stations under the Pune rural police have issued notices appealing people to not visit popular picnic spots in Lonavla, Khandala, Mulshi, Pavana, Junnar, Otur and other places during the monsoon, to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. Scenic valleys, waterfalls, catchment areas of dams, hill, viewpoints, resorts and usually draw large number of tourists during the monsoon, but the police said most of these spots have been closed while hotels, restaurants and resorts too are shut. “Our police stations have issued notices with a view to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in their areas. Hotels and resorts are not allowed to open as of now. Local police have also decided not to allow people at picnic sites such as famous points on hills, forts, waterfalls, lakes among others. People might gather at these spots in large numbers and there would be no regard for social distancing,” Sandeep Patil, superintendent of police, Pune rural, said. He added that a group of restaurant, hotel and resort operators had approached the state government seeking permission to resume their business activities with due care and sanitized facilities. “However, the state government is yet to give them permission. It is likely to issue fresh orders on July 1 and we will follow them,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/avoid-picnic-spots-to-curb-covid-19-spread-cops/articleshow/76500096.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||43 new cases found, state tally now 2,344||DEHRADUN: With 43 fresh cases, the state's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,344 cases on Sunday. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), informed that among the 43 new cases, 12 were reported from Haridwar, followed by nine cases from Chamoli, six cases each from Dehradun and Tehri, four cases each from Pauri and Rudraprayag, and one case each from Almora and Uttarkashi. Meanwhile, 50 patients recovered from the virus on the day. With this, the recovered cases in Uttarakhand are now 1,500. According to the details shared by the health department, more than 4,700 samples were pending till 3 pm on Sunday. Also, with a surge in the cases, the number of containment zones were increased in Haridwar to 57 from 52. Dehradun also has 36 containment zones at present against 22 such areas last week. Udham Singh Nagar has two containment zones. Tehri has 10 containment zones and Uttarkashi has just one area sealed by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/43-new-cases-found-state-tally-now-2344/articleshow/76498340.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 22, 2020||Nashik||5,000 shops stay shut in Old Nashik to make Janata curfew a success||Nashik A week-long Janata curfew called by traders in the Old City area received an overwhelming response on the very first day on Sunday as over 5,000 shops remained closed as part of measures to curb the outbreak of Covid-19. M G Road, Main Road, Raviwar Karanja, Saraf Bazaar, Kapda Bazaar and Shalimar, which house some of the major market complexes in the city, wore a deserted look as traders chose to keep shutters down. Prafulla Sancheti, president of Nashik traders’ association, said, “There has been a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the Old City area. Hence, all the traders associations decided to keep the markets closed to break the chain and curb the spread of Covid-19.” Former mayor Vinayak Pande, who had called a meeting of the traders in the Nashik Road area on Saturday, said, “There had been a demand from people to close markets for a week in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19. Old Nashik area witnessed 100% closure of shops.” Grocery shops, which come under essential services, will also remain closed from Sunday to Tuesday. “We will take a call on whether to allow grocery shops to operate on Tuesday evening,” said Sancheti. “There are two auspicious dates for weddings this week. We are getting calls from customers for wedding purchases. Some customers have already booked jewellry for their wedding. We will take a call on delivering the order to the customers to their home in a day or two,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers Association. Janata curfew in Nashik Road for two weeks Traders from Nashik Road area have decided to observe Janata curfew for next two weeks beginning from Tuesday. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of all party corporators from Nashik division and traders. “All the shops, except medicals, will remain closed for four days from Tuesday to Friday. The shops will operate between 10am to 5pm from Saturday to Monday,” said Dinkar Adhav, senior corporator from Nashik Road area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5000-shops-stay-shut-in-old-nashik-to-make-janata-curfew-a-success/articleshow/76498362.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tulshibaug shop owner found dead; police suspect suicide over stress||PUNE: The 23-year-old owner of a footwear shop at Tulshibaug near Mandai was found hanging from a nylon rope attached to a ceiling fan at his aunt’s residence in Sahakarnagar on Saturday afternoon. Per the initial information provided by his family members and friends, the police suspect the deceased — Shubham Rajendra Bobade — had been under depression over problems with his business — for nearly three months, all shops in Tulshibaug had been shut due to the lockdown. This included Bobade’s modest outlet, which primarily sold ladies’ and children’s footwears, police said. “We are further looking into what exactly prompted Bobade to take this extreme step,” sub-inspector Shivaji Bunage of the Sahakarnagar police said. For the moment, the police have registered a case of accidental death. Bobade, a commerce graduate, belonged to a fairly well-to-do family. Bobade lived with his parents and younger brother opposite his aunt' s house. “Shubham would often come to our house. On Saturday afternoon too, he came as usual and after talking to us for a while, went o an unoccupied room upstairs. After 15-20 minutes, we realized there was complete silence in that room and checked and saw his hanging from the fan,” his aunt told TOI. Police said Bobabe used a length of nylon rope to hang himself. “He was quite cheerful and never gave us the impression that he was disturbed or tense. Even during the lockdown, he kept smiling. We have no idea why he took such a drastic step,” his aunt added. “Bobade’s father has recorded a brief statement with the police, stating no one was to blame for his son’s suicide and that no one from their family knows the reason behind Shubham taking the drastic step. His parents are in a state of shock,” sub-inspector Bunage said. TOI visited Bobade’s footwear shop in Tulshibaug and spoke to a few of the neighbouring shopkeepers. They too said they had little idea of why Bobade may have taken the extreme step. Dada Pandit, a worker at one of these shops, said, “All the shops in Tulshibaug were shut for the past three months and have started opening gradually in the past one week. The shop owners are, however, still waiting for customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tulshibaug-shop-owner-found-dead-police-suspect-suicide-over-stress/articleshow/76500103.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 22, 2020||Rajkot||Over 300 charas packets found near Jakhau||RAJKOT: Security agencies and Kutch marine police have seized over 300 packets of charas along the coast near Jakhau since Saturday night. While 183 packets were seized by the Marine police, others were seized by agencies including Border Security Force (BSF), Indian Coast Guard, Marine Task Force and others. It is likely that the seizure could be bigger as the counting of packets was on till late Sunday night. Jakhau Marine police station inspector VK Khant told TOI: "On Saturday evening, we received information about charas packets and undertook a search operation. We found 183 packets in a stretch of 12 km along the Jakhau coast." Khant said forensic experts were called on Sunday morning and the estimated value of the seized drugs is around Rs two crore (Rs 1.5 lakh per packet)." Each packet contains around one kg for contraband. BSF) coast guard, Indian Navy and local police have been finding a large number of charas packets in Kutch over the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-300-charas-packets-found-near-jakhau/articleshow/76499301.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||6 deaths reported 4th time in June; toll at 125||Nagpur: Five districts — Nagpur, Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal and Buldhana — having highest Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reported total of six deaths on Sunday. Two patients died in Akola, while one each died in remaining four districts. This is the fourth time six deaths were reported in June, and second day in a row. This took the Covid-10 death toll in Vidarbha to 125, with 58 of them in 21 days of June only. Akola accounts for 66 of these 125 deaths. All these five districts also reported new cases too. Nagpur (27), Akola (29), Amravati (12), Yavatmal (7), Buldhana (6), and Akola reported three patients testing positive on June 21. Chandrapur and Washim reported one new case each, taking the total to 3,714. Recoveries were fewer than new cases. Nagpur reported 33 while Akola (10), Amravati (8), Yavatmal (5), Buldhana (5), Chandrapur (4), and Gadchiroli (3) accounted for total of 76 patients recovered and discharged on Sunday. Total recovered patients now are 2,450 – almost 66% of total cases. AKOLA: A 48-yr-old man from Naigaon area, admitted since June 8 at GMCH Akola, died on Sunday. A woman (50), from Shegaon in Buldhana district, admitted in Akola on June 19 also died on June 21. Both had severe comorbid conditions. Now Akola has seen 66 deaths. Total 29 new cases were also reported on Sunday here, while 10 patients were discharged. Akola still has 364 active cases, and some of them are critical. AMRAVATI: A 58-year-old woman from Malipura in Old City, Badnera, died at Covid hospital on Sunday, a hospital source said. This took the death toll to 18. It is the first death from Badnera. Also, 12 new Covid-19 positive cases, including a six-month-old baby boy on Sunday took the district’s count to 430. Even as Badnera residents voluntarily started observing a four-day Janata Curfew from 4pm of Saturday to break the coronavirus chain, four new cases emerged from the town on Sunday to take its count to 57. The new cases in Badnera were from Malipura, where a couple aged 66 (male) and 58 (female) and two men aged 25 and 35 tested positive. A 33-year-old jawan from SRPF Camp in Wadali locality also tested positive. Chhaya Colony, Jewad Nagar and Namuna Lane No. 2 became new localities to report patients. Vilas Nagar reported its second case in a nine-year-old girl. Jai Nagar, also a new locality, has two positive males aged 15 and 24. Gopal Nagar saw its fourth case in a six-month-old female baby, the second youngest in the district, after a three-month-old from Aurangapura earlier. Meanwhile, eight patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the number to 287. YAVATMAL: A 64-year old man admitted in GMCH isolation ward with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) died on Sunday, taking death toll of Yavatmal to 10. Five patients were discharged while seven new cases were reported, taking total of Yavatmal to 234. Out of them, active cases are 63. BULDHANA: A 30-yr-old youth, who died on June 16, tested positive in Buldhana taking death toll in district to 7. Six new cases were reported, taking total cases to 157. With 114 of 157 recovered, and seven deaths – there are 36 active patients now. CHANDRAPUR: One more person was found positive taking total to 56 in Chandrapur. The 20-year-old native of Pombhurna had arrived from New Delhi on June 20 at Nagpur airport, and reached Shakuntala Farms in city for medical examination. He had mild fever and was admitted at GMCH, where he tested positive on Sunday. So far 43 patients have been discharged, and only 13 actives patients are left. All patients are stable. There has been no fatality in Chandrapur so far. WARDHA: Two relatives who came in contact with a 67-year-old patient from Akola reported positive on Sunday. They are the patient’s 62-year-old wife and 82-year-old mother-in-law. Total active patients in district are now four. These two new patients had got first reports negative. All three were in isolation ward of Sawangi. After showing symptoms two days ago, they tested positive. WASHIM: While six patients were discharged from Washim, one man from Amravati tested positive. This took total cases in Washim to 80, including 25 recovered and 2 deaths. GONDIA: There were no fresh cases on Sunday. Reports of 109 samples are awaited. Total 2,858 persons are in institutional or home quarantine. GADCHIROLI: With no new patient reported on June 21, three existing patients recovered and were discharged. With 45 of 60 patients discharged and one native patient dead in Telangana, Gadchiroli has 14 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-deaths-reported-4th-time-in-june-toll-at-125/articleshow/76500613.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 22, 2020||Bareilly||Stray tiger attacks 3 near Dudhwa forest, 2 critical||BAREILLY: Three people were grievously injured in a tiger attack near a cane field in Chedipur village near Mailani range of forests in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday evening. The trio was spraying pesticides in their cane field when the tiger suddenly pounced on them. The spot is nearly 400 metre from the forest area. Forest officials immediately rushed to the village and the victims were sent to hospital. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer also reached the village and started a combing operation in the area to push the tiger back into the wild. The operation was suspended as it became dark. Villagers were advised to stay indoors and ensure proper lighting outside their houses. Since most of the village street lights were malfunctioning, the forest department lit several bonfires in the village to keep the big cat away. The victims were identified as Ram Niwas (45), his son Gulshan (18), and younger brother, Hari Om (35). All of them were rushed to the district hospital in Lakhimpur city. Ramniwas and Gulshan were referred to Lucknow as their condition was critical. Patel told TOI, “Our team will stay at the village and efforts will be made to push the tiger back into the forest. It will stay till the situation is under control. This attack came as a shock to us as no big cat activity outside the forest area has been reported from here in recent.” Chedipur village is adjacent to buffer forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. In August, 2016, five people from this village were killed by a stray tiger. It was eventually tranquilized on August 31. The captured tiger, named ‘Chedilal’ weighed about 300 kg at that time. It is now lodged at Lucknow Zoo. It has developed a cataract and lost one of its canines due to which it was deemed unfit to survive in the forest area. Watch UP: Stray tiger attacks 3 near Dudhwa forest, 2 critical||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-injured-by-stray-tiger-near-dudhwa-forest-two-critical/articleshow/76497453.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 22, 2020||Trichy||Patient from Chennai dies in Karur MCH||TRICHY: A 40-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who was working as a hotel manager in Chennai, died at Karur government medical college hospital on Saturday evening. Officials said on Sunday that the man had started from Chennai on Friday morning after getting e-pass and reached Karur in the evening. However, he developed difficulties on the way and was directly taken to Karur government medical college hospital in the evening. He had breathlessness and died on Saturday evening without responding to treatment. Since the patient arrived with the infection from Chennai, the death was cross-notified to Chennai, health officials said. He hailed from Vengamedu in Karur district. Senior medical staff at the hospital said the patient was diabetic and obese, weighing over 90 kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/patient-from-chennai-dies-in-karur-mch/articleshow/76500604.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||In Haridwar, people take bath in Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri during solar eclipse||HARIDWAR: Hundreds of people, mostly local residents, took a dip in the Ganga at the Har-Ki-Pauri during the solar eclipse on Sunday. Some of them even went into the river with protective glasses on so as to catch a glimpse of the eclipse while others filled buckets and saw the reflection so as to avoid looking at the sun directly with naked eyes. Many others were seen sitting on the banks with their knees dipped in water. However, the Covid-19 norms were not followed by several of the devotees gathered at the Har-Ki-Pauri. Many of them were not wearing masks and the social distancing norm was also flouted. “We were making frequent announcements to remind people of Covid-19 guidelines and pointing out violations, if any,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha. Speaking to TOI, a devotee who had come to Har-Ki-Pauri pointed out that the ghat (bank), where thousands of people used to come on a usual day, was visited by just about a few hundred people during an eclipse due to the Covid-19 threat. After the eclipse, only a few people visited temples in the city. “The Mansa Devi Temple was visited by just 20-25 people and the Chanda Devi Temple recorded an even less devotee footfall. This shows that people do not want to venture out during Covid-19 pandemic,” said Manoj Dobhal, in-charge of the ropeways that ferry devotees to the temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-haridwar-people-take-bath-in-ganga-at-har-ki-pauri-during-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76498379.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown helped Rlys to use tech for speedy maintenance & construction||LUCKNOW: Technology came in handy for railways during lockdown as it used ultrasonic flaw detection machine for maintenance of tracks. With no trains operating during lockdown, maintenance work was done without disrupting train services and technology sped up the pace of work. The machine, which injects ultrasonic waves into the track, can detect even the slightest flaw and repair it. DRM, Northern Railway, Lucknow division, Sanjay Tripathi said, “We used the technology extensively. Track recording car runs were organized regularly to monitor track parameters.” “USFD machines are used for early detection of flaws and preventing of failures of rails in a manner similar to what ultrasound machine does for human diagnostics. USFD machines help in detecting extremely small cracks which can, if not detected timely, cause degradation of tracks,” he said. Track recording cars are used to carry machines. Another technology used was Plasser Quickly Relaying System (PQRS) to replace old tracks with the use of machines. It was used to replace old tracks on the busy Unnao-Magarwara stretch which is part of Lucknow-Kanpur section. PQRS has pre-laid panels ready with sleepers and fittings which are placed at intended site after removing old tracks with machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-helped-rlys-to-use-tech-for-speedy-maintenance-construction/articleshow/76500608.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Plans afoot for Badrinath renovation||DEHRADUN: After the renovation and restoration of Kedarnath shrine, Uttarakhand tourism department has prepared a detailed project for the facelift of Badrinath temple. The initiative was taken after the PM, in a virtual meeting, reviewed the ongoing construction work at Kedarnath earlier this month and directed the state government to prepare a similar plan for Badrinath as well. TOI had reported on June 11 that PM Modi reviewed the ongoing development projects at Kedarnath and also discussed the matter of renovation work related to the Badrinath shrine with the CM. He also insisted that the state government must keep in mind a vision for the next 100 years while developing the two shrines. Following PM's directions, tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar, on Saturday, presented a detailed report for the facelift of Badrinath shrine to CM Rawat. The master plan of the tourism department includes — construction of park inns, hotels, and other facilities and utility centres for the pilgrims. The proposed master plan also includes reconstruction and removal of several buildings in the five-kilometre vicinity of Badrinath temple and emphasis has been laid upon having maximum open space near the temple. The beautification of Badri Lake and Seshanetra Lake and construction of an additional bridge has also been proposed for the passengers. Meanwhile, CM Rawat asked the tourism department to consult and take recommendations from the local traders. He also directed the concerned officials to prepare a detailed plan to organise tourism-related activities throughout the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/plans-afoot-for-badrinath-renovation/articleshow/76498365.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two areas near Khadki Bazaar sealed, 10 test positive in past 48 hours||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has declared Kasai Mohalla and Hule Road — in the vicinity of the Khadki Bazaar — containment zones following a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. “In the last two days, 10 people from these two areas tested positive,” KCB CEO Pramod Kumar Singh told TOI. This takes the number of containment zones in KCB limits to 10. On imposing fresh restrictions in Khadki Bazaar, Singh said, “We will take a call on Monday as our officials have noticed a lack of discipline and a failure in maintaining social distancing norms, by shopkeepers and visitors alike.” The two new containment zones had earlier reported Covid-19 cases, which were cured. However, the fresh surge has prompted the authorities to seal these areas. Post-lockdown, Singh said, the cantonment has recorded a sudden rise in the positive cases. So far, KCB limits have seen 128 cases, of which 74 are active. There have been four deaths. “As many as 228 people — both symptomatic and asymptomatic — have been home-quarantined so far. Over 20 are in our isolation facility and their swab samples have been taken,” said Singh. Singh attributed much of the rise in cases to movement of people to and from containment zones in the past two weeks. “We have recorded fresh cases in new localities like Range Hills and Sapras, which hadn’t a single case till June 1,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-areas-near-khadki-bazaar-sealed-10-test-positive-in-past-48-hours/articleshow/76500137.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Inside Gultekdi slum, residents hit by debt pin hopes on flat infection curve||PUNE: Residents of the Meenatai Thakeray slum in Gultekdi have been under a lockdown since March 27. So far, the pocket has had 15 positive cases of Covid-19 and four deaths. But the area is set to take a turn for the better. The slum pocket, with an estimated total population of 16,000, hasn’t had a case since June 5. Scores, who have been without jobs for nearly 90 days, are hoping restrictions ease. Gym instructor Ravindra Adagale had to start selling vegetables to make ends meet. “I wasn’t left with many options after my gym closed. But I look forward to resuming my work and passion, once the gyms are allowed to start again,” he said. Kesarbai Havale, a domestic help, has been on half her normal pay. Some employers, fortunately, kept up salaries during the lockdown. “I was asked to stay home after the containment was enforced. But there has been no fresh case in the past few days. I want to restart my job. It has been a time of great hardship,” Havale said. A common thread in some low-income neighbourhoods under containment has been the rise in household debt. Ashok Ingle, a watchman, said he’s now “neck-deep” in it. “I haven’t had a cup of tea in two months. I have five children. I hope to rejoin work once curbs ease on people here.” Many residents of Meenatai Thakeray slum, which comes under the Bibwewadi ward office of the PMC, are daily wage workers. Most are employed in the Gultekdi industrial area. Others are vegetable vendors, some work at construction sites and most of the women are domestic helps. The Covid-19 crisis cut off sole sources of income. “The prolonged restrictions that have lasted for over two months have badly impacted the residents,” local corporator Pravin Chorbele said. Chorbele, along with a few citizens groups, has been distributing food kits. “The PMC has also kept up doorstep delivery of rations. But the restrictions have crushed spirits here,” he added. But PMC officials said they are confident a curve has been flattened. The ward’s medical officer Rupali Bhutkar, said, “We are taking extreme caution because the pocket is heavily congested. We will go slow on removing the containment tag.” Certain concerns, however, remain. Social worker Sagar Nimbalkar said faulty drainage lines and the poor condition of the slum’s public toilets led to the crisis. “The urban poor here have been badly hit. Most have lost their jobs. And the poor upkeep and the general hygiene here added to their woes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-slum-look-forward-to-resuming-work-lead-a-normal-life/articleshow/76500117.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 22, 2020||Pune||600 people test positive for Covid-19 in PMC limits, highest one-day case spike||PUNE: The Pune municipal limits on Sunday recorded the highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases, accounting for 620 of the 675 cases recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region. The region also recorded eight deaths, six of which were from Pune Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction. The region now has 15,679 cases. Of the 675 fresh infections, 600 and 20 were from Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Cantonment Board limits, while Pimpri Chinchwad witnessed 37 new cases and rural areas had 18, district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. The region had just over 15,000 positive cases as of Saturday. The deaths on Sunday went up to 592 from 584 on Saturday As on Sunday, the total progressive cases in Pune municipal PMC areas were 12,474, of which 6,529 are active. Five of the six deaths in the Pune municipal areas were recorded in private hospitals, while one succumbed to the infection at Sassoon General Hospital. According to PMC officials, four men and four women were among the deceased, most of them residents of densely populated areas. Barring a 55-year-old man from Kondhwa, all the deceased were senior citizens — a 62-year-old woman from Katraj, a 60-year-old woman from Bibvewadi, a 77-year-old female resident of Parvati Darshan, a 67-year-old man from Budhwar Peth and an 83-year-old woman from Swargate. Health officials said the deceased had comorbidity issues such as respiratory problems, hypertension and diabetes. On Saturday, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s data reconciliation exercise had pushed PMR’s daily case tally to 823 cases. “Positive cases reported by eight private laboratories in Pimpri Chinchwad had to be verified to avoid duplication and glitches while updating the final data on the Union government’s centralized portal for Covid-19 cases and deaths. This was the data for the past two days. Hence, the figures looked inflated on Saturday,” PCMC’s health chief Pawan Salve said. District health officer Pawar said, “We only compile the daily collective figures of positive cases and deaths in PMR through the daily data furnished by PMC, PCMC and the zilla parishad respectively.” Data reconciliation (DR) is a term typically used to describe a verification phase during a data migration, where the target data are compared against original source data to ensure that the migration has transferred the data correctly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/600-people-test-positive-in-pmc-limits-highest-one-day-case-spike/articleshow/76500128.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 22, 2020||Surat||Family of woman heart patient donates her pacemaker, eyes||SURAT: In a rare donation of its kind, pacemaker was donated by the kin of an elderly woman who breathed her last on Monday. The pacemaker helps keep heart beat at normal speed. Looking at the financial constraints that often recipients suffer, more so in times like the present Covid pandemic, the grief-stricken family of 73-year-old Meenakshi Joshina thought that donating the costly apparatus would be of immense help to a needy person who cannot afford to buy one. “We were in shock but we decided to donate her organs so that it can help someone else. I knew that a pacemaker can also be donated hence I inquired with doctors who agreed to accept it,” said son-in-law Rohit Mehta, former president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI). “Normally in organ donation a patient is required to be taken to the hospital but for pacemaker donation, the doctors collected it from our home along with her eyes,” Mehta added. Joshina had undergone a heart surgery 12 years ago when the pacemaker was installed in her heart, said her son who runs an engineering workshop. The battery of the device was replaced two years ago, he added. “Donation of pacemaker is extremely rare and we are trying to create more awareness about it. Earlier donations trickled in once in around five to six years, but now we get one donation in two to three years. As the device is costly, this donation will be helpful for poor families,” said Dr Praful Shiroya, chairman of Indian Red Cross Society, Choryasi branch. Pacemaker can be used for long time, change in battery is required at regular interval. The receiver, however, is not finalized yet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/family-of-woman-heart-patient-donates-her-pacemaker-eyes/articleshow/76499311.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Residents of Canttarea may follow suit||Nashik: In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the Deolali Cantonment Board area, corporators, traders and citizens in general are planning to observe Janata Curfew to contain the spread of virus. Traders and corporators from the area said that they will conduct a meeting in this regard on Monday. During the meeting, they will finalise the strategy of lockdown and the number of days it can be stretched to break the chain of the rising Covid cases. Bhagwan Kataria, vice-president of Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) said, “Given the rising number of cases and the fatality rate, I have proposed to take up Janata Curfew in the cantonment board area. While the corporators are expressed willingness for the same, the feedback of traders from the market areas of the cantonment board is also important. Things would be finalized in the meeting.” Kataria said that there have been at least 25-30 Covid-19 cases in the CBD area. In addition, local authorities of the CBD area have also decided to slap Rs 200 fine on residents for neglecting social distancing norms and not wearing face masks while moving around in public places. The authorities will first make people aware about their decision on slapping fine for violating lockdown norms and then begin taking action in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/residents-of-canttarea-may-follow-suit/articleshow/76498402.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Social distancing goes for a toss at Nashik Rd station||Nashik: Passengers seeking refunds for tickets booked before lockdown made a beeline to the Nashik Road railway station throwing all the social distancing norms to the wind, railway authorities said. Ever since inter-state travel has been banned by railways, very few passengers come to the railway station to book advanced tickets for their travel, especially outside Maharashtra. However, this time, people rushed to the railway station to cancel the tickets they had booked before the lockdown.“There was a huge rush at the booking windows on platform 4. People did not follow social distancing norms and stood very close to each other. Railways had made markings to help people maintain distance; however, people failed to stick to them,” Sanket Patil, a passenger at the station, said, adding that he opposed the idea of overcrowding at public places and also urged people to refrain from doing so. Meanwhile, railway authorities pointed out that the rush was lesser than what they had anticipated. “Usually, in one shift, clerks at the station should clear at least 120 requests per day; however, at present, we have an average of about 70-80 forms. “It clearly indicates that the rush of passengers is well in control, but people have to ensure that they stand in queue and maintain social distancing in public,” railway officials said. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring social distancing at the railway station premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-nashik-rd-station/articleshow/76498429.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 22, 2020||Pune||Not wearing a mask likely to invite fines in Pune, eviction from housing societies||PUNE: The only place you can be without a mask is inside your home. This is the stern message housing societies are giving to residents. Aniket Bera, an IT professional who lives in a society in Hinjewadi, narrated an incident when he forgot to wear a mask while stepping out of his home.  “I had ordered food and the delivery guy left it with the security guard near the main gate. I was talking to a colleague on the phone when I received an alert that the food had been delivered and went down to fetch it in a rush. While I was in the elevator, another resident got in and when we reached the ground floor, he created a big fuss. I apologised. An hour later, I received a call from my landlord informing me that the society secretary had complained against me and warned that if I am seen on the premises without a mask again, I would be evicted,” he said. Since then, he wears mask even when he puts the dustbin outside his doorstep. Deepti Chandra, a BPO employee in Kharadi, said that her society, like many others in the area, have imposed a fine on those found not wearing masks on the premises. “A notice has been sent to all residents that they would be fined Rs5,000 if they are seen without mask while going for a walk on the premises. This applies to visitors, maids and everyone who enters the society. However, we find that domestic workers are not the ones who break the rules, it is mostly the residents who sometimes forget to wear masks when they come down to the lobby or visit the terrace. I agree with the rule because it is for the safety of everyone,” she said. Shalini Kamani, a social media manager residing in Vimannagar, pointed out that though masks are compulsory, attention must also be given to how it is worn. “Many people in my society sit on the benches and have a chat. Most of them have their masks pulled down to their chin. Even when they are walking on the premises or using the elevators, their masks are under their noses, only covering their mouth. Wearing a mask inappropriately is equal to not wearing it at all. I have brought this to the notice of our society president. People need to be educated about wearing a mask properly so that it is effective,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/not-wearing-a-mask-likely-to-invite-fines-eviction-from-hsg-societies/articleshow/76500140.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer, Barmer witness spike in cases during unlock 1.0||Jaisalmer: As many as 15 people who returned to Jaisalmer from other states tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday evening. With Unlock 1.0 coming into effect, the number of positive cases among the returning migrants has seen a sharp increase in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts. The administration has now imposed curfew in many areas of Jaisalmer as a preventive measure. Among the infected include a GNM who recently joined the office of CMHO, after which the office was sanitized. In Barmer, 21 BSF jawans who returned from leave tested positive in the last six days. On the other hand, as per the directions of the state government, awareness is being created among people through various mediums to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Jaisalmer’s district collector Namit Mehta launched a 10-day campaign by signing a flex. On Monday, a campaign will be launched in Pokhran sub division wherein minister B D Kalla will distribute masks to corona warriors. Mehta said a cycle rally, rangoli event, workshops and street plays will be organised with the help of NGOs, local folk artistes and taxi drivers to spread awareness. On the other hand, cases of corona infection are increasing in Barmer. In the last 11 days, 74 cases have been reported including 21 BSF jawans who returned from leave. CMHO Dr B R Barupal said the transit history of these cases is being traced and based on that samples will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-barmer-witness-spike-in-cases-during-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76500150.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||Censor streaming services on internet: Bihar CM to PM||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar has written a letter to PM Narendra Modi, urging him to implement censorship law on the streaming services through the internet. The CM office made available contents of the letter to the media here on Sunday. Nitish stated that several service providers these days were showing different programmes, including films and serials, to their customers through their streaming services. As the censorship law is not applicable on the streaming services, some films with extremely violent scenes and having sex related contents were being shown to people through these channels. “Due to the uncensored access of streaming services, many people are watching vulgar, violent and improper contents on such channels and adversely affecting the people’s minds. The regular showing of such contents also leads to several social issues, including increase in crime against women and children,” Nitish has pointed out in the letter. He has further requested the PM to think over this serious issue on an urgent basis and take appropriate action to bring the streaming services in the purview of certification under the Cinematograph Act. Nitish also urged the PM to bring the production and broadcast of such films and contents under the category of crime so that legal action could be taken against the related persons. Earlier on December 11 last year, Nitish had sent a letter to PM, urging him to put a ban on pornographic sites and inappropriate content on the internet. Then, Nitish had expressed deep concern over the incidents of brutal gang rape followed by murder of the victim in various parts of the country. “Large number of children and youths are viewing vulgar, indecent and inappropriate contents due to the unlimited reach of people on the internet. In many cases, incidents of rape are being circulated on social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp etc. Such contents are seriously affecting children and teenagers. In some cases, it has been found that such contents have been used in committing crime,” Nitish had mentioned in his December letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/censor-streaming-services-on-internet-nitish-to-pm/articleshow/76499312.cms||Madan Kumar
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trust fined Rs 10,000 for ‘mischievous plea’ seeking ban on homeopathy medicine||PUNE: Officiating principal district and sessions judge SR Navandar has imposed Rs10,000 cost on a Chinchwad-based trust while dismissing its application seeking a ban on the sale of homeopathic immunity raiser ‘Arsenicum Album 30’ and distribution of the same among citizens by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district collector’s office. “Apart from the jurisdictional aspect, it would not be out of place to mention here that the homeopathic medicine ‘Arsenicum Album 30’ has not been banned either by the state health organization or by any other authority,” judge Navandar said in his order on Saturday. “In the documents submitted on behalf of the applicants, the said medicine is referred as an immunity raiser and not as a vaccine or antidote for Covid-19 virus. There is no prima facie material on record to show that any citizen has suffered due to the medicine. There is absolutely no case made out for taking cognisance of any offence by this court,” the judge stated. “From the conduct and approach of applicants, what appears is that by taking undue advantage of the existing situation of pandemic, they (the trust & its executive superintendent) made an attempt to get publicity, in fact cheap publicity. Thereby, they have taken a lot of time of the court, particularly when the court is busy in dealing with important urgent bail applications of jail inmates and injunction matters. Such conduct on the part of mischievous applicants needs to be curbed by imposing exemplary costs,” the judge said. The Care of Public Safety (COPS) Association, a charitable trust in Chinchwad which takes up human rights issues, and its superintendent Abhishek Haridas had filed the plea under the Human Rights (HR) Act on June 16 stating, among other things, that the PMC and district collector have distributed the homeopathic medicine to many citizens, making misleading claims about its effectiveness. Judge Navandar referred to the HR Act provisions in details as well as the application and observed that the applicants did not make out any case that the opponents (PMC chief and district collector) committed any offence and, hence, must be punished. Even after perusing the entire application, no offence is made out of which cognisance can be taken by a criminal court, he said. Moreover, the court was not a HR Commission or a general supervising body, the judge stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trust-fined-rs-10k-for-mischievous-plea-seeking-ban-on-homeopathy-medicine/articleshow/76500152.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 22, 2020||Goa||Govt to discuss rules regulating casino business||Panaji: A notification on the rules regulating casino industry in Goa is likely to be delayed as the chief minister Pramod Sawant has sought a detail discussion on rules before it is finalised. A senior government officer said the chief minister favoured a discussion in detail on the rules before issuing a notification. He said the decision will take place after the Covid-19 situation is brought under control. From February 1, 2020, Goans have been banned entry on casinos, except those employed in it. The state government had also appointed a gaming commissioner to monitor the operations of casinos and to check if Goans violate the rules. In April, the state government had shut the casinos along with other activities due to Covid-19. The officer informed that the file pertaining to rules governing gaming commissioner were sent to the law department for vetting, but later recalled and sent to chief minister for his approval. “After discussion with chief minister and his final approval, the file will once again be sent to the law department for vetting before it is notified,” he said. Sawant had said that till rules are notified, tourists will not be stopped from entering the casinos, but action will be taken if Goans found gambling. As per the act, the gaming commissioner has to issue ‘permit’ to tourist authorising them to enter the place or area designated for gambling. The gaming commissioner is empowered to keep a check and exercise overall control over the games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-discuss-rules-regulating-casino-business/articleshow/76376712.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||‘Narendra Modi is now Surendra... lord of gods’||LUCKNOW: BJP national president J P Nadda on Sunday launched a blistering attack on Congress for demanding a roadmap for lifting the lockdown, saying the grand old party should be worried about its own political course and dwindling appeal. Addressing a virtual rally, which was live-streamed to nearly 25lakh party functionaries and grassroots workers, Nadda blasted Congress for not knowing what it meant to be in the Opposition. “Take tuition from us. We have been in opposition for a very long time. Now, even God is not supporting Congress. Narendra Modi is now Surendra Modi. He’s the lord of gods,” he said. Talking about the Sino-Indian Ladakh standoff, he said, “We want to assure people that every inch of land in the country is sovereign,” he said. The BJP chief said, the lockdown could not deter the party organisation from suspending its activities, which were aimed to serve hundreds of people battling the pandemic. “Necessity is the mother of invention. Only BJP managed to channelize functionaries, right from national to booth level, through virtual interface like video-conferencing and digital medium,” Nadda said, at the rally which was essentially aimed to address the audience in western and Braj regions of UP Nadda said, the party organized nearly 4,000 video conferences to connect with district and booth-level functionaries to MPs and MLAs to seek support to battle covid-19. “I alone held 150 video-conferences during the lockdown,” the BJP chief said, adding that the digital medium allowed the party to reach out to more number of people than in normal rallies. He said, the virtual rally also allows him to know more party leaders. “I can see you all when the camera zooms on your face,” he said in the presence of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and UP BJP organisation general secretary Sunil Bansal. “It was not a small task to carry out relief operations at the party level,” Nadda said, claiming BJP distributed nearly 19crore food packets and 5crore ration kits during the pandemic. He hailed Narendra Modi as a leader whose six-year tenure as PM filled the void created in the last six decades. “The first year of Modi-2 has been a year of achievement and challenges like corona pandemic,” he said. Drawing a parallel between former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri and Modi, Nadda said, like Shastri, Modi’s could invigorate the masses on a single appeal. Nadda said, when lockdown was enforced, there wasn’t a single Covid hospital. “Now, we have 1,000 dedicated hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/narendra-modi-is-now-surendra-lord-of-gods/articleshow/76500616.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Digital shortfalls stark after school lessons come home||PUNE: In the span of three months, students in the state have had their schooling disrupted and families have had to rearrange their schedules to suit an online mode of education. Cut off from a regular school day, education at home and online is leaving families too stressed to grapple with a situation frayed with not enough gadgets or reliable internet and far too much screen time. At 10am on a weekday, Shiva N's household is buzzing with voices. His 7-year-old daughter Neetu is in her virtual singing class just when her sister Anu (14) is concentrating on her mathematics class. Shiva is on a Zoom meeting and his wife is taking an official call. Each of them is glued to their own screens in the same part of their apartment in Kondhwa where internet connectivity is the best. Not even a classroom could be more chaotic. The children are up before 7am and after breakfast, they log in at 8.15am, they login for classes till noon covering five subjects for the elder sister while the younger one winds up at 11.30am after covering four subjects a day. “Even after the class ends, they have classmates going for more online sessions for coaching or tuitions which go on till 4pm. Imagine the hours all children are spending glued to the screen. Then they have homework to finish which is transmitted via WhatsApp. It has to be uploaded on another online platform,” Shiva said. All that screen time affects the girls who complain of irritation in the eyes. “This is stressful for the kids. We can’t send the kids to play outside and they end up spending an hour or so in front of the television, which means more screen time,” he added. Parents against a stipulated screen time are now having to give in and watch their children sit with gadgets for hours. “I was strictly against any gadgets for my children. They were enrolled in music, dance and taekwondo classes and they also went out to play. Their TV time was monitored by us. But now both have smartphones and the internet and they spend their maximum time on it. Sometimes my daughter ends up studying late into the night. Every morning, I look up their browser history. All this is too stressful,” a mother of two children in class VIII and class XII said. Teachers have had to take extensive coaching in online teaching. From 65 to 70 students in one batch, they now teach 4-5 divisions in a class with 200 or 300 students in 30 minutes. “We encourage students to ask questions in class. But with 200 of them online for just 30 minutes, we hardly have time to explain concepts and then take questions. They are asked to write in the chat box but many are not used to it or may not be good at articulating their problems. Inside a classroom, we can spot the weak students and give special attention. Now, we have the screen between us,” a teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/digital-shortfalls-stark-after-school-lessons-come-home/articleshow/76500164.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 22, 2020||Pune||Man held for wife’s death||Pune: The Sangvi police arrested a 28-year-old man for causing the death of his wife by banging her head against a wall inside their house during a domestic dispute on June 12. Pallavi Balaji Biradar (25) sustained severe head injuries in the incident and succumbed to them at a hospital in Aundh on Saturday. Pallavi’s husband, Balaji, has been arrested under Section 304-2 (knowledge that your act may cause death) of the Indian Penal Code. An officer from the Sangvi police said the couple stayed at a rented accommodation in Pimple Gurav. On June 12 the couple had entered a brawl over a domestic issue. “Pallavi allegedly bit Balaji’s hand and in a fit of rage, Balaji banged Pallavi’s head on the wall,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-wifes-death/articleshow/76500177.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||4 SRPF personnel on bandobast duty in Malegaon test +ve||Nashik: As many as four personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) from Amravati have contracted Covid-19 during the course of their bandobast duty in Malegaon. The personnel have been shifted to Vasant Pawar Medical College in Adgaon.Additional superintendent of Nashik rural police Sandeep Ghuge said that they could not ascertain how they contracted the infection. The rural police is taking all the necessary precautions, including providing personal protective equipment, to ensure the personnel on duty do not contract the infection and provide the necessary treatment if at all they test positive for the contagion.Ghuge added that since Malegaon had turned into a hotspot for Covid-19, police personnel, who were at the forefront of Covid-19 management, were at a higher risk of contracting the infection. More than 180 police personnel have contracted the viral infection during the course of their duty in Malegaon. Three police personnel have also succumbed to the infection, said police. Superitendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh recently handed over cheques of Rs 60 lakh to the families of two deceased policemen. Officials said that due to the change in weather condition, chances of policemen catching cold and cough were higher. On this backdrop, a fever clinic has been set up at NDMVP Medical College at Adgaon especially for policemen and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-srpf-personnel-on-bandobast-duty-in-malegaon-test-ve/articleshow/76498443.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Sun peeks partially at eclipse-watchers in Mumbai||A partial solar eclipse was seen in Mumbai on Sunday between 10am and 1.27pm through an overcast sky. The maximum phase was at 11.37am when the eclipse was 70%. Some regions in north India, however, had the rare sight ing of an annular eclipse in which the moon covers the central region of the sun and the rim of the sun appears as a ring of fire in the sky. Nehru Science Centre went live from its terrace at Worli. Director Shivprasad Khened said many students joined the live streaming, suggesting a growing interest in astronomy and astrophysics. Chintamani Pai, co-founder of Space Geeks, said live streaming was provided from Uttarakhand. “One of our co-founders, Virendra Yadav, captured the eclipse from there and transmitted the progress to our Facebook page,” Pai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sun-peeks-partially-at-eclipse-watchers-in-mumbai/articleshow/76501064.cms||Srinivas Laxman
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||54-year-old BMC engineer loses battle with Covid-19||MUMBAI: A 54-year-old executive engineer from the storm water drain department of the BMC died at the SevenHills hospital, where he had been admitted with Covid-19, on Sunday. The engineer was on duty till Tuesday last week, said people in the BMC with knowledge of the case. He fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital in Thane on Thursday. His oxygen levels kept dropping and he was shifted into an ICU facility. "He was then brought to the SevenHills hospital on Friday, but his condition kept deteriorating and he passed away on Sunday around 12.30 pm," a person in the municipal corporation said on condition of anonymity. A senior officer from the engineer's department had tested positive a few days before him. Engineers from the department said that owing to pre-monsoon works, such as desilting, storm water drain department engineers were sent on the field. "Owing to this he kept visiting various sites where work was undertaken before the monsoon and might have contracted the infection," an engineer said on condition of anonymity. Sainath Rajdhyaksha of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Engineering Union demanded that engineers over the age of 50 years should not be sent on field duty. "They are very vulnerable and should be excluded from doing any kind of field work. This will help save the lives of many other civic staff," he said. The number of BMC employees infected so far is 1,787, of which 1,050 have recovered. Over 70 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/54-year-old-bmc-engineer-loses-battle-with-covid-19/articleshow/76501088.cms||Richa Pinto
June 22, 2020||Shimla||HP’s worry: First 40 cases in 45 days, last 633 in 48||SHIMLA: The return of nearly two lakh residents of Himachal Pradesh who were stuck in other parts of the country has been behind the spike in Covid-19 cases over the past one and a half months. The hill state got 17 new cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 673 cases — a far cry from the first 40 cases which had been reported in the state during the 45-day period from March 19 toMay 4. In the last 48 days, from May 5 to Sunday, the state reported 633 cases, or nearly 13 cases a day. While the state was on the brink of becoming Covid-free on May 4 as only one case was active, the number of active cases in the state is now 237. Among the new cases, 11 were in Kangra, three in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one in Chamba, where a patient also recovered. In all, 12 patients recovered, including five in Una, four in Kangra and two in Hamirpur. With a recovery rate of 65.46%, Himachal Pradesh has still done better better than neighbouring states and others. In all, 417 patients have recovered, 11 have migrated out of the state, six have died of Covid-19 and two of other reasons. The first positive case of Covid-19 was detected in the state on March 19. When the state was about to become Covid free in the first week of May, the government decided to bring back two lakh residents stuck in other parts of the state and cases have since continued to rise. Many of them have also returned on their own. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said those returning from other states were being sent to their homes according to quarantine norms. Immigrant Himachalis and migrant workers are being strictly adhered to a 14-day quarantine period in the state, which has helped in preventing community spread, he added. The state reported its first death on March 23, when a man in Dharmashala who had returned from the US, passed away. The CM said state government had started ‘Nigah’ programme to sensitise the families of people coming to Himachal Pradesh from other states. Under this programme, apart from conducting proper health checkup of every person returning to the state, full details of their journey are being gathered. Teams of ASHA workers, health workers and Anganwadi workers are going to the homes of those coming from outside states to educate their families about the importance of maintaining social distance. A total of 53,280 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Sunday. Of them, 33,748 had completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 19,535 were still under it. So far, 64,288 persons had been tested for Covid-19, of which reports of 62,140 were negative and 1,486 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hps-worry-1st-40-cases-in-45-days-last-633-in-48/articleshow/76500205.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur’s Sana becomes fourth generation defence officer||CHANDIGARH: As the passing out parade (POP) of Indian Air Force (IAF) Academy at Dundigal in Hyderabad was held on Saturday in restrictive environment in view of Covid-19 pandemic, Cadet Sana Wadhwa, a resident Zirakpur in Mohali of Punjab became a Flying Officer. Sana has also become the fourth generation defence officer. While her great-grandfather was a Captain in the army, grandfather was a Major and her father retired as Wing Commander from the IAF. Her family has been involved in almost all wars which India fought for the last about hundred years. Her maternal grandfather also served as Wing Commander in IAF. On completion of her training, Sana has now been posted to Chabua, a prime fighter base of Indian Air Force near the China Border in Assam. She had joined her training in 2019 and after going through a tough training schedule cleared all physical and educational hurdles before being piped as Flying Officer. Her mother Sonya Wadhwa is running a coaching institute in Zirakpur near Mohali, and her father, who retired as Wing Commander of IAF, is into solar installations and is working in Chandigarh as branch head of a Noida-based company. While sharing details about her daughter, Sonya, told TOI that Sana had topped in Class X and XII in Gujarat where her father was posted while in service. She did her graduation from the Delhi University and thereafter cleared all entrance examinations and interviews to get finally selected into IAF. Apart from academics she was also a keen participant of extracurricular activities and also represented Gujarat in the National Badminton Team in 2015-2016. As many as 123 air warriors, including 19 women officers, were commissioned by the IAF on Saturday. Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria reviewed the parade. Like the Indian Military Academy’s Passing Out Parade, parents and family members of the cadets were not allowed to attend the ceremony due to Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/zirakpurs-sana-becomes-fourth-generation-defence-officer/articleshow/76500200.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Shimla||BRO keeping link intact, working at war footing on new bridges to Leh||MANALI: The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has deployed its machinery at all crucial on the Manali-Leh highway that is a major link for military supplies to border areas. In addition, it has expedited work to complete major bridges on the road. Be it Rohtang, Koksar, Stingri, Zingzingbar, Keling Sarai, Sarchu, Pang or Rumtse, BRO machines are ready to respond to any situation including road blockades due to landslides. The labour shortage due to lockdown has also been compensated for after manpower was arranged from alternative sources. BRO does not want to take any risk as military convoys are frequently using this highway. All road maintenance works are being executed at war footing. Construction of the bridges on the highway has also picked up pace. BRO is replacing old bailey bridges with new ones. While many new bridges have come up in the last few years, remaining bridges are expected to be ready in a year or two. Over 300m long Darcha bridge, the longest bridge on Manali-Leh highway, and second longest after Col Chewang Rinchen Setu on Shyok river on Daulat Beg Oldi road in Ladakh, is also expected to open for traffic this year. Nearly 75% of the Manali-Leh highway has been two-laned. Except for some of the stretches, widening of remaining road is also continuing. Nearly 90% of the existing highway is blacktopped. Widening and blacktopping of entire length of the highway is likely to be completed by next year. A BRO official said all works are running smoothly and BRO was capable of handling any situation. “Our machines remain deployed at crucial points. As monsoon is nearing, the machines will be stationed at landslide and flash flood prone areas. Come what may, the highway will remain open. Not just building roads and bridges, we stay focused on keeping the highway open,” he said. BRO has made it clear that the organisation would continue to maintain Rohtang pass highway even after opening of the Rohtang tunnel which will bypass the mighty pass. Along with final works in the tunnel, BRO is making Palchan-Rohtang-Koksar stretch a double-lane road. Meanwhile, Lahaul-Spiti administration has also asked BRO to station its machineries at landslide prone areas to facilitate interruption free traffic movement in monsoon. Kullu and Mandi DCs have also directed PWD and NHAI to make sure that traffic was not interrupted due to landslides. The Mandi-Kullu-Manali and further Manali-Leh highway is busy with military convoys. The movement on the highway, which had proved its importance in 1999 Kargil war, has increased these days and all concerned authorities have become more active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/bro-keeping-link-intact-working-at-war-footing-on-new-bridges-to-leh/articleshow/76500184.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Senior citizen loses Rs 1.11 lakh to KYC fraud||PUNE: An online fraudster siphoned off Rs1.11 lakh from a senior citizen’s bank account, a resident of Bibvewadi, on the pretext of updating his e-wallet’s KYC on April 17. The 61-year-old man had lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police station about 15 days ago and his complaint was transferred to the Bibvewadi police station for further investigation on Saturday. According to police, the suspect called up the man claiming to be the executive of the e-wallet company. The man was then advised to update his e-wallet and informed him that his KYC was pending. The fraudster obtained details, including his e-wallet PIN, and siphoned off the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizen-loses-rs-1-11l-to-kyc-fraud/articleshow/76500191.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Thane||186 fatalities take Maharashtra toll to 6,170; Mumbai reports 110 deaths||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday raced past 6,000 Covid-19 deaths, 105 days after its first case was detected. With an addition of 186 deaths, including some added as part of statistical reconciliation, the death toll stood at 6,170. At the same time, the growth rate of cases shrank below the 2% mark and came to rest at 1.96% in the city. The state's jump from 5,000 to 6,000 deaths came in five days, while the time taken from 4,000 to 5,000 deaths had been merely a day. The case fatality rate rose in the city to 5.52% and in the state to 4.67%, as did the absolute number of deaths, which can be attributed to a data cleaning exercise underway since the second week of June.  Mumbai reported 110 deaths, technically its third highest one-day fatality figure, but officials said the number included 69 previously unreported deaths. The city now has 66,488 cases, of which 29,318 are under treatment. Deaths will continue to rise for a few days, said BMC officials. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that reports of previous unreported deaths have been pouring in for some days. "We may see a slight jump in death figures because of these backlog deaths being added. We are trying to plot the figures against individual deaths and trying to find out the days when maximum deaths occurred," he said. Dharavi on Sunday reported 12 new cases. The total number of cases reported from the slum-dominated area now stands at 2,170, with 1,057 of these patients having been discharged. The state recorded 3,870 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the second highest in a single day, pushing the total cases to 1,32,075. Of the total cases, 60,147 are actively under treatment. The state claimed that the difference in the total number of deaths could be seen due to reconciliation as all districts, except Mumbai, have completed their reconciliation of data. In Thane, the toll touched 208 after the corporation added 10 new deaths. With 164 new cases, the tally crossed 6,000. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 254 new cases and two deaths took the tally to 3,511 cases and 73 deaths. The state said 1,591 patients were newly discharged, making the recovery rate nearly 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/186-fatalities-take-maharashtra-toll-to-6170-mumbai-reports-110-deaths/articleshow/76501124.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||186 fatalities take Maharashtra toll to 6,170; Mumbai reports 110 deaths||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday raced past 6,000 Covid-19 deaths, 105 days after its first case was detected. With an addition of 186 deaths, including some added as part of statistical reconciliation, the death toll stood at 6,170. At the same time, the growth rate of cases shrank below the 2% mark and came to rest at 1.96% in the city. The state's jump from 5,000 to 6,000 deaths came in five days, while the time taken from 4,000 to 5,000 deaths had been merely a day. The case fatality rate rose in the city to 5.52% and in the state to 4.67%, as did the absolute number of deaths, which can be attributed to a data cleaning exercise underway since the second week of June.  Mumbai reported 110 deaths, technically its third highest one-day fatality figure, but officials said the number included 69 previously unreported deaths. The city now has 66,488 cases, of which 29,318 are under treatment. Deaths will continue to rise for a few days, said BMC officials. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that reports of previous unreported deaths have been pouring in for some days. "We may see a slight jump in death figures because of these backlog deaths being added. We are trying to plot the figures against individual deaths and trying to find out the days when maximum deaths occurred," he said. Dharavi on Sunday reported 12 new cases. The total number of cases reported from the slum-dominated area now stands at 2,170, with 1,057 of these patients having been discharged. The state recorded 3,870 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the second highest in a single day, pushing the total cases to 1,32,075. Of the total cases, 60,147 are actively under treatment. The state claimed that the difference in the total number of deaths could be seen due to reconciliation as all districts, except Mumbai, have completed their reconciliation of data. In Thane, the toll touched 208 after the corporation added 10 new deaths. With 164 new cases, the tally crossed 6,000. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 254 new cases and two deaths took the tally to 3,511 cases and 73 deaths. The state said 1,591 patients were newly discharged, making the recovery rate nearly 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/186-fatalities-take-maharashtra-toll-to-6170-mumbai-reports-110-deaths/articleshow/76501092.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 22, 2020||Surat||Luxurious car led cops to kidnappers||SURAT: A ‘black Volkswagen Vento’ drove cops right up to businessman’s kidnappers as the sleuths of detection of crime branch (DCB) and Umra police could cracked the case within six hours. Kalpesh Bosamiya was kidnapped in the black car from outside his office at Canal Walk Complex at around 7am on Saturday. Cops followed details of the luxury car to trace its rightful owner, who revealed that his friend Jignesh Ghori had borrowed the car from him for some ‘personal work’. Police then asked him to call Ghori and ask him to return the car. The kidnappers had taken Bosamiya almost 65 kms away from the city to a farm house near Kosamba. Following his friend’s calls, Ghori returned to the city, leaving his aides Pravin alias Pallu Solanki and Viru Darbar with Bosamiya. “Initially Ghori did not answer the calls but later he answered and agreed to return the car. We kept watch where he was coming to return the car and nabbed him,” said Umra police sources Police nabbed Ghori and Umesh Mavani. Investigations revealed that Mavani took Ghori’s help to recover money from Bosamiya, who was in finance and stock trading in the past. The duo planned to kidnap Bosamiya with the help Solanki and Darbar, who escaped after dropping Mavani on NH 48.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/luxurious-car-led-cops-to-kidnappers/articleshow/76499374.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Erode||Experts find fault with Tamil Nadu's Covid testing strategy||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government boasts that it has been testing more samples than any other state. But experts have criticised its strategy of drawing more samples in districts that record low Covid cases. Going by the government data, 12,530 tests per million were conducted in The Nilgiris as against 6,050 per million in Madurai district that has seen a gradual spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. In Theni district, which recorded 185 cases, for instance, 16,195 tests per million were conducted, while 13,265 samples were drawn per million in Kanyakumari that has 151 Covid-19 cases until June 19. This has raised questions about the government’s rationale of testing more samples in districts reporting fewer cases. “By doing this, the government is creating an impression that it has increased testing,” said a member of one of the advisory committees. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told TOI that the state had scaled up testing in Chennai and had ramped up testing in the neighbouring high prevalence districts gradually. “We are carrying out focussed testing and stepped up testing in districts like Madurai that is recording more cases,” he said. Rejecting the charge that more number of tests were done in the low-prevalence districts, he said testing was being carried out as per standard procedures. But experts say the government was not testing enough in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. “At least 10,000 samples should be tested per day in Chennai and the neighbouring districts, prioritising high risk groups,” said an expert. Using a high number of testing kits in districts that have a low virus prevalence is not a wise approach, said eminent virologist Dr Jacob John. “If testing is done among people with symptoms, there is a chance of diagnosing 30% to 40% more Covid-19 cases. If it is not done properly, infected people will spread the infection to more people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/experts-find-fault-with-testing-strategy/articleshow/76507762.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Saraf Bazaar’s 34 CCTVs to be linked to control room||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has decided to connect all 34 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in Saraf Bazaar with the command & control room for effective monitoring.In order to make the city safe, the Smart City body is installing 800 CCTV cameras across the city and connecting all the existing private CCTV cameras in the city with the command and control centre.An NMSCDCL official said their teams recently visited Saraf Bazaar as part of the process to connect these cameras. The command and control room has been equipped with sophisticated gadgets to monitor and surveillance of about eight projects that are being implemented in the city under the Smart City Mission.These projects include on and off street parking, rent-a-cycle scheme, scada water metre project, smart street lights, flood surveillance, among others. Over 40 personnel would work round-the-clock in that special control room for surveillance.“We had a meeting with the smart city officials. We have decided to connect the 34 CCTV cameras installed at Saraf Bazaar to the control room. It will help smart city and police administration to take security measures through online monitoring through command & control room,” Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers’ Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/saraf-bazaars-34-cctvs-to-be-linked-to-control-room/articleshow/76498463.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Record spike in Telangana Covid-19 cases, 730 test positive in 1 day||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday registered 730 novel coronavirus cases, beating all single-day records as seven more persons died during the day, taking the death toll to 210. Authorities said that 650 of the patients tested positive on Sunday are asymptomatic, while another 50 have mild to moderate symptoms and have been advised home quarantine. About five per cent of patients are in serious condition. Since the relaxation of the lockdown beginning June, the number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped by 65% in the state. While the Covid-19 caseload in the state has jumped to 7,802, in the last five days in a row the number has hit a new record with the state testing more samples. On Sunday, a total of 3,297 samples were tested, at least two-thirds of which were done in 18 private facilities. So far a total of 57,054 tests have been done in the state. “Apart from a relaxation of lockdown, ramping up of testing facilities too has a role in the increasing number of cases,” said a senior health department official. Incidentally, the number of tests is increasing progressively each day from 1000 samples being tested per day about a week ago. The government has already announced its policy of conducting 50,000 tests in 10-15 days, in view of the spread of virus since the relaxation of the lockdown. Officials have discharged 225 patients from various hospitals after completing recovery. With these, the total number of patients who have recovered stands at 3,731 in the state. Of the 7,802 cases, 5,104 were recorded between June 1 and June 21, showing the increased spread of the virus since the lockdown was relaxed. While majority of the cases continue to be recorded in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, Jangaon is the latest among districts to see a surge in cases. While Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Karimnagar continue to see cases as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/record-spike-in-t-covid-cases-730-test-ve-in-1-day/articleshow/76500636.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||'Centre’s ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan’ a convergence plan with no additional funds for states'||JAIPUR: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan’, having an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore on Saturday, to provide livelihood opportunities to returnee migrant workers affected by the lockdown, the Centre hasn’t yet promised additional budget (outside the existing budget for various schemes) to the states for running the campaign and that it has been ‘conceived as a convergence programme’, said sources in the state government. However, many senior bureaucrats and ministers in Rajasthan were under the impression that additional fund will be allotted to the state under the campaign. According to an official, the Rs 50,000-crore outlay doesn’t mean extra funding will be done for the campaign. The funds already allocated under various ongoing schemes (like PMAY-G, MGNREGA, NH work, SPMRM and others) will be subsumed in the Rojgar Abhiyan, he said. “That’s what I thought,” said deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot about the impression being made that additional fund will be provided to the states. “I am hopeful that additional funds will be provided over and beyond the existing schemes. The existing schemes are going on as they are. But, in this crisis, the states need extra funding and the economy needs to be revived at all cost,” he added. Under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan, migrant labourers, who have returned from other states to their homes following Covid-19 crisis, would be provided means of livelihood at nearby places. The Abhiyan was flagged off from Telihar village (district Khagaria) in Bihar on Saturday. Some believe the campaign has been launched keeping in mind the upcoming Bihar elections (due in October) so that they could reap electoral benefit from it. Rajasthan is among the six states in the country where the campaign has been launched. There are 22 target districts in the state. “This is nothing, but a good packaging of the campaign. First, this is a campaign and not a scheme and will continue for 125 days. The 25 activities, already in existence under various schemes/departments, have been included as part of convergence programme. The outlay doesn’t mean extra funding will be done for the campaign (abhiyan) or additional funding outside the budget,” said a senior official in the state government. Had the campaign (abhiyan) not been introduced, people would have anyway got work under the various existing schemes. Without any additional outlay, they (government of India) want to run the campaign as a convergence project,” he added. The official said, “Without spending money (under the campaign), they only want to improve the quality of spending (of various schemes) and make it time-bound so that migrant workers get the benefit. Also, there will be better monitoring of the progress of schemes and their expenditure. But, there is little hope that fresh allotment of money will be made. Had there been an extra budget, the state government would have known by now about the state-wise allocation and the criteria based on which the allocation is done. As of now, there is no plan to allot extra money.” Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family. Only if 100-day work is increased to 200 or if the entire cost of material component (including state government’s share of 25%) under NREGA is borne by the Centre, it would be considered as an additional/extra budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-rojgar-abhiyan-a-convergence-scheme-with-no-additional-funds/articleshow/76500206.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 22, 2020||Shimla||HP MLA son booked for assaulting toll plaza staffer||MANALI: The son of Congress MLA from Kullu Sunder Singh Thakur has been booked allegedly for assaulting an employee of Dohlunala toll plaza on Kullu-Manali highway, the police said. The case was lodged based on the complaint of one Aman, nephew of a BJP leader from Kullu, who said the MLA's son assaulted him when he was on duty at the toll plaza. A video of the incident from CCTV recording has also surfaced, in which an SUV is seen arriving at the plaza on Saturday night, after which an employee checks its number. Then another employee comes out of the booth and talks to the person driving the vehicle. After that, the person in the SUV is seen coming out of the vehicle and pushes the employee and starts thrashing him. Aman has sustained some injuries. The Patlikuhal police have conducted the medical examination of Aman and registered a case. The police are checking if the accused had a curfew pass, as all vehicular movements are banned between 8pm and 6am. The police said the video footage would be used as evidence and further investigation into the matter is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-mla-son-booked-for-assaulting-toll-plaza-staffer/articleshow/76500207.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chennai||Experts find fault with Tamil Nadu's Covid testing strategy||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government boasts that it has been testing more samples than any other state. But experts have criticised its strategy of drawing more samples in districts that record low Covid cases. Going by the government data, 12,530 tests per million were conducted in The Nilgiris as against 6,050 per million in Madurai district that has seen a gradual spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. In Theni district, which recorded 185 cases, for instance, 16,195 tests per million were conducted, while 13,265 samples were drawn per million in Kanyakumari that has 151 Covid-19 cases until June 19. This has raised questions about the government’s rationale of testing more samples in districts reporting fewer cases. “By doing this, the government is creating an impression that it has increased testing,” said a member of one of the advisory committees. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told TOI that the state had scaled up testing in Chennai and had ramped up testing in the neighbouring high prevalence districts gradually. “We are carrying out focussed testing and stepped up testing in districts like Madurai that is recording more cases,” he said. Rejecting the charge that more number of tests were done in the low-prevalence districts, he said testing was being carried out as per standard procedures. But experts say the government was not testing enough in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. “At least 10,000 samples should be tested per day in Chennai and the neighbouring districts, prioritising high risk groups,” said an expert. Using a high number of testing kits in districts that have a low virus prevalence is not a wise approach, said eminent virologist Dr Jacob John. “If testing is done among people with symptoms, there is a chance of diagnosing 30% to 40% more Covid-19 cases. If it is not done properly, infected people will spread the infection to more people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/experts-find-fault-with-testing-strategy/articleshow/76500209.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Business||Hetero gets nod to launch generic Remdesivir in India||Hyderabad: Homegrown pharma player Hetero on Sunday announced that Indian drug regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), has granted it approval to manufacture and market investigational antiviral medicine ‘Remdesivir’ for the treatment of Covid-19 in the country. The generic drug, launched under a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc to expand access to Covid-19 treatment in low and middle-income countries, will be marketed under the brand name ‘COVIFOR’ in India. According to Hetero, the drug has been granted approval by DCGI for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of Covid-19 in adults and children, hospitalized with severe symptoms of the disease. COVIFOR (Remdesivir) will be available in 100 mg vial (Injectable) which has to be administered intravenously in a hospital setting under the supervision of a healthcare practitioner, it added. As per the company spokesperson, the final price of the drug has not been finalised yet but it will be in the range of Rs 5,000-6,000 per vial. The sales will not be through retail channels but only through hospitals. The drug is being manufactured in the Hyderabad unit and its supply is expected to commence in a week’s time. Commenting on the development, B Partha Saradhi Reddy, chairman, Hetero Group of Companies, said “In the light of increasing Covid-19 cases in India, the approval of ‘COVIFOR’ (Remdesivir) can prove to be a game-changer given its positive clinical outcomes. Backed by strong backward integration capabilities, we can ensure that the product is immediately made available to patients across the country.” Reddy said that the company is prepared for ensuring enough stocks required to cater to the present needs. The US Food and Drug Administration had granted Remdesivir an emergency use authorization for the treatment of hospitalized patients with severe Covid-19. Even Japan and South Korea have been using the drug to treat patients.  On Sunday, along with Hetero, even Cipla got the regulatory nod to manufacture and market the drug in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hetero-gets-nod-to-launch-generic-remdesivir-in-india/articleshow/76499429.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Lift export ban on protective gear, says Tirupur Inc||Tirupur: Apparel exporters have appealed the Centre to lift the ban on export of personal protective equipment (PPE) to benefit from the global demand.Apparel Export Promotion Council has sent letters to minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal and minister of textiles Smriti Irani seeking to lift the ban. “Countries like Bangladesh, Indonesia and Pakistan have lifted the ban on PPE export and are receiving huge orders. We are afraid of losing export markets to the competing countries. Production of PPE is more than sufficient to cater to the needs of the country and can be opened up for exports,” AEPC chairman A Sakthivel said. “India has scaled up PPE production from zero units to 8lakh units per day in less than four months.”In a statement on Sunday, Sakthivel said Pakistan received $100 million export orders last week, while the US Federal Emergency Management Agency has launched Project Airbridge to quickly get 2.25 million PPEs from Vietnam.“India is also part of the US initiative. We should not lose out on an attractive global business opportunity. The need of the hour is to initiate PPE exports,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lift-export-ban-on-protective-gear-says-tirupur-inc/articleshow/76500218.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Tribal area athlete is nayab tehsildar||Nashik: Datta Borse, a sprinter from the tribal-dominated taluka of Peth, one of the remotest areas of Nashik district, has made his way to the nayab tehsildar post after cracking the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) 2019 examination. Borse, who is a seven-time national champion in 100m sprint — he won the gold four times, silver once and bronze medal twice between 2013-14 — had taken up coaching of children in the city. Though from a tribal family in the Peth taluka, Borse lives in Nashik city with his parents. His father works as a watchman at a construction site and mother is employed as a domestic help. Borse, who has graduated from KTHM College, said, “I had been trying to crack the competitive exams and was sure of being successful one day. Today, I have made it.” He said he is still interested in sports and he would continue working in the field. “I will also help children take up sports as a career and motivate them to attain new heights,” he added. Borse had earned the position through the sports quota for the tribals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribal-area-athlete-is-nayab-tehsildar/articleshow/76498485.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Villagers, panchayat officials unite to keep Covid-19 at bay||Coimbatore: At a time when the inflow of people into the district has increased even as the number of positive cases is raising constantly, the public have pitched in to help the district administration in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic.Residents of Mylampatti village panchayat have come together to support their panchayat officials during the crisis period. To bring in both the panchayat officials and villagers together, a WhatsApp group has been formed. It is being used both by the officials to inform about government announcements and by the public to escalate their issues, said Senthil Kumar, a resident cum activist. With multiple resident WhatsApp groups in place, the announcements would reach most of the residents in Mylampatti and Karayampalayam villages within a few minutes, he added. “As we are working along with the officials, villagers do not hesitate to inform us about their neighbours who return from other districts. We in turn would communicate the information to the panchayat officials and they will take necessary actions,” he said. A few days ago, residents informed us about a family who returned to the village from southern part of the state, without undergoing tests and it would have gone unnoticed or reached with a delay if the residents would not have shared it, he pointed out. Similarly, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), political parties and other associations from Sulur town panchayat have come together to extend their support to the panchayat officials in containing the spread. They have formed a general committee. “So far, no cases were reported from the Sulur town panchayat. But, public co-operation is much needed to ensure that no one turns positive from the region. That’s why we have decided to pitch in,” said T Mannavan, managing trustee of Arimasanga Arakkattalai, who is also a part of the committee. “With the representatives from NGOs and political parties, committees were, also, formed at ward levels to reach out to the public at grass root level. The committees would in turn reach out to the public to create awareness about the preventive measures to control the spread of infection and urge them to inform its members or officials about the presence of outsiders in their locality or about their neighbours who had returned to the district, recently,” he said.If it is passed to the committee members, they would pass it on to the officials concerned.Pointing out that as many as 30 layouts are in the extension area and each have its own residents’ welfare association, he said that they had asked the associations to educate its members and to keep an eye on their neighbours. We have also got in touch with associations of traders, autos, hairdressers, hotels and taxis to ensure that their workers are aware of the guidelines and it is followed regularly, he added.Explaining that they have obtained permission from the panchayat officials a day ago, he said that they are going to publicize the phone numbers of panchayat officials and the committee members among the public in the upcoming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/villagers-panchayat-officials-unite-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay/articleshow/76500216.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 22, 2020||Patna||Covid toll 51; 162 fresh +ve cases reported in Bihar||PATNA: Two more Covid deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in state to 51 on Sunday. Altogether 162 new cases, including 15 in Patna district, were also registered, taking the tally to 7,665 in Bihar. The fresh cases in Patna district were reported from Bhattacharyya road, Agamkuan, Patna City, Kidwaipuri, Maner, Paliganj, Bihta, Masaurhi and Salimpur. Altogether 410 people have been tested positive in Patna, of which 225 were discharged, leaving 183 active cases in the district. As many as 5,631 patients have recovered so far, while 1,983 active cases remained in the state. Bihar’s recovery rate is 73.46%. Altogether 264 persons were discharged from the hospitals and isolation centres after their test reports came negative. One death was reported from Begusarai, taking the toll to four in the district. Another death was reported from Gaya, the second in the district. The health department confirmed both the deaths on Sunday. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said a 65-year-old woman from Ballia block was admitted to NMCH in Patna for Covid treatment. “She was referred from a private hospital in Begusarai on June 20. She died on Sunday,” he said. Epidemiologist and nodal officer at NMCH, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said the deceased was suffering from fever and hypertension. “She also complained about breathlessness. She had no travel history,” he said. A 28-year-old man died at ANMMCH, Gaya due to Hepatitis B, though he was also Covid positive. ANMMCH superintendent Dr Bijay Krishna Prasad said the man had tested positive on June 18. “He died on June 20. He was suffering from Hepatitis B. He had no travel history. The samples of his family members will be collected for test,” he said. As per the health department bulletin, the new cases were reported from 21 districts with maximum from Darbhanga (33), followed by Samastipur (18). Other districts with large number of cases include Bhagalpur and Madhubani each with 11 cases, Banka (9), Sitamarhi (8), seven each in Bhojpur, Purnia and Rohtas, Katihar (6), three each in Jehanabad, Madhepura, Kishanganj and Nawada, two each in Nalanda, Munger and West Champaran, and one each in Buxar and Vaishali. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said altogether 1,56,926 samples had been tested in state, including 5,778 in the last 24 hours. In a press release, he mentioned that 4,941 migrants, who returned from other states after the lockdown, had been tested positive since May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-toll-51-162-fresh-ve-cases-reported-in-bihar/articleshow/76499382.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 22, 2020||Shimla||Discontented HP Congress leaders’ meeting sends ripples in party||SHIMLA: Several prominent Congress leader in Himachal Pradesh, who are feeling sidelined in the party, have started coming together for 2022 assembly elections and are openly expressing their dissatisfaction with the functioning of the organisational setup in the state. A luncheon meeting on Saturday at the residence of senior party leader Kaul Singh Thakur has sent ripples in the state Congress, as quite a few of such leaders attended it and reportedly decided to appraise the party command about the situation prevailing in the organisation. Highly-placed sources said after this luncheon, another meeting over dinner is likely to be held on Monday, which may see participation of more discontented leaders. So far, the Congress politics in the state has been largely dominated by the faction led by former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, to which Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri and state party president Kuldeep Rathore owe their allegiance. But, ahead of the 2022 state polls, a strong faction is emerging with leaders like Kaul Singh, MLA Harshvardhan Singh Chauhan, former state president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, former minister Sudhir Sharma, MLA Ashish Butel, former chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur and Sohan Lal. Leaders from even warring sides joining hands can spell trouble for the Virbhadra faction ahead of 2022. Sources said during the lunch, it was decided that the party command would be told that winning the next polls would not be possible with the present organisational setup. They said in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party had faced a crushing defeat on all the four seats and failed to take lead even in a single assembly constituency out of 68. In the last year’s assembly by-elections, the party lost both Pachhad (SC) and Dharamshala seats, with the Dharamshala candidate forfeiting his security deposit. The leaders reportedly also vent their anger over being ignored in the party meetings. The sources said it was decided that a meeting of Congress leaders will be held soon, in which senior leaders like Asha Kumari, Ramlal Thakur, G S Bali, Viplov Thakur and Kuldeep Kumar will also be called. A senior leader, requesting anonymity, said that Kuldeep Rathore has never contested an election while CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri comes from Una district, which only has five assembly seats. Under such setup, winning election would be difficult, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/discontented-hp-cong-leaders-meeting-sends-ripples-in-party/articleshow/76500217.cms||Anand Bodh
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Fraudster from Salem siphons off Rs 32,989 from Tirupur man’s account||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police arrested a 28-year-old Salem resident for cheating a Tirupur native of Rs 32,989. Police identified the accused as V Dinesh of Dadagapatti in Salem district. “He had called M Perumal of RVE Nagar in Tirupur a few days ago, claiming to be from the SBI credit card section. He told Perumal that he would help to upgrade his credit card limit and give Rs 10,000 cash back. He asked Perumal to provide his credit card details and one-time password. Believed his words, Perumal shared the details,” a police officer said. Perumal realised that he was cheated when he received an SMS saying that Rs 32,989 was deducted from his account. He immediately approached the bank manager and lodged a complaint with the Tirupur city cybercrime cell. Two police teams were formed to crack the case. The teams traced the phone number of the caller and arrested Dinesh on Saturday. They seized four mobile phones and 13 SIM cards from him. Dinesh had used the money stolen from Perumal’s account to place online orders, the officer said. “He had used the same modus operandi to cheat people in Coimbatore, Madurai and Chennai. He was remanded in judicial custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fraudster-siphons-off-rs-32989-from-tirupur-mans-account/articleshow/76500220.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Vadodara||41 more positive cases emerge in Vadodara city, rural areas||VADODARA: Vadodara city and district recorded 41 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours ending Sunday evening. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) bulletin stated that maximum cases surfaced from old city areas including Wadi, Gendi Gate, Champaneri Darwaja, Baranpura, Fatehpura and Chokhandi. Fresh cases have also been reported from Waghodiya Road, Harni Road, Warasiya Road, Ajwa Road, Pratapnagar, Tarsali, Makarpura, New VIP Road and Padra and Savli talukas. The death toll in city and district stands ‘officially’ at 50 even as the actual death toll is more than double. There are currently 580 active cases of which 39 patients are on ventilator or bipap machines while 112 are on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 429 patients is said to be stable. The number of patients discharged from the hospitals stood at 51, including 15 from government hospitals, 17 from private hospitals and 19 from home isolation. The total number of discharges has reached 1,237. Currently, 961 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, 12 are under quarantine at private facilities while a majority of them – 949 – are under quarantine at their home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/41-more-positive-cases-emerge-in-vadodara-city-rural-areas/articleshow/76499128.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana proposes parks for bulk drugs, medical devices, electronics||CHANDIGARH: In line with the Union government’s plan to give a fillip to local manufacturing, Haryana has planned three major projects — a bulk drug park in Panipat, a medical device park in Karnal and an electronics park in Sohna. The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) will develop these sites. Soon after the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country, the Union Cabinet had in March this year approved incentive schemes to promote domestic manufacturing in electronics and health sectors. This was in alignment with the Make in India scheme, wherein the Centre has announced several financial and tax benefits for the startups. According to information, 150 acre land has been earmarked in Karnal for the proposed medical devices park and 800 acre in Panipat for the bulk drug park, while 400 acres of land have been earmarked in Sohna for electronic devices manufacturing park. "All these projects have been conceived in accordance with the plans of government of India. As Panipat and Karnal are centrally located and easily accessible for all northern states, we are hopeful of getting the Centre’s approval,’’ said HSIIDC managing director Anurag Aggarwal. In fact, the post Covid-19 situation is expected to be more conducive for attracting FDIs for projects at these locations, added Aggarwal. HSIIDC is hopeful of getting business for bulk drugs from Himachal Pradesh, UP, Rajsthan, Punjab and other states having pharmaceutical units. Incidentally, Himachal also plans to set up similar projects in the hill state. Similarly, the medical devices park is also likely to cater well to the country’s entrepreneurs, given its location in Karnal — in close proximity to the national capital. Referring to the electronics park plan for Sohna, officials said a Korean company has already expressed its keenness to invest there. The company already has one unit in Manesar. According to information, HSIIDC has also brought changes to the layout plan and FAR system of the proposed projects. Besides increasing the FAR area of the industrial projects, special arrangements have been made for the in-situ projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-proposes-parks-for-bulk-drugs-medical-devices-electronics/articleshow/76500223.cms||Manvir Saini
June 22, 2020||Salem||Fraudster from Salem siphons off Rs 32,989 from Tirupur man’s account||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police arrested a 28-year-old Salem resident for cheating a Tirupur native of Rs 32,989. Police identified the accused as V Dinesh of Dadagapatti in Salem district. “He had called M Perumal of RVE Nagar in Tirupur a few days ago, claiming to be from the SBI credit card section. He told Perumal that he would help to upgrade his credit card limit and give Rs 10,000 cash back. He asked Perumal to provide his credit card details and one-time password. Believed his words, Perumal shared the details,” a police officer said. Perumal realised that he was cheated when he received an SMS saying that Rs 32,989 was deducted from his account. He immediately approached the bank manager and lodged a complaint with the Tirupur city cybercrime cell. Two police teams were formed to crack the case. The teams traced the phone number of the caller and arrested Dinesh on Saturday. They seized four mobile phones and 13 SIM cards from him. Dinesh had used the money stolen from Perumal’s account to place online orders, the officer said. “He had used the same modus operandi to cheat people in Coimbatore, Madurai and Chennai. He was remanded in judicial custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/fraudster-siphons-off-rs-32989-from-tirupur-mans-account/articleshow/76503686.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Couple swept away in flooded stream, bodies found in pond||Aurangabad: A farmer and his wife were swept away in a stream along with the bullock-cart they were riding in Hingoli district’s Kalamnuri tehsil, about 240 km from here, on Friday. While the woman’s body was recovered on Saturday, the farmer’s body was fished out from the Puyona pond on Sunday morning. The pond is located about a couple of kilometres from the spot where the incident occured. The deceased have been identified as Kundalik Aasole and his wife Dhurpatbai, both in their 60s. They were residents of Aasolewadi hamlet. The incident took place on Friday evening when the couple, riding a bullock-cart, were on the way to their farm. Hingoli district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi told TOI, “There had been heavy rainfall in and around the area. Failing to gauge the water current, the farmer couple entered the stream riding their bullock cart, and ended up getting swept away.” The bullocks somehow managed to swim out of the rivulet. This was noticed by some of the villagers, who raised an alert. Soon, the police and the revenue department teams reached the spot. “The water current was very strong. Nobody could get into the rivulet to look for the couple,” said a revenue employee. Only after the water started subsiding, the villagers joined the rescue teams and managed to retrieve the woman’s body on Saturday evening from a pond. The farmer’s body was removed from the silt of the pond on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-swept-away-in-flooded-stream-bodies-found-in-pond/articleshow/76498526.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Two houses gutted in separate incidents in Banjar||Manali: Two houses were gutted in fire in two different incidents in Banjar sub-division of Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. In first incident a double-storey house, made with traditional kath-kuni architecture where timber is used as main construction material, was destroyed completely in Adesha village of Kalwari panchayat. Villagers, with the help of fire services, doused the fire after a lot of efforts and saved adjacent buildings, including a temple. According to villagers, the fire broke out in the house of Dile Ram at about 9am when nobody was present in the house. The house with attic had eight rooms. The villagers climbed to the roofs of the nearby houses and started removing the slates in effort to control fire from spreading. Some villagers brought out agriculture spray machines to spray water on the house. Naib tehsildar Moti Ram said Rs 30,000 was given to the victim as immediate relief. In second incident, fire broke out in a house in Palahach village following a shortcircuit. The fire destroyed everything in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-houses-gutted-in-separate-incidents-in-banjar/articleshow/76500232.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Stuck Russian returns home||Karwar: A Russian tourist who was stuck in Gokarna for more than three months owing to the lockdown, was sent back to his country by Karwar police on Saturday. Police said Naruzbav Ruskana arrived in India four months ago and came to Gokarna after visiting Delhi and Chennai. Soon after the lockdown was announced. He also sold his mobile phone after he ran out of money. On Saturday he arrived at the deputy commissioner’s office here requesting help to return to Russia. As he only spoke Russian, officials sought the help of police. Police took Ruskana’s details and got in touch with his mother. His Visa is about to expire on June 30. Though he wanted to go to the Russian embassy branch, he could not go there due to travel restrictions imposed by the neighbouring state. So he was sent to Mumbai via Hubballi by train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stuck-russian-returns-home/articleshow/76498504.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Abetment charges added in Behbal Kalan police firing case||BATHINDA: The special investigations team(SIT) probing Behbal Kalan police firing case has added charges of abetment in the case, earlier registered under charges of murder and attempt to murder. The section 109 (punishment of abetment) of the IPC has been added after the SIT arrested of two persons in quick succession in for their alleged role in fabricating evidence. Meanwhile, advocate Suhail Singh Brar was produced before the court of JMIC Amandeep Kaur on Sunday on expiry of his four-day police remand. Pankaj Bansal, the owner of car agency Pankaj Motors, who was arrested on Saturday, too was produced in the same court. the JMIC sent both on further three-day police remand. Brar and Bansal have been accused of fabricating evidence to help some cops after two protesters Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh were killed in police firing while protesting against sacrilege at village Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. After the killing, an escort of vehicle of former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma was taken to first Pankaj Motors then to Brar’s house. Shots from .12 bore gun were allegedly fired at the escort vehicle to show that police fired on protesters in self defence, claims the SIT. Faridkot district attorney Rajnish Goyal said the charges had been added in the main FIR and the court apprised about it. “The SIT is investigating where the gun shots were fired at the escort vehicle? Who else was involved in hatching the conspiracy? The SIT also wants to know where the ammunition was destroyed after using it in firing shots at the vehicle,” the prosecution had told the court to get further remand. On October 14, 2015, around 200 persons were holding protest at Behbal Kalan, against Bargari sacrilege on October 12, 2015, when police fired on them, leading to the death of two persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/abetment-charges-added-in-behbal-kalan-police-firing-case/articleshow/76500226.cms||Neel Kamal
June 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM performs yoga, greets people||CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday performed yoga at his home here and greeted the people of state on the occasion of the 6th International Yoga Day. The chief minister performed various asanas for an hour in the morning to mark the day, themed "Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family" this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Later, Khattar said the state government had been organising the International Yoga Day at a grand scale every year since 2015. Various state and district level programmes were also organised on the day in the previous years, in which people would join to collectively perform yoga and inspired others for the same. But this year, due to Covid-19, instead of organising programmes and events, people were urged to practise yoga at their homes, as this is the only effective way to defeat this pandemic. Underlining the significance of yoga, Khattar said the day gives a message of universal brotherhood. Yoga gives mental peace, brings positivity in people’s lives and helps build immunity, said the chief minister while exhorting one and all to make yoga a part of their daily life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cm-performs-yoga-greets-people/articleshow/76500230.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Aggressive testing unearths more Covid cases in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The cumulative tally of coronavirus cases jumped to 8,929 in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. The state has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in the last three weeks, with nearly 5,253 cases being detected in June alone or during ‘Unlock 1.0’. In absolute terms, June’s infections account for nearly 59% of the caseload in the state. However, the surge in Covid-19 infections is being primarily attributed to the increase in testing across the state. For instance, the state tested nearly 24,500 people between 9 am on Saturday and 9 am on Sunday – almost a threefold increase compared to the average daily tests conducted in May. The state has tested nearly 3.04 lakh people since June 1, representing a case positivity rate of 1.7% this month and average daily tests of nearly 15,000. Andhra Pradesh’s first Covid case was detected on March 12. It took nearly 85 days for the state to cross the 4,000-mark to reach 4,112 cases on June 4. But, the next 4,817 cases have been added in just about a fortnight. When it comes to the cases recorded during different phases of lockdown, the ‘Lockdown 4.0’, from May 18 to 31, accounted for the highest number of infections with 1,244 cases; Lockdown 2.0, implemented from April 15 to May 3, saw 1,147 new Covid-19s cases. The Covid-19 case positivity rate stood at 1.42% for the first one lakh tests. Then it saw a downward trend to reach 1.06% by the time the state crossed the 2 lakh testing milestone and 0.9% by 3 lakh tests. But it had marginally increased to 0.98% when the state completed testing of four lakh people. But due to the recent spurt in infections, the overall positivity rate now hovers around 1.3%. The state screened nearly 6.76 lakh people for Covid-19 as of Sunday morning. Special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said that the state recorded nearly 230 cases per day in the first 20 days of June. “But the average infections during the 68-day lockdown period was limited to 54 cases a day. We should unitedly fight against the pandemic. The need of the hour is a collective social responsibility,” said Dr Jawahar Reddy. Watch Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh ramps up testing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aggressive-testing-unearths-more-cases/articleshow/76499408.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation seals two flower shops||COIMBATORE: The city corporation on Sunday sealed two flower shops at RS Puram for violating the social distancing norms. Based on the directions of corporation commissioner J Sravan Kuamr, corporation officials sealed the shops and removed wood and steel extensions encroaching the road, said a corporation official. “As the number of positive Covid-19 cases is increasing in the district, the civic body is keen to prevent the market areas from becoming hotspots and has been constantly monitoring the areas and closing the shops for violation of norms,” he said. The civic body had sealed the main flower market using tin sheets a couple of days ago. It is speeding up construction of the new flower market on the opposite side of the old market. The new market is expected to be spacious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corporation-seals-two-flower-shops/articleshow/76500229.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tangedco official loses gold chain to snatcher||COIMBATORE: The Karumathampatti police are searching for a man, who snatched a 5.5-sovereign gold chain from a Tangedco assistant engineer on Friday. The victim, Pavithra, 32, wife of Kathirvel of AVM Colony in Annur, was returning home from the Thekkalur EB station on her scooter. When she reached Kittampalayam near Karumathampatti around 7.30pm, a motorcycle-borne man snatched her gold chain. Though she chased him for one kilometre, the man managed to escape, police sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tangedco-official-loses-gold-chain-to-snatcher/articleshow/76500227.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Post inter-caste marriage, relatives ‘kidnap’ bride||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old Edayarpalayam resident, who married a woman from a different caste two weeks ago, has lodged a complaint with the Thudiyalur police, saying that his in-laws kidnapped his wife. But the 24-year-old bride, a Trichy native, told police that she had left with her parents on her own accord and will return to her husband shortly. In his complaint, R Karthikeyan of Luna Nagar at Edayarpalayam said that he had married his girlfriend Thamizhini Prabha on June 5 in Coimbatore, without the blessing of her parents. “Her parents came to Coimbatore on June 10 to meet her. When they requested her to go with them, she refused. On Friday, her parents and some other people visited our house and forcibly took Prabha. They attacked me and my mother,” he said. The Thudiyalur police registered a case against Prabha’s parents Sundarraj and Amutha under sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 448 (punishment for house-trespass), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 506 (ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC and section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998. CCTV footage collected from the area showed the bride’s parents forcibly taking her with them. Three people were seen threatening Karthikeyan’s relatives using wooden logs. Police formed two special teams to investigate the incident. Inquiry revealed that Prabha’s father is a former deputy superintendent of police. A police team reached Trichy and met Prabha. She told the cops that she had left with her parents and is trying to convince them that she is happily married to Karthikeyan. She promised to return to him after two weeks and handed over a writen statement. She also promised to appear before the court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/relatives-kidnapped-girl-after-inter-caste-marriage-groom/articleshow/76500225.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s Osmania general hospital medicos boycott duties over workload||HYDERABAD: Health services at the state-run Osmania general hospital (OGH) was hit on Sunday after a large section of junior doctors at the forefront of the coronavirus fightback boycotted duties over poor strength at the Covid-19 wards and burnout. Nearly two weeks after a strike badly affected operation at the state’s exclusive Covid-19 facility, Gandhi hospital, 30 PG medicos from OGH boycotted duties for the second day in a row. They sent a letter to their department head on Sunday morning, saying they will boycott duties indefinitely, until more doctors were deployed. A worried hospital superintendent B Nagender has sent an SOS to other departments heads saying, “we cannot leave the battle midway,” and urged all hands to manage the isolation wards. Requests to PG doctors from the general medicine department who are feeling ‘burnt out’ due to increasing Covid-19 suspects and confirmed cases coming to the hospital, have all fallen on deaf ears. The hospital handles 2000 patients daily, and while the general medicine and pulmonology department usually handles suspected and positive cases of Covid-19 in every hospital, at OGH, the general medicine PGs are the only ones at the forefront as the hospital does not have a department of pulmonology. There are 15-16 PG doctor, house surgeons (1st year medical students) usually taking care of isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients, there are 40-50 patients at the ward at any given time. The Junior doctors had asked for additional doctors on Friday, following which a circular was sent to all departments seeking help but most of the other departments too are short-staffed currently. “Every department in the hospital currently has 4-5 doctors who have tested positive for Covid-19. Also, 50 percent of the strength remains on quarantine as per government orders. With a steady patient flow, many departments are struggling to meet their own requirements. While they are working out how they can help us, PGs and house surgeons from the dermatology department have been deputed at the isolation ward,” said Dr B Nagender, hospital superintendent. “We are pressing senior doctors in service and making alternative arrangements but my request to the PG doctors is to allow us time to work out the modalities. This is not the time to crumble under pressure,” Nagender added, admitting that doctors are indeed over-burdened and all efforts are being made to get more support staff, including nurses and ward boys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabads-osmania-general-hospital-medicos-boycott-duties-over-workload/articleshow/76500640.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik zilla parishad schools start online classes using social media apps||NASHIK: With Covid-19 restricting children to the indoors of their homes and schools not restarting till further orders, teachers of zilla parishad schools have already started online classes using social media applications. According to senior ZP officials, the government has allowed teachers to prepare e-content for students of all ages without them having to come to schools till further orders. About 300 teachers from ZP schools have started generating and delivering the e-content through the social media. “Teachers are also stressing on using social media applications so that the content can remain with the students,” an official said, adding that the teachers have contributed their own ideas of creating the content and broadcasting them on the mobile phones of parents so that their wards can access it. “Having live exchange would force the parents to be at home during school hours. Hence, the teachers shot videos of the lectures and sent it to the parents. This is helping more than 90% students with the content,” the official added. Teachers also said that the technic is helping students to refer to the lesson multiple times so that they get their confusion cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-schools-start-online-classes-using-social-media-apps/articleshow/76498506.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||PSI is first SRPF officer to succumb||Aurangabad: A police sub-inspector serving with the Jalna-based SRPF Group-III succumbed to Covid-19 at a Mumbai-based hospital on Sunday morning, making him the first policeman from SRPF to succumb. The deceased officer has been identified as 50-year-old Rajendra Gangasingh Rana, who was part of the F-company that was sent to Mumbai for bandobast duty on April 15. Rana is survived by his wife and two children. Rana was stationed at the Santacruz-based fixed point when he fell ill and was tested positive for the infection on June 1. Before leaving for Jalna, the jawans were tested and of them, six, including PSI Rana, had tested positive. The other jawans have responded well to treatment. The company, after completing duty, had returned to the group on June 4 and was quarantined. However, PSI Rana was moved to the Seven Hills hospital, where three days back, his conditions started deteriorating. He had to be put on life support. Jalna SRPF commandant Akshay Shinde said: “We gave the best possible treatment to our officer, who had a history of hypertension. During the course of treatment, he failed to respond to the treatment, and he passed away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/psi-is-first-srpf-officer-to-succumb/articleshow/76498546.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Road signal at Dwarka junction starts ops||Nashik: The city police have started operating the signal at Dwarka junction from Saturday to do away with the perennial problem of traffic congestion. The traffic congestion issue at Dwarka junction has persisted for more than two decades. Many infrastructural changes, including relocating the Hanuman temple which occupied one corner of the junction two years ago, were implemented to solve the issue but to little avail. The situation started improving only after heavy goods vehicles were banned entry at the junction. Deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chaugule said, “The signal is currently functioning on an experimental basis to analyse the traffic behaviour. Though there are many roads crisscrossing the junction, the signal is mainly for motorists coming from Mumbai, Dhule, Nashik Road and Sarda Circle. After studying the movement of vehicles during different times of the day, the timings of the road signal will be set up accordingly.” Heavy vehicles, which were allowed entry in Dwarka circle during the lockdown owing to less traffic, have once again been diverted to alternative routes to reduce traffic congestion at the junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-signal-at-dwarka-junction-starts-ops/articleshow/76498536.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Skygazers get an eyeful of partial solar eclipse||COIMBATORE: Denizens had no other option but to watch the partial solar eclipse from their homes on Sunday as no arrangements were made for public due to the pandemic situation. District science officer J R Pazhaniswami said the city witnessed 30% eclipse from 10.12am to 1.23pm. The greatest eclipse occurred at 11.43am. Though it was an annular eclipse, the state witnessed only a partial eclipse. “The annularity was seen only in the northern parts of the country, such as Rajasthan and Haryana. We could witness partly-eclipsed crescent of the sun,” Pazhaniswami said. The city was to witness an annular solar eclipse on 26 December last year. But as cloudy weather played spoilsport, those who were eager to observe the phenomenon were disappointed. They found compensation in Sunday’s eclipse. Most of them used the solar filters they had bought in December to witness the cosmic event. Some residents’ associations had set up telescopes in their localities for the benefit of skygazers. Informal groups of residents came together at places such as Edayarpalayam to witness the eclipse. A young married couple said they wanted to show their three-year old son the annular solar eclipse in December, but couldn’t as it lasted for mere seconds due to bad weather. “We used the solar filters we had collected in December to witness Sunday’s eclipse. Our son was excited to see the crescent shape of the sun,” the man said. The next annular eclipse will be visible in the state only in May 2031, Pazhaniswami added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/skygazers-get-an-eyeful-of-partial-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76500234.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Pune||Waste plant operators oppose Covid-19 patients’ food, plates in biomedical waste list||PUNE: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has now designated plates, leftover food and toiletries of Covid-19 patients as hazardous biomedical waste. But the June 10 revision in rules has met with objections from operators of common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTF) across the country. Many argued that it will increase the quantum of a city’s overall biomedical waste and break down the already overburdened incinerators. Pune’s only incinerator, which was burning Covid-19 waste along with other hazardous medical discard, is still under repairs after it broke down two weeks ago. Operators said burying some of the waste, instead of burning, is a more feasible idea. “Covid-19 waste has already overwhelmed treatment infrastructure nationwide. The CPCB’s revision has added to our woes,” said Vinod Kachhadia, president of the All India Association of Common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF). “We have requested the CPCB to consider the deep burial method for the disposal of patients’ leftover food and other general non-biomedical waste items.” Kachhadia runs facilities in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bhuj. “The CBWTF facilities in these cities have been witnessing a significant surge in Covid-19 waste from places like Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. The equipment has already started facing repair and maintenance issues,” he said. Kachhadai has also suggested segregation of general waste from infected patients at source, which means at hospitals, care homes and other designated Covid-19 treatment centres.  “That is not happening presently. All items that have been used by patients — both general and Covid-linked — are being dumped in yellow bags. Operators have no choice but to shove these yellow bags directly into the incinerators. This is causing a lot of equipment damage and frequent shutdowns,” he said. For the record, the CPCB has clearly stated in its guidelines that masks and gloves worn by those involved in Covid care should be collected separately in yellow plastic bags. Sunil Dandawate, vice-president of the association’s Pune wing, said, “There has been a tremendous increase in Covid-19 waste. It is much more than normal bio-medical waste, for which these incinerators are designed. The CBWTF operators in India are finding it difficult to dispose of the excess waste.” Dandawate said frequent shutdown of equipment will also lead to accumulation of hazardous waste. “Whenever a designated incinerator shuts down due to failure of major components such as the chimney, the repair period can be very long. This will force CBWTF operators to transport the highly-infections accumulated waste to other places. We are facing this issue in Pune now,” he said. Amit Neelawar, who runs CBWTFs in Delhi and Mumbai, said, “The virus needs a living body to survive. It cannot remain alive outside, in infected patients’ leftovers and general waste. So disposing of these items in deep pits makes sense. This will also relieve the strain on incinerators.” There are two facilities that incinerate Covid-19 and general biomedical waste in Delhi, Neelawar said. “Our Delhi facilities have already exceeded capacity. We are incinerating 12 tonnes of biomedical discard, including Covid-19 waste, every day. Our Mumbai facility, in Deonar, is at 70% incineration capacity and is inching to full capacity, which is 24 tonnes per day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waste-plant-operators-oppose-covid-patients-food-plates-in-bmw-list/articleshow/76500243.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Covid-positive wary of going to care centres in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Saturday order of lieutenant governor Anil Baijal requiring Covid-positive people to visit the care centres for health assessment to allow them home isolation or send them to institutional quarantine is posing new challenges. On Sunday, many people who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms were found unwilling to go to the centres, wary of the crowd and a long wait which could lead to further spreading of the disease. Lack of ambulances and alternative transport facilities also posed a problem. The city has a limited number of government and private ambulances. Earlier, a Covid-positive person’s health condition was assessed on the telephone by officials. A surveillance team would then visit the house to check if it satisfied the home isolation norms. Following the LG’s directive, the Delhi health department had issued an order stating: “All individuals who are positive will be referred to the Covid care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of comorbidities. Simultaneously, physical assessment will be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation, like a minimum of two rooms and a separate toilet, exist so that the family members and neighbours are protected and a cluster of cases doesn’t develop in that locality.” The order added that if an adequate facility for home isolation was available, and the person on clinical assessment didn’t require hospitalisation, he or she would be given the option of staying at a Covid care centre or a paid isolation facility, like a hotel, or opt for home isolation. A source quoting a person who tested Covid-positive on Friday evening said that once his housing society members became aware of his health status, they didn’t want him to step out. “No cab driver will be ready to take me to the care centre and travelling without revealing my health status would be unethical. I have enough space in my home and I should be allowed home isolation after verification,” the patient told the source. Some people were unwilling to drive due to apprehensions about parking at the care centres, apart from the possibility of infecting others. “The new order has given those fighting Covid-19 additional stress. People have been arguing with officials on being asked to come to the care centres. It’s not possible to force them to come here,” said a source. CATS has only around 450 ambulances and private ambulances are also in short supply due to the high demand. In the past three days, over 3,000 people have turned positive daily. In the coming days, the number of infected people is expected to increase substantially and they would all be visiting the care centres. None of the 11 district magistrates handling Covid management responded to TOI’s calls and messages. Many officials at the lower ranks in the districts were unaware of the latest order and were continuing with the old home isolation practice. “Around a dozen people turned up for health assessment and were found fit for home isolation. After verification of the facilities at their home, they will be allowed home isolation,” said a source at a care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-positivewary-of-goingto-care-centres/articleshow/76500248.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Teen gets pregnant after rape, neighbourhood youth booked||JAIPUR: The family of a 14-year-old girl has filed a rape complaint at Ramganj police station against a neighbourhood youth after their daughter became pregnant recently. For months, the girl kept silent about the rape until she became pregnant and told her parents about it. According to police, father of the rape survivor said the girl was raped by a youth living in the neighbourhood a few months ago. “Her parents stated that the girl did not tell about been raped to her parents as the youth had threatened her to keep mum. Some days ago she complained of abdominal pain and other issues which she discussed with her mother. When she was taken to a hospital, doctors told her parents that she was pregnant. Thereafter, the girl narrated the whole story,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-gets-pregnant-after-rape/articleshow/76500239.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Son murders father over land dispute, arrested||AURANGABAD: Beed police have arrested a 28-year old man on the charges of murdering his father, a former sarpanch, following a dispute over division of land. The incident took place in Chakur tehsil sometime on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Chandrakant Malapalle (55). He succumbed to the injuries at a private hospital on Saturday. Police said that they have arrested Malapalle’s son Dhanajay based on the complaint lodged by deceased’s brother. During a preliminary probe, it has come to fore that the suspect had been demanding his share in the ancestral property, including farmland. This demand often resulted in heated arguments between the father-son duo. It was on Friday, following one such argument, that the suspect picked up a huge floor tile and hit his father on the head, leaving him seriously injured. Upon learning about the incident, other members of the family rushed to the spot and took Malapalle to a local hospital. He was later referred to a private hospital. Police said that the deceased had political connections and even has served as the chairman of local panchayat samiti. “The deceased had intentions to divide the property and give equal share to his children, but he feared that Dhananjay may sell off the land. Therefore, he avoided giving away his share,” said a policeman privy to the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/son-murders-father-over-land-dispute-arrested/articleshow/76498563.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Battle-weary Osmania General Hospital medicos boycott duties over workload||HYDERABAD: Health services at the state-run Osmania General Hospital (OGH) was hit on Sunday after a large section of junior doctors at the forefront of the coronavirus fightback boycotted duties over poor strength at the Covid-19 wards leading to burnout. Nearly two weeks after a strike badly affected operation at the state’s exclusive Covid-19 facility, Gandhi Hospital, 30 PG medicos from OGH boycotted duties for the second day in a row. They sent a letter to their department head on Sunday morning, saying they will boycott duties indefinitely until more doctors were deployed. A worried hospital superintendent B Nagender has now sent an SOS to other departments heads saying, “we cannot leave the battle midway,” and urged all hands to manage the isolation wards. Requests to PG doctors from the general medicine department who are feeling ‘burnt out’ due to increasing Covid-19 suspects and confirmed cases coming to the hospital, have all fallen on deaf ears. The hospital handles 2,000 patients daily, and while the general medicine and pulmonology department usually handles suspected and positive cases of Covid-19 in every hospital, at OGH the general medicine PGs are the only ones at the forefront as the hospital does not have a department of pulmonology. There are 15-16 PG doctors, house surgeons (1st year medical students) usually taking care of isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients, there are 40-50 patients at the ward at any given time. The junior doctors had asked for additional doctors on Friday, following which a circular was sent to all departments seeking help but most of the other departments too are short-staffed currently. “Every department in the hospital currently has 4-5 doctors who have tested positive for Covid-19. Also, 50% of the strength remains on quarantine as per government orders. With a steady patient flow, many departments are struggling to meet their own requirements. While they are working out how they can help us, PGs and house surgeons from the dermatology department have been deputed at the isolation ward,” said Dr B Nagender, hospital superintendent. “We are pressing senior doctors in service and making alternative arrangements, but my request to the PG doctors is to allow us time to work out the modalities. This is not the time to crumble under pressure,” Nagender added, admitting that doctors are indeed over-burdened and all efforts are being made to get more support staff, including nurses and ward boys||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/battle-weary-ogh-medicos-boycott-duties-over-workload/articleshow/76500642.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||‘Dravyavati river project fails to improve Jaipur’s water table’||JAIPUR: The Dravyavati river rejuvenation project, which aimed to revive the city’s receding groundwater, has allegedly failed to serve its purpose as cementing has prevented natural recharge resulting in fast depletion of water-table along the river. A survey revealed at many locations the water table was depleting instead of witnessing a rise. The 47.5-km river originates from Nahargarh hills in Amer Panchayat Samiti and passes through the city areas including Jhotwara Panchayat Samiti, Sanganer Panchayat Samiti before merging with Dhod River in the south. Former chief engineer of ground water department SM Kanwar, who conducted a geophysical survey, in his report revealed that there was an annual 2.17-metre rise in water level at Mahal (near Jagatpura) from 2014-18. The report said in all there was a 10.85-meter rise in the water table in the past five years. However in 2019, there was a depletion of 16.17 metre. From an annual increase of 3.24 metre in Bilwa, it declined 9.64 metre in 2019. In areas on the route of the river including Sanganer, Durgapura and Mansarovar, annual decline of 0.07 metre to 3.73 metre were recorded. Kanwar said, “It is quite evident that once natural passage is cemented, the water table steeply receded. For artificial groundwater recharge, JDA has developed 104 check dams of 1-metre height on this river bed. However, the table cannot be recharged as water passed is blocked. If JDA constructs recharge structures now, it will be a costly affair.” Experts alleged that ground water department was never contacted before taking up important work related to groundwater recharge. However, an official at JDA said, “The water level in downstream has receded due to excessive withdrawal by farmers of the area. It was proposed to ban usage of wells in the periphery of the river. But, nothing such happened.” Tata Projects, which developed the rejuvenation project, refuted the claims and termed it misleading. The firm in its statement said, “Dravyavati River Rejuvenation project witnessed the usage of stone pitching technique along nearly the 12-km stretch wherein huge stones weighing nearly 40-kg each were laid in a particular manner thereby ensuring enhanced water percolation into the soil. Every 300-metre there is a check dam with a 10-metre perforated concrete section to further ensure optimum recharging of groundwater.” It further claimed that as per a decadal average study conducted by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB), groundwater in Rajasthan has declined by 62.70% since 2008. The decadal average was counted from November 2008 to Oct/Nov 2018 – a time period when Dravyavati River Rejuvenation had not taken shape. The study goes on to point the reason as “there has been deficit rainfalls in recent years - leading to increased number of wells, tubewells and water tankers that are leading to depleting groundwater levels in Jaipur and its vicinity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dravyavati-river-project-fails-to-improve-citys-water-table/articleshow/76500245.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||Hall owners in Nashik seek permission for wedding ceremonies||NASHIK: The members of Nashik Mangal Karyalay Lawns and Hall Association have sought permission to conduct weddings and other ceremonies inside the halls instead of those being carried out in open spaces. While the state government has relaxed the condition for conduct of ceremonies limiting the numbers of guests to 50, the association has requested to allow the same celebrations in halls and lawns where infrastructure is in abundance. “The social distancing norm has to be followed while conducting the ceremonies. With 50 guests, people conduct ceremonies in their houses, parking spaces and open spaces around. They have to compromise either on social distancing or on the other things,” association office-bearer Samadhan Jejurkar, said. He said that due to space constrain, there are less chances of people following the norm. The wedding halls and lawns have demarcated areas for every gathering. Proper cleanliness facilities, serving food in sterile utensils, use of hand sanitisers at all time are ensured. The association members who will also keep the details of people who attend the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hall-owners-seek-permission-for-wedding-ceremonies/articleshow/76498562.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||JDA paves way for limited construction in eco zone||Jaipur: As land resources in the city areas are getting exhausted, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has paved the way for construction in the ecological zone by giving a nod to the draft of guidelines for permissible land use in the two schemes on Agra Road. In the building planning committee (BPC) meeting, the civic body approved the development guidelines for proposed schemes named as Heritage City and Green City. The land under Green City was earmarked as ecological use and the land under Heritage City was earmarked partly as ecological use and partly as rural use in the Master Development Plan-2011. A senior official at town planning wing said, “The state government was directed that the land which falls under ecological land use shall be developed in accordance with the directions of the Rajasthan High Court. In order to control development activities in these areas, JDA proposes design guidelines for permissible land uses in two schemes.” The activities allowed in the ecological zone of MDP-2025 will be of low intensity use with minimum habitation low profile, low density and low rise. In the ecological zone, the JDA will only allow activities such as farmhouses, environment friendly residences, stadiums and resorts to name a few. An official said in the area that is not under ecological zone, the department has proposed to develop the proposed heritage city on similar lines of Walled City area. The draft reads, “The historic Walled City of Jaipur is based on grid iron pattern, where there is a juxtaposition of various activities and uses both vertically and horizontally, which creates a unique culture and lifestyle for the inhabitants. Thus, the Walled city is a mixed land use city. The proposed Heritage City was also envisaged with same mixture of uses and activities.” In the proposed heritage city, 50 per cent of minimum area for major economic activities will be earmarked. Similarly, maximum 47% of the area will be fixed for residential. It has also been proposed all buildings have to be constructed as per traditional design, style and order of Walled City. Rajasthani architectural elements of Jaipur style like arches, jharokhas, bay windows, columns, chajjas and brackets shall be used as elevational elements of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-paves-way-for-limited-construction-in-eco-zone/articleshow/76500246.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Covid spreads through Salcete, Ambelim gets 7 cases in a day||Panaji: Covid-19 numbers are slowly rising in Salcete, as four separate parts of the taluka have registered a steady rise in cases over the past few days. The village of Ambelim saw as many as seven cases on Sunday itself, getting its total up to 13. The first case detected in the village was that of a priest, who tested positive a few days ago. Officials suspect that the priest contracted the infection from a person in Manora, Raia, who had come to meet him. Two days later, on the priest’s birthday, a few people visited him to wish him. Since then, eight persons from Ambelim have tested positive, with more from nearby villages. Raia, the suspected source of the Ambelim infection, has so far reported seven cases. Nearby Curtorim, too, saw four persons test positive on Sunday, taking its tally to 21. The cases (in Curtorim) came to light after a truck driver tested positive. While he didn’t have any travel history, he had driven to Valpoi earlier. The driver then visited a local (Curtorim) doctor twice, after which the doctor and others from the area tested positive. The taluka capital, Margao, has also seen a spike in cases over the past week, taking its total as of Sunday to 10. The cases here are mostly linked to a health worker from Aquem, who worked at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and tested positive for the novel coronavirus a few days ago. On Sunday, Navelim too reported a positive case, its first. Meanwhile, the state registered a significant spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 64 new infections, taking the total to 683. Apart from Salcete, there was sharp jump in cases from and linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone. Sixteen persons from the area tested positive, taking the zone’s tally to 338. Of the 205 linked to it, 22 tested positive on Sunday itself. Nearby Baina and Sada also registered an increase in cases, with nine and seven respectively. One more Covid patient at the ESI hospital was shifted to ICU on Sunday. After one of the earlier three was shifted back to the ward, the ICU now has three patients, all of whose condition remains stable. Also, six patients were declared cured and sent off to home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-spreads-through-salcete-ambelim-gets-7-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76500250.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Many witness eclipse from comfort of home||Dharwad: The partial solar eclipse that lasted three hours was witnessed by a large number of people in Dharwad on Sunday. The Dharwad Regional Science Centre located near Karnatak University campus had made special arrangements for a handful of sky gazers to watch this celestial movement. Due to the lockdown, DRSC had decided to allow only a few students to watch the eclipse. A high definition telescope was erected on DRSC’s terrace allowing enthusiasts to watch the eclipse. The view from the telescope was also telecast live for those who could not reach the venue. At Kadapa Maidan, people viewed the eclipse using specially designed spectacles. As usual a group of like-minded ‘rational’ persons prepared food and served it to people to allay the fear about the ill effects of consuming food during an eclipse. Most temples in the city remained closed during the period of the eclipse while some temples conducted special ‘pooja’ and ‘Shanti Homa’. The temples were opened only after the idols were washed after the eclipse ended. Several groups of devotees recited ‘Vishnu Sahasra Nama’ and other hymns through Whatsapp group meetings. Several roads wore a deserted look as people chose to remain indoors and watch the celestial event on TV and from their roof top. Interestingly, food joints, eateries and bakeries too were shut in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-witness-eclipse-from-comfort-of-home/articleshow/76498572.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||155 cases take Aurangabad dist’s Covid count to 3,500||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district registered 155 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 3,500, adding to the burden on the already over-stretched health infrastructure. In addition, the district also witnessed two deaths at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), taking the total number of deaths at GMCH to 143. Till Saturday, private hospitals had recorded 49 deaths. The Chikalthana-based cCovid care hospital has recorded one death, taking the total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district to 193. Health authorities said that 162 patients are under treatment at GMCH, of them, 122 are critical. Officials of the district administration have expressed serious concerns about the increasing number of workers in the industrial areas testing positive. In the tests carried out earlier this week, 40 workers employed with two major industries, including a leading automobile manufacturer, tested positive for the contagion. “It is a complicated situation. On one hand, if we don’t allow industries to work, economy takes a hit and people may die of debt and hunger. However, if we allow the industries to work, infection is bound to spread at an unbelievable rate,” said a senior official from the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/155-cases-take-aurangabad-dists-covid-count-to-3500/articleshow/76498583.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Lockdown back in Anantapur||TIRUPATI: Complete lockdown has once again been imposed in several parts of Anantapur district from Sunday following a steady rise in Covid-19 cases over the last few days. With 1,148 cases, including 11 cases reported on Sunday, Anantapur has the third highest number of cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-back-in-anantapur/articleshow/76499468.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Two commit suicide in Barmer dist||Kota: Suicides in Barmer are increasing due to domestic problems and increasing stress. On Sunday, a 25-year old woman jumped into a water tank and killed herself. The incident took place two days after her husband died after slipping into a tank while feeding cattle. In another incident, a mentally ill person killed himself. In the last 19 days, 17 people have taken their lives in 13 incidents across the district. Gida SHO Bhanwru Ram Jewalnia said Bina (25), wife of Sawai Ram of Dabnion ki Beri in Lapudada village jumped into the water tank outside her house. Jewalnia said she was sad and depressed after her husband’s death. Sources said other women were also present when Bina committed suicide. In another incident in Sindhari, Jawan Ram, son of Tulcha Ram Meghwal of Nakoda, hanged himself. Police said he was not mentally well for last many days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-commit-suicide-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/76500252.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Raigad gets electricity poles||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad zone of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has supplied 786 electricity poles and 25 distribution boxes to the cyclone-hit areas of Raigad district. The vehicles carrying these items left for Raigad from Aurangabad on Sunday. Earlier, the Aurangabad zone, on June 15, has deputed 50 technicians and five engineers in the area affected due to the cyclone.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/raigad-gets-electricity-poles/articleshow/76498590.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Liquor sector in Goa totters as sales crash 75%||PANAJI: The closure of the tourism sector has brought alcohol sales crashing by 75%, forcing retailers to down their shutters and sending liquor companies scrambling to recover dues. The closure of bars, restaurants and hotels, along with restrictions on social gatherings, particularly weddings, has also taken the fizz out of the industry, which contributed Rs 487.7 crore to the state exchequer in 2019-20. With stock piling up at warehouses since April and retailers facing a cash crunch, the All Goa Liquor Traders Association (AGLTA) has written to all major alcohol manufacturers and asked them for a 10% trade discount along with a 10% margin on pricing. Intoxicated by brisk sales due to the influx of tourists, the number of alcohol retailers in the state jumped, particularly along the coastal belt. Rent for these stores hovers between Rs 30,000 to Rs 1 lakh, but with demand doing a cold turkey, stores cannot meet even rental costs. “The lockdown has seen the market take a 75% hit. Not a single outlet has done more than 20-25% business,” said AGLTA president Dattaprasad Naik, who operates four shops in North Goa. “My current situation is such that I am not recovering my monthly costs at any of the outlets. Calangute is so bad, I might as well not open my shop.” Many liquor stores also sell cashew nuts, a sales strategy aimed at tourists. However, even cashew stores have now shut shop due to the lack of demand. “There is no demand as there are no tourists. The other main consumers, hotels and bakeries, are also shut,” said Madhav Sahakari, president of the Goa Cashew Processors Association. Liquor retailers and wholesalers in the state were allowed to raise their shutters on May 4. As the retailers renewed their excise licenses, many also paid an additional fee to remain open from 9pm to 10pm, expecting demand from tourists. However, with no sign of tourists and with domestic demand negligible, they shut shop by evening. Even distillers and multinational liquor brands are struggling. In the premium category, the top three multinational brands —Bacardi, Pernod Ricard and Diageo — have recorded just 5-10% of sales as against the same period last year, an industry insider said. A representative of a multinational beverage alcohol company said that while 1,800 to 2,000 cases would be sold every month, sales have dropped to 20-30 cases. Similarly, sales of a flavoured alcoholic drink which used to hover around 18,000 cases have dropped to 1,500 in May. “Liquor brands are taking loans to pay salaries to their employees, because distributors and retailers have not paid dues since March even for stock which has been sold,” said an industry member. Naik said that the government’s liberal policy on excise licenses is part of the problem, since there isn’t enough business for the 1,100-odd liquor retailers. Many retailers also relied on tourist taxis to bring them customers in exchange for a commission. However, with no tourists, there are no taxis, and with no taxis, no sales. “Foreign wine sales have increased, but my foreign liquor sales have dropped by 80-85%, and we are not doing any purchases,” said Hansel Vaz of Vaz Enterprises. “Instead of buying 100 cases, we buy just five cases. We have reduced our purchases by 90% on actual need basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquor-sector-in-goa-totters-as-sales-crash-75/articleshow/76500256.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Collateral damage? Staying home ups diabetes risk||NEW DELHI: While diabetes has been marked from the beginning as a comorbidity factor in Covid cases, researchers have now documented that sedentary lifestyle and food habits during the lockdown may have exposed a section of the population to the increased risk of type-2 diabetes. In a study published in the journal ‘Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research and Reviews’, the researchers have analysed clinical data from 100 non-diabetic individuals to determine the risk in apparently non-diabetic individuals. It noticed weight gain trends in 40% of the subjects, with 16% of them now weighing 2.1-5kg more. Dr Anoop Misra, former professor of medicine at AIIMS and a co-author of the study, said, “During the lockdown, weight gain occurred in 40% of apparently non-diabetic individuals. This means they have 7% increased risk for diabetes or many of them have converted to diabetes and may not show symptoms.” After collecting data for 49 days through telephonic interviews, the metabolic risk profiles based on factors like age, sex, weight, family history and exercise pattern were analysed, the paper explains. The study states the lockdown has caused restriction of movement, resulting in decreased exercise, and dietary indiscretion. “Lack of exercise and improper diet caused by poor availability of healthy food may lead to significant weight gain. It is important to note that patients with Covid-19 and obesity are associated with worse in-hospital outcomes,” it points out. Previous studies also state that mortality rates and ventilator requirements are increased in case of obese people diagnosed with Covid-19. The current findings show several trends and variation within the test group. While 0.1-5kg increase in weight was observed in 40% of the individuals, it remained unchanged in 41% and 19% reported weight loss. “The risk score for diabetes was calculated using body mass index. In 7% of the population, the risk score increased from baseline, while in 90% it remained unchanged. In 3%, the risk score decreased.” Most of the participants were young, with 59% being under 40. A history of type-2 diabetes in relatives was also present in 61% of the sample. Only 38% of the individuals exercised for at least three days a week and 62% of them are in the risk group, the study states. The baseline age and gender distribution in this cohort matches the demographics of India, permitting some degree of generalisation of the findings, researchers say. However, they caution, it is a single-centre study and its reproducibility should not be automatically assumed. Dr Misra, chairman, Fortis C-DOC Hospital for Diabetes and Allied Sciences, recommends blood glucose testing for people above 30 years. “This is particularly important since people with undiagnosed and likely uncontrolled diabetes will be easy targets for Covid-19,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/collateral-damage-staying-home-ups-diabetes-risk/articleshow/76500270.cms||Paras Singh
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Dhaba owner booked for allowing party||NAGPUR: A roadside dhaba owner, Mayur Nagrade, was booked for allegedly allowing a party to be organized at his premises near Panjri toll naka on Nagpur-Wardha highway on Saturday. It is learnt a group of customers had assembled at the hotel for partying despite the lockdown norms having restricted such activities. The customers had also used loud music system and special light effects to enjoy. The video of the party later had hit the social media platforms and went viral. In the last couple of days, police and civic administrations are facing criticism for not being able to check the citizens flouting the norms to enjoy themselves despite the Covid threat and restrictions being imposed against the backdrop of the gradual easing of lockdown. There are frequent reports of such events being held in eateries in city’s outskirts. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station said the owner of the hotel (Nagrade) was slapped with the charges of breaking the norms of the lockdown and also endangering lives by allowing such high risk activities as partying leading to the possibility of Covid spread. No arrest has been made in the case yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dhaba-owner-booked-for-allowing-party/articleshow/76500254.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Birds return to nests with surge in eclipse intensity||Jodhpur: The deepest annular solar eclipse of Sunday, the longest day of the year, witnessed a noticeable change in the behaviour of the birds. Ornithologists carried out these observations of the behaviour of the birds commensurate with the intensity of the eclipse. According to them, there was total pause in the activities of the birds between 11.30am and 1.30pm. The birds, which were out from their nests, started returning with the surge in eclipse intensity and stopped all activities, including chirping and feeding when the intensity of the eclipse touched 90%. HoD of environment science of the Maharaja Gangasingh University, Anil Kumar Chhangani said similar observations had been taken 25 years ago in Jodhpur in October 1995, when a similar eclipse had taken place. “Even then, the birds were seen returning to their nests or roosting sites with the increase in intensity of eclipse,” Chhangani said. He said this behaviour of birds was primarily because of the alteration in their Circadian Rhythm or Biological Clock due to atmospheric or environmental changes. “We gathered the data of birds like parrots, peacocks, partridges, myna, bulbul, eagle etc and animals like chinkara, black buck, nilgai, mongoose, wild pig and monkey etc during solar eclipse and we concluded that the wildlife reacts strikingly to the natural occurrence including celestial activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/birds-return-to-nests-with-surge-in-eclipse-intensity/articleshow/76500258.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt launches wellness initiative on Yoga Day||JAIPUR: Enthusiasts performed yoga in parks, open places in their colonies and at their homes on the sixth International Yoga Day on Sunday. Covid-19 has failed to dampen the spirit of enthusiasts, who performed yoga in small groups in their colonies and parks while maintaining social distancing and also taking precautions to ward off the risk of infection. The occasion saw the launch of ‘Pehla Sukh -India Wellness Initiative’ powered by India Community Center, Crack the Wellness Code (CWC), Silicon Valley and managed by Indifamily Foundation. Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Rajiv Arora said that to fight Covid-19 one needs to take care of one’s health. Based on the concept of ‘Pehla Sukh Nirogi Kaya’ (Health is Wealth), the initiative will help provide health and wellness knowledge to people over the next five years. Chief mentor Narendra Bakshi said that it comes at a very crucial time when the entire world is fighting a global pandemic. The initiative is consistent with the chief minister’s vision to streamline the fight against Covid-19 with immunity building and disease prevention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-launches-wellness-initiative-on-yoga-day/articleshow/76500265.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans stay cold to quarantine selfies||BENGALURU: Among the many initiatives of the Karnataka government to tackle the spread of Covid-19 was its request to people in home quarantine to send selfies and report their health status and location. However, people in most districts have remained cold to it, with just about 12% sending selfies, which has left authorities struggling with increased home visits. While the total number of selfies received so far is unavailable, the war room, for the first time, has made public data on number of people in active home quarantine and number of selfies sent to the government. As of Sunday, there were 1.1 lakh people in active quarantine, and only 13,596 (12.3%) had sent selfies. These numbers change every day. “The number of people in quarantine is based on data from Seva Sindhu. Even as we’ve been reiterating that prevention is the best way to beat Covid, people are not co-operating with us. We urge them to be prompt in sending their reports,” said war room head Munish Moudgil. Of 1.1 lakh people in quarantine, 57,090 are in Bengaluru, of whom 993 (1.7%) had sent selfies, the least in terms of percentage. Meanwhile, 970 people in Bidar, which has 2,933 people in active quarantine, had sent selfies. Tumakuru with 1,084 people in quarantine saw 38% sending selfies, while Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi reported 1,201 and 1,033 selfies; it has 5,253 and 2,657 people in quarantine. The poor response has forced authorities to do physical verification. As on Sunday, government staff visited 28,280 people (26%) in active quarantine. “It’s logistically impossible given the large number of people to visit and limited staff with us. There’s also a concern of health workers visiting such homes contracting the infection,” Moudgil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blureans-cold-to-quarantine-selfies/articleshow/76499796.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Raj witnesses sparkling ‘ring of fire’||Jaipur: While a number of enthusiasts gathered to witness the rare celestial event in which the Sun looked like a ‘ring of fire’ during the solar eclipse at Ganganagar’s Gharsana, some in Jaipur viewed it through a special instrument named “Sashthamsa yantra” - a semi circular concave arc - which can accurately observe the speed of the Sun. While another object could be observed through the lens at Jaipur’s B M Birla Planetarium, which was initially to believed Venus, but later it was said to be a lens artefact. “In living memory, this has been used for the first time to witness solar eclipse. A few tourists and staff too witnessed the solar eclipse,” said Gopal Sharma, assistant administrative officer at Jantar Mantar. The annular phase started taking shape around 10.15am and was at its peak around 11.56am. The annular shape lasted for 39 seconds. Assistant director of Jaipur’s B M Birla Planetarium Sandip Bhattacharya said, “The experience of the solar eclipse was excellent. The light went down, and slowly improved, this experience was quite eerie. It was a significant drop. We collected some temperature data for analysing it in future. We will be analysing it in the next few days. Astronomers from Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Pune, Delhi and other places went to Gharsana to witness the ‘ring of fire’ in Gharsana, Ganganagar. An almost similar view was seen in Suratgarh of Ganganagar, where people witnessed stars shining in the middle of the day. A solar eclipse occurs on a new moon day when the Moon comes in between the Earth and the Sun and all the three celestial bodies are aligned. An annular solar eclipse will occur when the angular diameter of the Moon falls short of that of the Sun so that it cannot cover up the latter completely. As a result, a ring of the Sun’s disk remains visible around the Moon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-witnesses-sparkling-ring-of-fire/articleshow/76500262.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Spike in Covid-19 positive cases: Ignoring protocols a cause of concern||DHARWAD: Dharwad district has seen a continuous spike in the Covid-19 positive cases in the recent weeks, especially after lockdown restrictions were relaxed. The rise in the number of positive cases initially was attributed to people travelling into the district from other states. However, in recent days, positive cases are being reported from people who have no travel history. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan, along with police commissioner R Dileep, health staff and other colleagues had taken steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 in urban parts of the district while district superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar had, by constantly visiting the rural parts, ensured preventive measures in rural areas. However, after the lockdown was eased, many people, including educated ones in the city, were seen ignoring essential aspects like social distancing, sanitization and wearing face masks. As many as seven teachers of a high school in Dharwad tested positive as they attended the school and held meetings with parents without following safety norms. “When the teachers did not follow simple norms like social distancing and got infected, how can we trust that they will ensure safety of our children?” asked a parent. Meanwhile, police personnel, who had strictly enforced restrictions during lockdown, seem to be tired and have resigned to fate. In the days to come, the interference of the government in ensuring enforcement of safety norms is likely to be less and the onus now is on the people. “I used to move out to buy essentials during lockdown and was not much scared. But now when there is no restriction, I dare not go out because, people are not cooperating” said retired bank manager Umesh Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/spike-in-ve-cases-ignoring-protocols-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/76679649.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag Agency no longer a green zone, reports 1st Covid case||VISAKHAPATNAM: An outsourced sanitation worker has tested positive for Covid-19 at Chintapalle, Visakhapatnam district on Saturday night. She was taken to Vizag city for treatment. This is the first coronavirus case reported in the Agency. The district has eleven tribal mandals with a population of over 6.5 lakh. About four tribal mandals share their borders with Odisha and East Godavari district. Medical and health department officials are examining how the infection made its way to the Agency, considering it was hitherto demarcated a green zone. “We have conduction sanitisation drive across Chintapalle and have traced all contacts and tested them. They have all tested negative. However we will quarantine them. Chintapalle is now a containment zone. House-to-house survey is going on to identify other suspected cases, if any,” said project officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Paderu, S Venkateswar. CPI(M) leaders and activists have appealed the MLAs and officials to impose a lockdown for a couple of weeks in the Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-agency-no-longer-a-green-zone-reports-1st-case/articleshow/76499477.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||To save funds, government to again cut rice in Anna Bhagya scheme||Bengaluru: In an effort to rationalise expenditure, the state government decided to reduce the quantity of rice under the Anna Bhagya scheme. From July, the government will cut down the supply of rice from 5kgs to 3kgs. However, this will be compensated by 2kgs ragi or jowar depending on the region’s staple food. Every household will continue to get 2kgs wheat. “We have added a staple grain in addition to rice so that people will get their daily nutrition,” said food and civil supplies minister K Gopalaiah. The BJP government in April had reduced the quantity of rice under the scheme from 7kgs to 5kgs. The further reduction comes much to despair of the Congress, under whose regime the scheme was introduced. “We’ll launch a statewide protest. The policies of the government have been anti-poor and it’s making changes using the Covid-19 crisis as a pretext. This will be detrimental to the farm sector,” said KPCC president DK Shivakumar. According to officials, substituting rice with ragi or jowar will save the exchequer as much as Rs 800 crore annually. “The state government pays a subsidised price of Rs 3 per kg of rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), while the cost or procurement of ragi or jowar is around Re 1/kg. This will ease the burden on the exchequer,” said food commissioner Shamla Iqbal. Gopalaiah, however, said the main objective of introducing ragi and jowar was not to save money but to protect the farm sector that is reeling under the Covid crisis. “We procured 1.9 lakh tonnes of ragi and 8,300 lakh tonnes of jowar at a minimum support price per quintal of Rs 3,150 and Rs 2,550 respectively. While it has helped farmers sell their produce for a good price, we plan to procure more,” said Gopalaiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/to-save-funds-government-to-again-cut-rice-in-anna-bhagya-scheme/articleshow/76499689.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 22, 2020||Pune||Six Maharashtra districts have higher Covid-19 prevalence than nation’s finding||PUNE: The first phase of sero-surveillance conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in Beed, Parbhani, Nanded, Sangli, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon shows that 1.13% of the population in these six districts had been exposed to nCoV. The rate of population exposed to the virus in these districts is higher than the national finding of 0.73%. Blood samples of 40 people from 10 random locations in each district were tested for antibodies against Covid-19, using the indigenous IgG ELISA test developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. According to the findings, five of the six districts had a prevalence of over 1%. Jalgaon had the lowest (0.05%) and Parbhani had the highest (1.51%) and Beed had a prevalence of 1.01%. The council had conducted the nationwide sero-survey in May in collaboration with the state health departments, National Centre for Disease Control and WHO India. The study was conducted in 83 districts covering 28,595 households and 26,400 individuals through blood tests that look for antibodies to diagnose exposure to the micro-organism. Officials said the findings showed the “lockdown had the desired impact” on curbing the spread of the virus. Measures taken during the lockdown have been successful in keeping the transmission low and in preventing the rapid spread of Covid-19, the study indicates. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said they are emphasizing on adherence to physical distancing, awareness regarding hand hygiene, cleanliness of commonly touched surfaces in and around the house and establishments to prevent spread of Covid-19. “In addition, effective surveillance and strict containment zone implementation is being done,” he said. Senior health authorities said there has been some local transmission in parts of Maharashtra, even if the ICMR had denied community spread in the country. Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state government, said sporadic community transmission has taken place in Maharashtra. “The focus is on strict implementation of the containment policy and cases are expected to go down gradually. We cannot be lax and relaxations in restrictions should be slow. Along with the government, it is also the responsibility of the people to follow social distancing norms and adhere to proper hygiene care,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-maha-districts-have-higher-ncov-prevalence-than-nations-finding/articleshow/76500273.cms||Swatee Kher
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka health department lauds Udupi for its concerted fight against Covid-19||Udupi: Notwithstanding the fact that Udupi has one of the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state — 1,063 as on date and just two fatalities, steps taken by district administration in handling the situation has won it kudos from the state health department. The district is credited with the number of firsts in the fight against the pandemic including use of Zoom meetings to train staff involved in this massive public health effort. An internal note of the department, a copy of which is available with TOI states that Udupi started SARI surveillance on March 17 that included data from March 5. The administration identified 14 sentinel hospitals, including three government-run hospitals, that admitted SARI cases and were capable of treating them. All the 14 hospitals involved in sentinel surveillance from the beginning, admitted 354 SARI cases, tested them for Covid, of which two were found to be positive. Training was imparted to staff in hospitals and nursing homes in the district that have in-patient facilities in triaging and segregating ILI cases since March. Nursing homes have kiosks for segregating ILI from mainstream outpatient and inpatient departments and have separate treatment facilities for ILI cases – like fever clinics. All ILI under passive surveillance are being tested for Covid and 9 out of 698 tested turned out positive. District has over 8,000 health care workers (HCW) including doctors. All HCWs are under surveillance and out of 138 symptomatic tests, two were positive and treated. The total of 13,033 people tested in the district accounts to 10,000 tests per 1lakh population and is one of the highest in the state. District has undertaken extensive contact tracing of all symptomatic patients and includes history taking and CDR exploration of positive patients. The district has roped in private tertiary care hospital with 125 beds and 12 ventilators for handling vulnerable, co-morbid and pregnant Covid-19 cases. The hospital is equipped with infrastructure and a specialist team to handle complicated Covid-19 cases in the district. All the staff at dedicated Covid hospital, Covid health care centre in the district have been trained for infection prevention and control management by an expert team of KMC Manipal. Covid treatment facilities across the district follow stringent three layer – infectious zone, buffer zone and green zone movement areas within the facilities and only young staff can enter infectious zones. Elderly staff can help core staff in administrative, supportive operations in green zones. Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “Highest recovery rate and lowest mortality rate in the state is testimony to dedication of the entire health team in handling the epidemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-health-department-lauds-udupi-for-its-concerted-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/76499449.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Typing learners must wear gloves||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Council of Examinations (MSCE) has allowed admissions to the government-approved typing institutes in the state. The admission process will last till July 15 and classes are to begin by early next month with due permissions from the respective district administrations. Rajesh Karale, president of state-level association of typing institutes, said social distancing must be maintained in the institutes. “The candidates will have to wear masks and gloves. Eight candidates will be allowed per session. A gap of half-an-hour will be maintained between batches for sanitization of computers.” He asked the institutes to use thermal screening devices to check body temperatures. Meanwhile, MSCE has also asked institutes not to increase tuition fees for the upcoming session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/typing-learners-must-wear-gloves/articleshow/76498595.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Environmentalists welcome cancellation of Kanwar Yatra||Dehradun: Environmentalists have welcomed the cancellation of the Kanwar Yatra which draws about crores of pilgrims to Uttarakhand every year from neighbouring states and leads to environmental issues ranging from huge heaps of garbage on the banks of the Ganga to increased human-wildlife conflict incidents. In previous years, many environmentalists have objected to the yatra, undertaken during the auspicious Hindu month of "Shravan", as the kanwariyas reach Rishikesh by taking a short cut through Rajaji Tiger Reserve leaving garbage along their trail. Reacting to the news of the annual pilgrimage being cancelled, Reenu Paul, founding president of Rajpur Community Initiative, Dehradun, said, "This is a good move as lots of nuisance will be avoided. In fact, this is the right time for the state governments to remodel this yatra, which through all these years, has become unmanageable, a big burden on the natural resources, and biggest nuisance for the residents of the state. Religious sanctity and sober atmosphere should be restored instead of filth, chaos, and rowdyism.” Echoing the sentiment, Dinesh Chandra Pandey, another activist from Haridwar, said, “We are elated with this decision. It is a win-win situation for everyone -- our forests, rivers, wildlife as well as locals. Nature is on an auto-cleansing mode and this move will further help it in restoring itself. Rajaji sees increased human-wildlife conflict during kanwar season. At least, there would be peace this year.” Wildlife enthusiasts, too, conveyed their gratitude to the state government for the decision. “We were seriously concerned about the Kanwar Yatra as the city is very small and maintaining social distancing during the yatra would have been next to impossible. The yatra would have led to rise in Covid infection among locals and the wildlife as well. We are thankful to the state government for this wise decision,” said Mita Naithani, a wildlife activist from Kankhal, Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/environmentalists-welcome-cancellation-of-kanwar-yatra/articleshow/76497617.cms||Shivani Azad
June 22, 2020||Goa||Goa gets 50 more ventilators, another 150 to arrive by July-end||Panaji: The state government recently received the first lot of 50 ventilators it had ordered over a month ago to buttress its fight against Covid-19. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that some of these will be installed in the isolation wards of the ESI Covid hospital in Margao, and that two each will be allotted to various departments at the tertiary hospital. The state government had ordered 200 ventilators. “The supplier has assured us that another batch of ventilators will be supplied by the end of this month,” he said. He also said that the remainder will be delivered by the end of July. When the state government converted the ESI hospital to a Covid unit, it had around 20 ventilators. Although not all Covid patients require ventilator support — so far, only one in Goa has required it — officials say that more ventilators are required in case the number of patients suddenly spikes. Bandekar also said that an order has been placed for 5,000 more testing kits, and that the state government is in possession of sufficient kits to keep testing without a break. At present, Goa conducts around 2,000 tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-gets-50-more-ventilators-another-150-to-arrive-by-july-end/articleshow/76500261.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Man drowns as car plunges into lake, woman hurt||Udupi: A man died and a woman was grievously injured after a car in which they were travelling veered off the road and plunged into a lake at Chowlikere, Barkur- Saibrakatte road on Sunday afternoon. Police said the incident took place around 2pm, when Santosh Shetty, 38, a resident of Koteshwara and Shwetha, 23, were heading towards Saibrakatte from Barkur in an SUV. On reaching Chowlikere, the driver lost control over the vehicle as there was a steep turn. After veering off the road, the car plunged into the lake. While Santosh drowned, locals managed to pull out Shwetha. Police said she is being treated at a private hospital in Manipal. Brahmavar police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-drowns-as-car-plunges-into-lake-woman-hurt/articleshow/76498602.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Technician at Covid testing lab in Latur contracts infection||Aurangabad: A 30-year-old technician working at a Covid-19 testing laboratory in Latur tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday evening, raising doubts about the measures taken to keep the lab employees safe from Covid-19The authorities concerned, however, have defended the safety measures adopted at the laboratory. Latur deputy municipal commissioner Harshal Gaikwad on Sunday said the lab technician must have contracted the Covid-19 infection from somewhere outside the lab. “All lab employees are provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and other protective measures are also in place. The throat swab samples are collected and tested as per the protocol by paying utmost attention to the safety of lab workers,” he said.Gaikwad said the technician had attended his brother’s wedding ceremony on June 14. It is speculated that he may have contracted the infection at the time.Officials of the district administration’s health department said all high-risk and low-risk contacts of the lab technician are now being traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/technician-at-covid-testing-lab-in-latur-contracts-infection/articleshow/76498611.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to boost oxygen supply in its hospitals||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to buy 21,000 oxygen cylinders and 3,000 oxygen concentrators to ramp up infrastructure in its hospitals reeling under the pressure of Covid-19 cases. The health department is in the process of centrally buying 18,000 D-type and 3,000 B-type cylinders besides the concentrators. “The cylinders and concentrators will be procured shortly and allocated to the respective hospitals in a staggered manner” as per supply and requirement, stated an order signed by principal secretary (health) Vikram Dev Dutt. The government is working on a plan to connect all 4,131 beds in its five dedicated Covid hospitals with oxygen supply by the end of this week. With the number of patients estimated to go up in the next few weeks, the hospitals may need more and more oxygen beds as the novel coronavirus infection affects lungs, reducing oxygen saturation levels. Many Covid-19 patients, especially those with asthma and cardiac issues, report difficulty in breathing and require oxygen support. The hospitals have been asked to make additional projections for oxygen requirement and submit them to the nodal officer. The health department has also told the hospitals to get consumables and ancillary devices, such as regulators, breathing circuits, masks and nasal prongs, needed to make oxygen cylinders operational. While Lok Nayak Hospital has 2,000 beds, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital has 1,500, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital 275, Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra 184 and Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital 172 beds. A newly constructed hospital at Burari will be made operational soon and 450 of its 700 beds will be kept for Covid patients. Among the 23,340 active Covid cases in the capital, nearly 6,000 patients are in hospital, 1,100 in dedicated health centres and 149 in care centres while over 12,000 people are in home isolation. Currently, over 850 Covid-19 patients are admitted to ICU. Since the increase in oxygen beds will require more manpower, Delhi government has started the process of hiring final-year postgraduate and undergraduate nursing students to run ICU wards of government hospitals for six months. Final-year postgraduate doctors studying in various PG medical instutions in Delhi will also be deployed in Delhi government Covid hospitals for the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-boost-oxygen-supply-in-its-hospitals/articleshow/76500301.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: It’s a long wait for hotels identified as isolation hubs||JAISALMER: Hoteliers in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Udaipur and other cities are disappointed as their hotels have been marked as quarantine centres by the government for Indians to be brought from abroad, but the owners have not been informed till date if these citizens will be brought to their places or not. Even as the confusion remains, the government has given relaxations to open hotels, but these hotels proposed as quarantine centres are unable to keep tourists. In May, the state government made a plan to airlift residents of Rajasthan stranded in other countries under Vande Bharat Mission. As per the directions of the state government, the Jaisalmer district administration identified hotels and reserved them as quarantine centres. Indians from Saudi Arabia were to be brought to Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. The rates of boarding and lodging were decided which the Indians staying there in quarantine had to pay. In Jaisalmer, 14 hotels were reserved and the district administration had informed the hoteliers about the SOPs and guidelines. However, one month has passed and no Indian citizen has been brought to Jaisalmer or Jodhpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/its-a-long-wait-for-hotels-identified-as-isolation-hubs/articleshow/76500277.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||FIR against hospital CMS for negligence||LUCKNOW: Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Ballia district hospital, Dr Madhuri Singh was booked for negligence which led to the death of a child during delivery at a private hospital in neighbouring Mau district. The case was registered on the directions of district magistrate (DM), Mau. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of one Devendra Singh who alleged that his pregnant daughter-in-law was admitted to the hospital of Dr Madhuri Singh in Mau where she was not attended properly as a result of which the baby died shortly after the birth and the mother was now in a critical condition. CO, City, Naresh Kumar said that an FIR has been registered and a probe will be done as per the procedure in such cases. “The woman was admitted on June 16 for delivery at a private nursing home and later the child died while the woman also got critical and later was shifted to another hospital,” said the CO. Dr Madhuri Singh claimed that she was not running any private hospital and was approached to extend help in a critical case while she was on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-hosp-cms-for-negligence/articleshow/76500645.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 2,500 financial help yet to reach homeless in city||Jaipur: For the last three months, homeless people in Jaipur are waiting to receive Rs 2,500 financial help from Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). Out of the list of 778 people, only 44 have received the grant. The social justice and empowerment department, Rajasthan, had issued orders on April 2 to grant one-time aid of Rs 2,500 to people affected by coronavirus pandemic. Homeless people, most of whom were employed in selling small items on traffic signals, and rag-pickers who were out of livelihood since the outbreak of coronavirus were eligible to get this amount. However, JMC hasn’t distributed the money yet. When TOI contacted the JMC officials, they assured that the work was in progress. “JMC was stuck in a number of tasks in pandemic including sanitation and food distribution. We have to verify the given address a number of times. There have been instances when these people have changed their addresses. The process has begun and will be finished soon,” said a JMC official on the condition of anonymity. People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), an NGO, along with Centre for Equity completed the survey on homeless people affected by the pandemic and submitted the report to JMC. Bhanwar Lal Kumawat, state office secretary, PUCL, said, “We gave a list of 800 homeless people affected by the pandemic and JMC conducted its own survey to confirm our findings. Around 778 people were found eligible. It’s been two months but only 44 people have been given the money. We gave them the addresses and account numbers of the people. We got to know that JMC headquarters has already transferred the money to its zonal office but the orders have not been implemented yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-2500-financial-help-yet-to-reach-homeless-in-city/articleshow/76500285.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: It’s a long wait for hotels identified as isolation hubs||JAISALMER: Hoteliers in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Udaipur and other cities are disappointed as their hotels have been marked as quarantine centres by the government for Indians to be brought from abroad, but the owners have not been informed till date if these citizens will be brought to their places or not. Even as the confusion remains, the government has given relaxations to open hotels, but these hotels proposed as quarantine centres are unable to keep tourists. In May, the state government made a plan to airlift residents of Rajasthan stranded in other countries under Vande Bharat Mission. As per the directions of the state government, the Jaisalmer district administration identified hotels and reserved them as quarantine centres. Indians from Saudi Arabia were to be brought to Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. The rates of boarding and lodging were decided which the Indians staying there in quarantine had to pay. In Jaisalmer, 14 hotels were reserved and the district administration had informed the hoteliers about the SOPs and guidelines. However, one month has passed and no Indian citizen has been brought to Jaisalmer or Jodhpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/its-a-long-wait-for-hotels-identified-as-isolation-hubs/articleshow/76503483.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: It’s a long wait for hotels identified as isolation hubs||JAISALMER: Hoteliers in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Udaipur and other cities are disappointed as their hotels have been marked as quarantine centres by the government for Indians to be brought from abroad, but the owners have not been informed till date if these citizens will be brought to their places or not. Even as the confusion remains, the government has given relaxations to open hotels, but these hotels proposed as quarantine centres are unable to keep tourists. In May, the state government made a plan to airlift residents of Rajasthan stranded in other countries under Vande Bharat Mission. As per the directions of the state government, the Jaisalmer district administration identified hotels and reserved them as quarantine centres. Indians from Saudi Arabia were to be brought to Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. The rates of boarding and lodging were decided which the Indians staying there in quarantine had to pay. In Jaisalmer, 14 hotels were reserved and the district administration had informed the hoteliers about the SOPs and guidelines. However, one month has passed and no Indian citizen has been brought to Jaisalmer or Jodhpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/its-a-long-wait-for-hotels-identified-as-isolation-hubs/articleshow/76503484.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||30% epileptic patients reported increased seizures during pandemic: Study||JAIPUR: Anxiety levels among epileptic patients during the pandemic have gone up leading to increase in seizures during the lockdown period. This has been mainly due to fear of Covid-19, and despite being assured that they were not infected, they continued to be anxious, revealed a study by city-based neurologists. Rampal (name changed), a 55-year-old epileptic patient from Churu, called his neurologist in Jaipur expressing fear of getting infected. He did not have any symptoms, but the anxiety caused frequent seizures. His doctors counselled him to make him believe that he is not infected. When the city-based neurologists investigated further to find out if other epileptic patients were behaving the same, they found that Rampal was not the only one, there were other epileptic patients who complained of the same problem. The stress of pandemic induces sleep deprivation and lifestyle changes and can make a person prone to seizures, says the study titled ‘Impact of COVID-19 on people suffering with epilepsy’ by two neurologists Dr RK Sureka and Dr Medha Gupta and psychiatrist Dr Vikas Gaur. The pandemic had affected epileptic patients and increased seizure frequency, depression, anxiety, unemployment and financial difficulty in obtaining medication, the report added. “We found that 53.8% patients were worried about getting infected and could not stop thoughts coming and bothering them. Around 50.8% of patients were afraid of the ailment and 15.9 % thought that they had been infected by corona despite being reassured by other people,” Sureka said. The study shows that 30.3% patients had increased seizure frequency during the pandemic. Majority of the patients (71.9%) had consulted their doctors by going to hospitals and only 28% patients had used telemedicine facility to consult. Around 55.3% patients also reported to have faced problems in obtaining medicine due to lack of money. More than 60% of patients were afraid of going to hospital and had faced difficulties in reaching hospitals. As many as 132 patients suffering with epilepsy participated in the study. Majority (67.7%) of patients was unemployed and 63.6% cases were from low socioeconomic class with 50% patients with income of less than Rs 3,000 per month. During the study, it was found that all the epileptic patients had heard about coronavirus and was acquainted with its symptoms. Analysing the epidemic (given to hemen) Coronavirus has caused a psychological crisis but investigators were not able to observe any significant effect of the epidemic on epileptic patients Around 17-22% of patients reported depression symptoms while another 20-22% showed anxiety symptoms Overall, around 25 (18.9%) participants admitted that epidemic has negatively affected their personal, social and occupational life Epilepsy is one of the most common problems in neurology clinical practice||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-epileptic-patients-reported-increased-seizures-during-pandemic-study/articleshow/76500280.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Don’t open churches till you have an SOP in place, says Cardinal||PANAJI: Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias, in his latest communication to the clergy in his archdiocese, has stated that churches may soon be opened and that a video conference with the deans will be held during the week to start preparing for the re-opening. The deans in turn could discuss the opening with their parishes, he said. At the same time he appealed to clergy not to open churches and hold church services without the standard operating protocols in place. “Even if there is government permission, please do not open churches and start masses unless you have a protocol (SOP) in place,” said Gracias, who is also president of the Catholic Bishops Conference of India and leads the Catholic church in the country. . With municipal authorities permitting all burials including of Covid-19 cases in all cemeteries after the World health organisation (WHO) and government of India guidelines concluded that there is no evidence of danger of infection from corpses, provided usual precautions are observed, he appealed to the clergy to caution family members to avoid any physical contact with the body. “Wear a mask, or even better a face shield. The restriction on the numbers still holds. Our priests are advised not to go to the house and to complete all the burial rituals with sensitivity and respect in the graveyard itself,” he stated. On June 7, in a communication to all bishops, the day before the government of India permitted religious places to be opened, Gracias urged bishops not to be in a hurry to start services at churches until they have satisfactory protocols in place. “The factors that need to be taken into account are; the right of our faithful to have pastoral care; our responsibility to protect people from the danger of infection that could prove to be fatal; government directives, and liturgical law,” he stated, giving bishops guidelines for the reopening of churches. He suggested one square meter distancing unless it is a family from one household, restrictions on number of people entering the church with the bishop specifying how many can enter each church, depending on its size. He recommended that one third of the capacity of the church, with only one entry point and one exit point with clear signage indicating this. Besides sanitising hands, he suggested that the church doors be kept open to avoid physical contact with handles and doors, where people are requested to come with their hands sanitised at home. He also recommended provisions for washing of hands with soap, water and tissue at the entrance of the church and a dustbin where used tissues may be disposed and burnt after the liturgical service. Similarly, Holy water stoups should be dry with no sprinkling of Holy water permitted. Ushers should ensure that no one enters without a mask and people should sit at a distance, one in a pew or if the pew is long, one at either end, with households permitted to sit together but distanced from other people, he said, adding that social distancing is not just sideways but also at the front and back of church-goers. No choir will be permitted and cantors could be used if there is singing. While exiting people should leave pew by pew to avoid crowding at the door. He also suggested distribution of communion during the mass only to servers where communion could be distributed after the mass outside the church in a neighbouring hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-open-churches-till-you-have-an-sop-in-place-cardinal/articleshow/76500278.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Chennithala: Opposition will expose govt’s lapses||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said that it is the duty of the opposition to call out the state government over its various lapses. He urged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to clarify his remark that the UDF has not extended support to the government in its fight against Covid-19. Lashing out at the CM, Chennithala said, “The stand taken by the CPM against the state government in West Bengal is well known. But the Congress has not taken such a position here. We have been supporting all the initiatives and our workers have also been at the forefront in bringing back stranded expatriates and also providing help at the grassroots.” It is a fact that the Congress has brought out the corruption that has plagued the government’s pandemic response, he said. “When the government took a stand against the return of expatriates, we opposed it. The government has failed non-resident Keralites (NRKs).” The UDF has been demanding that the government facilitate the return of Malayalis stranded in other parts of the country. But the chief minister has turned a deaf ear to our requests. The Congress had to arrange buses for those stranded in Karnataka, the opposition leader said. Even when the railways arranged special trains, the state government did not press for additional services to bring back Malayalis from other parts of the country, he said. Chennithala said that when he demanded a Covid-19 mitigation strategy, the chief minister mocked it. “Now see what is happening? There is no total lockdown. Restrictions mostly apply to containment zones. The government ended institutional quarantine and opted for home quarantine. It adopted reverse quarantine. All these are mitigation strategies. This was what I meant and what you are doing now,” he said. The Congress exposed some corrupt deals during the pandemic. And we stand vindicated. What has happened to the Sprinklr deal now? There was corruption behind the BevQ app as well as the illegal Pamba river sand deal. The state government was exploiting the Covid-19 situation to push these through, which we exposed, Chennithala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chennithala-opposition-will-expose-govts-lapses/articleshow/76498609.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||147 medical students land in Nagpur from Kyrgyzstan||Nagpur: The second Vande Bharat flight to Nagpur landed at 11pm on Saturday bringing 147 medical students from Bishkek — the capital of Kyrgyzstan. Seventy-three on board were from Maharashtra and rest from Chhattisgarh. Chhattisgarh government had arranged buses to take the students home. The passengers in one of the vehicles included six migrant workers and a child from the state. They had reached Nagpur from Khandali village in Solapur district after hiring vehicles, and ran out of money after that. Hailing from Janjgir-Champa in Chhattisgarh, over 1,000km from Solapur, they worked as farm hands. The group had five women, one with a child, and a man underpaid and hassled due to the lockdown. The group had hired vehicles to reach home. The money they had could bring them only up to Nagpur. At Nagpur, they managed to search the district collector’s office from where arrangement was made for their travel in the buses carrying Vande Bharat passengers. In the flight, there were five students from Nagpur among the 73 from Maharashtra. TOI came across students from Jalna, Buldhana and Akola districts too. Those from Nagpur were taken to hotel quarantine facilities and rest went to their respective districts in their private vehicles. “On reaching there, they are supposed to report at the collector’s office in their district, from where they will be sent to quarantine centres,” said a district collectorate officer on duty at the airport. “The process was hassle-free. Urgencies like health issues or problems at home were considered for prioritizing the travel. There was no such case among students from Maharashtra so I easily got the ticket,” said Bhushan Patil from Buldhana. The students praised facilities at Bishkek even as some of them complained of the apathy at the Indian embassy. “The guards and other staffers were rude,” said one of them. Yet, most of them denied having faced any hassles during the stay at Kyrgyzstan. The workers waiting in the bus, however, remained a harried lot. “The women were paid Rs5,500 a month and I got Rs8,000. Things had got costlier due to the lockdown, and the wages were hardly enough to carry on,” said Sanjeet Kumar, the only male member in the group. “There are little means of livelihood in villages so we had to move out,” said Kavita, another group member. “We pooled in money and first reached Pune where we were told that there was no train to Chhattisgarh, so we came back to Solapur. From there, we reached Nagpur in two vehicles and around Rs12,000 was spent in paying the fare,” said Sanjeet. On Sunday when TOI inquired, the workers had reached their homes. Akash Jawale, a social worker helping the students at the city airport, said even his sister was there at Bishkek. He hoped she may be back in the subsequent flights, as he asked one of her classmates about her return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/147-medical-students-land-in-nagpur-from-kyrgyzstan/articleshow/76500295.cms||Shishir Arya
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: RTO resumes services from Monday||AURANGABAD: The Regional Transport Office (RTO), in keeping with the directives from the state government, is schedule to resume its operations from Monday. Satish Sadamate, regional transport officer (Aurangabad), on Sunday said online appointments are a must for each and every work carried out at the RTO during the ongoing pandemic. “The applicants can seek the desired appointment using Sarathi and Parivahan web-portals. The applicants from rural areas can seek help of nearest Citizen Facilitation Centers (CFCs) if they face any issue in booking their appointment,” he said. While some of the citizen-related activities at RTOs have been already carried out in an online manner before the outbreak of Covid-19 and needed appointments, Sadamate said e-governance would cover almost all remainng work at the end of applicants. “The pandemic has been serving as an opportunity to penetrate the e-governance further in RTOs. We hope that different stakeholders will get used to these changes soon,” Sadamate said. Authorities concerned have put in place adequate sanitisation and social distancing measures to avoid possible spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rto-resumes-services-from-today/articleshow/76498601.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 22, 2020||Dehradun||Cancellation of Kanwar Yatra to adversely affect hundreds of Muslim artisans of Haridwar||Haridwar: Around 300 artisan families, mainly from the Muslim community in Haridwar, are in dire straits with the news of the cancellation of Kanwar Yatra this year. These artisans make brightly decorated ‘kanwar’ (which kanwariyas carry on their shoulders while fetching water from the Ganga). Through the sale of the kanwars — which are priced between Rs 500 to Rs 5000, each artisan family is able to earn around Rs 2 to 3 lakh during the kanwar season, which sustains them through the rest of the year. However, with lockdown affecting their livelihoods and the Kanwar Yatra also getting cancelled — the announcement of the cancellation was done by CM Trivendra Rawat on Saturday after consultations with home minister Amit Shah and the CMs of UP and Haryana — many of them say they would be in a tough spot. Mohammad Israel, an artisan, told TOI, “My family has been making decorated kanwars for several years. We start work almost a month before the yatra commences. This year, due to lockdown, everything was uncertain but still, we were hoping that the yatra will take place as we are emotionally attached to it. It is also a major means of earning for us. Now that it has been officially cancelled, we don’t know what to do. All I can say is that it will be tough for us to survive.” According to local traders in Haridwar, the Kanwar Yatra is an important event for the city’s economy, which helps sustain many small traders. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of the city’s vyapar mandal (traders’ body), said, “ We estimate that revenues of at least Rs 500 crore are generated during the Kanwar Yatra. Many small traders like kanwar artisans as well as other street vendors depend heavily on this yatra for their earnings. The cancellation of the yatra has come as a major blow to them. We urge the government to give financial help to the artisans and other traders in order to help them survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cancellation-of-kanwar-yatra-to-adversely-affect-hundreds-of-muslim-artisans-of-haridwar/articleshow/76497625.cms||MS Nawaz
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Covid cases touch 393, highest one-day spike in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state on Sunday recorded 393 Covid infections, the highest single-day rise since the first case was detected on March 3. This comes a day after 381 were infected on Saturday. The state has now 14,930 cases. Meanwhile, the death toll rose by 12 on Sunday taking the casualty count to 349. Among them, four persons died in Jaipur taking the fatalities to 149. In the rest of the state, two each died in Bharatpur, Alwar and Nagaur. One person died in Ajmer while another from a different state also succumbed to the ailment. Highest number of cases were reported from Dholpur where 112 persons were found infected, taking the count to 402. Active cases in Dholpur has increased to 332. Other districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (37), Pali (30), Jhunjhunu (22), Rajsamand (16), Bharatpur (16), Sikar (15), Sirohi (14), Alwar (12), Karauli (10), Barmer (9), Jalore (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (5), Ajmer (4), Udaipur (4), Nagaur (3), Churu (3), Jhalawar (2), Tonk (2), Jaisalmer (1) and three from other states. In Jaipur, 31 places reported 60 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Four Point Hotel (11), Fern Hotel (4), Khatipura (4), Vaishali Nagar (4), Hastera (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Sandarsar (2), Chandawas (2), Manpura Macheri (2), VKI (2), BSF camp (2), RNB hotel (2), while one each case was reported from Luniyawas, Bani Park, Amer, Jagatpura, Hatwara Road, Niwaru, Kho Nagoriyan, Bas Badanpura, Meethi Kothi, Achrol, Mansarovar, Ajmer Road, Jhotwara, Brahmpuri Road, Kishanpole Bazaar,Shastri Nagar, Ramganj, Dhul Kot and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-touch-393-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/76500300.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Three Rajasthan University students to teach English in France||JAIPUR: Three students of MA French IV semester, Department of European Languages, Literature and Culture Studies, University of Rajasthan, have been selected for ‘English Assistantship Program’, conducted by the ministry of education, France, in association with the Embassy of France. Through this programme, three students, Aditi Agarwal, Bhavya Sharma and Mohammed Saad Qureshi, will get an opportunity to teach English in prestigious institutions in France. This is for the first time in the history of the department three students got an opportunity in the European nation. Every year the Embassy of France orchestrates this job and students can fill the form on the website of French Embassy. Thereafter, a committee selects students on the basis of their merit and language proficiency. Vice-chancellor R K Kothari said this was a proud moment for the varsity and this will contribute in boosting the morale of the students. Late professor Asha Pande had incepted the MA and PhD programmes in French in the University of Rajasthan, which is now under Nidhi Raisinghani, assistant professor, French.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-raj-varsity-students-to-teach-english-in-france/articleshow/76500297.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Qaeda suspect used Dark Web for terror talk, Facebook to radicalise||LUCKNOW: Al Qaeda sleeper cell operative Inamul-Haq who was smoked out of his hideout in Bareilly three days ago would identify himself as the brother of Zakir Musa, founder of Indian wing of Al-Qaeda, Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, while radicalizing youths on social media, said investigators. Haq’s decoded messages and social media chats show he often invoked Al Qaeda and its home-bred commander Musa, who was shot by security forces in south Kashmir in 2019. Haq is currently in 10-day custody of UP Anti-Terrorist Squad. Investigators are now verifying credentials of those ensnared by Haq with radical ideology, said an officer of UP Anti-Terrorist Squad that acted on intelligence inputs to nab Haq on June 18. He had interacted with at least 50 other men with jihadist inclination and they are being verified and tracked down. He created five Facebook profiles, but managed to delete four before ATS raided his hideout. Haq wanted to form his own terror outfit and was trying to radicalize and recruit youths in the 16-25 age-group while interacting with close aides via Telegram X app to skirt surveillance, said the officer. This app has an inbuilt property of destroying messages by setting a time limit. Investigators also revealed that Haq communicated on ‘Dark Web’ with terrorists and got easy access to Al-Qaeda literature. Haq’s mobile phone unearthed literature of various terror organisations, which are not accessible on search engines. Another ATS officer said, excerpts from the banned Al-Qaeda magazine ‘Inspire’ was also recovered from his mobile, which details covert techniques to derail a train, said an officer. ATS also said, Haq had vandalised an idol inside a temple in Haldwani in 2014 and was sentenced to six-month imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qaeda-suspect-used-dark-web-for-terror-talk-fb-to-radicalise/articleshow/76500649.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ajmer||Covid cases touch 393, highest one-day spike in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state on Sunday recorded 393 Covid infections, the highest single-day rise since the first case was detected on March 3. This comes a day after 381 were infected on Saturday. The state has now 14,930 cases. Meanwhile, the death toll rose by 12 on Sunday taking the casualty count to 349. Among them, four persons died in Jaipur taking the fatalities to 149. In the rest of the state, two each died in Bharatpur, Alwar and Nagaur. One person died in Ajmer while another from a different state also succumbed to the ailment. Highest number of cases were reported from Dholpur where 112 persons were found infected, taking the count to 402. Active cases in Dholpur has increased to 332. Other districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (37), Pali (30), Jhunjhunu (22), Rajsamand (16), Bharatpur (16), Sikar (15), Sirohi (14), Alwar (12), Karauli (10), Barmer (9), Jalore (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (5), Ajmer (4), Udaipur (4), Nagaur (3), Churu (3), Jhalawar (2), Tonk (2), Jaisalmer (1) and three from other states. In Jaipur, 31 places reported 60 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Four Point Hotel (11), Fern Hotel (4), Khatipura (4), Vaishali Nagar (4), Hastera (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Sandarsar (2), Chandawas (2), Manpura Macheri (2), VKI (2), BSF camp (2), RNB hotel (2), while one each case was reported from Luniyawas, Bani Park, Amer, Jagatpura, Hatwara Road, Niwaru, Kho Nagoriyan, Bas Badanpura, Meethi Kothi, Achrol, Mansarovar, Ajmer Road, Jhotwara, Brahmpuri Road, Kishanpole Bazaar,Shastri Nagar, Ramganj, Dhul Kot and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-cases-touch-393-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/76503108.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Now, health staff advised only 7-10 days of quarantine||Thiruvananthapuram: The state health department has come out with revised guidelines for health care workers. Workers put on 10 days continuous duty in Covid positive ICUs have been advised 10-day quarantine while those at isolation wards for 10 days continuously need to go on quarantine for seven days. Those working at Covid suspect ICUs will have to work for seven days followed by seven days of quarantine. The guideline has also suggested that during the eight-hour duty in a day, the health care workers need to work four hours wearing PPE and another four hours without PPE. There will be three shifts per day. At present, health care workers, including doctors, are doing 14-day duty at a stretch followed by 14-day quarantine. An expert committee appointed by the state government had suggested amendment in the guidelines in the wake of the increase in the number of cases. In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and to prevent health care workers from getting infected, it has become essential that valuable human resources in the health sector are used judiciously, said Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health). A need-based duty arrangement will be made by district medical officers and hospital superintendents of medical college hospitals. A three tier system of human resource management for Covid care has also been suggested: Staff directly involved in care of Covid-19 cases, off-duty pool and staff involved in care of non-Covid patients. There will also be an additional team, which will function as emergency relievers to support these three tier staff in case of increased patient load or if any staff has to be relieved of duty. The emergency relievers or back up team for the support of isolation facilities should not be involved in the direct patient care in Covid duty. In addition, a staff district pool comprising of 15 staff in each category should also be made available at the district level to replace any staff that need to be placed under isolation or staff that are unable to attend work due to a family member being placed under isolation. A similar pool should be kept in all medical college hospitals as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-health-staff-advised-only-7-10-days-of-quarantine/articleshow/76498622.cms||Rajiv G
June 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body poll likely to be deferred||Kolhapur: The five-year term of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will come to an end by November, however, the election is most likely to be postponed. On Saturday, the election commission directed the civic administration to start the preliminary works including preparation of the tentative electoral rolls and ward structuring with reservations. However, given the Covid-19 crisis, the commission has asked the KMC to carry out only those works that do not involve direct participation of the citizens. “The unlocking phase has started. We are of the opinion that the works that do not require direct contact with the citizens can be carried out. We, therefore, approve office-related works to be initiated for delimitation of wards and draft voters list,” the election body said. The KMC officials had said they require at least six months to complete all the processes like preparing draft voters’ list, finalising the list, making wards on the basis of population, making reservations for various categories, arranging for workforce, vehicles, allocating the voting centres, disbursing voters slips, making arrangements for storing of electronic voting machines and counting etc. Most of these are group activities. A senior civic official, requesting anonymity said, “As per the earlier schedule, all the major processes should have been completed by the first week of June. However, we are yet to get the officers to carry out the election process in a transparent manner. Most of our employees are currently engaged in Covid management and they will be busy with the monsoon-related works till October. So the civic elections can be deferred by a month or two.” Many development works, like road construction, for which Rs 25 crore has already been sanctioned, are pending, said the officials. However, if the electoral model code of conduct is announced as per the earlier schedule, most of the works will be hampered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civic-body-poll-likely-to-be-deferred/articleshow/76498627.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid cases touch 393, highest one-day spike in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state on Sunday recorded 393 Covid infections, the highest single-day rise since the first case was detected on March 3. This comes a day after 381 were infected on Saturday. The state has now 14,930 cases. Meanwhile, the death toll rose by 12 on Sunday taking the casualty count to 349. Among them, four persons died in Jaipur taking the fatalities to 149. In the rest of the state, two each died in Bharatpur, Alwar and Nagaur. One person died in Ajmer while another from a different state also succumbed to the ailment. Highest number of cases were reported from Dholpur where 112 persons were found infected, taking the count to 402. Active cases in Dholpur has increased to 332. Other districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (37), Pali (30), Jhunjhunu (22), Rajsamand (16), Bharatpur (16), Sikar (15), Sirohi (14), Alwar (12), Karauli (10), Barmer (9), Jalore (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (5), Ajmer (4), Udaipur (4), Nagaur (3), Churu (3), Jhalawar (2), Tonk (2), Jaisalmer (1) and three from other states. In Jaipur, 31 places reported 60 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Four Point Hotel (11), Fern Hotel (4), Khatipura (4), Vaishali Nagar (4), Hastera (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Sandarsar (2), Chandawas (2), Manpura Macheri (2), VKI (2), BSF camp (2), RNB hotel (2), while one each case was reported from Luniyawas, Bani Park, Amer, Jagatpura, Hatwara Road, Niwaru, Kho Nagoriyan, Bas Badanpura, Meethi Kothi, Achrol, Mansarovar, Ajmer Road, Jhotwara, Brahmpuri Road, Kishanpole Bazaar,Shastri Nagar, Ramganj, Dhul Kot and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-cases-touch-393-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/76503107.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Udaipur||Covid cases touch 393, highest one-day spike in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state on Sunday recorded 393 Covid infections, the highest single-day rise since the first case was detected on March 3. This comes a day after 381 were infected on Saturday. The state has now 14,930 cases. Meanwhile, the death toll rose by 12 on Sunday taking the casualty count to 349. Among them, four persons died in Jaipur taking the fatalities to 149. In the rest of the state, two each died in Bharatpur, Alwar and Nagaur. One person died in Ajmer while another from a different state also succumbed to the ailment. Highest number of cases were reported from Dholpur where 112 persons were found infected, taking the count to 402. Active cases in Dholpur has increased to 332. Other districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (37), Pali (30), Jhunjhunu (22), Rajsamand (16), Bharatpur (16), Sikar (15), Sirohi (14), Alwar (12), Karauli (10), Barmer (9), Jalore (7), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (5), Ajmer (4), Udaipur (4), Nagaur (3), Churu (3), Jhalawar (2), Tonk (2), Jaisalmer (1) and three from other states. In Jaipur, 31 places reported 60 cases. The areas which reported new cases are Four Point Hotel (11), Fern Hotel (4), Khatipura (4), Vaishali Nagar (4), Hastera (3), Mahesh Nagar (3), Sandarsar (2), Chandawas (2), Manpura Macheri (2), VKI (2), BSF camp (2), RNB hotel (2), while one each case was reported from Luniyawas, Bani Park, Amer, Jagatpura, Hatwara Road, Niwaru, Kho Nagoriyan, Bas Badanpura, Meethi Kothi, Achrol, Mansarovar, Ajmer Road, Jhotwara, Brahmpuri Road, Kishanpole Bazaar,Shastri Nagar, Ramganj, Dhul Kot and address of one person is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-cases-touch-393-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/76503106.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chennai||Not enough e-passes, sayfirms, trailer operators||CHENNAI: Two days after the intense lockdown was imposed in Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet districts, industrial units and the IT/ITeS sector are facing trouble in obtaining e-passes to carry out permitted operations. In addition, trailer operators who handle container movement from the Chennai port, besides Kattupalli and Ennore Kamaraj ports, have informed Chennai Port Trust chairman about the likely delay and congestion due to difficulty in obtaining e-passes. “The IT department has permitted utilizing 5% and 2% of employees in day and night shifts respectively to keep our operations on. We are facing difficulty in obtaining passes for a skeletal workforce,” an IT industry source said. Industrial units in Chennai’s neighbouring districts too are feeling the heat, though the Tamil Nadu E-Governance Agency had earlier blamed them for trying to circumvent the system by submitting multiple applications. “We have to balance between industrial activity and lockdown. So, we have been conservative in giving passes and we will step up the process from Monday,” said an official with the industries department. According to trailer operators, Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner was issuing the e-pass valid for the lockdown period under the category logistics operators, so far. “But with the implementation of the total lockdown in the four districts, the logistics operator category has been removed from the TN e-pass website. None of the trailer operators has received the e-pass despite applying on June 18 afresh,” the All Trailer Owners Association said in a memorandum to Chennai Port Trust chairman. “Further, without e-passes issued to our field and operation staff, timely passing and processing of documents from shipping lines, CFS, Customs House Agents, importers and exporters  become difficult. It has been unanimously decided that without fresh e-passes, we are not in a position to operate our trailers to and from the Chennai port, besides Kattupalli and Ennore ports,” the memorandum said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-enough-e-passes-sayfirms-trailer-operators/articleshow/76500304.cms||D Govardan
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram on high alert, more containment zones declared||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With more than 13 wards in two local bodies, including three wards in Thiruvananthapuram city corporation limits, being declared as containment zones, the capital has gone into high alert mode. In the past two weeks, an ASHA worker was tested positive at Kattakada, a mobile shop owner and an auto driver were confirmed with infection within the corporation limits. Their extensive travel history has forced the authorities to declare containment zones in specific wards in the district. In the proceedings issued by district collector declaring containment zones in three wards Attukal, Kalady and Manacaud it was cited that after a family of four residing at Iranimuttam in Attukal ward, Manacadu village of Thiruvananthapuram corporation turned Covid-19 positive, serious efforts were made to find out the source of the infection, but no confirmed travel history or contact with known Covid-19 positive patients could be established till now. More than 65 primary contacts have been identified in the first two days after they were confirmed with infection and traced contacts were sent to home isolation which spreads along Attukal, Kalady, Nedumcadu and Manacadu wards. In the meeting of the district core group for contact tracing, it was decided to recommend for declaring the areas viz Kalady Junction, Attukal, Manacadu junction, Chiramukku-Kalady road and Iranimuttam as containment zones. The medical team visited 14,44 houses in 21 wards in Kattakada panchayat on Sunday. One person with symptoms was referred to hospital for observation. The facilities for Covid testing will be arranged at Iranimuttam community hall from Monday. Five medical teams were deployed in Chalai area and they visited 140 houses on Sunday. Minister Kadakampally Surendran held a meeting of local body representatives and officials to review the activities. Those who violate social distancing norms and preventive measures will face stringent action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/capital-on-high-alert-more-containment-zones-declared/articleshow/76498632.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Cancer centre: Authorities to expedite works on one tower||Kochi: With various factors, including lockdown, slowing down the work on Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC), the authorities are considering opening of the centre by completing one of the four towers. Final decision in this regard will be taken after a review meeting, which would be held soon. Given the current pace of the work, it will take more time than the schedule for completing the works. As per the original schedule the entire work will have to be completed by August 2020. The work is lagging behind schedule as the contractor failed to bring adequate workforce. Even after the government giving strict instructions to the contractor to speed up the work a few months ago, there is no much progress. Though the work was resumed a few days ago, the contractor couldn’t mobilize more workers. “Now, we are exploring the possibilities of completing the work on one tower and starting the operations of the CCRC there,” an official associated with the project said. “Delay in completing the entire work will cause subsequent delay in providing treatment for cancer patients. The number of cancer patients who wait for treatment is increasing day by day,” the official said. The centre is coming up on the 10 acres allotted for it on the premises of Government Medical College, Kalamassery. Authorities have started measures to procure equipment required for the hospital. The state government has allotted around Rs 200 crore from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for procuring machinery. “There were some technical snags in completing the tender process for procuring machinery. Now, the tender process has almost been completed. But it will take at least a year for delivering the machines like radiotherapy machine, which may cost around Rs 50 crore, after placing the order. Three foreign companies have submitted bids for delivering radiotherapy machines. The company which wins the tender will start the manufacturing of the machines only after awarding the work,” sources associated with the project said. “Order may be placed for procuring a small machine for radiotherapy so as to facilitate the functioning of the centre in the first phase. Health minister K K Shailaja, who convened a meeting to review the progress of the work last week, is learnt to have asked the officials and contractor to expedite the work. Authorities are also considering bifurcating the works as entrusting a single contractor with the entire work will cause delay. The progress of the work, which started in October 2018, is just around 35%. Even if the work on the structure is completed within a few months, mechanical, electrical and plumbing works will take at least another six months. The state government had allotted Rs 379 crore for setting up CCRC. Out of it, Rs 87 crore required for completing civil works has already been disbursed. While it will require at least Rs 200 crore for procuring machines, the remaining funds will be earmarked for completing mechanical, electrical and plumbing works. Measures to recruit staff which had almost been halted due to lockdown also will be expedited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cancer-centre-authorities-to-expedite-works-on-one-tower/articleshow/76498619.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolhapur||2 new Covid cases in Kolhapur, Solapur reports 9 deaths||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district has reported two fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The total number of Covid-19 patients in the district now stands at 736. Of them, 683 have recovered and eight have succumbed. There are 45 active cases now. The fresh cases have been reported from Gandhinglaj tehsil. The health officials said that there is no local or community transmission in the district and the chances are very less due to the policy of compulsory quarantining and isolation of the Covid-19 suspects. 9 cases recorded in Sangli As many as nine Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Sangli district on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid patients to 294. 102 patients are undergoing treatment and nine Covid related casualties. 11 patients have been discharged on Monday, of which five are from Mandur village, a hotspot in Shirala tehsil. District guardian minister Jayant Patil on Sunday visited the village which has reported 56 cases so far, the highest number of cases in a village in the district. Many people from Shirala tehsil work in Mumbai. Now after relaxations of lockdown norms, the establishments are calling their employees back. Patil asked the district authorities to test those people and provide them with the medical certificate.If they test negative for Covid-19, they will be allowed to travel to their workplace. He also suggested that since most of the cases are from the villages located in the remote hilly areas, the isolation facility should be made available at the taluka health centres. Satara sees 14 fresh cases Satara district has reported 14 Covid-19 patients on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases rose to 818, of which 155 are active. 9 deaths in Solapur city As many as 56 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Solapur district on Sunday, of which, 39 cases are from the city Nine Covid-19 deaths have been recorded in Solapur city on Sunday. All the deceased are above the age of 50. The total count of deaths has increased to 170. The total number of cases in the district rose to 2,100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-new-covid-cases-in-kolhapur-solapur-reports-9-deaths/articleshow/76498636.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC to run 18 super luxury buses on 9 routes from today||JAIPUR: With continued increase in passenger load, Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation(RSRTC) on Sunday decided to introduce 18 new super luxury buses on nine routes across the state. Gradually, the state transport corporation is getting a load factor of above 70 per cent, which is better than airways and railways. According to RSRTC sources, since the introduction of buses, passenger load started gradually picking up for intra-state services and a single inter-state service to Haryana. Also after analysing the demands which RSRTC received from various districts, it was decided to introduce super luxury buses to connect Jaipur to various cities within the state. “From Monday, we are going to run buses from Jaipur to Barmer, Jaipur to Jodhpur, Jodhpur to Udaipur, Jaipur to Pilani, Jaipur to Ladnu, Jaipur to Kaila Devi, Jaipur to Kekari, Jaipur to Bidasar and Jaipur to Anopgarh,” said Sudhir Bhati, manager, public relations, RSRTC. Prior to lockdown and Covid outbreak, super luxury buses from Jaipur to Udaipur, Jodhpur and Pilani were very popular. “We have introduced our buses following the demands raised by public on our website and by the administrations of various districts,” an officer said. Earlier, the RSRTC had extended its services of express services to various parts of the state. “We are ready to start inter-state buses to Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and others but we are yet to get consent form these states. However, we are ready with all our resources,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. “Air services are picking up but is not normal as yet as passengers are avoiding inter-state travel in planes,” said an officer with Jaipur airport (operations). Likewise, barring a few trains, majority are running with a passenger load varying from 22 per cent to 40 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-to-run-18-super-luxury-buses-on-9-routes-from-today/articleshow/76500305.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Bhiwadi: Three Vikrams in cop net, hunt for 4th Vikram on||JAIPUR: Since the inception of Bhiwadi as a separate police district in Alwar, the name Vikram has given sleepless nights to police. Already facing criticism after Vikram, alias Papla Gujjar, escaped from lockup, three different criminals having first name Vikram have terrorised the public and police. However, police managed to nail down and arrest three of these criminals wanted in the cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and arms Act violations. Now, police are waiting for a happy ending of their drive named ‘Operation Vikramaditya’ with the arrest of elusive Papla. As soon as Alwar district was bifurcated into two police districts including Alwar and Bhiwadi, senior police officers came to know about three notorious criminals having rewards on them. “We had Vikram alias Laden, Vikram Gujjar and Vikram alias Vicky. All of them were from Bhiwadi district. Thus, we planned of an operation called ‘Operation Vikramaditya’ which was aimed to collect information and evidence to nail down all of them. And the fourth one Vikram alias Papla Gujjar is also our target,” said Amandeep Singh Kapoor, Alwar SP, said. On the kind of crimes these three Vikram were involved, Kapoor said, “They were wanted for cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, assault, criminal intimidation and violations of arms Act. So, while we were on the job of tracing Papla, we managed to find and arrest all these Vikram one by one,” he added. “The first one Vikram alias Laden was arrested by our team on January 28 this year. This was followed by the arrest of Vikram Gujjar in February along with Vikram alias Vickey on February 2,” he added. Such was the terror in the minds of public and police that even a petty pickpocket named Vikram was grilled to find his other affiliation in crime. “Once we had caught a thief whose name was Vikram. We interrogated him to check if he has other criminal antecedents too,” he added. Now, police are working to end their operation with the arrest of Vikram alias Papla Gujjar. “We have got some clues on which we are working. Nothing much can be shared. Will talk about him when we arrest him,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-vikrams-in-cop-net-hunt-for-4th-vikram-on/articleshow/76500307.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid has changed me, says celeb doctor after battling for life in ICU||MUMBAI: He treated over 200 Covid patients before the coronavirus affected his lungs. Dr Jalil Parkar, who, among other things, has been known as the late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray's doctor, spent five days in intensive care and had to be given potent drugs emerging as anti-Covid treatment before he could return home on Thursday. "I have now seen the disease as a doctor, a patient and as a spouse," he told TOI. The 62-year-old doctor - who has diabetes that is considered one of Covid's worst risk factors-and his wife were on neighbouring ICU beds at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, where the doctor consults. It started on June 8 with a severe backache. "There was no fever, no breathlessness, it was just malaise," said Dr Parkar. The effect on appetite, taste buds and sense of smell were next. The doctor started taking medicines that he prescribed to over 200 patients: antiparasitic medicine ivermectin and antibiotic doxycycline for five days. The breathlessness started thereafter. "My colleagues and administrators of Lilavati Hospital sent an ambulance, immediately got a CT scan and I was sent to the ICU," says the doctor to several celebrities. To worsen things emotionally, his 57-year-old wife too developed breathlessness and was admitted to the ICU bed next to him. "It was terrifying to see my wife lying there in a serious condition. I kept wondering how I would explain things to our son who we haven't seen since the lockdown," he said. Their son who works in the hospitality industry hasn't been able to travel home and video calls are the only means of communication. The coronavirus infection has, he said, changed him. The sixth floor ICU is considered one of Lilavati Hospital's strengths. "It has a beautiful soothing view and it was always a pleasure to work there with the medical team, but Covid has changed all that," he said. "We underestimated its ability to affect our health," said Dr Parkar. Usually, a doctor knows which organ is vulnerable when a particular microbe or virus attacks a person. "But the coronavirus not only affects the lungs, it affects the patient's kidneys, liver, pancreas, the nervous system." He believes he would "not have made it" if not for his colleagues providing care and medicines such as immuno-suppressor tocilizumab and the anti-Ebola drug remdesivir. What has affected him a lot is that doctors and private hospitals are being seen in negative light. "I am still treating patients over the phone though I may need another week to get well," said Dr Parkar. "Doctors have a conscience," he said. "I have lost a lot of weight due to the illness. But no sooner do I get my back my energy, I want to go back to the Covid room.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-has-changed-me-says-celeb-doctor-after-battling-for-life-in-icu/articleshow/76501112.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Labour shortage impedeswork at Ekm med college||Kochi: Work on the super specialty block of Government Medical College, Ernakulam, as well as that of CCRC has been affected due to shortage of labourers. Contractors who have undertaken the project of the super specialty block of the medical college have approached district administration requesting permission for bringing around 400 labourers from other states. Even after the lockdown, more than 150 workers from other states had been camping nearby the super specialty block work site. “Due to the delay in resuming the work, many of them returned home. Now, there are less than 30 workers. We have arranged around 400 labourers from the states like Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. We have also arranged quarantine facilities for the labourers who come from other states. An apartment complex has been rented out for the purpose,” an official associated with the construction of the super specialty block said. “Now, it is up to the district administration to give permission for bringing the labourers. We will be able to expedite the work only after procuring more workforce,” the official said. At the same time, officials with district administration said they will act fast to facilitate the arrival of guest workers to Kochi for the purpose once the contractor completes the procedures associated with it. “First, they should register with Covid Jagratha portal. They can register in groups of 10. Once we get the application, we will expedite its process,” an official with district administration said. It was in January 2019 that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan laid the foundation stone of the super specialty block. The structure of the project with an overall outlay of around Rs 285 crore was scheduled for completion in December 2020. Now, around 50% of the civil work has completed. It will be a herculean task for authorities to open the super specialty block of the medical college after completing civil work and other work by December 2020. There will be more than 8 lakh sqft built up area in the eight-storeyed structure. Besides 14 super specialty departments, there will be 14 modern operation theatres and 114 ICU beds in the block. At the same time, CCRC authorities are trying to mobilise workers from within the state. “It will take more time for mobilising workforce from other states. They will have to be quarantined for 14 days after their arrival here. So, we are planning to bring labourers from within the state,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/labour-shortage-impedeswork-at-ekm-med-college/articleshow/76498639.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Discharge rate doubles as UP adopts new Covid plan||LUCKNOW: The number of Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals doubled a day after Uttar Pradesh government’s new discharge policy became effective. As many as 626 persons were sent home in 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 10,995. The number is about twice the number of patients discharged from hospitals last week. The trend led to a jump of about 2% in recoveries. “We are happy to inform 626 persons were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 10,995. With this, the state’s overall recovery rate has increased to 62%,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. As per the new policy announced on Saturday, “An asymptomatic Covid-19 patient will be discharged from the hospital without any test 10 days after being diagnosed with the disease.” Till now, barring a few exceptions, patients irrespective of symptoms were kept in the hospital for 14 days and discharged only after two consecutive Covid-19 tests came negative. “Those with mild, moderate and severe symptoms will be allowed to go after a minimum 12 days of hospital stay provided they do not show any symptoms for three consecutive days and the test comes negative,” the policy order said. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 death toll for Uttar Pradesh reached 550 on Sunday with 21 fatalities in 24 hours. According to the Covid bulletin, three deaths took place in Kanpur Nagar, two each in Meerut,Moradabad, Gorakhpur and Etawah, and one each in Ghaziabad, Hapur, Siddharthanagar, Bijnor, Mathura, Muzaffarnagar, Rae Bareli, Budaun, Jhansi and Farrukhabad. Agra tops list of Covid casualties with 79 entries till date followed by Meerut where 75 deaths have been reported so far. Ghaziabad with 43 deaths accounts for the third highest burden of deaths in the state. The state also recorded 596 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 17,833. Of the new cases, Ghaziabad recorded maximum of 56 cases, while neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar saw 49 cases. Kanpur Nagarstood third with 36 entries. “Of the total, only 6,186 were cases of active infection,” Prasad said More robust surveillance plan soon In wake of the changing form of the Covid19 challenge in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government will be launching a revised and more robust surveillance strategy soon. “As per instructions given by the CM, we are revising our surveillance strategy and we hope to launch it on Tuesday,” said additional chief secretary, Amit Mohan Prasad. Earlier, the CM had directed the state health department to increase the number of surveillance teams and ramp usCovid testing to ensure that the state stays two steps ahead of the pandemic. He had also directed increasing the number of beds and keeping track of available resources on daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/discharge-rate-doubles-as-up-adopts-new-covid-plan/articleshow/76500651.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Krishna district crosses 1,000-mark, over 500 Covid cases reported in June||VIJAYAWADA: The number of Covid-19 cases in Krishna district crossed the 1,000-case mark on Sunday. Altogether, 66 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Krishna district on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1,048. So far, the district has 559 cases under treatment and registered three deaths on Sunday. The number of new cases in the district increased with easing of restrictions in ‘Unlock 1.0’. Till June 1, the district had 465 cases. From June 5, the numbers started rising with 565 cases being reported till date in June. The numbers are expected to climb further over the next ten days, officials estimate. Meanwhile, the district administration has intensified testing in Vijayawada city. Twenty medical teams are carrying out tests, while another 12 Intelligence Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (IMSAQ) buses will start to collect samples. Each bus can test 10 persons at a time. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has directed officials to conduct at least 2,000 tests in Vijayawada city alone. The collector, along with Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh and joint collector Siva Shankar reviewed the situation in the city on Sunday. “Identifying Covid-19 symptoms early can help in speedy recovery. We are going to launch a special helpline to register for Covid-19 testing. Buses will be deployed at Gunadala, Ajith Singh Nagar and other prime areas in the city. The administration is also looking to increase the number of beds in Covid-19 hospitals even as Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) struggles to handle the influx of patients. Health wing authorities are identifying hospitals that can serve new Covid-19 patients. Machilipatnam RDO Kaza Valli said two new cases were registered in Kuduru village under Pedana mandal on Sunday. Pedana will be declared a containment zone, the RDO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-crosses-1k-mark-over-500-cases-reported-in-june/articleshow/76499519.cms||Venu Lanka
June 22, 2020||Kochi||After a lull, spurt in drug smuggling||Kochi: The steep decline in cases relating to peddling of ganja, others drugs and banned tobacco products in the first two months of the lockdown has reversed, as smuggling activity picks up with restrictions being relaxed, say excise officials. Moreover, the pandemic has affected the department’s vehicle inspection and highway patrol activities, enabling peddlers to transport the contraband in inter-state trucks. Officials say the directive to minimize physical contact has affected the effectiveness of inspections. The risk of infection is comparatively higher during checks and this has left officials apprehensive. Furthermore, formalities related to Covid-19 tests for accused, the tension of handling them, overcrowded prisons, etc, are other factors that are affecting enforcement. Peddlers are taking advantage of the situation to compensate for the business loss of the initial months of the lockdown, they said. Two weeks ago, two persons were arrested and 16kg of ganja was seized from their truck that was being used to transport dry fish from Visakhapatnam to Perumbavoor. In another instance, the narcotic special squad seized 80kg of ganja worth Rs 1.5 crore from Pulloot near Kodungallur at the end of May and arrested two truck drivers. They were smuggling the contraband in trucks carrying vegetables and fruits from Tamil Nadu. Both seizures were made based on tip-offs. “Following the department directive to relax checking procedures, most inspections were limited to verbal inquiries with drivers. Exceptions were made only in case of suspicious activity or specific tip-offs. Random inspections are rare and peddlers have looked to take advantage of the situation. Enforcement was relaxed even at the border check posts,” an officer said. Inter-state freight trucks are now the safest option for smugglers. “If an accused is arrested, officers will have to take him to the range office, frisk him, record identification marks; and after preparing the remand report, they have to take him to the hospital to conduct the Covid-19 test. The officers involved have no PPE kits and wear just cloth masks. If the accused turns to be Covid-19 positive, the entire office is closed and officials are quarantined. Moreover, if he is remanded it is difficult to house him in overcrowded prisons,” said an officer with highway patrol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-a-lull-spurt-in-drug-smuggling/articleshow/76498642.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Pregnant woman from Sangli busts eclipse myths||Kolhapur: Samruddhi Jadhav, a pregnant woman from Islampur in Sangli, set an example on Sunday by defying the superstitions surrounding solar eclipse during an event organised by Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS). Jadhav, along with her in-laws, busted myths such as not cutting vegetables or fruits with a knife, not plucking fruits or flowers from trees, niot eating during the eclipse etc. She cut and even ate fruits while watching the eclipse using a filter. “I consulted my doctor before carrying out these activities. I wanted to tell people that there is no harm in doing these things on eclipse day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pregnant-woman-from-sangli-busts-eclipse-myths/articleshow/76498644.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Locust attacks controlled at four locations in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur district has witnessed 23 locust attacks since May 20 with the recent one being on Saturday. District agriculture department’s team and a team from locust warning organization (LWO) controlled the attacks at four different locations from 2am to 9am in Jaipur on Sunday morning. The last attack in Jaipur took place on June 13.  “Some locations were in Hasanpura, Muhana Mandi and Nevta (10X1 km). The other locations were in Mandaur, Phagi and Labana (4X1 km). The pests covered an area of 525 hectares. We controlled the locusts using 170 litres of pesticides - lemda silothrin (5%) and chloropyriphos. The locusts attacked agricultural lands of 270 farmers,” said B R Karwa, deputy director, agriculture zila parishad (extension). Jaipur recently received 2,000 litres of pesticides through a World Bank-sponsored project - Rajasthan Agriculture Competitiveness Project. It may be mentioned that Pakistan refuses to cooperate with India on the locust issue as it skipped a bilateral meeting on locust control on Thursday. The external affairs ministry of Pakistan reportedly did not allow its officials to take part in the meeting. Meanwhile, a fresh warning was issued by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of more locust attacks in June along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. Locust incursion from Pakistan continues in Jaisalmer and Barmer. At present, the locusts have entered over 45 districts of five states including Rajasthan. More than 100 teams and 25 drones have been deployed by the Locust Control Department in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-attacks-controlled-at-four-locations-in-city/articleshow/76500310.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Jaipur||Baran reins in Covid-19 within two months||KOTA: Unconditional public support, strict management of migrants, round-the-clock vigilance at the state borders adjoining Madhya Pradesh and tight procedure for issuance of passes for travel, rituals eventually resulted in making Baran district corona free within two months. The district has reported no positive case in the last two days. Baran collector Indra Singh Rao said no Covid patient is undergoing treatment in the hospital. Besides, no case has been reported in the last two days. The first case was reported on April 29 when a girl was found infected. Sixty-two people have been tested positive in the district. Fifty-eight have been discharged from the hospital. Four died during treatment. However, all of them were suffering from other critical ailments, he said. Nearly 4,300 samples have been collected so far in the district and six rounds of door-to-door survey by medical teams have been completed, while seventh round is underway in the district, Rao said while elaborating measures to check the spread of infection. Strict procedures for issuance of pass were taken up and those who sought the passes were persuaded to avoid it, he added. “The medical teams worked at three levels. At first level building up containment zone after detection of corona positive case in the area, at second level contact history of the case was traced and sampling of the contacts was carried out at third level,” CMHO Nagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/baran-reins-in-covid-19-within-two-months/articleshow/76500311.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: 14 barrages still under water despite dip in rain intensity||KOLHAPUR: Even though the intensity of rainfall in the district has decreased in the past two days, around 14 barrages continue to be under water due to the reducing discharge from the dams located downstream of the rivers. The water level of the Panchaganga river has come down to 20.5 feet at Rajaram barrage. The discharge from Radhanagari dam has been reduced to 800 cusec from 1900 carried out on Friday. The discharge from Koyna dam in Satara district was 2,100 cusec for a brief period and Almatti dam discharge was reduced significantly to 500 cusec. Sowing completed in over 2.5 lakh hectare The sowing on 2.5 lakh hectare have been completed so far, only the transplanting of rice saplings over 40,000 hectares is remaining. The crops sown includes soyabean, nachni (ragi), groundnuts and foodgrains such as jowar and millets. The agriculture experts through the district agriculture department have issued advisories to around 3 lakh farmers whose crops were damaged due to the last year’s flood and heavy rainfall. Dyandeo Wakure, the district agriculture superintendent said, "Around 68,000 hectare was sugar cane crop. The farmers are taking up fresh plantation by October. The farmers are advised to make arrangement to drain out waterlogging and they are also advised to use the fertilisers cautiously this time.” The officials said that since most of the lands are under irrigation schemes, a break in rain in case it happen should not worry the farmers. The Agromet services of IMD has advised farmers from the region to continue sowing of kharif crops and transplanting of 21 to 25 days old rice saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/14-barrages-still-under-water-despite-dip-in-rain-intensity/articleshow/76498654.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||FICO assails Centre, state govt over fuel price hike||LUDHIANA: The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has attacked Centre and state government over rising prices of petrol and diesel. According to office-bearers of the association, the rates of both fuels have shot up by Rs 7 per litre in a span of just one week. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said, “The rate of diesel per litre has crossed Rs 72 and similarly, the rate of petrol has shot up to more than Rs 80 per litre. This massive increase has taken place during the last one week and its very shocking that both state and centre government are silent over the issue. At this point of time when we have opened after a gap of more than two months, any kind of hike in prices of our products will backfire. Therefore, both state and centre governments must address this issue at the earliest.” According to Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “The consecutive increase in the prices of petrol and diesel is being implemented by policymakers without any economic logic. Therefore it can only be termed callous and insensitive move in these difficult times. The government on the other hand has hiked excise duty on both petrol and diesel in March and May, earning an additional revenue of Rs 2 lakh crore, but no benefit of this was passed on to the end consumers.” Vipan Mittal, vice-chairman of FICO, said, “The government should be trying to increase liquidity or at least maintain the existing level of liquidity so that people spend money. That is necessary to counter the slowdown, but the government is instead snatching money from the people by letting the prices of essentials like fuels go out of control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fico-assails-centre-state-govt-over-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76499532.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen too slam move on cheque bounce offence||LUDHIANA: After the jewellers fraternity opposed the proposal by the finance ministry to decriminalise cheque bounce offence, now several business associations have slammed the proposal. According to businessmen, payment by cheques, both current and post dated, is one of the most prevalent mode of business transactions and if it is decriminalised, then no one will have fear of law and mischievous elements will deliberately default on their payments and genuine businessmen will suffer. According to Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fasteners Manufacturers Association, said, “It is really unfortunate that such a proposal of decriminalising cheque bounce cases is even being thought of. If this offence is decriminalised, then there will be no fear of law among mischievous elements. Government should give a serious thought to the consequences and study the ground realities first before making any such move. In case the government goes ahead with it, then it will have to face resistance from the business community.” Rajeev Jain, general secretary of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations, said, “The provision was incorporated in the Negotiable Instrument Act with the objective to defeat the criminal objectives of the persons who intend to swallow the hard-earned money of the investors and entrepreneurs. But if the cheque bounce offence is decriminalised, genuine businessmen will suffer a big blow.” According to Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana, “Decriminalising cheque bounce offence will have very serious consequences and we will see huge defaults on the commitments made by buyers to sellers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-too-slam-move-on-cheque-bounce-offence/articleshow/76499542.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nashik||‘Boycott sale of Chinese goods’||Nashik: Shiv Sena leaders and activists on Sunday staged a protest against the sale of Chinese products in the city. The protesters had gathered at Raviwar Karanja area of the city where they threw Made in China products on the road to register their protest. Shiv Sena city chief Sachin Marate, Shahar Sanghatak Virendra Singh Tile,among other leaders were also part of the protest. “We expressed our protest against China over the clash in which our 20 soldiers were killed. We also appealed to the people to boycott Chinese products and use domestic goods to make the country economically strong,” Tile said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/boycott-sale-of-chinese-goods/articleshow/76498665.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Use PM Modi’s scheme for jobs to migrants: Yogi Adityanath tells additional chief secretary||LUCKNOW: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme to boost employment in rural India, chief minister Yogi Adityanath sought to examine the possibility of using the scheme to create maximum opportunities in districts which received high number of migrants during lockdown. The CM took the decision on Sunday during a high-level meeting to review steps to combat coronavirus pandemic. Yogi directed additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Singh to hammer out a blueprint for job creation under the scheme in districts which received high number of migrants, especially women. Chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the state government would soon establish a two-way communication with migrants for better implementation of the scheme. The move comes two days after the Centre selected 31 districts, including the CM’s home turf Gorakhpur, from UP for the implementation of the scheme launched by the Prime Minister from Bihar on Saturday. The scheme focuses on 25 selected activities which could potentially be channelized for generation of employment opportunities to revive the economy hit by coronavirus pandemic. Highest influx of migrants has been reported in east UP region with 7.11 lakh in Maharajganj followed by Kushinagar and Gorakhpur with 50,293 and 44,047 migrants, respectively. The PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme includes east UP districts of Siddharthnagar, Prayagraj, Gonda, Maharajganj, Bahraich, Balrampur, Jaunpur, Hardoi, Azamgarh, Basti, Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Kushinagar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Banda, Ambedkarnagar, Sitapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Ayodhya, Deoria, Amethi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Unnao, Shravasti, Fatehpur, Mirzapur, Jalaun and Kaushambi. The state government has been pushing forth the state rural livelihood mission (SRLM) which seeks to set up self-help groups (SHGs) for various activities. This is apart from the state government lending a push to Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) while creating nearly 60 lakh man hours of jobs till date. The government is also making efforts to create opportunities in industrial sector, mainly MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/use-modis-scheme-for-jobs-to-migrants/articleshow/76500656.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh's FiberNet scam: MLA’s firm files plaint||HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh’s FiberNet scam took a new turn with YSR Congress MLA Maddisetty Venugopal Rao’s firm Pace Power Systems Private Limited filing another complaint stating that Tera Software Limited has been favoured. South Korean company Dasan Network Solutions had already filed a complaint with AP State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) alleging partiality in dealing with the companies that executed the project. A CBI probe has already been ordered by AP government regarding the alleged irregularities by the previous regime in Fiber Grid project by APSFL. Dasan, being L1(lowest) in Optical Line Terminal (OLT) tender was given purchase order for 200 low cost OLTs, leaving the high-cost OLTs to Tera Software. MLA family-owned Pace Power Systems also filed tenders but it was not given the project. Tera Software refuted the allegations. A Kameswara Rao, a senior functionary of Tera Software said, “Undue favours were extended to Dasan by the then APSFL management in awarding the conditional purchase order of 200 OLTs by opening the commercial bid which was not technically complied.” “On the date of commercial bid opening, Dasan did not have REST API functions. The bid submitted by Dasan, which was of obsolete technology, was invalid,” Kameswara Rao added. “On completion of 10 lakh supplies by all the empanelled vendors, Dasan was favoured with an additional 3 lakh boxes supply order value of around Rs 120 crore on nomination basis without any public tender for rate discovery,” Rao explained. “Dasan supplied CPE boxes, which were deployed in the field without an interoperability test with OLT,” Rao said. “ln the absence of such test not being performed and being accepted by APSFL with undue advantage, the network has suffered for a year with reliability issues,” alleged Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-fibernet-mlas-firm-files-plaint/articleshow/76500319.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 22, 2020||Kochi||TrueNat testing for Covid-19 begins at regional public lab||Kochi: The health department has installed a TrueNat machine to diagnose Covid-19 at regional public laboratory in Ernakulam.. It is a ‘step one’ machine, which means if a test turns out to be positive, the sample should again be subjected to RT-PCR test to confirm Covid-19. “Nearly 90 to 100 samples of frontline workers are sent for antibody testing at the lab per day. Twenty-four tests can be done in TrueNat machine in eight hours. Under TrueNat test, if the result is negative, the person will be negative for the virus. But if the sample is tested positive, it will again have to be subjected to RT-PCR test to confirm it. If ‘step 2’ machine is installed at the lab, we can confirm it here itself," said an official at the lab. A health official in the surveillance team said that 90 RT-PCR tests are conducted at Kalamassery medical college per day. Only negligible number of similar tests are conducted at less than 10 private labs approved by the government. “There will be delay in getting results of RT-PCR tests if more samples are taken each day. The medical college can deliver only up to 90 results per day. Though selected private labs have been approved by the government for similar tests, they cannot utilize it in full scale. We have conducted antibody tests on 480 people so far,” said a health officer. Meanwhile on Sunday, Ernakulam reported five new cases. With this, number of patient under treatment in the district touched 122. Three of the new cases came from abroad and other states. Authorities are looking for source of infection of 43-year-old Nayarambalam native who has been tested positive. A total of 12,852 people are under quarantine. Of this, 10,336 are under home quarantine, 2,050 in paid quarantine and 466 in covid care centers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/truenat-testing-for-covid-19-begins-at-regional-public-lab/articleshow/76498652.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Garment industry stares at losses in absence of orders||LUDHIANA: Even after almost three weeks since the garment industry restarted after lockdown, it has still not been able to return back on track. Earlier, not being able to arrange labour for production, now garment manufacturers are staring at even bigger problem of getting orders. According to businessmen, there is a huge shortage of orders as till now majority of garment stores across India have not been able to open and those who have managed to open are not seeing enough footfall of customers. As per industry estimates, till date garment manufacturers have been able to attain 30% of production as compared to last year during the same time. Giving insight into the problems, Vinod Thapar, president of Knitwear and Textile Club, said, “After battling the problem of getting labour back to factories and arranging raw material, we now are facing bigger trouble. As markets and malls across India have not fully opened till now, there have been no sale of the existing stocks. Moreover, even if at some places the shops and stores are open, customers are not turning up for making purchases because of which entire garment industry is suffering huge losses. As we do not want to shut down our factories to check our workers from running away, we are trying to operate factories at 20-30% of their capacity. We fear that the coming months will be more troublesome for us as we are getting lukewarm response from our buyer.” According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, “Factory production of micro and small garment units as of now is anywhere between 30-40% only. This is just the beginning of the tough times as garment industry is likely to see several closures in coming days and a lot of businessmen will be switching on to other things from their core business of garment manufacturing. According to our estimates, even if the markets and malls fully open, we will not be able to see the same level of demand due to several reasons. So, in order to cope up with the coming situation we have already lowered our production levels and we will calibrate it with the demand in coming months.” Charanjiv Singh, another garment manufacturer, said, “As compared to last year we have capped our production to not more than 30%, which is an all-time low capacity. Whatever stuff is being manufactured is being stored inside our factories only as there is hardly any demand for these. Moreover, there is no response from overseas buyers and therefore it is out of question to step up our production beyond the current levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garment-industry-stares-at-losses-in-absence-of-orders/articleshow/76499546.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kochi||CM to open Pizhala bridge today||Kochi: The newly-constructed Pizhala-Moolampilly bridge will be thrown open to the public on Monday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will declare the bridge open through a video conference to be held at 4pm at collectorate hall. LSGD minister A C Moideen, PWD minister G Sudhakaran and MP and MLA’s representing the region will attend the video conference. “The meeting will be a simple event, and it will follow Covid protocols,” said district collector S Suhas. The 607m-long bridge connects Moolampilly on the ICCT Road with Pizhala and Cheriya Kadamakkudy. The total cost of construction is (approx) Rs 81.75 crore. It is one of the connecting links of the Moolampilly-Chathanad Road, which is yet to be completed. The road is expected to open up a new connectivity between Kochi city and North Paravur. It will help save travelling distance of 14km. The road will facilitate faster movement of containers and trucks. However, the project was stalled due to environment issues as it would require reclamation of ‘pokkali’ fields. The works on the approach roads of the Chathanad-Valiya Kadamakkudy bridge are yet to be completed. Providing connectivity from Pizhala to Valiya Kadamakkudy is another hurdle. Delay in acquiring land is cited as the main reason for the impediment in project execution. Moreover, compensation and rehabilitation packages will have to be given to the local residents who will be dislocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-to-open-pizhala-bridge-today/articleshow/76498710.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||537 +ves in 72-day lockdown, 757 in 21 days after easing it||Nagpur: Fears for the worst are coming true after relaxation in lockdown as the number of Covid cases has shot up in city in June. An analysis of the rising cases shows that when complete lockdown was enforced in the city, increase in the number of Covid cases was slow and also there were less rule violations. As the restrictions were relaxed on June 1, the number of new cases has shot up exponentially. With 27 more persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday, the number of cases has increased to 1,298. What is alarming is the fact that 537 cases were registered in 72 days of full lockdown, whereas latest 757 came in just 21 days of June after easing it. Four cases were detected before lockdown. The state government had allowed non-essential shops to open on alternate day system and NMC devised its policy permitting shops on one side of the road to open on alternate day basis. However, a visit to market places like Khamla, Dharampeth, Sitabuldi, Mahal, Itwari, Sakkardara, Central Avenue etc, shops can be seen open on both sides of the road. Only in areas like Jaripatka and part of Dharampeth, shops were seen following the alternate day system. Despite state government prohibiting opening of malls, the NMC had taken a considerate view and allowed malls of smaller size to function. Commenting on the violations, mayor Sandip Joshi said the alternate day system for shops has not been effective in the city. “As mayor, it is also my responsibility to ensure action against violators, but the NMC administration has failed to implement the system,” he said. The NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) has recovered a fine of Rs 1,000 each from 257 shop owners for violating the norm in last 17 days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe in a circular had also authorized police department to take action. CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay told TOI, “It is NMC’s primary responsibility to monitor shops and not the police. We are here to help the NMC.” Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry & Trade (CAMIT), said, “Alternate day system for shops was not practical. There will be rush of customers if shops on only one side are open. There is urgent need for opening all businesses as they were completely shut for around three months. Commerce will have to be allowed under government monitoring. Unfortunately, the government has failed to end the chain of virus despite full lockdown.” The government had made mandatory for all to wear mask whenever they move out. The NMC had even finalized fine for such violations. NDS has recovered fine of Rs 2.35 lakh from 1,176 persons. Upadhyay said police had also recovered fine from around 300-400 people. Though prohibited, tea stalls and street food stalls can be seen in operation at a few places. Shops selling tobacco-related products have opened shops and are displaying grocery, milk and dairy products on boards. Open garden restaurants in Nagpur Rural are functioning without any action being taken on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/537-ves-in-72-day-lockdown-757-in-21-days-after-easing-it/articleshow/76500327.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tribespeople keen on keeping coronavirus at bay||By- Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: While several instances about Covid suspects jumping quarantine in mainstream society have been reported causing panic among health workers and forcing authorities to issue arrest threats, tribespeople in Idukki, including in regions such as Edamalakudy and Adimali, have been quietly leading their lives adhering steadfastly to social distancing norms. Even as the impact of the pandemic was spreading across the state the tribal communities here have been practising social distancing as a way of life. The first thing most of the communities did was restricting the entry of outsiders to the tribal hamlets. “We fixed boards barring entry for outsiders at the entry points of tribal hamlets,” said Sunitha, a Muthuvan community member and a social worker. “Tribal communities are aware of the disease and almost all families have radio sets which act as the main channel of information. Accredited social health activists and health workers have also been providing information about the importance of social distancing and hand washing,” said Sunitha. Branches of the Indian Coral tree (Mullumurukku) have been hung on the doors of most houses to prevent entry of strangers. “The tribespeople do not go out with children due to coronavirus scare. The community members have been wearing masks and following strict hygiene measures to protect themselves from the virus. Such measures have helped. None of the tribal community members have been infected with the virus,” she said. It was the state SC/ ST tribal development director who sent a circular to Munnar wildlife division to ban the entry of outsiders to Edamalakkudy, the first tribal grama panchayath in the state, located inside the Munnar forest division. “As per the directive, we banned the entry of outsiders to Edamalakkudy hamlet in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. And the tribal community members venture out only for emergency needs. They have been strictly following the directives of the health department,” said Eravikulam range officer Job J Neriamparampil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribespeople-keen-on-keeping-virus-at-bay/articleshow/76498681.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid found in staff of 25 of 668 hospitals in random survey||LUCKNOW: A little over 1% of government health staff tested randomly for Covid-19 were found positive for the infection in the ongoing surveillance exercise undertaken by the state health department. “The state is committed towards the containment of coronavirus. For this, we launched the exercise to see the status of coronavirus in vulnerable pockets. Hospitals and health workers were also tested recently and we found the presence of positive cases in 25 of the 668 hospitals (or 3.7%) hospitals,” said additional chief secretary, Amit Mohan Prasad. Health workers, especially those engaged in public dealing, were tested Prasad said. “As many as 4,577 samples were taken from the hospitals covered and 51 of them were found positive. On the overall scale, this is about 1.1% of the strength.” Prasad said that that the 51 covid positive cases were found in across 25 hospitals in 17 districts namely: Mau, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Moradabad, Pratapgarh, Mainpuri, Agra, Ghaziabad, Jalaun, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Amroha and Gonda. He also said that instructions have been passed on to the district health officers to conduct a second round of assessment in the hospitals where covid-19 cases were found. “Preventive activities must also be undertaken in these districts,” he said. Earlier, the random tests were conducted among slum dwellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-found-in-staff-of-25-of-668-hosps-in-random-survey/articleshow/76500657.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Probe TNGOs land scam: FGG to ACB||HYDERABAD: Forum For Good Governance (FGG) demanded a probe by Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) into the alleged Telangana Non Gazetted Officers’ (NGO) land scam. In a letter addressed to the state government, FGG claimed that around Rs 18 crore had been swindled in the name of land development and ineligible candidates were allocated plots. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said that the housing society had violated several laws. “After taking possession of the land, the society neither got the land alienated nor secured HMDA approval. The 50-acre land was divided into 622 plots. But the society, in violation of bylaws allotted the plots to ineligible people like doctors, police officers and outsiders instead of giving them to NGOs,” said Padmanabha Reddy. FGG demanded that the committee members should be made liable for irregularities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-tngos-land-scam-fgg-to-acb/articleshow/76500341.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Ration distribution was unfair, claims BJP||LUDHIANA: The office-bearers of the BJP held a press conference on Sunday, where they alleged that during Covid-19 actual beneficiaries were not given ration and instead some unknown persons availed of the same. They claimed that they matched Aadhar card numbers with depot cards of 100 people randomly in central constituency and at least one fourth of them were found false. They also found out that ration was distributed on the cards of those beneficiaries who had died a few years back. They questioned the system of distribution of ration among the poor. BJP leader Anil Sareen while describing the facts said, “We randomly checked Aadhar cards of a few beneficiaries from central constituency as Aadhar cards are linked with ration cards and startling facts came to light.” While quoting a few examples, he said there was a beneficiary, Kanta Rani, who had died on September 11, 2019, but her card was attached with Rajesh Kumar, who is not related to her and ration was distributed on this card twice. Similarly, Ashok Kumar Sharma had one ration card and six family members were attached on this card. Out of the six, two family members had died but despite giving information about their deaths ration was distributed for six people on this card. Sareen claimed that they had been raising the voice against unfair ration distribution earlier also and now they had checked everything. He said they would check in other constituencies as well. The BJP office-bearers also alleged that one councillor in central constituency, who was earlier in the BJP and then shifted to Congress ideally should not have ration depot, but he was running one. Not only this, his father was also having a ration depot and after his death even that came to him. They claimed that he was notorious for unfair ration distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ration-distribution-was-unfair-claims-bjp/articleshow/76499551.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Lack of awareness reason for fewer schizophrenia cases being reported||Panaji: Although schizophrenia is a mental illness that affects one per cent of the population at any given time, reporting of such cases is still low in the state. Both the district hospitals together logged a total of just 3,234 cases till November 2019. There has been much awareness about the mental condition among the urban population, but for people in rural areas, the first approach continues to lean towards consultation with a black magic practitioner. While some do seek medical intervention at a later stage, it is by then too late to totally correct a deteriorating personality, says Dr Rupesh Patkar, the psychiatrist running a district mental health programme at the North Goa district hospital. “We see an ample amount of such cases from rural areas. When patients start showing symptoms of schizophrenia, they are mostly taken to a person practising witchcraft or black magic,” Patkar says. While patients of schizophrenia cannot be totally cured, medical intervention at an early stage does help to contain mental degradation in patients. With continued medication, which is normally life-long, patients can lead a better life. “If a case is brought to us may be two-three years after the patient first showed symptoms of schizophrenia, he will have residues of the disease even with medication. While it is difficult for him to go back to the lifestyle he enjoyed prior to his illness, continued medication will show positive results in some patients,” Patkar says. Persons suffering from schizophrenia can be spotted roaming the streets, given up by their families, or, in most cases, abandoned after a prolonged illness. Patkar says that due to lack of knowledge about schizophrenia among a considerable chunk of the population, cases often get ignored. “If a healthy man or a woman starts behaving abnormally, such as keeping aloof, continually sleeping, not going to work or basically doing nothing the whole day, there are chances that in a village set-up, such patients will not get treatment on time,” he says. The nature of the disease, Patkar says, makes it difficult at times to get such patients to a doctor as the patients themselves are in denial and feel nothing is wrong with them. Though some get treated at late stage of the disease, some others are left in a hospital for the remainder of their lives as they are unable to recollect their previous memories. Rehabilitation, too, becomes difficult and is virtually impossible after a prolonged illness. “There are quite a few such cases at the Institute of Psychiatric and Human Behaviour (IPHB), Bambolim. Some such persons are from outside the state, picked up by cops when found at railway stations and bus stands,” Patkar says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-awareness-reason-for-fewer-schizophrenia-cases-being-reported/articleshow/76500355.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||With broom in hand, MLA joins villagers in cleaning park||LUDHIANA: Holding a broom in hand, SAD MLA from Dakha constituency Manpreet Ayali spent his Sunday morning in a sports park of Gujjarwal village for cleaning it. The park had been facing utter neglect and when villagers approached the MLA last week, he not only arranged funds for its maintenance, but also joined people for its cleaning. He asked youngsters in village to take care of the sports park on their own. Ayali shared that the sports park was among those which were developed during the SAD-BJP regime. He said they had made these parks for the betterment of public. He claimed that when the Congress took over some of the parks lost their sheen as these were not maintained properly. He said, “On Sunday morning, I preferred joining the public in cleaning the park. We swept it thoroughly and I asked people to do its cleaning at least once a week.” He said these parks were to be used by the public, so they should not depend upon any authority to take its care. He said youngsters would carry on with grass cutting and other cleaning in the park. He said they have collected Rs 3 lakh (1.5 lakh from him and Rs 1.5 lakh from panchayat) for the repair and maintenance of this park. Ayali also claimed that they would replicate the same in some other neglected parks as well soon. Meanwhile, a villager, Harjit Singh, said, “There is no harm in cleaning the park but major encouragement was the involvement of the MLA in this task. It encouraged the youngsters to do work with own hands without caring for anything.” He said now they had decided to clean the park regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-broom-in-hand-mla-joins-villagers-in-cleaning-park/articleshow/76499571.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||Antara now sets her eyes on duel in the air||Nagpur: “The weather was bad that day, but as our plane rose above the dark clouds, it seemed like flying in the heaven. The sky was clear and I could see both Sun and the Moon. That was a sortie with my instructor, but when you are on your first solo flight the only thing in mind is about getting down safely. The touchdown was smooth that day when I was alone in the cockpit,” says Flying Officer Antara Mehta, who now looks forward to be trained for dogfights in the air. Tenth woman fighter pilot in the Indian Air Force (IAF), she is the first woman to be selected to become fighter pilot from Nagpur as well as Maharashtra. Antara graduated from the Air Force Academy, Dundigal (Hyderabad), on Saturday and will now be inducted for further training as a fighter pilot. A student of Mount Carmel School, Antara has a degree in industrial engineering from Ramdeobaba Kamla Nehru College of Engineering, after which she joined the IAF. She has also been a national-level basketball player. In the training batch that had three other women officers, she was the only to opt to become a fighter pilot. In selection interview too, she was the only female candidate to be selected, she says. Her family lives in Wanzari Nagar locality and her father Ravi Mehta is a cement businessman. Set for further training, Antara hopes to be flying Tejas, the indigenously-built light combat aircraft (LCA). “The aircraft that I will be flying will depend on the outcome of the training, but I wish to fly the Tejas because it is an indigenous aircraft. Eventually, I hope to get a chance to fly even the Rafale or Jaguar. Although, initially, the Rafale would be for the seniors,” she says. Antara said as a student she was always in awe of the blue uniform. “Even if I had joined the navy or army, my preference would have been the aviation branch only,” she says. “As a woman, I would not say that the training was tough but there were challenges indeed, but there were others going through the rigour too. The training at the IAF also trains you to learn fast,” she says. Antara hopes to continue in the IAF if women are given permanent commission eventually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/antara-now-sets-her-eyes-on-duel-in-the-air/articleshow/76500349.cms||Shishir Arya
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Devanahalli facility a mess, allege quarantined inmates||Bengaluru: Have we come here to protect ourselves from Covid-19 or to get infected by the virus? That’s the question asked by 53-year-old Manjunath D, who is in institutional quarantine at a boys’ hostel of the social welfare department in Devanahalli taluk on the outskirts of Bengaluru. His question is a damning indictment of the facility’s pathetic condition. After health department officials received a report of a positive case in Vijayapura on Saturday night, 16 primary contacts of the patient were bundled into an ambulance and taken to the institutional quarantine, only to get the shock of their lives. Dirty toilets, lack of masks and hand sanitisers and no drinking water were just the tip of the iceberg. The people in quarantine include senior citizens, those with chronic health issues and women. They’re now approaching the authorities for help.They alleged that the unhygienic conditions at the centre have put their lives at risk. Manjunath D, a resident of Vijayapura, told TOI, "I am a diabetic and need to take my medicines on time. They just hustled us into an ambulance and brought us here. I couldn’t even bring my medicines. What’s worse, they are providing food which will affect my health as I have acidity. The place is not clean and the toilet is in very bad shape.” Besides these 16 persons, 14 primary contacts of another Covidpositive case are also in the same facility. Suhas, 24, who is under quarantine, said, “When we came here, they told us there were no masks or gloves. We had to fight for them and got surgical masks only on Sunday afternoon. I assumed they’re bringing us here to protect us from the possible spread of virus. But there was no social distancing and hygiene is not maintained. We neither have drinking water nor hot water for bathing. We’re at high risk." Deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Rural PN Ravindra did not respond to calls and messages for his response to the plight of those in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/devanahalli-facility-a-mess-allege-quarantined-inmates/articleshow/76499593.cms||Kiran Parashar
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur shelter home Covid-19 tally touches 57||KANPUR: Twenty-four more inmates of government shelter home in the city's Swarup nagar tested positive for coronavirus, taking its Covid tally to 57 since June 17. "After 33 inmates tested positive on June 17, 24 more have been found infected in the past couple of days. They have all been sent to Covid hospital for treatment," district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari. Meanwhile, reacting to reports of two inmates being found pregnant, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde and DM Tiwari said that there were seven pregnant girls, out of five were found positive and two negative. They also clarified that all seven were pregnant at the time of admission. The DM said these girls had come from Agra, Kannauj, Firozabad, Etah and Kanpur nagar on the directions of Child Welfare Committees of respective districts. They all were allegedly victims of sexual assault and their cases are being pursued under POCSO Act. When asked about one girl being found infected with HIV and another with Hepatitis C, the DM said a report has been sought from shelter home authorities in this regard. Out of 33 inmates found positive on June 17, 18 belonged to women's protection home and 15 to girls' protection home. All 24 found infected thereafter are for the minors' home. When the GSV Medical College released the first test report on June 17, it was presumed that a woman was found infected in random testing and that she must be the source of infection for others. The police had barricaded the protection home and stopped entry and exit of people. Uttar Pradesh State Women Commission had also taken note of the development and expressed grave concern on Thursday and directed district officials to sanitize the protection home and protect other girls from infection. UP State Women Commission member Poonam Kapoor sought a report from the district probation officer and directed him to protect the remaining inmates. She had asked the probation officer to direct the subordinate staff to maintain sanitation and change bedsheets daily. Meanwhile, former Lok Sabha MP and vice president of Janwadi Mahila Samiti Shubhashini Ali demanded a fair inquiry and strict action against the guilty in the case of inmates' pregnancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-shelter-home-covid-tally-touches-57/articleshow/76500661.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Suburbs have more containment zones than city||CHENNAI: While the number of containment zones in Chennai city has dropped significantly, containment in Tambaram and nearby southern suburbs has increased. Official data shows that on Sunday, Tambaram had 76 containment zones while all of Chennai city had only 64. It is the polar opposite of the picture from four weeks ago, when Tambaram had 18 containment zones and Chennai city 369. Pallavaram, another southern suburb, has fewer barricaded streets than the 28 it had last month, but the municipality officials say they have had to seal more independent houses this month. “The protocol has changed now. Any street can be declared as a containment zone only if it has five primary cases or 20 positive contacts. If not, we seal only the building in which cases were reported,” said a Pallavaram revenue official. Tambaram and Pallavaram fall under Chengalpet district. T Udhayachandran, an IAS official deputed to monitor Covid-19 efforts in Chengalpet, said the best way to reduce cases in congested areas was to cut off the entire stretch rather than seal just the houses. Local authorities are allowed to take a call on it after assessing the conditions. “Cases are on the rise and we are trying our best to keep it under control, but Tambaram being the entry point of the city for those coming from southern districts, we find it difficult to restrict movement,” A revenue official from Tambaram said. The officials are trying to make maximum use of the lockdown till June 30. One worker has been deployed for every 200 houses in Tambaram to survey residents for symptoms like fever, cold or cough, etc,., Around 1,500 pulse oximeters and thermal scanners have been procured to screen oxygen levels and body temperatures of the residents during the door-to-door checks, the official added. Residents, however, complained that the door-to-door surveying rate was poor. “Workers visit only houses along the main roads and ignore those along interior streets. But enforcement has been better during this lockdown,” said Raghu Raman, president of Kurinji Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association in West Tambaram. Besides containment zones, there has been an increase in the number of people admitted at isolation camps in the suburbs. At present, more than 330 positive patients were kept in three such camps in the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/suburbs-have-more-containment-zones-than-city/articleshow/76500354.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Labour shortage can be a blessing in disguise for Punjab farmers’||The Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Dakha constituency, Manpreet Ayali, who is also a prosperous farmer as well, is of the opinion that labour shortage during coronavirus times can prove a blessing in disguise. He claims that this time many of farmers tried sowing of paddy crops in their fields on their own without depending upon the migrant labourers. He claimed that even they tried sowing of paddy crop in three ways and will recommend the same to the farmers if he gets suitable results. He said direct sowing and bed sowing are two economical methods and if farmers adopt the technique, depleting water table can be saved. TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj talked to him over this issue. Here a few excerpts from a conversation with him. Due to coronavirus many of the labourers moved from here to their native places and farmers felt difficulties in handling sowing of paddy crop, did you feel the same?No not at all. I think this was a golden opportunity for the farmers to shed their dependence upon the migrant labourers, which was expensive as well as hectic. If I talk about our farming, we sowed paddy crop using three technologies, one was the traditional method, where water remains in fields and we do not let it seep in the ground. Then we did direct sowing and bed sowing. We did everything with the help of machines. Earlier, we also used to hire labourers in fields but this time only 14 to 15 Punjabi guys helped us in the process. Till last year, we had 50 to 60 migrant labourers, but this time we don’t have even one migrant labourer, and the credit goes to the direct sowing paddy technique. What are the benefits of direct sowing or bed sowing of paddy crop?There are many benefits of these two methods. The biggest thing is in these ways we do not require much water. We can save 40-50% of the groundwater after adopting the technology. Then there is lesser dependence upon labourers because machines do everything. If farmers have to save water for coming generations then they must go in for these ways. Moreover, these methods cost Rs 200 per acre while for labourers and using traditional method we were supposed to spend at least Rs 5,000 per acre. Above all, it can help in changing weather conditions of the state as this time paddy sowing started in May and it was hot so from next year if this practice continues and direct or bed sowing will be adopted then humid weather will not trouble people and Punjabis can enjoy a pleasant weather in June as well. The small farmers are unable to purchase machines for their fields. What about them?This is right that we have resources and we can experiment as well, but I feel small farmers have more scope to set examples and they can do more hard work in their fields. We will tell farmers about the results of all three types and it is up to them to implement or not. From next year we will also go ahead for drip irrigation method and then only 10% water will be consumed than the traditional method. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has been asking farmers to shift to direct sowing for the past so many years. Do you think they will listen to you?Farmers believe in experiments. The PAU is trying hard to bring changes, but not all farmers have access to the university. In one day so many people from various villages come to meet me at my house and some field area is outside my house as well and they all ask about the technology. In the direct sowing as well as bed sowing there is lot of saving of water and I think if the government will impose a ban on making mud (kadoo karna) for paddy sowing then farmers will have to adopt the other techniques. Do you think direct sowing will increase unemployment? For paddy transplant migrant laborers used to come here and if we switch over to other means, then they will not come here. Rather Punjabi youth has started working, so in a way it is good for local people that they will generate income. What kind of changes have surfaced in rural areas after coronavirus?In Dakha constituency, rural areas were safe than urban areas because here people have enough space to remain in isolation. This coronavirus can bring positive changes for the youth of Punjab. The youngsters were going abroad after selling their prime lands here. Nobody was interested in working in fields but after coronavirus, there are changes in the thinking process as many youngsters have started helping their families in sowing in the fields. There is a need to develop interest among youth towards farming again. We have started taking our kids to fields and I have also purchased one mini tractor for them so that they could learn things. Was there any change in condition of drug addicts during coronavirus? Initially, we heard about people saying that drugs were not available but gradually people arranged it from somehow. The ruling party could not cut supply chain completely. The illegal sale of liquor was being done under the shelter of ruling party leaders. People did not make lines outside liquor vends after lockdown because they had stock in their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labour-shortage-can-be-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-punjab-farmers/articleshow/76499582.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
June 22, 2020||Goa||Saligao plant to process non-coastal villages’ waste||Panaji: Faced with a 50% drop in daily garbage collection due to the closure of hotels, the state government has permitted panchayats that are not along the North Goa coastal belt to dispose off their garbage for treatment at the Hindustan Waste Treatment Plant Ltd at Saligao. From the 50-odd tonne of garbage that the plant was receiving on a daily basis during the lockdown, the plant now receives around 80-90 tonne of waste, said director of HWTPL Ganesh Kandaswamy. Kandaswamy also said that transportation of non-biodegradable or non-recyclable waste has resumed to cement plants in Karnataka. “From last week we have started sending RDF to Karnataka but the frequency is not as much as before because the cement factories have reduced their production,” said Kandaswamy. The plant situated on the Saligao plateau caters to all the village panchayats in the vicinity and used to receive waste from as many as 1200 hotels. It has the capacity to treat 125 tons of waste per day and generate power through the gas derived from the bio-methanation process. “We get 80-90 tons of garbage on a daily basis now from other panchayats, but this is just a short term measure. The power generation has also improved,” said Kandaswamy. The reduction in daily garbage collection during the lockdown left the plant with idle capacity, prompting authorities to permit other panchayats to dispose their waste at the plant as a short term measure. The plant used to supply non-bio degradable waste, known as Refuse derived fuel (RDF) to three plants in Karnataka; ACC Wadi in Gulbarga and JK Cement and Dalmia Steel plants in Bagalkot. “The lockdown has led to a drop in demand for cement and so cement companies have reduced their production. While earlier we would send on an average two trucks per day, now we send four to five trucks in a week,” said Kandaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-plant-to-process-non-coastal-villages-waste/articleshow/76500352.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur shelter home Covid-19 tally touches 57||KANPUR: Twenty-four more inmates of government shelter home in the city's Swarup nagar tested positive for coronavirus, taking its Covid tally to 57 since June 17. "After 33 inmates tested positive on June 17, 24 more have been found infected in the past couple of days. They have all been sent to Covid hospital for treatment," district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari. Meanwhile, reacting to reports of two inmates being found pregnant, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde and DM Tiwari said that there were seven pregnant girls, out of five were found positive and two negative. They also clarified that all seven were pregnant at the time of admission. The DM said these girls had come from Agra, Kannauj, Firozabad, Etah and Kanpur nagar on the directions of Child Welfare Committees of respective districts. They all were allegedly victims of sexual assault and their cases are being pursued under POCSO Act. When asked about one girl being found infected with HIV and another with Hepatitis C, the DM said a report has been sought from shelter home authorities in this regard. Out of 33 inmates found positive on June 17, 18 belonged to women's protection home and 15 to girls' protection home. All 24 found infected thereafter are for the minors' home. When the GSV Medical College released the first test report on June 17, it was presumed that a woman was found infected in random testing and that she must be the source of infection for others. The police had barricaded the protection home and stopped entry and exit of people. Uttar Pradesh State Women Commission had also taken note of the development and expressed grave concern on Thursday and directed district officials to sanitize the protection home and protect other girls from infection. UP State Women Commission member Poonam Kapoor sought a report from the district probation officer and directed him to protect the remaining inmates. She had asked the probation officer to direct the subordinate staff to maintain sanitation and change bedsheets daily. Meanwhile, former Lok Sabha MP and vice president of Janwadi Mahila Samiti Shubhashini Ali demanded a fair inquiry and strict action against the guilty in the case of inmates' pregnancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-shelter-home-covid-tally-touches-57/articleshow/76503963.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Making manure from green waste, MC way||LUDHIANA: The MC officials have become successful in managing horticulture waste being generated from city into manure with the help of pits, which they have created in various public parks. It takes almost a month to convert the waste into manure, which is then being used in plantation in the parks and other areas. The disposal of horticulture waste was yet another headache for the civic body because it was being collected from various parks in large quantity and was either disposed of at garbage dump or was burnt along roadsides. The compost pits are created in parks under MC and the officials are regulating things regularly. Over 250 pits have been created in Rose Garden, Leisure Valley and other parks under MC. These pits are covered and are created on one side of the parks so that public should not go there. The horticulture waste including bushes and branches of trees is collected in Rose Garden and with the help of shredders it is then created into powder. The powder is then thrown inside the pits with other waste like dry leaves. As per officials, in one pit 10 to 12 trolleys of horticulture waste can be thrown and then for manure they have to wait for almost one month. Horticulture branch JE Kripal Singh said compost pits were created with an aim to solving the problem of horticulture waste and now results had started coming. He said they require manure for plantation in large quantity and it is being consumed as well. He said they have two shredders, one is in Rose Garden and the other in Focal Point. Usually, pruning of trees keeps on going all throughout the year especially by the electricity department for protecting power cables. Heaps of horticulture waste keeps on lying on road sides as there is no other way to dispose it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/making-manure-from-green-waste-mc-way/articleshow/76499592.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka minister to hold key meet on SSLC exam on Monday||MANGALURU: Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) will on Monday take one final look at SOP being put in place for SSLC examinations getting under way across the state on June 24. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar will interact with all DCs, SPs, DDPIs through videoconference to get the exam check-list right. This follows case of ‘false positive’ reported in a student who appeared for second PU English exam on June 18. Not wanting to take any chance, KSEEB has offered to conduct SSLC exams for students who individually or their family member or relative has tested positive for coronavirus or are in quarantine with the supplementary examinations scheduled for July. Such candidates will be treated as fresh candidates, Kumar said. Taking note of some lacunae in the way English exam was conducted, the minister said these will be addressed before the SSLC exams. Rush was noticed outside the examination centre gates, at the barricades and at entrance. “This will be addressed. In Malnad and coastal regions which receive heavy rainfall, health screening of students will be moved inside the exam centres if such a situation arises,” Kumar said. “We will ensure staff deputed for SSLC exam are ready at the centres from 7am so that they can receive students and guide them to their respective examination hall. Students will also get advance information on exact location of their hall through SMS, so that they can avoid crowding at the notice boards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/min-to-hold-key-meet-on-sslc-exam-today/articleshow/76498707.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways to do water sampling twice a week||LUDHIANA: Even as food stall owners didn’t resume their work of providing packed eatables to passengers, but the Railways are making efforts to provide clean drinking water to them by sampling the water being supplied through taps thrice a week. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “At a time when cases of Covid-19 are rising, local railway authorities have decided to take precautions by taking samples of drinking water thrice a week.” “Earlier, the officials of the sanitation and cleanliness department used to check the sample of water once in 15 days. We are trying our best to provide safe water to the passengers. Even the water vending machines on different platforms are working efficiently for providing clean drinking water at reasonable rates to passengers,” the director said. Meanwhile, some passengers hailed the decision. A frequent passenger, Nitin Sharma, said, “The Railways have taken a very crucial step of doing sampling thrice a week as clean drinking water strengthens the immune system, which further helps them to fight against Covid-19. Moreover, passengers had mostly heard about poor quality of water being supplied through water taps by railway authorities and this preventive action could bring a positive impact on the working of the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-to-do-water-sampling-twice-a-week/articleshow/76499596.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Quepem shopkeepers petition council over stray cattle menace||Quepem: Shopkeepers in Quepem town are irked with the Quepem Municipal Council’s (QMC) failure to deal swiftly and effectively with the stray cattle menace plaguing the area. The bovines have turned into a nuisance for shopkeepers and citizens alike as they block passage and mess up the area. The mess caused and the danger they pose to pedestrians and motorists on the Quepem stretch of the Margao-Belagavi highway has prompted the Quepem Shopkeepers Association to petition the QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik with their grievance. “The space in front of almost every shop in the area is occupied by stray cattle, right from late evening till the time shopkeepers arrive to open their shops the next morning. The entire area is messed up with cow dung. The mess and stink keep away our customers. The council has failed to control the stray cattle and the municipality doesn’t clean up the roads and areas in front of our shops,” the association’s president John Fernandes said. Chetan Naik, a shopkeeper, said that after they open their shops, the cattle start dispersing and then squat on the main roads. “This obstructs the movement of traffic from Don Bosco High School till the Tilamol junction and the entire Curchorem town. There has also been a rise in the number of accidents,” Naik said. Meanwhile, assuring that the QMC will try and eliminate the menace at the earliest, Naik said capturing the stray cattle is not an easy task since they start running after they notice municipal labourers approaching them. A high court order dating April 2, 2007, had directed all municipal councils to set up a pound for stray cattle and appoint a pound keeper. The court order also said that the director of municipal administration shall entertain complaints in respect of stray cattle and shall take action against the erring municipal councils. In accordance, QMC constructed a cattle pound a few years back and also appointed pound keeper. It is, however, lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-shopkeepers-petition-council-over-stray-cattle-menace/articleshow/76500397.cms||Johnny M
June 22, 2020||Chennai||5,000 fever clinics in Chennai held this month; 1.5 lakh screened last week||CHENNAI: The number of fever clinics and camps conducted by the city corporation has grown multifold as cases increased in the city. The aim of the camps held every day is to identify people with influenza like illness (ILI) and isolate them. While there were 526 fever camps in May, 4,892 have been conducted since June 1 Between May 8 and May 27, about 120 fever camps were held across the city with the help of UPHC (urban primary health care) doctors and nurses. From May 28, on an average, 100 fever clinics were held each day and the number has risen to more than 500 every day in the past three days. The increase in fever clinics has been possible because of the added muscle to the health department. The corporation has hired 200 doctors — one for each ward as divisional health officers — on contract basis as part of the civic body’s micro-plan for Covid-19 management. They are expected to coordinate with assistant engineer effectively to ensure that all symptomatic people and those showing ILI (influenza like illness) are identified, screened and tested as per the protocol. More than 1.5 lakh people attended the clinics in the past week and 4,500 ILI cases have been identified so far. A senior civic official said fever camps will be conducted in streets with clustering or high number of cases. The Covid response teams formed at the ward level have been asked to use through public announcement systems, pamphlets to publicise about fever camps a day in advance. Details about camps will also be posted on the corporation’s social media pages, said an official. “The fever clinics run by GCC has evoked tremendous response. The services have come in handy not only for Covid, but for other ailments too, particularly when many private clinics and dispensaries remain unopened,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5k-fever-clinics-held-this-month-1-5-lakh-screened-last-week/articleshow/76500360.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||C Rly engineer designs touchless switch to avoid Covid-19 spread||Nagpur: After developing a cost-effective robot and successful innovation of contactless thermal gun, the Nagpur-based mechanical engineer posted in Solapur division of Central Railway has come out with running room cubicle automation to restrict spread of Covid-19. The running room cubicle automation by divisional mechanical engineer (DME) Suryakant B Munjewar is proving to be of great help to avoid Covid-19 threat as one can switch lights off and on by just waving hands. “The basic idea is to ensure that occupant do not need to physically touch any of the electrical switches (for cubicle light, study lamp or for mobile charging) available, and same is installed at running room Solapur,” said railway spokesperson and assistant commercial manager (ACM) Ajay Kumar Shakya. Munjewar told TOI, the electrical switches are known to be common source of contagious infections. The regular sanitization of switches (wiping with sanitizer liquid-soaked cloth) also involves ingression of the liquid, which has inflammable alcohol contents, and could also lead to fire hazards. “Hence, to do away with the regular sanitization of the electrical switches and also to completely avoid the touching of the switches in such difficult times of highly contagious Covid-19, this running room cubicle automation has been developed,” said Munjewar. Earlier, Munjewar successfully converted hand-held thermal gun into wall mounted thermal gun for saving the life of the most exposed person who is deputed for checking the temperatures of people. The innovation was appreciated nationwide and replicated in other railway zones. His automated innovations are widely appreciated across the Indian Railways. Munjewar said, “On a trial basis 24 switches have been automated. The automation board is equipped with PIR enabled light bulb. Whenever one enters in the cubicles, the light automatically gets switched on. The entrant needs to just wave his hand over the designated point by keeping desired distance.” The moment, entrant exits the cubicle the lights goes off — saving electricity as well. Nowhere the entrant has to touch any switches till exiting the cubicle. “The system is powered by normal 220v electrical supply and is controlled by microcontroller. For enabling the touchless configuration, sensors are used in the system. Conversion cost of each cubicle is just Rs950,” Munjewar informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/c-rly-engineer-designs-touchless-switch-to-avoid-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76500365.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||BMC starts Web meets with upscale buildings to stem Covid||MUMBAI: Looking at spiralling Covid-19 cases in highrises, the BMC has taken to online conferencing with the office bearers of housing societies, suggesting precautions and preventive measures. On Saturday, for instance, D ward officials held meetings on Zoom with office bearers from buildings at Nepean Sea Road, Peddar Road, and Malabar Hill, from where a growing number of Covid-19 cases have been reported. Over 300 of D ward's 1,900-plus cases have been detected in the last 10 days alone. TOI on Saturday reported about a sharp rise in cases in a residential skyscraper at Nepean Sea Road and in a Breach Candy building as well. During the online meeting, the ward officer reiterated instructions on what should be done to contain the viral spread: social distancing, ensuring that sealed floors are strictly no-go zones, and masks are worn by residents at all times while stepping out. A concern raised by residents was on allowing domestic helps into societies. The BMC made it clear that helps should not be allowed into containment zones and sealed building. "It was a very positive discussion. Several questions of residents were answered by the authorities," said Mukul Mehra of the Nepean Sea Road Citizens Forum. In G-North ward as well, an online meeting was held on Saturday with the residents of a few buildings in Dadar and Mahim, where too cases are on the rise. Dadar had 633 cases and Mahim 902 as of Sunday morning. Civic officials say the spikes occurred after the easing of the lockdown. Similar to what was done in the slums, the BMC is planning to appoint community coordinators for every locality in Dadar and Mahim for faster detection of cases. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, said, "Since cases are rising housing societies, we are planning to take the help of office bearers to monitor the oxygen levels of residents regularly. We expect them to inform us if anyone shows symptoms." In H-West ward (the Bandra west area) as well, the authorities are planning an online meeting with residents' associations in the coming week. Corporator Asif Zakeria said that roping in ALMs to help the authorities in their fight against Covid-19 is a good idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-starts-web-meets-with-upscale-buildings-to-stem-covid/articleshow/76501128.cms||Richa Pinto
June 22, 2020||Lucknow||Antigen tests for screening corona in Lucknow and NCR districts||LUCKNOW: In a bid to ramp up Covid-19 surveillance, Uttar Pradesh is all set to roll out antigen tests for screening at important centres, including NCR districts and the state capital. This pregnancy kit-like device can reveal the presence of coronavirus in about 30 minutes. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said on Sunday that the tests will begin in a few days. The Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences approved the Korean antigen test kit on June 15 week. “The tests will begin from select cities, including NCR districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, besides Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj,” Prasad said. While a positive outcome from this antigen test is deemed as a confirmation of the infection, in case of a negative result, the patient’s sample will be sent for the RT-PCR test to confirm or rule out the presence of virus. As recommended by ICMR, said officials in UP health department, the kit will be used in containment zones to test suspected persons with influenza-like symptoms and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases. The kit will also be used for healthcare providers, cancer inflicted patients in need of chemotherapy or those suffering from malignant diseases, besides elderly persons. Health officials told TOI that the kit contains a pregnancy test kit-like Covid antigen test device, viral extraction tube with a solution (viral lysis buffer) to decode the coronavirus cells, and sterile swab for sample collection. “Unlike antibody tests which require drawing of blood, the antigen test needs a nasal swab. This swab is collected using the customised sample collection swab provided along with the kit. No other swab, throat or bronchoalveolar lavage or sputum, is needed,” explained an additional chief medical officer with the state surveillance team. “The swab sample is exposed to the solution provided to see the presence of the covid-19 virus. If the virus is present then lines will appear on the kit just the way it appears on the pregnancy test kit,” he added. Briefing media about the kit last week, ICMR officials said that specificity (or the kit’s accuracy in detecting true negatives) ranges between 99.3% to 100% based on validation done at two sites while its sensitivity (or the rate of detecting infections correctly) ranged from 50.6% to 84%, based on two independent evaluations. The viral load of the patient may also alter specificity and sensitivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/antigen-tests-for-screening-corona-in-city-ncr-dists/articleshow/76500668.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 22, 2020||Kochi||When used bottles & tyres gave rise to a bus shelter||Kochi: While a normal bus waiting shelter would easily cost a few lakh rupees from the MP/MLA fund, a group of young men from Tripunithura has built a waiting shed with used plastic bottles and sheets for just Rs 14,000 and the story has caught the attention of the social media over the past two weeks. Named Bottle Hub, the shed at the bus stop at Kinar near Tripunithura was built by the members of a recreational club, BSB Arts and Sports Club as a service. The shed features flowery plants, seats made of used-tyres, Covid awareness boards and a news board that displays the latest news. The used plastic bottles were collected from various police stations and Covid-19 relief camps during lockdown and they thought of fulfilling the longstanding dream of Kinar residents. Pictures and videos of the shed were shared on social media platforms for its ‘recycle’ nature and visual appeal. Netizens urged authorities to promote similar sustainable use of plastic that is helpful to the public instead of wasting lakhs of rupees. “Kinar is one of the main bus stops along Tripunithura-Vaikom Road and it never had a waiting shed. Our club, formed four years ago, planned to build one. During lockdown, while we were supplying food to policemen and guest workers, we saw huge piles of plastic bottles. So, we thought of using it,” said club president Shyam Surendran. “We used around 700 bottles. The used tyres were collected from tyre shops. The entire work, including welding, painting, tiling, design, gardening was done by club members. It took us three hours each day to complete it in three weeks as all of us were busy with our jobs during daytime,” he added. The cost involved was for the purchase of steel frames, paint, tiles and plastic roofing sheet. The bottles were used to cover the three sides using metal strings and they are decked up with plant pots. Apart from club members, waiting shed users also water the plants. The awareness boards are made using children’s slates in which messages about wearing mask, social distancing are written. Club members write down key news on the board each day. “We are not against politicians spending lakhs to make a waiting shed. We just want to show that the bottles we throw away can be reused artistically,” said Shyam. Watch Kochi: A bus shelter made from discarded plastic bottles and tyres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/when-used-bottles-tyres-gave-rise-to-a-bus-shelter/articleshow/76498735.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||It was my character assassination so had to walk out: Mundhe||Nagpur: A day after municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe walked out of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) general body meeting after a remark by a corporator on his name, a war of words erupted over a letter written by mayor Sandip Joshi to the civic chief. Joshi wrote a letter, which also went viral on social media, to Mundhe on Sunday. He alleged, “Mundhe leaving the house was a blot on democracy, general body and civic chief’s post. No one will support the remark of corporator Harish Gwalbanshi on your name. I would have removed the words from business of the house had you stayed and requested,” he said. Calling it double standards on the part of the mayor, Mundhe told TOI, “Corporator’s remark was a character assassination as he said I was a blot on name — Tukaram. Mayor should have immediately interrupted the corporator and removed the words. But the mayor remained a mute spectator. Now, he is saying this before the media and in a letter. It is the responsibility of the mayor to warn members to speak only on issue and not engage in character assassination. I never leave the house, but walked out after pointing it out in the house itself,” he said. Joshi also wrote to Mundhe, “Entire house witnessed your wrong behaviour when you said no one should speak in between when you are speaking. Corporators can take ‘point of order’ or ‘point of information’ whenever anyone is giving information. When you were replying to a query of Gwalbanshi, corporator Dayashankar Tiwari took ‘point of information’,” he said. Mundhe said, “I would have stopped had it been ‘point of order’. Mr Tiwari raised ‘point of information’ which is allowed only after completion of a reply. I was ready to give reply to all queries. But muzzling of officers was going on in the house, where only corporators are speaking and officials were not allowed to reply. Even Mr Tiwari raised his voice and started to shout. Here too the mayor remained silent. I pointed out this at the first instance itself. But I stopped giving reply and sat as per chair. Again, the same happened. All these prove the mayor was in connivance with those corporators.” Corporator Kamlesh Chaudhary said, “It was wrong on the part of the corporator to blatantly comment on an IAS officer that he ‘was working like a Hitler’ and ‘blot on name of Tukaram’. We should raise issues in the house and demand replies from officials. But we have no right to attack on personal grounds. The mayor should have stopped this, but did not interfere, which was not proper. Mundhe and his team had successfully contained spread of Covid-19 by working round the clock. Anyone can compare the figures of Nagpur with other cities.” Joshi’s letter also said to Mundhe, “The city needs you in situation of Covid-19. It is necessary to also hear public representatives. You, in the meeting held on June 6, had assured to approve pre-monsoon works suggested by corporators but did nothing. General body is of the opinion that you should not be upset and attend the next meeting on Tuesday. As per norms, the mayor has to give directions to civic chief but am leaving it aside, and once again requesting you to attend the meeting.” On Saturday, Mundhe had told the mayor that he would not be present where he is personally attacked and insulted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/it-was-my-character-assassination-so-had-to-walk-out-mundhe/articleshow/76500406.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 22, 2020||Madurai||CB-CID to probe plot to usurp assets of man with learning difficulty||Madurai: Madras high court has transferred to CB-CID the investigation of a case in which several people including four advocates attempted to usurp the properties of a man living with learning difficulties in Madurai district. The court was hearing the bail and anticipatory bail petitions of people who were either arrested or are apprehending arrest in the case. The man living with the disability was the son of Chennai residents Vasanthakumar and Padmini. After Padmini died in 2009, Vasanthakumar married a widow, Rajeswari, a resident of Madurai in 2014. Rajeswari already had a son, Senthilkumar, and a daughter, Meena, who were married and settled.Vasanthakumar had acquired properties at Chennai and Madurai and had transferred them to Rajeswari and his son living with learning difficulties. Vasanthakumar died leaving Rajeswari and his son as legal heirs to the properties. The man became an orphan after Rajeswari died in 2017. Since he had inherited huge properties, Senthilkumar and Meena, with the help of advocates Sulaiman Basha, Purushothaman, Muthukumar and Gopinath entered into a conspiracy to usurp them.After the paternal aunt of the man came to know about the attempt to usurp his properties, she lodged a complaint at the Oomachikulam police based on which a case was registered against several people on March 21 this year.Justice P N Prakash observed that all the accused suddenly got galvanised and created records to make it look as if Senthilkumar and Meena were the true legal heirs of the properties by excluding the man who was the only legal heir to the properties. Armed with the legal heirship certificate, the group went about disposing of the properties one by one. The judge said the materials collected by the police so far show that the advocates had not merely tendered legal advice, but even participated in the deals and also purchased some of the properties. During the sale transaction, differences cropped up in the group and the matter exploded. The judge said Meena and her husband who are currently taking care of the man were also part and parcel of these illegal activities. Taking into consideration the gravity of the offence and that the properties in Madurai and Chennai were sold illegally, the judge dismissed the bail and anticipatory bail petitions and transferred the case to CB-CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cb-cid-to-probe-plot-to-usurp-assets-of-man-with-learning-difficulty/articleshow/76500361.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 22, 2020||Chennai||CMRL allows food stall to run on footpath, draws ire of commuters||CHENNAI: Authorities allowing a shop on the pedestrian platform outside High Court Metro station has come under criticism by commuters, who say it will be seen as an endorsement for encroaching public spaces. According to a spokesperson of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), the agency has rented out the space to generate non-ticketing revenue. “It is not illegal. A few metres on either side of a metro station, where CMRL has laid pavement, belongs to us. They are of better quality than the ones laid by the civic body or the highways department and there is enough space for commuters’ use,” said a CMRL official. With several of the footpaths in the city already plagued with encroachments, such a move will only encourage squatters, say public. “It will not be long before hawkers, unauthorised stalls and kiosks encroach further space and make the footpath unfriendly for pedestrians,” said M Anbazhagan, a resident of Sowcarpet. The city corporation is already guilty of allowing several unauthorised kiosks to take over footpaths in the city. “The High Court Metro is one of the busiest stations, used by several advocates, clients and court visitors. It might not be an issue now since the court premises are not open but when the situation returns to normal, and when more such kiosks are set up, commuters will face a problem,” said P Kalidasan, a regular commuter. There are already several kiosks, food stalls and automatic vending machines on the street level inside the metro station premises, and efforts were underway to set up similar kiosks in underground stations too. The kiosks will sell food and beverages of popular brands and will be open to both metro rail as well as outsiders looking to have a quick bite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-allows-food-stall-to-run-on-footpath-draws-ire-of-commuters/articleshow/76500387.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Hubballi||Rising water level in UK dist dams triggers fears of a flood||Karwar: Uttara Kannada is home to seven reservoirs, and the incessant rainfall in the coastal district since the onset of the monsoon has pushed the water level in all these dams to an alarming high. Of the seven dams, five have been built across the River Kali, while the remaining two check the flow of Sharavathi. Memories of the floods that wreaked havoc in the district last year are disturbingly vivid in the minds of the people, while the worrying prospect of another spate stares at them now. However, many continue to believe that the damage caused by the floods of 2019 could have been mitigated to a large extent had the officials of the Karnataka Power Corporation not dragged their feet in releasing water from the reservoirs sooner instead of waiting for them to fill to the brim. The sudden release of a large volume from the dams resulted in water rising to 20ft in Kadra, Mallapur and surrounding areas. Notwithstanding the dip in inflow to the reservoirs this year, water level in the dams is still in the range that many consider suitable for discharge. Failing timely release of a quantum of water from the dams, the areas downstream of the reservoirs may end up inundated a second year in a row. However, officials of the Karnataka Power Corporation stated that all necessary precautions, adding that they would issue a warning to the people well in advance. Furthermore, given that the entire nation is grappling with the Covid-19 crisis, the district administration might, should the need arise to relocate a large section of the populace considering the safety measures that will need to be adopted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rising-water-level-in-uk-dist-dams-triggers-fears-of-a-flood/articleshow/76498756.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai dist courts open for physical hearings||Madurai: The district headquarters and taluk level courts, except at Melur in Madurai district, will open for hearing of cases in person in a limited and restricted manner from Monday. Only five advocates including the state counsel will be present in the court at a time, while litigants will not be allowed. In a notification issued by the court, the judicial officers have been told to take all appropriate measures to ensure social distancing is followed by the court staff and advocates and arrangements for thermal screening of those who enter the courts. The judicial officers should also ensure that the no person enters the court premises without wearing masks. The Bar Associations, advocate chambers and canteens inside the court campus shall remain closed until further orders.In event of any untoward incident or complications, judicial officers may act accordingly and immediately inform the matter to the principal district judge for taking appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dist-courts-open-for-physical-hearings/articleshow/76500388.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Karate training in school helps woman player foil loot attempt||PATNA: The state initiative to impart martial arts training to the girl students of government schools in Bihar helped the 23-year-old Rani Kumari foil a daylight loot attempt on her in Muzaffarpur on Saturday. A kabaddi player of national repute, Rani also caught hold of one of the two robbers with an illegal weapon under Karja police station in Muzaffarpur district. In the process, she suffered minor injuries. Police said the incident took place when Rani was returning home at Raksha Dakshin village from a bank in Muzaffarpur on scooty. Two bike-borne criminals followed and tried to snatch her scooty and purse at gunpoint when she reached Bishanpur Rajput Dwar. Rani decided to teach them a lesson. When one of the criminals brandished a pistol and tried to snatch her purse and two-wheeler, Rani kicked and attacked him by using her karate skills she had learnt in class VIII at Rajkiye Vidyalaya, Bishanpur. The other robber, who had kept his vehicle’s engine on, joined the fight. “Even then I continued to fight with them and caught hold of them,” she recalled. One of the robbers then hit Rani in her stomach with the pistol butt. As her grip loosened, he freed himself and managed to escape on his motorbike. However, his associate was still in her custody. By the time, a crowd assembled there and informed the police. The youth was later handed over to the police and Rani was taken to a nearby health facility for treatment. Kajra station house officer Saroj Kumar said the arrested youth was identified as Santosh Kumar, a resident of Bangra under Panapur police outpost in Muzaffarpur district. “Raids are on to nab his accomplice. A case under Arms Act has been lodged against the two,” he said over phone on Sunday. Rani’s bravery and karate sill received applause from Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant. “She has set an example by showing exemplary courage. We will recommend her name for a suitable reward,” the SSP said. Rani said she had suffered injuries in her hand during a match a few months ago. She had represented the state kabaddi team at senior as well as junior levels in Tejpur (Assam), Karnataka and Gujarat. The Bihar government had launched martial arts training for girls from class VII to class X in 2013 to protect them from sexual harassment. Bihar Education Project was assigned the task of training the girl students in self defence skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/karate-training-in-school-helps-woman-player-foil-loot-attempt/articleshow/76499333.cms||Ramashankar
June 22, 2020||Chennai||Muthialpet cops seize Rs 99 lakh cash, hawala deal suspected||CHENNAI: The Muthialpet police seized Rs 99.5 lakh cash, which they suspect to be hawala money, from a man in Mannadi during a vehicle check on Saturday evening. Police on patrol duty intercepted a two-wheeler rider, Nathar Sahib, 35, of Mannadi, on Jules Road-Prakasam Salai Junction. Since he did not posses a valid e-pass, police checked his vehicle and found bundles of cash hidden in the bike. He gave contradictory replies when inquired about the source of the huge amount of cash and was taken to the police station. Since he could not produce valid documents to account for the cash, police began questioning him. Sahib told police that Irfan, a real estate businessman of Pavalakkara Street, asked him to wait at Thaiyuappa Mudhali Street where some unidentified men gave him the cash. He was on his way to hand it over to Irfan when he was caught. Police said Sahib and the seized cash will be handed over to the income tax department on Monday. The IT department will probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-seize-rs-99l-cash-hawala-deal-suspected/articleshow/76500412.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Nagpur||MVA’s Vasantrao Naik plantation plan goes for a toss due to Covid||Nagpur: From achieving a massive plantation target of over 50 crore in the last five years, the state forest department has set a skimpy target of 1.75 crore saplings in 2020, thanks to the lack of space and drastic cut in budget owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.Even as ‘Van Mahotsav’, the festival of plantations, has onset, the plantation buzz in the department is missing. During ‘Greening Maharashtra’ drive by former BJP-Shiv Sena government, last year, 33 crore saplings were planted in both forest and non-forest areas.However, the greening drive, which was rechristened as ‘Vasantrao Naik Harit Maharashtra Abhiyan’ by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, has gone for a toss with a meagre target of 1.75 crore during its first year of inception. These saplings will be planted combine by social forestry and territorial departments and FDCM.Forest officials admit plantations done during the last 5 years will have adverse impact due to budget cut by 67% for 2020-21. During 2017, 2018 and 2019 rains, forest department planted 2 crore, 7.5 crore and 17.5 crore seedling respectively.“These plantations need huge fund for maintenance works such as soil working, mulching, weeding, fire tracing as well as causality replacement but these works may not be done due to cut in grants by 67%,” officials said.The forest department had sought Rs3,000 crore budget but only Rs1,650 crore was sanctioned. However, due to Covid-19, it got only Rs535 crore for all the activities. This amount will not be sufficient to maintain massive plantations taken up in the last three years. Besides, there are no funds to raise seedlings required for 2021 rains and causality replacement during 2020 rains.Sources said Rs404 crore has been earmarked for 2020-21 plantation and nursery works (forest + social forestry departments) out of sanctioned outlay of Rs1,145 crore. “Therefore, the department is not in a position to carry out maintenance work of last three year plantations. It will also be difficult to pay wages to watchmen and fire watchers as well carry out fire tracing works, which will cause failure of all previous plantations making government money spent on them infructuous,” they said.Forest minister Sanjay Rathod in December 2019 had decided to take up 50 crore plantations in 5 years (5 crore by forest and non-forest agencies) under Vasantrao Naik scheme. But this scheme appears to be a failure with only 1.75 crore estimated to be planted in the state.PCCF (production & management Praveen Srivastava said, “Primary reason for low target is budget cut due to Covid-19. Secondly, due to Covid-19 distancing our outreach to masses has reduced. Last year, we motivated over 34 lakh people to plant saplings, which we couldn’t do this year due to movement restrictions.”Officials admit even grants of joint forest management (JFM) scheme under which huge plantations were done has been cut from Rs50 crore to Rs18 crore which is insufficient to maintain plantations. Besides, Massive Afforestation Programme (MAP) grants have been reduced from Rs350 crore to Rs200 crore resulting in target reduction during pre-monsoon rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mvas-vasantrao-naik-plantation-plan-goes-for-a-toss-due-to-covid/articleshow/76500416.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Court sets aside punishment of Tasmac supervisor||Madurai: Setting aside the punishment order of a Tasmac shop supervisor, Madras high court has directed the disciplinary authority to initiate proceedings after hearing the petitioner by issuing a fresh showcause notice. P Sampathkumar was working as supervisor of a Tasmac shop in Karur district when the state government ordered closure of all the Tasmac shops following the lockdown due to Covid-19. Since theft of liquor bottles was reported at several shops across the state, he shifted them from the shop to a safe place as instructed by the district manager. However, following a deficit in stock, the authorities asked the petitioner to pay an amount of Rs 6,41,630 along with interest and GST for the shortage, which he paid on April 16. However, in an order dated May 21, the authorities ordered the petitioner to pay 50% penalty along with 24% interest, calculated as Rs 3,78,562, apart from the remitted amount within three days. The order was to be treated as charge-memo and he was directed to explain the lapse within three days, failing which disciplinary proceedings were to be initiated. Hence the petitioner moved high court Madurai bench seeking to quash the order dated May 21. Justice V Bhavani Subbaroyan observed that a fine amount of Rs 3,78,562 has been imposed as per rules of the Code of Prevention and Detection of Fraudulent Acts in Tasmac. The rules mandate that before imposing any punishment upon the charges proved at the enquiry, the delinquent shall be given an opportunity to make his representation against the punishment. Saying that the opportunity of personal hearing has not been given by the authorities to him, the judge set aside the punishment order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-sets-aside-punishment-of-tasmac-supervisor/articleshow/76500402.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man held for sending nude pictures to Ramanathapuram cops||MADURAI: Ramanathapuram district police were in for a shock on Wednesday when a series of nude pictures of a man landed in their dedicated WhatsApp number for public grievances. The police team at the modern control room attached to Thiruppullani police station brought the matter to the notice of district superintendent of police V Varun Kumar, who ordered immediate action. They traced the pictures to G Premkumar, a 29-year-old tutor of Sivananthapuram near Saravanampatti in Coimbatore city, and arrested him on Sunday. He was teaching in an academy which offers coaching for various entrance tests including NEET and JEE. A bachelor, he holds a masters degree in engineering and teaches high school and higher secondary students. A police officer said that the message landed in the WhatsApp number 9489919722 on Wednesday noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-sending-nude-pics-to-cops/articleshow/76500409.cms||V Devanathan
June 22, 2020||Madurai||Immunity booster kits given away||Madurai: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju and minister for revenue and disaster management R B Udayakumar inaugurated the distribution of immunity kits to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city on Sunday. Madurai corporation is handing kits, containing six medicines that helps boost immunity, to one lakh families free of cost. Others can purchase the kit for Rs 100. Officials from Madurai corporation said that they have already received requests from various trade bodies and residential associations for the kit, which costs Rs 250 in the market. Each kit has an assortment of siddha, homeopathy and allopathic medicines-Adathoda Manappagu (100g), Thalisadhi Tablets (50g), kabasura kudineer (50g), zinc sulfate tablets, multi vitamin tablets and arsenicum album tablets. This is the second phase of distribution of immunity booster kits. The corporation has already been distributing immunity boosters to 1.5 lakh houses. As many as 1.12 lakh elderly people are being given ivermectin tablets, which helps curb the spread of Covid-19 virus. R B Udayakumar said that people in Madurai are in a relatively safe environment as there is not a huge number of positive cases. Although 37, 000 people have entered Madurai district after getting e-passes, there has not been any drastic surge in the infection rate. There are only 211 active cases in Madurai although the city has a population more than 15 lakh. There has been a small rise in infection rate since testing has been increased. At present 1750 tests are carried out in a day, he said. Sellur K Raju said that various efforts taken by Madurai corporation like decentralization of markets, door delivery of vegetables and other essential items in containment zones, monitoring of people’s movement using CCTV cameras and distribution of immunity boosters have helped in containing the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/immunity-booster-kits-given-away/articleshow/76500411.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mysuru||Poor kids denied nutrition due to lockdown||Mysuru: Due to the pandemic, lakhs of poor children from across Karnataka have been denied midday meals. Now that the government has decided to provide midday meals to children only in 49 drought-hit taluks of the total 237 taluks in Karnataka, many children will not get proper nutrition. Since the lockdown was clamped, children who were being provided a nutritional diet, including milk, vegetables and cereals in schools, are deprived of it, as schools are shut. It has been three months now since the children have not been getting their midday meal, and children from slums and backward regions of Karnataka are the worst-affected. Saraswathi, director of Rural Literacy and Health Programme, a not-for-profit organisation working for the welfare of children, said schoolchildren are the worst sufferers, especially those from poor families who live in slums. “They used to get a nutritious diet in schools, but are not getting it presently. Most parents of schoolkids in Ambedkar Nagar eke out a living by doing menial jobs like that of a domestic help or selling broomsticks. They’re unable to provide a nutritious diet for their offspring, as they are struggling to make ends need. Our study reveals that their children are eating rice and tomato curry daily,” she claims. The government has to look into such issues and ensure that the children get proper nutrition, which will boost their immunity and help the children fight the threat of the novel coronavirus, states the study. Gangappa, president of the Ambedkar Slumdwellers Association, said that about 80 children studying at a local government primary school are deprived of proper nutrition since the lockdown, as they are not getting their midday meals. The parents of these children are mostly from the North Karnataka region, and do unskilled jobs to sustain themselves. Gangappa, who is from Haveri, said that the government is doing nothing to ensure that poor children get proper nutrition. Midday meal executive officer C Lingarajaiah said that schoolchildren got midday meals only till March. “Now the government has ordered to provide midday meal rations to families of children only in drought-hit taluks of Karnataka. We have one taluk in Chamarajanagar and two in Ramanagar that are drought-hit, and none in Mysuru. There is a Supreme Court directive to provide meals to children only during school days. We’re waiting for the government order to provide food or ration to children,” he said. According to the official, about 207,744 children benefited from the Midday Meal scheme and Kshera Bhagya scheme, in Mysuru alone. Deputy director of public Instruction Panduranga says that earlier, even during holidays, midday meals were provided in some schools, but now, without the government’s directive, it can’t be provided to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/poor-kids-denied-nutrition-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76498801.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Rain, cloudy weather keep mercury in check in Delhi||New Delhi: The capital recorded more pre-monsoon showers on Sunday morning with overnight rain keeping the mercury under check. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 36.6 degrees Celsius — two notches below the normal, while the minimum was recorded four degrees below normal for this time of the season. Temperatures are expected to fall even further over the next few days, dropping to around 32 degrees by June 25.The IMD has forecast rains to continue this week, with its intensity increasing on June 24 when moderate showers are likely to take place.Monsoons, meanwhile, could hit Delhi by June 25, according to IMD. “The monsoons are almost upon us and will further advance into Uttar Pradesh in the next few days. It could touch Noida and Ghaziabad soon and Delhi the day after that,” said a Met official, stating temperatures are unlikely to breach the 40 degree mark this week.Delhi’s base station, Safdarjung, recorded 1.6mm rainfall till 8.30am on Sunday, while Palam received 1.2mm rainfall during this period. Lodhi Road (2.1mm) and Ayanagar (0.3mm) also received light rain on Sunday.The city’s relative humidity remained on the higher side, oscillating between 62% and 92% in the last 24 hours.Forecast for Monday shows another spell of light rain with a maximum and minimum temperature of around 37 and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively.Delhi’s air quality in the past 24 hours has improved from a reading of 149 (moderate) on Saturday to an Air Quality Index of 98 (satisfactory) on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-cloudy-weather-keep-mercury-in-check-in-delhi/articleshow/76499631.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||Three districts back on covid map as Jharkhand records 62 fresh cases||RANCHI: Three districts in Jharkhand which had zero active cases for several days detected fresh Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total cases reported on Sunday from across 13 districts to 62. The state also recorded two recoveries. Godda, which hadn’t detected a single case since April 30 and was free of the viral infection for more than 50 days detected, seven fresh cases on Sunday. Bokaro and Deoghar, which too had zero active cases since June 11 and 13, detected seven and 11 fresh cases on Sunday. Two other districts — Dhanbad and Khunti — which had not recorded any fresh cases since June 8 and June 15, also five and six active cases. With the 62 fresh cases, the total number of cases in Jharkhand has risen to 2,089, of which 1,406 have recovered while 672 are active and 11 have succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, the body of a 23-year-old truck driver, who died during treatment at Rims on June 19, tested positive on June 20 but his death wasn’t recorded as a Covid case in the bulletin issued by NHM on Sunday. The driver was a resident of Uttar Pradesh and had injured himself in a road accident on June 18 on the outskirts of Ranchi and was admitted to the orthopaedic department of Rims with a pelvic injury. Health department officials said he died during treatment and they haven’t added it as Covid death because the test report was not available . Among the fresh cases on Sunday, Deoghar reported 11 after a gap of 13 days followed by East Singhbhum with 10 cases. Bokaro, Godda and Gumla, too, reported seven fresh cases each followed by Giridih six and Hazaribag four cases. Ramgarh, Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Koderma reported two fresh cases each and Khunti and Dhanbad detected one case each. In Ranchi, both the positive cases were detected from the isolation ward of Rims and were primary contacts of persons who tested positive in the last four days. “Both cases are from the Rims isolation ward and were primary contacts of positive patients. One was admitted to the ward after his contact tested positive at Medica hospital three days ago and the second one has a travel history of Gurgaon and was admitted at the isolation after he himself came and reported his travel history to the authorities,” Dr Devesh Kumar of Rims said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-districts-back-on-covid-map-as-state-records-62-fresh-cases/articleshow/76499623.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand unit of healthcare association says it will shun Chinese equipment||RANCHI: Two days after the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) released a list of more than 500 ‘Made in China’ products to be boycotted after a border skirmish between India and China, members of the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) in Jharkhand vowed to not buy Chinese-made medical equipment and accessories. Speaking to TOI, APHI’s state president Jogesh Gambhir said, “We have taken a firm pledge to teach China a lesson by boycotting their medical equipment. We understand that the hospital owners will have to shell out around 10%-15% extra to procure equipment from other countries, but then nothing comes before national interest and we have decided to bear the cost.” Gambhir asserted that it is a wrong perception that businesses will incur losses if they don’t buy equipment from China. “I have purchased CT scan and MRI machines from American companies and the quality of that product speaks for itself. Even after six years, it hasn’t failed us. So if we are paying 10% more for a piece of equipment, it is beneficial to us in the long run as the quality is better than the Chinese products,” he explained. The decision to boycott Chinese medical equipment was taken in a meeting of AHPI state officer bearers on Saturday. An appeal was also made to the head office of AHPI to issue a directive at the national level to all hospitals in the country. Urging the state and the Centre to issue directives in this regard, the association said it is ready to procure equipment from any assembly line of leading manufactures located outside China. Senior adviser of Medanta hospital, Sayeed Ahmed Ansari, said, “From ventilators to monitors and even robotic surgical equipment, the Chinese have been assembling everything with European and American companies establishing their assembly lines in China. I urge the ministry of foreign affairs and commerce to jointly work and ask the leading companies to set up their assembly plants in India so that we can create lakhs of employment as well as end our dependence on Chinese goods.” As an alternative to China, Gambhir batted for products made in Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. “These days wars aren’t fought at borders. It is completely dependent on the economy. Now, traders in the country have taken up the cause and if China continues to attack us, we will have hostile relations when it comes to trade,” Gambhir said. The state chapter of the association currently has 150 private hospitals as members and 400 nursing homes and blood banks. It is also planning to constitute an expert committee of bio-medical engineers to sensitise hospitals and nursing homes and to provide them with options in case they need equipment for their facilities. “We know that the boycott is not easy and that is why we are going to constitute a committee of expert engineers to assist our members with alternatives other than Chinese products. The move will help sensitise other sectors and multiply into a major movement against China. Retaining our pride is essential at this hour,” an APHI official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-unit-of-healthcare-association-says-it-will-shun-chinese-equipment/articleshow/76499605.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||No recruitment in agri dept for years, BAU students worry for their future||RANCHI: Students of Jharkhand’s lone agriculture varsity — Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) — are apprehensive about their future as no new recruitment has been made in the state agriculture department for years. Not surprisingly, most students who graduated from the institute in recent years have either ventured out of the state or were forced to make a professional switch. Notably, agriculture has been identified as one of the priority sectors by the state government in its bid to revive the economy, which has suffered major setbacks owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Experts, however, suggested that the farm sector could be strengthened only if skilled human resource is put to effective use. Recruitment in the state agriculture department has not taken place since 1989, during the time of undivided Bihar. According to the agriculture department’s data, out of its 5,565 posts at the district and block levels, only 1,652 are currently filled. Anup Kumar, a final-year student at BAU, said every year around 300 students graduate from BAU and its affiliate college. He added, “Since 1989, thousands of students have passed out from BAU, but none has got a job in the agriculture department as the state government never bothered to fill up the vacancies. On the contrary, the varsity has almost doubled its student intake capacity in the last four years.” Sushil Mahto, a first-year BAU student, added, “We don’t get permanent jobs in the varsity here or in state agriculture department. So we are forced to migrate to other states.” Menka Kumar, a final-year Msc student at BAU, said owing to the vacancies, the government often fails to provide timely support to the farmers. The president of Jharkhand Pradesh Professional Congress Committee (JPPCC), Aditya Vikram Jaiswal, said, “Around four to five years ago, the state government had initiated a recruitment drive, but the process got halted for reasons best known to it.” Notably, JPPCC is a unit of the state Congress, which is an ally in the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government. Jaiswal added that a week ago, they had met with state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and requested him for a speedy resolution of the issue. “The minister had assured us that the problem would be sorted out at the earliest,” Jaiswal said. The minister and the agriculture secretary Aboo Bakr Siddique were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-recruitment-in-agri-dept-for-years-bau-students-worry-for-their-future/articleshow/76499719.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||After Rajya Sabha win, BJP sets sight on bypolls||RANCHI: Enthused after an emphatic win by clinching one of the two seats in the Rajya Sabha polls held on June 19, the opposition party, BJP, has now set its sight on the by-polls in Dumka and Bermo. On Sunday, the Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan addressed a virtual rally in Jharkhand where he launched an offensive against the Hemant Soren-led government and BJP’s arch rival Congress and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his decisive leadership, notwithstanding the recent violent clash on the India-China border along the Line of Actual Control, which killed 20 Indian jawans, including two from Jharkhand. Stoking patriotic feelings, Pradhan said, “The land of Birsa Munda continues to be the land of bravehearts who fight to save the country. Birsa Munda fought British for India’s independence and not to make his sons chief ministers of this state. Brave jawans from this pious land still continue to sacrifice their lives on the borders to safeguard the nation.” Taking a dig at Congress, he said, “The party, whose predecessors ruled the nation which surrendered before China, is today questioning Modi when in reality, the country under him has become stronger, especially at the global platform, and will continue to remain so.” Criticising chief minister Hemant Soren, Pradhan said, “The development of Jharkhand more the state government’s responsibility than the Union government’s. But Hemant Soren is only interested in blame game and running away from his responsibilities.” Hailing the first state-wide virtual rally, state BJP functionaries claimed that it clocked over one lakh views soon after it began at 4pm. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that it will touch one million viewers within a week. He added, “The large-scale viewership for the rally is enough indication that tables have turned in Jharkhand. People are frustrated with this government in just six months. The rally has set the tone for the upcoming by-polls.” He further said that BJP is prepared to go for the by-poll in Dumka — a JMM bastion — whenever the Election Commission chooses to announce the dates. The Dumka seat fell vacant after the CM left it in January to retain the Barhait constituency after forming the government. As per the norms, by-poll here is to be held within six months. On the other hand, the Bermo seat fell vacant last month after the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Singh. Meanwhile, Congress dubbed BJP’s virtual rally as a waste of money given the pandemic. The party’s co-working president Rajesh Thakur said, “BJP is known for jumlas than real work. Despite ruling for five years, the party faced rout in the last assembly election in Jharkhand and the former CM, Raghubar Das, could not even retain his seat in Jamshedpur East. On the contrary, despite no cooperation from the Centre, the Hemant Soren-led government has been going all out to redefine development in the state amid the pandemic.” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It’s a mockery of people by BJP in times of the pandemic. The rally exposes the party’s real intent, pump money for poll campaign round the year but don’t help the public. We would have welcomed if the party had helped scores of migrants instead of wasting money in such rallies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-rs-win-bjp-sets-sight-on-bypolls/articleshow/76500564.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||After RS win, BJP sets eye on by-polls||Ranchi: Enthused after an emphatic win by clinching one of the two seats in the Rajya Sabha polls held on June 19, the opposition party, BJP, has now set its sight on the by-polls in Dumka and Bermo. On Sunday, the Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan addressed a virtual rally in Jharkhand where he launched an offensive against the Hemant Soren-led government and BJP’s arch rival Congress and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his decisive leadership, notwithstanding the recent violent clash on the India-China border along the Line of Actual Control, which killed 20 Indian jawans, including two from Jharkhand. Stoking patriotic feelings, Pradhan said, “The land of Birsa Munda continues to be the land of bravehearts who fight to save the country. Birsa Munda fought British for India’s independence and not to make his sons chief ministers of this state. Brave jawans from this pious land still continue to sacrifice their lives on the borders to safeguard the nation.” Taking a dig at Congress, he said, “The party, whose predecessors ruled the nation which surrendered before China, is today questioning Modi when in reality, the country under him has become stronger, especially at the global platform, and will continue to remain so.” Criticising chief minister Hemant Soren, Pradhan said, “The development of Jharkhand more the state government’s responsibility than the Union government’s. But Hemant Soren is only interested in blame game and running away from his responsibilities.” Hailing the first state-wide virtual rally, state BJP functionaries claimed that it clocked over one lakh views soon after it began at 4pm. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that it will touch one million viewers within a week. He added, “The large-scale viewership for the rally is enough indication that tables have turned in Jharkhand. People are frustrated with this government in just six months. The rally has set the tone for the upcoming by-polls.” He further said that BJP is prepared to go for the by-poll in Dumka — a JMM bastion — whenever the Election Commission chooses to announce the dates. The Dumka seat fell vacant after the CM left it in January to retain the Barhait constituency after forming the government. As per the norms, by-poll here is to be held within six months. On the other hand, the Bermo seat fell vacant last month after the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Singh. Meanwhile, Congress dubbed BJP’s virtual rally as a waste of money given the pandemic. The party’s co-working president Rajesh Thakur said, “BJP is known for jumlas than real work. Despite ruling for five years, the party faced rout in the last assembly election in Jharkhand and the former CM, Raghubar Das, could not even retain his seat in Jamshedpur East. On the contrary, despite no cooperation from the Centre, the Hemant Soren-led government has been going all out to redefine development in the state amid the pandemic.” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It’s a mockery of people by BJP in times of the pandemic. The rally exposes the party’s real intent, pump money for poll campaign round the year but don’t help the public. We would have welcomed if the party had helped scores of migrants instead of wasting money in such rallies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-rs-win-bjp-sets-eye-on-by-polls/articleshow/76500556.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||Commercial mining will reduce India’s coal import: CIL chairman||RAMGARH: Coal India Limited chairman Pramod Agarwal supported the Centre’s recent decision to allow commercial coal mining. While participating in a webinar organised by Tedex Kanke chapter on Saturday, Agarwal said, “With coal set to become the largest source of energy generation by 2040, commercial mining will help the country reduce its dependency on coal imports. At present, India imports 240 million tonnes of coal a year. By allowing commercial mining, the country could reduce imports by half.” Binod Nemani, the vice-chairman of Jharkhand Small Industries Association, welcomed Agarwal’s views but said that the real challenge was in quality control and modernising mining activities. Vijay Mewar, the president of Lagu Udyog Bharati in Ramgarh district, however, said the government’s move will succeed if all stakeholders were on board. He said, “There are apprehensions among different stakeholders over the push for commercial mining.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/commercial-mining-will-reduce-indias-coal-import-cil-chairman/articleshow/76500531.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Ranchi||Despite ban, sale of ‘khaini’ still rampant in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: A month after the state government banned its consumption, people in the Steel City can still be spotted consuming khaini, a chewable tobacco. Surprisingly, for the addicts, availability of khaini is quite easy. “The easy availability of khaini and its consumption have thrown water on the state government’s effort to ban smokeless tobacco here,” said Paramita Banerjee, a homemaker, whose husband is a khaini addict. She added, “Even during lockdown, my husband is getting his khaini from Sakchi market area without any problem.” Though prices have almost doubled, addicts are far from giving up the habit of chewing khaini. An auto-rickshaw driver, Rajesh Pappu, said, “Though the ban has increased the prices, people still buy khaini. The pocket pinch is more than before, but an addiction is hard to give up.” When TOI traced a khaini seller at Sakchi market, on the condition of anonymity, the seller divulged that many of his customers are policemen. He even said senior cops send their juniors to get their daily quota from his shop. He added that after the ban, he keeps the shutters of his shop shut and sits outside to sell khaini. Notably, the state government had banned the consumption of all forms of smokeless tobacco, including gutkha. After the ban, the Centre too had lauded Jharkhand government for issuing the order on these products. Meanwhile, when district administration was questioned on the sale of tobacco products even after the ban, officials said they will look into the matter and take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/despite-ban-sale-of-khaini-still-rampant-in-steel-city/articleshow/76499642.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
June 22, 2020||India||When prisoners get Instagram likes||A man sips morning tea as he reads the newspaper; another starts his mornings with surya namaskar; yet another strikes a pose with his dog. Just the routine stuff of social media, right? Except that the people telling their stories on Facebook and Instagram pages @openprisonvoices are prisoners serving life sentences — most of them for murder — at Rajasthan’s Sanganer open prison.  Run by the Rajasthan government, this is a jail where inmates are allowed to work, live and commute within city limits for 12 hours a day, leaving campus at 6am after the roll call and returning by 6pm for the evening attendance. Read the story on TOI+ When prisoners get Instagram likes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-prisoners-get-instagram-likes/articleshow/76501134.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||QR codes, cubicles will redefine eating-out landscape in Mumbai||MUMBAI: As the state contemplates the idea of allowing restaurants, bars and hotels to unbolt from the first week of July, it's hard to foresee what the new face of India's dine-out culture will look like against the backdrop of a pandemic, but it will presumably be wearing a mask - with an emblazoned smiley - and come bearing thermal guns and sanitisers instead of drinks and appetisers. The centre's decision to allow hospitality establishments to open brings relief to 15,000 restaurants and bars and nearly 2,000 star hotels and clubs in the Mumbai region that directly employ over seven lakh people and another 30 lakh involved indirectly through the value chain of supplies, maintenance, transport, and tourism. Reopening in the midst of Covid cases still raging is tricky, but chefs and restaurateurs are navigating the web of rules and regulations to step up their game. And whenever they do open up, "creative and innovative" ways to maintain social distancing norms will redefine the eating-out landscape. For starters, QR codes will replace menu cards, pre-plated meals will substitute personalised service, self-serve environments of buffets will hit pause as much as valet parking and instead, sparse seating and dining cubicles will become a part of the emerging culture of pandemic hospitality. "Once someone enters a restaurant, they will have to sanitize their gloves and keep their mask on unless eating. Two people will be allowed on a bench of three. Sterilized crockery will be served after an order is placed using a QR code on the table instead of menu cards," says Kamlesh Barot, former president of FHRAI, the apex federation of all hotel and restaurant associations in the country, and owner of Revival restaurant, off Marine Drive. "The entire SOP (standard operating procedure) not only for the kitchen department, but right from security and service to engineering and housekeeping utilities, had to be re-written after referring to authentic, research-based practices. SOP vide training has to be undergone before starting home delivery." Apart from fewer tables and aggressive cleaning measures, Out Of The Blue that runs a restaurant and deli in Bandra is thinking of installing small cubicles and may also introduce single-use paper menus as well as disposable plastic placemats and crockery. "We're not planning to open before August or September as most people may be asymptomatic and might put the staff and other patrons at risk," said restaurant director Rahul Bajaj. However, a skeletal staff after a large chunk of migrants - who form the bulk of Mumbai's hospitality industry workforce - exited the city and customers' fears of public spaces are a concern. "We need the government's help to reduce the fear among migrant labourers and bring them back to work with the same enthusiasm," says Shivanand Shetty, president of Ahar, an association of over 15,000 restaurants and bars and owner of Hariyali restaurant and bar. "Although Covid-19 does not spread through food, the pandemic has had a disastrous effect on us with people refraining from outside food. Since our industry is highly labour and capital intensive, the closure has struck a severe blow to owners and employees. The condition of reopening with limited capacity has further dampened the spirit and potential of this sector," reveals Pradip Shetty, vice-president of Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India (HRAWI) which has over 2,000 star hotels as its members. Pradip is also the owner of Maharaja restaurants. Riyaaz Amlani, CEO and MD of Impresario Entertainment & Hospitality, which has over 56 brands, including Smoke House Deli, Salt Water Cafe and Social under its umbrella, says, "Deeper partnerships between restaurant owners and suppliers, re-imagining profit sharing with landlords and the intervention of the government to help re-examine the value chain will help sustain the ecosystem which could otherwise head toward mass closure." And even as things pivot to delivery, packaging which is layered and disposable will be key to ensuring delivery systems work, while fine dining restaurants may have to devise dishes that travel well for a takeout menu. "Items in fine dining restaurants are mostly meant to be eaten plated. Those chefs will have to work on food that is easily transportable and can last for about 40 minutes without refrigeration in order to function outside their premises," says Gauri Devidayal, co-founder of five restaurant brands in Mumbai. Debunking fears and myths around the safety of food being delivered, Barot says, "The virus is not transferable through food. Also, high temperature cooking kills all viruses." As a safety measure, he says, "Do away with the bags and outer packaging, empty the food into your own vessels and wash hands after that."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/qr-codes-cubicles-will-redefine-eating-out-landscape-in-mumbai/articleshow/76501145.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 crisis may drive up dropout rate||AMARAVATI: Job losses and financial troubles owing to the Covid-19 lockdown’s impact on the economy may lead to an increase in dropout rate in schools, worry experts. Experts say that several thousand parents may withdraw their wards from schools, particularly in urban areas, as only a few municipal schools are functioning in cities and towns. Meanwhile, the administration seems to be dragging its feet in implementing chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s instructions to set up new schools in urban slums. Sources said officials are yet to ready a blueprint to get budgetary allocation. This will result in over 1,200 urban slums not getting new schools anytime soon. Top officials in the municipal administration department had come up with new rules and regulations to upgrade existing schools. But they were reported to have been insisting that 3-acre open land is required to upgrade the upper-primary school to high school. “It is irrational to expect 3-acre land for a high school in towns and cities while allowing private schools to run in narrow apartments,” fumed a school teacher. Sources allege that corporate and private school managements are hindering the process of setting up new schools in urban areas as the entry of government schools would hit their revenues. In fact, private and corporate schools have played a key role in shutting down a large number of public schools during the TDP regime. Schools managed by urban development and municipal administration department have come down by 50% in the last five years. Incidentally, the chief of a noted corporate school chain, P Narayana, was minister for municipal administration department. Soon after coming to power, Jaganmohan Reddy had directed officials to take steps to reopen or establish schools wherever there was a need. Officials, however, have not readied an action plan even a year later. In fact, the need for new schools has gone up post-Covid-19 as many middle and lower-middle class families, too, are struggling with their finances. These people who send their wards to private schools might not be able to continue given their financial state and absence of municipal schools is likely to hurt the children. “The CM had directed officials to reopen all the schools that were shut citing poor student strength during the previous regime, but officials are yet to work on them” said Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) president S Ramakrishna. He noted that there is an urgent need to set up new schools in urban slums given the economic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-crisis-may-drive-up-dropout-rate/articleshow/76498925.cms||Samdani MN
June 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Builder's wife burgles own home, uses Rs 4 lakh loot to repay debt||NAVI MUMBAI: The police probing a Rs 4 lakh burglary at a builder's flat in Kopar Khairane, found the builder's wife to be the culprit. The 49-year-old's wife used the Rs 3 lakh and gold worth Rs 1.1 lakh to repay a debt, which the husband was unaware of, said senior inspector Suryakant Jagdale. The builder told the police that he did not wish to pursue the case, once he found about his wife's involvement. No arrest has been made yet. The builder had registered a house break-in and theft FIR on June 17. On June 15 around 11am, he had taken his unwell wife to a hospital in Ghansoli. At 8pm, he dropped her to her maternal uncle's house close to the hospital, as she had to go back to the hospital. On June 17, he picked her from her uncle's house and took her to the hospital at 2.30pm. He went to work after that. At 7.30pm, he picked her up from her uncle's house again, and the two went home. His wife opened the door, and they found the house ransacked. Gold jewellery had been stolen, and a window's tin shade was bent. The builder told the Kopar Khairane spolice that gold jewellery worth Rs 1.1 lakh had been stolen. The police checked CCTV footage, spoke to neighbours and locals, but found no leads. They zeroed in on the wife as her statement was evasive, and based on technical leads. On questioning, she confessed to coming to the house when her husband was away, stealing the gold and mortgaging it to repay her debt. She also used Rs 3 lakh her husband had given her for safe-keeping, towards the debt. Watch Navi Mumbai: Woman burgles own home to repay debt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-builders-wife-burgles-own-home-uses-rs-4-lakh-loot-to-repay-debt/articleshow/76501151.cms||George Mendonca
June 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Minister poses as farmer, raids shop in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: In an undercover operation, state agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse on Sunday posed as a farmer and raided a fertilizer shop in the Jadhavmandi area here, reports Mohammed Akhef. Bhuse said the surprise raid was prompted by an increasing number of complaints against traders allegedly stocking up fertilizers illegally to sell them at exorbitant rates. The minister said the agriculture department’s quality control officer has been sent on forced leave. On learning about the raid by the minister, agriculture department officials rushed to the shop, Navbharat Fertilizers, and carried out a spot panchanama. The process of assessing the stock was still underway till late in the evening. Officials from the administration said this was the first time that a sitting minister has walked the extra mile to carry out a raid on a shop selling fertilizers at inflated prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/minister-poses-as-farmer-raids-shop-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76501153.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel prices hiked by 10 in June, steepest climb in recent months||MUMBAI: The price of petrol and diesel went up by Rs 10 per litre in June, one of the steepest hikes in recent months. On Sunday, the price of petrol in Mumbai went up by 34 paise, to Rs 86.04 per litre. The price of diesel also shot up by 58 paise on Sunday, and was sold at Rs 76.69 per litre. This was the 14th consecutive day that fuel prices saw a hike. These hikes have pinched motorists' pockets, especially office-goers who resumed travel recently. It also affected transporters, as the cost of diesel is a majority of their operation costs. While the hikes have benefitted government coffers, several transporters fear they would have to shut down operations due to losses, if prices continue to climb. The price of petrol in Mumbai is currently the highest among all metro cities. Petrol price in Thane and Navi Mumbai stood at Rs 86.13 per litre on Sunday, and diesel at Rs 76.78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-fuel-prices-hiked-by-10-in-june-steepest-climb-in-recent-months/articleshow/76501172.cms||Somit Sen
June 22, 2020||Thane||Mumbai: Fuel prices hiked by 10 in June, steepest climb in recent months||MUMBAI: The price of petrol and diesel went up by Rs 10 per litre in June, one of the steepest hikes in recent months. On Sunday, the price of petrol in Mumbai went up by 34 paise, to Rs 86.04 per litre. The price of diesel also shot up by 58 paise on Sunday, and was sold at Rs 76.69 per litre. This was the 14th consecutive day that fuel prices saw a hike. These hikes have pinched motorists' pockets, especially office-goers who resumed travel recently. It also affected transporters, as the cost of diesel is a majority of their operation costs. While the hikes have benefitted government coffers, several transporters fear they would have to shut down operations due to losses, if prices continue to climb. The price of petrol in Mumbai is currently the highest among all metro cities. Petrol price in Thane and Navi Mumbai stood at Rs 86.13 per litre on Sunday, and diesel at Rs 76.78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-fuel-prices-hiked-by-10-in-june-steepest-climb-in-recent-months/articleshow/76501171.cms||Somit Sen
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel prices hiked by 10 in June, steepest climb in recent months||MUMBAI: The price of petrol and diesel went up by Rs 10 per litre in June, one of the steepest hikes in recent months. On Sunday, the price of petrol in Mumbai went up by 34 paise, to Rs 86.04 per litre. The price of diesel also shot up by 58 paise on Sunday, and was sold at Rs 76.69 per litre. This was the 14th consecutive day that fuel prices saw a hike. These hikes have pinched motorists' pockets, especially office-goers who resumed travel recently. It also affected transporters, as the cost of diesel is a majority of their operation costs. While the hikes have benefitted government coffers, several transporters fear they would have to shut down operations due to losses, if prices continue to climb. The price of petrol in Mumbai is currently the highest among all metro cities. Petrol price in Thane and Navi Mumbai stood at Rs 86.13 per litre on Sunday, and diesel at Rs 76.78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fuel-prices-hiked-by-10-in-june-steepest-climb-in-recent-months/articleshow/76501156.cms||Somit Sen
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Truck moving 26,000kg beef caught along Andhra-Odisha border, two held||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh police on Sunday seized around 26,000 kilograms of beef worth nearly Rs20 lakh along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB). The beef was being transported from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu in a container truck. Police have taken the two people in the truck into custody. Those arrested have been identified as Fransis, a resident of Tirunavelli district in Tamil Nadu and Ganapathi Sekhar a resident of Selam district of the same state. Icchapuram police of Srikakulam district seized the beef. The meat was packed in small parcels kept in the container of the lorry. The vehicle was coming from Odisha to Ichchapuram when it was caught at a police check-post on NH-16 at Purshottapuram in Icchapuram town. Ichchapuram sub-inspector (SI) V Satyanarayana said that they noticed the vehicle moving suspiciously at the check-post during a routine check. When the police asked them for bills of the cargo, the duo on the vehicle produced fake bills. Upon checking the vehicle, police found the huge quantity of beef in it, he said. “We have kept the beef at our police station and taken the two people into custody. We have sent them to undergo Covid-19 tests before producing them in court,” the SI told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/truck-moving-26000kg-beef-caught-along-aob-two-held/articleshow/76498963.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC MP seeks central forces for his security||AMARAVATI: YSRC Lok Sabha member from Narsapuram, Kanumuri Raghuramakrishnam Raju, has requested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to provide him with central forces for security claiming that his life is under threat. In a letter to the Speaker, Raju said YSRC activists in his constituency have made him a target for raising the issue of auctioning of the Tirumala temple assets. He said he has failed to meet CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy despite repeated attempts to discuss the TTD assets and sand shortage. “I raised the issue of TTD’s assets’ auction openly as a devotee and to convey the sentiments of devotees after failing to meet the CM. YSRC leaders have started targeting me since I brought the facts to light,” alleged Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-mp-seeks-central-forces-for-his-security/articleshow/76498984.cms||Samdani MN
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Teaching yoga now a sought-after career||VISAKHAPATNAM: In 2015, when Nimali Thakshila Withange came to Visakhapatnam from Sri Lanka to pursue her masters at Andhra University (AU), little did she know that she would be pursuing a career in yoga. The Sri Lankan national first underwent a certificate course in yoga and then a full-fledged two-year postgraduate degree. Now, she is pursuing her PhD in India’s traditional form of physical, mental and spiritual practices and is due to submit her research paper on ‘kundalini yoga’. Just like Withange, many from across India and the world are taking up teaching yoga as a career choice. Professors say that employment opportunities spread across the world are encouraging students to pursue yoga as a career. “The six-month certificate course is highly sought after. We have introduced courses so that students can specialise on yoga exclusively for diabetes, heart ailments and weight reduction. These are called therapeutic yogas,” said Osru Bhanu Kumar, a professor at the department of yoga and consciousness at AU. In the last few years, many pass-outs from the department have found jobs at yoga centres, educational institutions, corporate houses and sports associations. “Now, there are many openings and students can expect handsome pay packages. There was a time when we used to have campus placements. We have plans to reintroduce them in future,” said Dr Ramesh Babu, head of the department of yoga and consciousness at AU. “From hardly over 50 students in 2012, we now have more than 500 students studying different courses here. Moreover, every year a number of foreign students from Sri Lanka, Japan and other countries enrol themselves here,” Babu added. As for Thakshila, she plans to go back to Sri Lanka upon finishing her degree and spread yoga there with support from the government. Closer home, her classmate Mohua Deb from Assam completed her diploma course in 2016. In 2017, she was part of a project of the AP tourism department. “I used to conduct yoga classes for tourists at APTDC hotels in Visakhapatnam and Araku Valley. Now, I teach yoga in UAE. I plan to work on this subject in different ways in future,” Mohua Deb told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/teaching-yoga-now-a-sought-after-career/articleshow/76498998.cms||Arpit Basu
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Yoga heals not just body but also soul: Andhra CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: With coronavirus infections on the rise, International Yoga Day was celebrated in the city in keeping with the Covid-19 protocols. Citizens practiced yoga at home as per this year’s theme ‘ghar ghar me yog”. Yoga has the distinctive power to manifest tranquility and strength at the same time. It heals not only the body, b… https://t.co/2shGRoHzi1— YS Jagan Mohan Reddy (@ysjagan) 1592716512000Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy tweeted, “ Yoga has the distinctive power to manifest tranquility and strength at the same time. It heals not only the body but also the spirit. On International Yoga Day, let us pledge to make this age-old practice an integral part of our lives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/yoga-heals-not-just-body-but-also-soul-cm/articleshow/76499015.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Vijayawada||IoT devices to help MSMEs in Andhra Pradesh save big on power||VIJAYAWADA: The state energy department, in coordination with the department of industries, is planning to roll out an Internet of Things (IoT) project for all micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state. The IoT device, developed by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad, has been tested and has proven to be able to save 10,000 to 11,000 units of power per annum. As the pilot project in some MSME clusters in East Godavari district yielded positive results, the energy department is now going ahead with implementing it across 97,428 MSME units in the state. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said in a statement that the project will be implemented in a phased and time-bound manner. For the project, the energy department is planning to enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the industries department and IIT, Hyderabad with the support of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and National Productivity Council (NPC). The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Commission (APSECM) will assist the energy department in implementing the project and motivating MSMEs to purchase the IoT devices at cost-effective prices. IIT, Hyderabad has agreed to supply 10,000 devices over the next five months. The device will cost around Rs 10,000 according to officials of the energy department. When compared to savings in power consumption, the cost of the device will prove nominal, energy officials said. They said that MSMEs will be able to recover the cost of the devices in only one or two months as they will be able to save nearly 10,000 units of power per annum, which in monetary terms will come to Rs 80,000 a year. Apart from helping save energy and money, the device is also pegged to protect plant machinery and equipment from sudden failures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/iot-devices-to-help-msmes-in-state-save-big-on-power/articleshow/76499022.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Amaravati||APSFL ED fired for submitting fake educational certificates||TIRUPATI: The AP government has terminated the services of K Gourishankar, executive director (business operations) of the Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) on the charge of submission of fake educational certificates. He joined the company in February this year. The government alleged that Gourishankar had submitted fake degree certificates. Gourishankar’s removal assumes significance as the state government has already ordered a CBI probe into alleged irregularities in the Fiber Grid project handled by APSFL during the previous TDP regime. On October 28, 2019, APSFL issued a recruitment notification for the post of executive director (business operations). While APSFL received 134 applications, 17 candidates were shortlisted, and of them, 12 candidates attended the interview held on November 19. Following the recommendation from APSFL, the state government issued an order (GO No 66 on March 13, 2020) appointing Gourishankar as the executive director, (business operations) for a period of two years. But, on June 6, he was served the termination notice for allegedly submitting fake educational documents. Sources said Gourishankar had earlier served as a director in Signam Digital Technologies Private Limited, which, in turn, was linked to Tera Software, against which the state government had recommended the CBI probe to dig into the alleged irregularities in the tendering process and execution of the AP Fiber Grid project during the TDP regime. The state government has alleged irregularities in the awarding of tender to Tera Software, which bid for the ₹329 crore project under AP FiberNet. It was alleged that the work order experience letter submitted by Tera Software to bag the tender was purportedly issued by Signam Digital Networks. Confirming the development, IT minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy told TOI that following the outcome of an inquiry by APSFL, Gourishankar was served the termination notice and an explanation was sought. “We have given him time and an opportunity to prove his innocence. But, if he cannot, the state will be forced to initiate criminal proceedings against him as per the due procedures as this government will not tolerate any kind of foul play,” Goutham Reddy said. However, Gourishankar refuted the charge and alleged that he was being politically victimised. “It is not true that I submitted a fake degree certificate. I have applied for my original degree certificate and will produce it before the APSFL management soon and reclaim my post,” Gourishankar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/apsfl-ed-fired-for-submitting-fake-educational-certificates/articleshow/76501157.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Newly weds donate 50 beds to Covid centre||MUMBAI: After dating for eight years, Eric Lobo, 28, and Merlin Tuscano, 27, decided early this year they wanted to spend the rest of their lives together. They decided on a winter wedding with a guest list of 2,000. Then the pandemic struck and things changed. On Saturday, the couple exchanged vows in a simple ceremony with 22 guests, including family members, at the St Gonsalo Garcia church at Vasai. Instead of proceeding for a reception, the couple headed to the Satpala isolation centre where they donated 50 beds with mattresses and pillows and oxygen cylinders.  "With the pandemic raging, a covid care centre is the need of the hour. We are glad the money saved from our wedding has been put to good use," said Eric. The couple, who are partners in an event management company, pared down expenses to bare minimum. They decided to skip all the pre-wedding functions. The couple did not accept gifts and Merlin's wedding gown, too, was taken on rent. Scaling down their wedding plans came naturally to the couple who has been at the forefront of voluntary work as soon as the pandemic struck. "From community kitchens to arranging trains for migrants, we pitched in wherever we could. When it came to making a personal contribution, a proper Covid centre for rural Vasai seemed the best decision," said Merlin. For now there is no honeymoon either. The couple is busy overseeing work at the centre, which likely to open soon. Local MLA Kshitij Thakur has issued a letter of appreciation to the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-newly-weds-donate-50-beds-to-covid-centre/articleshow/76501174.cms||Sandhya Nair
June 22, 2020||Business||‘Bug bounty’ helps techies make a killing amid Covid lockdown||AHMEDABAD: The Gandhinagar resident is part of a growing tribe of highly skilled programmers who can scan codes to detect vulnerabilities. Nikhil Srivastava, an Ahmedabad-based cyber security expert and mentor, said bounty hunting could be highly rewarding if gigs are offered by giants such as Google, Apple, Microsoft and Amazon. “It’s a win-win deal for companies and experts,” said Srivastava, who made $35,000 (about Rs 26.7 lakh) over the past three months. “Companies benefit from the scrutiny of hundreds of experts,” he said. “If the bounty is significant, thousands join the hunt for security problems and other glitches. The experts benefit from huge monetary rewards and sometimes other perks.” When the payouts are so high, why hasn’t the field attracted more full-time security experts? Paresh Parmar, a programmer from Ah-medabad and a full-time bounty hunter, said th-ere could be fewer than 100 like him in Gujarat. “For starters, it’s a fi-eld demanding high skills, where programming and coding patterns change periodically.” According to Parmar, the job entails consta-ntly scanning for new bounties on platforms such as HackerOne, Synack, Bug Crowd and Cobalt. “During the lockdown, I had to hunt for more bounties as rewards had shrunk,” he said. Online fame as a “top hunter” is the big-gest lure for the young because reputation breeds money. Jenish Sojitra, a BTech student from Rajkot, earned more than $50,000 (approximately Rs 38 lakh) in bounties during the lockdown. “Nowadays, crypto programs and platforms pay huge sums for bounty hunting,” he said. “I also won bounties for identifying issues with application program interfaces (APIs). I got another reward for diagnosing a problem in an Internet of Things (IoT) device.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bug-bounty-helps-techies-make-a-killing-amid-covid-lockdown/articleshow/76501170.cms||Parth Shastri
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dahisar society sharing wall with Covid centre fears risk from debris pile-up||MUMBAI: Residents of a housing complex in Dahisar, which shares a common wall with a multi-storeyed civic dispensary, are infuriated it has been converted into a Covid care centre without any attention paid to basic sanitation and safety measures. The compound of the LT Road municipal dispensary is littered with construction debris even a week after it was inaugurated as a Covid care centre. The rear windows of the dispensary overlook the Rustomjee Regal society and residents want a partition installed. They have shot off letters to the local BJP corporator, but say there has been no response. "Our entrance gate is not even five feet away from the dispensary. We understand these are trying times, but the safety of residents is equally important," said society chairperson Ramratan Kumawat, adding the 500-member society comprises several senior citizens. "Right next to the shared wall, inside the dispensary's premises, are mounds of sand, wooden planks, heaps of tiles, pipes and bamboos. We had shot photographs and shared these with corporator Harish Chheda even before the Covid care centre was inaugurated. With the rains starting, the wet debris is emanating a foul smell," said a society resident. Kumawat said he had pointed out the heaps of garbage to Chheda and MLA Manisha Chaudhary on June 15 when the centre was inaugurated. "They assured us the garbage would be cleaned up, but nothing has changed," he said. Residents have demanded that one of the dispensary's gates, which is right next to the society's, to be permanently shut. "Windows overlooking the society can be covered with plastic or tarpaulin or closed. BMC must also frequently sanitise the society premises," a resident said. BMC ward officer (R/North) Sandhya Nandedkar said the 46-bed facility, created for serious patients, does not have any admissions yet. "If the residents have any objection, they can communicate in writing and we will look into it." Chheda said he would persuade the BMC to get the garbage in the dispensary premises cleaned. "Putting up a partition between the dispensary and the society will not be possible, but I have requested the BMC to use rooms near windows (overlooking the society) only when no other beds are available," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dahisar-society-sharing-wall-with-covid-centre-fears-risk-from-debris-pile-up/articleshow/76501180.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh registers 477 fresh Covid cases, five deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 477 Covid-19 cases on Sunday and five deaths as the cumulative caseload rose to 8,929. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 106 with three deaths reported from Krishna district and one each from Kurnool and Chittoor districts. As many as 196 people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday. There are currently 4,516 active cases in the state with the 4,307 cumulative discharges and 106 deaths. AP tested 24,451 samples between 9 am on Saturday and 9 am on Sunday, the highest single-day test total. There has been a major rise in the daily Covid-19 infections for the last three weeks. Nearly 5,250 people have been diagnosed with the disease since June 1, representing nearly 59% caseload of the state. Of the total 8,929 cases detected so far in the state, there are 1,540 people from other states and 330 foreign returnees. East Godavari registered the highest number of local infections on Sunday with 70 new cases. These cases were reported from 23 different mandals of the district, indicating transmission of the disease to several new mandals. East Godavari collector Muralidhar Reddy said that those caught without wearing masks will be tasked with holding Covid-19 placards and corona-inspired dolls for one hour. “If salesmen or vendors are found not wearing masks or entertaining customers sans masks, their shops will be sealed for a week,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-registers-477-fresh-covid-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/76501182.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Central Railway's women employees answer call of duty, despite fear in time of Covid||MUMBAI: Manisha Mhaske-Ghorpade and Mumtaz Kazi from Central Railway decided not to stay home when local trains resumed operations about a week ago. The two motorwomen reported for duty in the time of Covid and operated trains on the Main and Harbour lines. They were not the only women to step out. In a show of grit, more than two dozen women across various job functions - station managers, booking clerks, ticket checkers, RPF personnel, sanitation workers - came out to do their bit to run suburban trains for essential service staff. The CR has ferried close to 35,000 essential staffers and those from private health sector a day. Manisha Mhaske-Ghorpade, the motorwoman, was in full safety gear, face shield and mask, while operating the CSMT-Panvel train on Friday. Mumtaz Kazi motored a local from Thane to CSMT and back. She said she was thankful to the railways for providing safety gear. CR chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said, "We are proud of these women staffers coming to work to handle their duties." Mamta Chaudhary, sub-inspector, RPF, Belapur said "We have a significant number of women in RPF who are now deployed round-the-clock for safety of stations, railway premises, trains and commuters." Bageshree Khopade, head ticket-checker of Matunga station, said all women ticket-checkers from Matunga are currently posted at Dadar where fast trains halt. "Our job is to keep strict vigil on all commuters and ensure that only bona fide ones travel. It is a tough jobs as many alight from a train and we have to ensure that only those with valid identity cards and those identified as 'essential service workers' by the state government travel. We also check for valid tickets and passes as a team comprising women TCs," she said. Kavita Mendonca, chief booking supervisor at Byculla, said: " It is no doubt a scary scenario and despite masks and protective gear, one can still make a mistake and get infected. However, I am proud that when most others are working from home, I am out there serving society during a crisis situation. It also makes my family and friends feel proud of me."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-central-railways-women-employees-answer-call-of-duty-despite-fear-in-time-of-covid/articleshow/76501194.cms||Somit Sen
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Top brass on toes as ASI succumbs, 22 cops test positive for Covid-19||BENGALURU: With a senior police personnel succumbing to Covid-19 and 22 cops testing positive in Bengaluru on Sunday, the city police chief has decided to send all field personnel aged 55 years or more on paid leave and directed officers to liaise with the public in specially erected tents outside the stations. Addressing his force on the wireless in the morning, city commissioner of police Bhaskar Rao listed 13 dos and don’ts for his personnel, including receiving complaints from people only after screening them. The stay-at-home order applies to personnel of the rank of sub-inspector, assistant sub-inspector, head constable and constable. The commandments came hours after a 59-year-old ASI working with Wilson Garden traffic police station died at a private hospital past Saturday midnight. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. This is the third fatality in the force in the past five days. The other two — a VV Puram traffic ASI died on June 16 and a Kalasipalya constable succumbed on June 20 — were also past 55 years. At least 66 city police personnel have tested positive till date. Sunday’s newly infected include 15 personnel from Kalasipalya station, five from Ashokanagar traffic station and one each from Koramangala and Bandepalya stations. Kalasipalya is the worst affected of the city’s police stations, reporting 24 cases and one death till date. Police sources said that the deceased police officer from Wilson Garden reported fever on June 12, but took medicine on his own. He attended duty till June 17 and his colleagues suggested that he get checked for Covid-19. ASI had kidney, liver complications: OfficerHe was admitted to a private hospital, where his Covid-19 test result came positive on Saturday. His condition worsened as he had kidney and liver complications and breathed his last by midnight,” an officer from Wilson Garden traffic police station said. Police said the ASI’s wife and two children have since been quarantined. Neither the station is sealed off nor its policemen are quarantined yet. A few of the ASI’s colleagues at the police station are running a temperature. “We traced 10 primary contacts and several secondary contacts of the of the ASI. Many have given samples for Covid-19 test on Saturday and waiting for the report,” a police officer said. “We were unable to shift the Covid-infected ASI to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital or Victoria Hospital due to lakh of beds. We, including ASI’s younger brother working in CAR, made efforts to shift him to a government hospital in vain,” alleged a colleague of the dead officer. In Ashok Nagar traffic police station, a probationary SI, an ASI and three constables, including a woman, have been infected. A 31-year-old constable from Bandepalya police station and a 32-year-old constable from Koramangala station are also infected. Twenty-seven personnel are infected in west division; 12 in traffic west division; 10 in traffic east division; 4 in CCB; two each in southeast, east and central divisions and CAR headquarters; one each in north, south, CAR west. Watch Bengaluru: ASI succumbs to Covid-19, 22 cops test positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-top-brass-on-toes-as-asi-succumbs-22-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76501190.cms||Santosh kumar.B
June 22, 2020||India||Hope dashed for a total solar eclipse||While Sunday’s eclipse had a very short annularity period of just half a minute, there were expectations that the event would come close to a total solar eclipse, with the possibility of even the sun’s ethereal corona becoming faintly visible, were dashed. “Today’s observations showed that even a very deep annular does not have the features of a total solar eclipse. Just 1% light from the sun is enough to keep the solar corona hidden from view. And you don’t see the near-total darkness that marks totality,” said astro-photographer Ajay Talwar, who had created an eclipse observation centre at a venue near Sirsa city. A fading pale light — the eerie calling card of an eclipse — filled the venue in the lead-up to the half-minute annular finale. There were brief moments of anxiety as a passing cloud threatened to play spoilsport. However, the veil lifted almost as soon as it had formed, giving watchers a grand view of the beady ring of fire at 11.56am. “India won’t have another full eclipse till 2031. I had to be here to see it,” said Manish Sharma from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-dashed-for-a-total-solar-eclipse/articleshow/76501202.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Chhattisgarh workers on Shramik special panic as train goes to Odisha||Panaji: Nearly 200 migrant workers from Chattisgarh, who had boarded a Shramik Special train from Margao railway station on June 19 had a harrowing time on early Sunday morning just as they were getting ready to get off at the Bilaspur Junction railway station in Chattisgarh. At the station, local police officials refused to let the men disembark. The workers were assured that they would be allowed to get down at the next station, but to their dismay soon found themselves in Odhisa. They were allowed to disembark at Jharsuguda around 6am from where they had to make a 235km journey back over six hours. Citizen volunteers in Goa woke up to frantic calls at 5am on Sunday from passengers and migrant workers on the Shramik Special train that was meant for workers from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odhisa. “The train had two stops in Chattisgarh—Raipur junction and Bilaspur Junction— and though the train stopped at Bilaspur, the police threatened us and told us not to get down,” said Manuwl Kujur. The distraught workers began to panic as the train left Chhattisgarh and crossed into Odhisa around 5:30am. “They were panicking because the train had reached Odhisa. They had trusted the police officials who told them that the train will stop in Chattisgarh,” said a volunteer Aditya Naik. “The workers told me they were even threatened with lathis if they didn’t get back on the train,” said Naik. At Jharsugda station, the workers were allowed to get down after volunteer networks and state authorities swung into action. Buses were arranged for them to be ferried back to Chattisgarh, said Vivesh Tirkey. Tirkey along with Pradeep Panna and Shiv Prasad Ekka were on their way home to Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh. For some the ordeal did not end even after they reached the local district headquarters. Around 12 workers, who finally reached Jashpur district around 7pm, were told by the Kunkuri tehsil authorities to make their own travel arrangements to their village 35 kms away. With no money to pay for buses, they began to walk home. Frantic calls by volunteers in Goa to the Jashpur district helpline went unanswered. “The authorities should not get away with this, especially after the way the migrants have been treated. Just let them get off at the station where they should have,” said a volunteer with the Goa Humanitarian Helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chhattisgarh-workers-on-shramik-special-panic-as-train-goes-to-odisha/articleshow/76500089.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Chennai||Record single-day spike in TN: 2,532 cases, 53 fatalities||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 numbers on Sunday were the highest so far for a single day - 53 dead and 2,532 new cases - while the lockdown was complete in Chennai and three adjoining districts. The number of active cases in the state also crossed 25,000 for the first time; the number was around 10,000 on June1.  The official toll is now 757, but this count does not include more than 200 deaths that the Greater Chennai Corporation had recorded. A government committee is still "reconciling" the figures. Thirty-two of the 53 reported dead on Sunday were above the age of 60; the youngest victim was a 34-year-old asthma patient from Tirunelveli. Nearly 70% of the fresh cases were reported in Chennai (1,493) and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur, which are under an intense lockdown till the end of the month. More than 700 cases were reported in other districts such Cuddalore (90), Vellore (87) and Tiruvanamalai (76) in North Tamil Nadu, and Madurai (68), Thanjavur (44) and Trichy (35). Thanjavur had reported only nine positive cases on Saturday. Roads in Chennai and its neighbouring three districts wore a deserted look on the first Sunday shutdown as only emergency vehicles were allowed. For second day, over 30,000 testsExcept for health and allied services, most others stayed back home. Police checking was intensified and 3,577 cases were filed in the last 24 hours for violating lockdown norms. A total of 948 vehicles were seized. The Greater Chennai Corporation conducted 357 fever clinics across the city and screened 20,525 people. Of them, 872 were found to have ILI (influenza like illness), and will be monitored further. For the second day in a row, TN ran more that 30,000 tests. As many as 31,401 samples were tested at 86 labs. Nine passengers who returned from Maharashtra tested positive. As far as flights were concerned, the government said 262 tested positive. But even on Sunday around 1,000 people walked out of Chennai Airport unmonitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/record-single-day-spike-in-tn-2532-cases-53-fatalities/articleshow/76501218.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 22, 2020||Goa||Kitchen in Covid hospital reopened only for lunch, tea||Panaji: The kitchen of the ESI hospital in Margao, designated for Covid-19 patients, has restarted with limited activity after it was closed down for sanitisation last weekend. Over the past few days, the hospital has been arranging food catered from outside for its patients, doctors and staff, after its main cook, the kitchen helper and tea boy tested positive for coronavirus last week. The kitchen had to be temporarily shut and staff rearranged after the three were tested positive. The kitchen has become operational again with staff preparing tea and lunch. Breakfast and dinner continue to be catered from outside. “The kitchen is being reopened gradually. It was closed for sanitisation and to ensure that other health workers don’t get infected,” an official said, adding that the hospital’s dietician has not tested positive and is doing well. A total of 11 positive cases were detected at the hospital and ESI quarters following the tea boy testing positive. The tea boy’s duty was taking tea prepared by the kitchen staff and placing it on tables for patients, under a special system followed where he wouldn’t come into contact with patients. After him getting infected, three members of his family who lived with him in the ESI quarters also tested positive. A family of five who lived opposite his family in the ESI quarters and with whom his children used to play were the next to test positive along with the children. The main cook and kitchen helper in the hospital were the latest to test positive. All the 11 patients are receiving treatment at the hospital and Covid care centres. Following the positive cases, all staff and health workers were tested and no more positive cases were found at the hospital. The ESI quarters were also sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kitchen-in-covid-hospital-reopened-only-for-lunch-tea/articleshow/76500156.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Centre lauds Maharashtra government, BMC for Covid growth rate dip in Dharavi||NEW DELHI: Efforts led by the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to ‘chase the virus’ through aggressive targeted tracing of Covid-19 suspects in Dharavi, which has recently seen a sharp decline in infections, drew the Centre’s praise on Sunday. The proactive measures adopted by BMC reduced the growth rate in the densely populated slum to 4.3% in May and further to 1.02% in June. The health ministry also lauded the BMC for bringing down daily Covid-19 cases in Dharavi from an average of 43 in May to 19 in the third week of June. In April, Dharavi had 491 cases with a 12% growth rate and a case doubling period of 18 days. However, with several measures undertaken by the state government and local authorities doubling time improved to 43 days in May and 78 days in June, the health ministry said. Noting that several states have implemented these containment strategies and produced effective outcomes, the Centre said the efforts of the Maharashtra government and the BMC had shown encouraging results. Pointing out the challenges faced by BMC in Dharavi, the ministry said 80% of the population depends on community toilets. About 8-10 people live in 10x10ft hutments, coupled with the existence of narrow lanes and two- and three-storey structures where often the ground floor is the house and other floors are used as factories, the statement said. Hence, there were severe limitations of physical distancing with no possibility of ‘home quarantine’. The BMC adopted a model of actively following the four Ts—tracing, tracking, testing and treating, the ministry said. This approach included activities like proactive screening and while 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 were screened with the help of mobile vans, and 4,76,775 surveyed by BMC health workers. “Fever clinics were set up for screening high-risk category like senior citizens. This helped to screen 3.6 lakh people. Also, 8,246 senior citizens were surveyed and as part of its ‘timely separation’ policy, they were separated from community to limit the transmission of the disease,” the ministry said. To tackle the issue of manpower to carry out screening in high-risk zones, the BMC forged public-private partnerships in containment measures and private practitioners were mobilised, it said. Also, as home quarantine was not possible, institutional quarantine facilities were created in schools and sports complexes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-lauds-maharashtra-government-bmc-for-covid-growth-rate-dip-in-dharavi/articleshow/76501226.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||88-year-old woman murdered in south Delhi robbery, four arrested||NEW DELHI: An 88-year-old woman was stabbed to death while her 94-year-old husband was tied up during a robbery at their residence in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave area on Saturday evening. The deceased, identified by police as Kanta Chawla, was stabbed in the neck. Her husband and former foreign ministry official B R Chawla’s hands and legs were tied with a bed sheet. The couple had been living on the upper ground floor of the three-storey building. Four accused, all from Nepal, were arrested on Sunday. They were identified by cops as Rajesh (20), the security guard, his cousin Om (18) and two of his friends — Pramod (26) and Gajendra (23). Police recovered Rs 55,000 in cash and jewellery from their possession. Devender Arya, DCP, south-west, said, “Security guard Rajesh had been missing and his mobile phone was switched off too. When a police team reached his place in RK Puram, his relatives said he had not contacted them since Saturday afternoon.” During investigations, police learned that since the lockdown, several people from Nepal working in Delhi had hired taxis to reach Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh and then crossed over to Nepal, Arya said. South Delhi robbery that led to murder of 88-year-old was planned in advanceIt was found that Rajesh and Pramod had booked a taxi for Lakhimpur Kheri on June 18. When police contacted the driver, he said he had dropped the two near Gauri Phanta, around 35km from the border, around 5am on Sunday, he said. “While one team was headed for his village, Dharasi, in Nepal, another was rushed to Kheri. The border opens around 9am. They were arrested when they tried to cross the border around 1pm,” said Arya. The accused had planned the robbery in advance and had asked a taxi driver to pick them up from near Safdarjung hospital around 9pm on Saturday. Pramod was waiting in the taxi, the other three went inside the house to commit the crime. According to police, the three had switched off their cellphones around 6.40pm. In CCTV cameras, three persons wearing masks can be seen leaving Chawla’s residence around 8.47pm. As per CCTV cameras installed at the building, Rajesh can be seen letting two men enter the premises around 8:30pm. They were let in by Kanta since Rajesh was the security guard. The couple was in their living room when they were attacked, police said, adding Kanta was stabbed with a kitchen knife when she tried to stop them. Rajesh was hired through the couple’s domestic help a fortnight ago. Though the house had three bedrooms, the accused only ransacked the one having almirahs. The victim’s husband managed to untie himself and informed people in the third floor. Jitendra Kumar, the guard at the lane, said, “I was called by people living in the third floor and rushed to the house. BR Chawla asked us to keep Kanta’s body on the bed. She had a stab wound on her hand and neck and was lying on the carpet. We called RWA people, who, in turn, called police.” The couple had been living in their area for quite some years. Their elder son died about 15 years back, while the younger one passed away around four months back in the US, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/88-year-old-woman-murdered-in-south-delhi-robbery-four-arrested/articleshow/76501197.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 22, 2020||India||Prisoners’ daughters to get govt aid for marriage in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala government has decided to provide financial assistance for the marriage of the daughters of those who have been undergoing imprisonment for more than two years. The decision was taken in the wake of reports that the social and financial circumstances in the families of those who are undergoing imprisonment, is affected while looking for alliances for their daughters. Secretary (social justice and women and child development) Biju Prabhakar has issued an order in this regard that says that in the present financial year, as many as 20 such families will be offered Rs 30,000 each. The funds will be met from Rs 2.5 crore set apart for probation-related services. The government has set certain criteria for being eligible for the assistance, the main ones being that either the father or the mother should be undergoing imprisonment for more than two years and should be categorised under the below poverty line list. The assistance can be sought after six months of marriage and within one year. The government has made the rules liberal permitting the beneficiaries to apply for assistance even after the marriage as the parent undergoing imprisonment may not get the necessary time prior to marriage to complete all the necessary formalities as he or she would be on parole during the time of marriage. The assistance will be offered to a maximum of two women from a family, and the application will have to be made through the respective jail superintendents. The application received will be then processed on the basis of the respective probation officers. The probation officer’s report will also decide whom to hand over the financial assistance to — father, mother, or daughter — and it will be then transferred to the respective person’s bank account. The government is already running a scheme for providing financial assistance for supporting the education of children of those families where the father is undergoing imprisonment and the family is being run by the mother. This assistance is also offered to children of women prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prisoners-daughters-to-get-govt-aid-for-marriage-in-kerala/articleshow/76501238.cms||KP Saikiran
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Excess bill at private hospitals for Covid? BMC at your help||MUMBAI: Family members of Covid patients admitted to private hospitals and have been charged extra can now approach the BMC with billingrelated complaints. So far, 134 such complaints received from patients admitted to 26 private hospitals  for Covid treatment have been redressed, the BMC said on Sunday. The “excess” amount reduced from these patients’ bills adds up to Rs 23.42 lakh. Sources said many of the hospitals are in south Mumbai. The state government had last month issued a notification, taking over 80% of beds in private hospitals and nursing homes and put a cap on treatment charges. Charges for a Covid patient in the general isolation ward cannot exceed Rs 4,000 a day, the maximum charge for an ICU (for intensive care unit) is capped at Rs 7,500 a day, for ventilators it is Rs 9,000 a day. About 40% of the complaints received pertain to the period before the government notification fixing rates at private hospitals was issued. The BMC had appointed municipal auditors for private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/excess-bill-at-private-hospitals-for-covid-bmc-at-your-help/articleshow/76501231.cms||Richa Pinto
June 22, 2020||Goa||Ponda fish vendors to be shifted again||Ponda: For the second time within a week, the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) has decided to relocate the fish vendors. From Monday they will operate out of the underground parking lot of the municipal market complex at Upper Bazar. On June 15, they were shifted to the airport road, behind the market. Following complaints from those living in apartment near the road, the Ponda civic body decided to shift the vendors inside the market parking lot. It may recalled that ever since the lockdown, from March 24, the municipal fish market has been shut. The vendors then started selling fish at various points along the roadside. Expressing surprise over PMC’s sudden decision to shift the vendors, some citizens said the airport road was a suitable place for fish vending as customers are able to maintaining social distance. The new place is a closed structure, which is risky and may lead to spread of the coronavirus, said locals. Several Ponda residents have demanded that the fish vendors be allowed to operate from areas where they were doing their business earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-fish-vendors-to-be-shifted-again/articleshow/76500242.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi records 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally close to 60,000 mark||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally near the 60,000 mark. According to the latest Delhi health department bulletin, the count stands at 59,746. It was the third day on the trot that the number of cases touched or crossed the 3,000 mark. On Saturday, Delhi witnessed the highest single-day spike at 3,630 cases; and the count was 3,137 on Friday. With 63 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll has risen to 2,175. As many as 33,013 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 24,558 active cases. The bulletin said 3,70,014 tests had been conducted till date, with 19,474 tests per million population. The number of positive patients under home isolation stands at 12,106. At least 38 healthcare workers at Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC), a central government-run hospital that has been designated for Covid-19 management, have been found positive. This includes four doctors, nurses and other staff. "Most of them are asymptomatic. They have been advised home isolation. Those with mild-to-moderate symptoms will be placed under isolation at the hospital," a source said.  Since March, when the outbreak started in Delhi, more than 1,000 healthcare workers have tested positive. A 39-year-old doctor working at National Health Resources Centre succumbed to Covid-19 at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital on Saturday. Among public hospitals, AIIMS, LHMC, Delhi State Cancer Institute and Safdarjung have been worst affected.  Healthcare workers deployed in the Covid-19 facilities also suffer from physical and mental exhaustion, the torment of difficult triage decisions, and the pain of losing patients and colleagues, all in addition to the infection risk, according to an article published in The Lancet recently. "It is vital that governments see workers not simply as pawns to be deployed, but as human individuals. In the global response, the safety of healthcare workers must be ensured. Adequate provision of PPE is just the first step; other practical measures must be considered, including cancelling non-essential events to prioritise resources; provision of food, rest and family support; and psychological support," the article says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-3000-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-close-to-60000-mark/articleshow/76501241.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kanakapura constituency self-imposes lockdown till July 1||BENGALURU: Amid a spike in cases, Kanakapura constituency has decided to go for self-imposed lockdown for 17 hours per day till July 1. Shopkeepers have voluntarily agreed to limit business hours between 7am and 11am from Monday. However, it will not affect public transport, banks, government offices or health services. On Sunday, local legislator and Congress state chief DK Shivakumar and Bengaluru Rural MP DK Suresh held a meeting with district administration officials and residents. The aim was to map the way forward as Kanakapura recorded 36 active cases. The segment is part of Ramanagara district which has seen 86 cases till date. “People came to a consensus on imposing restrictions in the interest of public health. It’s not the government’s decision, and hence not formal,” said Shivakumar. Ramanagara DC MS Archana, superintendent of police Anup Shetty and other officials attended the meeting. SSLC exams will be heldShivakumar said SSLC exams will not be affected by the lockdown as it is up to the district administration to take care of official matters.“Official activities of the government, banks and public transport will continue as usua,” said Anup Shetty. Suresh said the number of positive cases spiked in the assembly segment after a doctor couple and family members of a silk trader tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-kanakapura-constituency-self-imposes-lockdown-till-july-1/articleshow/76501240.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 18.5 lakh served by 1,229 Western Railway Shramiks||MUMBAI: The Western Railway has operated 1,229 Shramik Special trains till date and these have carried 18.5 lakh migrant labourers and their families to their desired destination. The last Shramik Special departed from Bandra Terminus for Howrah on Saturday. Of the 1,229 trains, Mumbai division has operated 716 trains, which is the highest number among all WR divisions. The special trains had social distancing rules, thermal screening, free meals and packaged drinking water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-18-5-lakh-served-by-1229-western-railway-shramiks/articleshow/76501242.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Covid keeps astronomers home to view eclipse in Goa||PANAJI: Though the Panaji observatory, managed by the Association of the Friends of Astronomy (AFA), is closed during the monsoon, clear skies on Sunday made it ideal to observe the solar eclipse on June 21. With lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms in place, stargazers and amateur astronomers experienced their first lockdown eclipse observation from home. “It was a very subdued event involving only family members and neighbours. All the active members of the AFA conducted the observation on their own while following social distancing norms,” AFA president Satish Nayak said. For the previous eclipse in December, AFA had distributed solar goggles to its members. The same were used to view the eclipse on Sunday. “About 40% of the sun was eclipsed. Despite it being the monsoon month and cyclonic storms frequently occurring, the skies were clear making it ideal for observation. The eclipse begun at 10am and by 11.30am approximately, it was at it’s maximum,” Nayak said. A similar situation prevailed for the previous eclipse, he said wherein a large portion of the sun’s face was covered. For the astronomical event, then, the AFA team had travelled to Mangaluru to witness the phenomenon. For the eclipse on Sunday, they had planned to write to the government to fund their trip to observatories in Uttarakhand for a similar expedition. However, lockdown restrictions played spoilsport for the astronomers. “An event like this requires viewing from a place that is calm and has maximum visibility. We were zeroing down on various places in March but we had to drop the plan,” Nayak said. However, the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengalur,u came to the rescue of stargazers as it livestreamed the entire event on Sunday. “Many of our members observed the event through their website. We hope that we have better luck for the next eclipse.” Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-keeps-astronomers-home-to-view-eclipse/articleshow/76500247.cms||Nida Sayed
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Data clean-up brings down toll in 14 districts||MUMBAI: Four days after the state added 1,328 deaths to its tally as part of data reconciliation, at least 14 districts saw their mortality figures change again on Saturday. Deaths were reduced in all these districts in numbers ranging from single to double digits, showing the data clean-up process could be far from over. While state authorities claimed the decrease in deaths was a result of the ongoing process of reconciliation, district authorities maintained many of these deaths added during the data clean-up exercise were erroneously added to their tally to begin with. Of the 1,328 deaths added by the state, as many as 862 were from Mumbai. As a result, despite the addition of 160 deaths on Saturday, fatalities jumped from 5,893 on Friday to only 5,984 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-data-clean-up-brings-down-toll-in-14-districts/articleshow/76501247.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 22, 2020||India||Modi: In Covid times, world’s feeling need for yoga more||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said yoga had emerged as a force for unity and it did not discriminate as it went beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. In his message on the sixth International Day of Yoga, Modi said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the world was feeling the need for yoga more than ever. “If our immunity is strong, it is of great help in defeating this disease. For boosting immunity, there are several techniques in yoga, various asanas are there,” he added. The PM said Covid-19 specifically attacked respiratory systems which could be strengthened by doing ‘pranayama’ or breathing exercise. “Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet. It has emerged as a force for unity and deepens the bonds of humanity. It does not discriminate. It goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. Anybody can embrace yoga,” he said. “If we can finetune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far when the world will witness the success of a healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” he said in a message telecast on Sunday morning. He added that doing work and performing duties properly was also yoga. Modi said the huge participation of people in ‘My Life - My Yoga’ video blogging competition from across the globe reflected the growing popularity of yoga. “Today, all of us should stay away from gatherings and practise yoga at home with our families. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. Yoga promotes family bonding as children, youngsters, elders in the family come together to practise yoga, there is a flow of positive energy in the home. Yoga also promotes emotional stability,” he said. Watch Yoga Day 2020: Yoga gives us self confidence, says PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-in-covid-times-worlds-feeling-need-for-yoga-more/articleshow/76501253.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Man murdered in drunken brawl||Saligao: In a cold-blooded murder at Arpora in the early hours of Sunday, Vishwanath Sadashiv Gawas, 28, originally from Dodamarg, Maharashtra, was stabbed by Rambharose Nishad, a native of Uttar Pradesh, in a drunken brawl at a hotel premises in Sakwadi-Arpora. The Anjuna police team nabbed the accused within two hours of receiving information about the murder. Police sources said that Gawas, who served as an employee at the hotel in Sankwadi-Arpora, was drinking alcohol with his friends on Saturday night as it was his birthday, when a quarrel broke out between him and Nishad over some previous enmity. The other friends tried to calm the two down and told Gawas to return to his room and go to sleep. Police sources said that at around midnight, the accused came to the room where Gawas was sleeping and stabbed him with a knife on his chest and neck, leaving him in a pool of blood. After committing the crime, the accused, under the cover of darkness, went and slept in his room pretending that nothing had happened. The hotel’s security guard who was on duty woke up Gawas’s friends, who then reported the matter to the local police. On police interrogation, Nishad confessed to the murder. PI Suraj Gawas said Nishad has been booked under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). After committing the crime, the accused, under the cover of darkness, returned to his room and went to sleep, pretending that nothing had happened||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-murdered-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/76500315.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Teen drowns off Marve, one missing||MUMBAI: A 13-year-old boy drowned at the Marve beach, Malad on Sunday evening. His 16-year-old friend, who entered the water with him, is missing. The fire brigade was called after the two Malwani boys did not emerge from the water. 13-year-old Ashraf Mohammad's body was found, and at 9pm, the search was called off. It will be resumed on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-teen-drowns-off-marve-one-missing/articleshow/76501262.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray backs Modi, Saamna targets him||MUMBAI: Two days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi the cooperation of his party on the China matter, Saamna executive editor Sanjay Raut in his Sunday column again targeted the NDA government at the Centre as he accused it of hiding several facts about the clash at the Sino-Indian LAC. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said many facts about the border were at last surfacing. He also said that trade with China had still not stopped. "As a mark of respect to the 20 soldiers who sacrificed their lives, our Prime Minister should have declared a ban on Chinese products, but that has not happened," he said. At the same time, he gave a lesson in geo-politics and diplomacy, asking what had the government got by hurting China for the sake of gaining the friendship of US President Donald Trump, who he said was anyway on the verge of an electoral defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-backs-modi-saamna-targets-him/articleshow/76501265.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||Murder a day, doctor away: GFP||Panaji: With yet another person being murdered in the state, this time in Arpora, Goa Forward Party (GFP) tried to drive home its point that the state’s law and order situation is getting worse. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that as the number of murders increases, Goa will be seen as an unsafe destination. GFP accused BJP of being focused on political rallies and preparations for the zilla panchayat elections. “A murder a day will keep good men away from Goa,” said Sardesai. “This is a reflection of the breakdown of law and order in India’s smallest state. We are fast becoming Uttar Pradesh where lawlessness is a way of life,” said Sardesai. A Dodamarg resident, Vishwanath Gawas was allegedly stabbed to death by a UP resident Ram Bharose over some petty issue. Both were working at a hotel at Arpora and the accused has been arrested. The name of the accused also gave Sardesai an opportunity to taunt state authorities. “I thought the peace and solitude that we had was Ram Bharose. But alas that’s changed,” said Sardesai. The party also took a dig at chief minister Pramod Sawant saying, “even with a murder a day, it’s keeping the doctor away”. “Busy with virtual rallies and preparations for elections. No cure for incompetence and indifference,” said GFP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/murder-a-day-doctor-away-gfp/articleshow/76500322.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Goa||New govt panel to review wetlands||Paanji: The state government has constituted a technical committee headed by former principal chief conservator of forests Richard de Souza, to review wetland management plans and give advise on technical matters referred to it by the Goa state wetland authority (GSWA). The other members of the committee formed as per the Wetland (conservation and management ) Rules, 2017 include director of environment department (member secretary of GSWA) as co-chairman and ten others as members . These include representatives from the department of fisheries, land survey, water resources department, ICAR, agriculture, TCP and forest The committee which will have a three-year tenure, will meet at least once in every quarter, said a notification issued by the director (environment) Johnson Bedy Fernandes. Meanwhile, a grievances committee under Wetland (conservation and management ) Rules has also been constituted. Headed by former judge Desmond D’Costa, it has member secretary of Goa state biodiversity board as convener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-govt-panel-to-review-wetlands/articleshow/76500335.cms||---
June 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two get bail for FIR error, gap of four months between 'rioting' and arrest||Granting bail to two men in a case pertaining to the communal riots in northeast Delhi, a city court has frowned upon the gap of almost four months between an alleged incident of rioting this February 24 and their arrests on June 14.  The prosecutor had relied on CCTV footage and the testimony of a police constable to argue the two were involved in the incident. However, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said the case's FIR and the place where the men were "seen" rioting were altogether different. "Therefore, there is hardly any connection between the footage and the incident in this case," he said. The two had sought bail also on the grounds that neither a test identification parade was held nor did police seek remand for their custodial interrogation. The prosecutor had submitted the footage recorded on a CCTV camera mounted on 25, Foota Road, on Chand Bagh and relied on the testimony of the cop who had identified these men. Not impressed with the submission, the judge said, "As regards to the identification by the constable, even the same has no meaning as to why he kept waiting from February 24, 2020 till June 14, 2020 and did not report the matter to the police." Urging the court to consider bail for Habib Ahmed and Irfan, their counsel Nasir Ali argued that the alleged incident took place on February 24, 2020 whereas the FIR got registered on March 3, 2020. Besides, he stated that both his clients were arrested on June 14 - after a gap of 112 days from the day of FIR. Considering the submissions made on behalf of the applicants and police, the court allowed the men to be released on bail on a personal bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety. The men were directed to cooperate in the investigation, not tamper with evidence and share their phone numbers with the investigating officer after walking out of jail besides keeping their phones operational. The court also asked them to install the Arogya Setu app. Meanwhile, the court rejected bail applications connected to other riot-related cases where the accused was found to be involved in many such cases, observing the investigation was still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-two-get-bail-for-fir-error-gap-of-four-months-between-rioting-and-arrest/articleshow/76501271.cms||Aamir Khan
June 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru Covid-19 cases treble in 21 days, Karnataka forms 3 task forces||BENGALURU: With 21 days of Unlock 1.0 seeing the number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru more than treble from 357 to 1,272 and deaths jump from 10 to 64, the Karnataka government on Sunday formed three task forces to check the spread of the pandemic. Issuing orders to this effect, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar appointed IAS officer Tushar Girinath head of the task force that will look into shifting Covid-19 patients to hospital and another IAS officer, Sathyavathi, will head a force to monitor containment zones. IAS officer Naveen Raj Singh and IPS officer Hemanth Nimbalkar will head the force to ensure social distancing in public places. BBMP special commissioners D Randeep, Basavaraj and Anbukumar, DCP (Whitefield) MN Anucheth, 108 ambulances services director Banakar, DCP (CAR) Divya, APMC director Karee Gowda and chief marshal colonel Rajbir Singh have been appointed in the three teams. The government had, on June 15, formed 17 task forces comprising almost the same set of officials to monitor pandemic management during Unlock 1.0 in Bengaluru Urban. The teams with 55 officers have now been downsized. While the Bengaluru model to counter the pandemic spread was hailed across the country, the increase in the number of positive cases over the past few days has raised concern. 6-time increase in active casesOn May 31, Bengaluru had 357 positive cases, including 115 active cases and 10 deaths. Unlock 1.0 was implemented on June 1. On June 21, Bengaluru’s total number of positive cases stood at 1,272, including 796 active cases with 64 deaths. Over the past 21 days, Bengaluru has reported 43 positive cases and two deaths a day on average. While the active cases have gone up by nearly six times, the recoveries are slowing down: While 65% of the positive patients had been cured and discharged as on May 31, the number is now down to 32%. TOI spoke to police, health and BBMP officials, who said coordination between the agencies has collapsed after Unlock 1.0. An official said, “As the lockdown norms were relaxed, people hit the streets but there was no one to ensure social distancing. Though BBMP was penalizing citizens for not wearing masks, it was not implemented in large scale." BBMP top officials monitoring containment zones during the lockdown are now fighting Covid-19 from the war room only with the help of technology. An official said, “The enthusiasm among the top officials during the lockdown was high as they were taking swift measures to take stock of the situation. For instance, if a positive case was detected, the health department officials would arrive on time and BBMP officials and police would seal off the area. Now, you see a delay and it shows they are exhausted. Now, they know that no top official would visit (the infected place) and they take their own time to implement needed impositions." An officer on one of the task forces said, “We’ve lost the battle in the past 21 days. The focus must be to increase health infrastructure to treat patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-covid-19-cases-treble-in-21-days-karnataka-forms-3-task-forces/articleshow/76501268.cms||Kiran Parashar
