June 23, 2020||Agra||Post-mortem house overrun by dead & labs with samples, body lay in open for five days before burial in UP's Aligarh||AGRA: The body of a rickshaw-puller was lying in open at a post-mortem house in Aligarh for five days before it was buried on Monday, keeping his poor relatives on tenterhooks who also paid Rs 500 per day to preserve it with ice slabs. Officials blamed delay in the arrival of his Covid-19 status report for it. Overrun by the dead, the post-mortem house in Aligarh is forced to keep the bodies out in open and preserve them with ice slabs in this scorching summer. Glitch in one of its refrigerator chambers had made the matter worse. The report of Sharif Ahmad, 50, finally declared him Covid-19 free. After that the kin were allowed to take away the body for last rites. “We had been waiting for the novel coronavirus test report since June 18. The authorities had refused to hand over the body till the receipt of the test report,” said Parveen Begum, Ahmad’s sister. She told TOI that his brother suddenly fell unconscious on the road last Thursday. “We were not with him when it happened,” she said, adding that someone called an ambulance and he was taken to the district hospital, where the doctors declared him dead. According to the in-charge of the post-mortem house, Ravikant Dixit, “We have space for storing only six bodies in the refrigerator. And, unfortunately, one of the storage chambers is not working at present. In the absence of the storage cooling chamber, bodies have to be put on ice slabs to save them from decomposition.” Dixit added, “Covid-19 test reports are being delayed. Sometimes, it takes four to five days.” At least 10 to 12 bodies are coming for post-mortem examination every day, he said. When contacted, Aligarh’s district magistrate CB Singh said that the matter was brought to his notice on Monday and he “immediately contacted AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, where Covid-19 tests are being conducted.” “Though I advised the authorities to give priority to the deceased's test report for Covid 19, this report was delayed somehow,” he said. He added that the lab is overburdened as local and neighbouring districts' samples also come here for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/post-mortem-house-overrun-by-dead-labs-with-samples-body-lay-in-open-for-5-days-before-burial-in-aligarh/articleshow/76516393.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Chardham priest protest half naked outside Kedarnath, in 3 degrees temperature||DEHRADUN: In one of its own kinds of protest, 32-year-old priest Santosh Trivedi is staging dharna in half naked state outside the Kedarnath temple----situated at 11330 feet from the sea level--- to express his dissent on the formation of Devesthanam board by the state government since past 10 days. Trivedi sits thrice a day, for almost four hours, in just dhoti in the freezing temperature as less as 3 to 5 degrees. He continued his protest even when it rained heavily in Kedarnath on June 20. Talking to TOI, Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teerthpurohit Char Dham Mahapanchayat, a body representing the priests, said that the priest body is planning hold such protest in all 4 temples of Char Dham which includes Gangotri, Yamunotri and Badrinath as well. “We are in conversation with purohits from all Char Dham temples and will sit in similar kind of Dharna to express our resentment against the Devasthanam board formed by the state government,” added Sati. Elaborating his time of protest, the protesting priest Santosh Trivedi informed that he sits for the span of 45 minutes to 1.30 hours thrice a day. The first sit-in start as early as 5: 30 am during the morning aarti when temperature is almost freezing at 3 or 4 degree Celsius. The second sit-in starts around 12 in the noon, for 45 minutes, during Bhog Prasad of the lord and lastly, he sits for around 1.30 hours during the evening aarti, around 6 pm. It’s important to mention that thousands of teerath purohits and priests associated with Char Dham and 47 other temples (51 in total) from across Uttarakhand are protesting against the state government since it has passed the Char Dham Shrine Board Bill, last year. According to the priests, the bills aims to take control of these temples on the lines of Vaishno Devi Shrine Board and Tirupati Balaji Shrine Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chardham-priest-protest-half-naked-outside-kedarnath-in-3-degrees-temperature/articleshow/76517311.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||17 more Covid-19 patients get cured in district Ludhiana: DC||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Monday said 17 more Covid-19 patients have been declared cured in last 24 hours. Sharma said that till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 338. Besides, 28 more positive cases have been reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/17-more-covid-19-patients-get-cured-in-district-ludhiana-dc/articleshow/76519087.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||58 fresh cases take Uttarakhand's Covid-19 tally to 2,402||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand completed 100 days of its fight against novel coronavirus on Monday (the first case was reported in the state on March 15). Fifty-eight new cases were reported from the state on the day, taking the tally to 2,402. Also, one Covid-19 patient died during the day, taking the death toll of the virus to 28 in the state. Health officials said that the state's infection rate has now reached 4.77%. More than 50,000 Covid-19 tests have so far been done by the state, according to official data. "Among the 58 fresh cases reported on Monday, 17 were from Haridwar, followed by 15 from Udham Singh Nagar, 11 from Almora, 10 from Pauri, two each from Nainital and Dehradun and one from Tehri," said Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 war room at health directorate. The official added that a 68-year-old man, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 last week, died at HB Base Hospital in Srinagar on the day. The health department is still ascertaining the actual cause of death, added the official. Meanwhile, 21 positive cases recovered on Monday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 1,521. Talking about the recovery rate of the state, Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said that as per the analysis of the bulletins shared by the health department, Champawat district has the best recovery rate with 92% infected people getting discharged from hospitals. “After Champawat, Bageshwar has 78% recovery rate, followed by Nainital with 73%, Tehri Garhwal with 70%, Chamoli with 67%, Rudraprayag with 65%, Dehradun with 64%, Udham Singh Nagar with 63%, Haridwar with 51%, Almora with 50%, Pauri Garhwal with 46%, Uttarkashi with 46% and Pithoragarh with just 42%,” added Nautiyal. As for the infection rate, Nautiyal said that Tehri with 377 positive cases among 3,678 sample tests has the highest infection rate of 11.57%. He added that Chamoli has the lowest infection rate of 3.2% with just 63 positive cases from 2,145 sample tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/58-fresh-cases-take-ukhands-covid-19-tally-to-2402/articleshow/76516648.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 23, 2020||Kochi||CIAL confirms eight repatriation flights on Monday||KOCHI: The Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) confirmed eight repatriation flights on Monday that will evacuate 780 passengers from Middle East countries and Maldives. The relief operations commenced with the landing of the Air Arabia flight (G9 425) from Sharjah at 4.40am. The Qatar Airways flight (QR 8364) from Doha touched down at 9.40as and Saudia flight from Riyadh landed at 11.49am. The Indigo flight (6E 9377) from Doha reached CIAL at 1.17pm and the Air India Express from Dubai reached at 5.47pm. The Indigo flight (6E 9111) from Male landed at 4.13pm and, Air India Express from Dubai is expected to land at 9.06pm. Two Air Arabia flights, G9 425 and G9 429, from Sharjah are scheduled to land at 10.30pm and 11.30pm. The Indigo flight from Doha and Kuwait airways from Kuwait were cancelled on Monday. The domestic terminal handled 32 arrival/departure operations on Monday. One departure operation to Delhi was cancelled. There are 12 repatriation flights scheduled for Tuesday at CIAL, out of which 11 flights are from the Middle East. The arrival of Air Arabia flight from Sharjah at 1am will commence the evacuation operations at the airport for the day. The Air India flight from Metro Cebu, Philippines, is scheduled at 7am landing after stopover at Mumbai and Chennai. Saudia flight from Muscat is scheduled at 11.15am and Air Arabia flight from Sharjah is expected to reach at 12.30pm. The Indigo flight from Doha is scheduled for 1.55pm landing and Air India Express flight from Dubai is scheduled to reach at 5.40pm. The Indigo flight from Muscat and Go Air flight from Kuwait are scheduled to land at 6pm and 6.50pm respectively. The Gulf Air flight from Bahrain is scheduled to land at 8.30pm. The Indigo flight from Dammam will reach at 9.30 and Fly Dubai flight from Dubai will land at 10.15pm. Gulf Air will operate a flight from Bahrain at 11pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-confirms-eight-repatriation-flights-on-monday/articleshow/76519156.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 23, 2020||India||US blocks Pakistan's effort to term India terror backer||Pakistan's efforts, after the UN ban on Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, to draw a moral equivalence with India on the issue of cross-border terrorism have been nullified by the US. Top Indian government sources told ToI that the US had formally informed all members of the UN Security Council (UNSC) on Friday that it was officially blocking, and thus terminating, a proposal to proscribe an Indian national by the UNSC 1267 sanctions committee. Venu Madhav Dongara, an engineer with an Indian construction company active in Afghanistan, is 1 of the 4 Indian nationals Pakistan had linked with terror attacks on its territory. Pakistan was hoping to get Dongara listed as a global terrorist by the UNSC with support from China. The US had in September last year put the proposal on a technical hold, expecting Pakistan to produce more evidence to prove its allegations against Dongara. With fresh evidence not forthcoming, but Pakistan still insisting on his listing by the Sanctions Committee, the US last week blocked the proposal, bringing it to an end formally. If Pakistan still chooses to target Dongara, it will have to seek a new proposal. Pakistan's decision to target Dongara was seen by India, and also friendly countries like the US, as an effort to get its own back on the Indian government after the UN ban on Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar last year. China had on 4 occasions earlier blocked the proposed ban on Azhar before finally falling in line with other UNSC member states in 2019. According to Indian government sources, Islamabad had almost "on the bounce" prepared a "fictional" dossier on Dongara accusing him of financing terror attacks and linking him with groups like Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan. This was followed with similar allegations against 3 other Indian nationals who were working with an Indian firm in Afghanistan. All of them have since returned to India. "We never really expected Pakistan to come up with any serious evidence. In Azhar's case, even China had to unblock the proposed ban because he hadn't just masterminded terror attacks but was also heading an organisation (JeM) already proscribed by the UN," said an Indian official. Pakistan had for years claimed that there was no "solid evidence" against Azhar and used Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav to back its allegations that India was aiding anti-Pakistan terror groups. After China allowed the ban to go through though, as Indian officials have said, Islamabad launched fresh efforts to prove that India also harboured terrorists. "We do hope Pakistan will learn a lesson from this and not insist on a ban on other Indian nationals it has falsely linked with terrorism," he added. The US action has again underscored the significance of Indo-US cooperation on the issue of coss-border terrorism in all its forms. It is important to recall here that even the ban on Azhar last year by UN was made possible after the US gave an ultimatum to China that if the latter didn't drop its opposition by a certain date (April 23), the same proposal would be directly introduced in UNSC, bypassing the 1267 committee. In 2017, India and US had introduced a new consultation mechanism on domestic and international terrorist designations listing proposals. PM Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump had after their summit this year also called on Pakistan to ensure that no territory under its control was used to launch terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including 26/11Mumbai and Pathankot. Watch US blocks Pakistan's efforts for moral equivalence with India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-blocks-pakistans-effort-to-term-india-terror-backer/articleshow/76519224.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 23, 2020||World||US blocks Pakistan's effort to term India terror backer||Pakistan's efforts, after the UN ban on Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, to draw a moral equivalence with India on the issue of cross-border terrorism have been nullified by the US. Top Indian government sources told ToI that the US had formally informed all members of the UN Security Council (UNSC) on Friday that it was officially blocking, and thus terminating, a proposal to proscribe an Indian national by the UNSC 1267 sanctions committee. Venu Madhav Dongara, an engineer with an Indian construction company active in Afghanistan, is 1 of the 4 Indian nationals Pakistan had linked with terror attacks on its territory. Pakistan was hoping to get Dongara listed as a global terrorist by the UNSC with support from China. The US had in September last year put the proposal on a technical hold, expecting Pakistan to produce more evidence to prove its allegations against Dongara. With fresh evidence not forthcoming, but Pakistan still insisting on his listing by the Sanctions Committee, the US last week blocked the proposal, bringing it to an end formally. If Pakistan still chooses to target Dongara, it will have to seek a new proposal. Pakistan's decision to target Dongara was seen by India, and also friendly countries like the US, as an effort to get its own back on the Indian government after the UN ban on Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar last year. China had on 4 occasions earlier blocked the proposed ban on Azhar before finally falling in line with other UNSC member states in 2019. According to Indian government sources, Islamabad had almost "on the bounce" prepared a "fictional" dossier on Dongara accusing him of financing terror attacks and linking him with groups like Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan. This was followed with similar allegations against 3 other Indian nationals who were working with an Indian firm in Afghanistan. All of them have since returned to India. "We never really expected Pakistan to come up with any serious evidence. In Azhar's case, even China had to unblock the proposed ban because he hadn't just masterminded terror attacks but was also heading an organisation (JeM) already proscribed by the UN," said an Indian official. Pakistan had for years claimed that there was no "solid evidence" against Azhar and used Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav to back its allegations that India was aiding anti-Pakistan terror groups. After China allowed the ban to go through though, as Indian officials have said, Islamabad launched fresh efforts to prove that India also harboured terrorists. "We do hope Pakistan will learn a lesson from this and not insist on a ban on other Indian nationals it has falsely linked with terrorism," he added. The US action has again underscored the significance of Indo-US cooperation on the issue of coss-border terrorism in all its forms. It is important to recall here that even the ban on Azhar last year by UN was made possible after the US gave an ultimatum to China that if the latter didn't drop its opposition by a certain date (April 23), the same proposal would be directly introduced in UNSC, bypassing the 1267 committee. In 2017, India and US had introduced a new consultation mechanism on domestic and international terrorist designations listing proposals. PM Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump had after their summit this year also called on Pakistan to ensure that no territory under its control was used to launch terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including 26/11Mumbai and Pathankot. Watch US blocks Pakistan's efforts for moral equivalence with India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-blocks-pakistans-effort-to-term-india-terror-backer/articleshow/76519324.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 23, 2020||World||Donald Trump suspends H-1B, H-4 visas till year end||WASHINGTON: The Trump administration on Monday extended the freeze on issuance of "green cards" for new immigrants and suspended range of work visas for foreigners, including all H-1B and H-4 (for H-1B spouses) till the end of the current calendar year. The suspension will not affect those already in the US on the visas. The Optional Practical Training (OPT) that most foreign students are eligible for after they graduate in the US also remains unaffected. But also suspended are L1 visas (for intracompany transfer) and J1 visas (widely used by doctors and researchers), although there will be exceptions for those working on the coronavirus pandemic. A senior administration official told journalists in a background briefing that the measures, decreed through an executive order by President Trump, would be temporary (till December 31), and would free up 525,000 jobs for American workers. But the President had also issued directions for a broader reform of the H-IB visa regime that will replace the current lottery system with a merit based system that will favor those who are offered the highest wages. "This will drive up both wage level and skill level. It will also eliminate competition with Americans for entry level jobs," the official said, adding that the President had also directed that all loopholes enabling outsourcing of jobs should be closed. The reforms will ensure that jobs go to those who are paid the highest wages and America gets the best and brightest talent, the official added. Watch Trump administration suspends H-1B, H-4 visas till end of 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-suspends-h1b-h4-visas/articleshow/76519657.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
June 23, 2020||Business||Diesel now just 71 paise cheaper than petrol after 16th price hike||NEW DELHI: The difference between petrol and diesel prices shrunk to 71 paise, or less than 1%, its lowest-ever, in Delhi on Monday after state-run fuel retailers raised prices for the 16th consecutive day. In Mumbai, the gap shrunk to less than 12%, or Rs 9.12 a litre, which is still the narrowest so far. After the latest increase, petrol price rose to Rs 79.56 a litre and diesel to Rs 78.85, the highest in 21 months. In Mumbai, petrol sold for Rs 86.36 a litre and diesel for Rs 77.24. Government data show the gap was widest at Rs 30.25, or nearly 74%, on June 18, 2012 when petrol cost Rs 71.16 a litre and diesel Rs 40.91 in Delhi. In Mumbai, the gap was widest at Rs 31.17 on June 28, the same year when petrol sold at Rs 76.45 a litre and diesel Rs 45.28. Diesel prices have traditionally trailed petrol by a wide margin because of the way it used to be taxed by the Centre and states. Tax on diesel was kept low as it is mainly consumed by transporters and farmers. But since fuel-pricing was deregulated in October 2014, this difference has also narrowed. In Delhi, for example, taxes account for 64% of petrol price and 63% of diesel price. The variation in price gaps seen in the two metros is due to the difference in state levies, which magnifies the impact of central taxes and price revisions. Fuel taxes in Delhi were among the lowest in the country till April, while state levies in Mumbai were among the steepest. This reversed after the Delhi government jacked up VAT on diesel to 30% from 16.75% on May 4, which keeps diesel prices higher than Mumbai. VAT on petrol was also raised to 30% from 27% but it is still lower than Mumbai. Diesel has been catching up slowly ever since the daily price revision was introduced in June 2017. The consecutive price hikes over the last fortnight and the rebound in global diesel prices outpacing petrol on resumption of economic activities globally have hastened the process. The retailers have cumulatively raised petrol prices by Rs 9.21 and diesel by Rs 8.55 a litre in the last 16 days. This marks an increase of 14% in petrol and 26% in diesel prices since they resumed daily price revision on June 7 after a gap of 82 days. But according to industry figures, global rates of petrol, or ‘motor spirit’ in trade parlance, have risen about 4% and diesel, or ‘HSD’, by about 7%-8%, during this period. Clearly, the retailers are trying to regain margins they lost by absorbing the two excise duty hikes and inventory losses during the coronavirus lockdown, when oil prices crashed to 21-year lows and products became cheaper than crude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/diesel-narrows-gap-with-petrol-to-71-paise/litre-after-16th-price-hike/articleshow/76519990.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 23, 2020||India||SC rethinks, allows rath yatra with curbs||NEW DELHI: Four days after stalling rath yatras across Odisha, the Supreme Court on Monday made an exception for the world famous chariot festival in Puri but ordered that it would be held under curfew with strict adherence to health guidelines and each of the three chariots would be pulled by a maximum of 500 people who have tested negative for Covid-19. The first attempt to get the injunction on the rath yatra lifted was made on Monday morning by solicitor general Tushar Mehta who sought an urgent hearing before a vacation bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Sajiv Khanna on applications seeking modification of the SC’s June 18 order. Support of Odisha government’s counsel Harish Salve, who had agreed with PIL petitioner ‘Odisha Vikash Parishad’ on June 18 leading to the SC stalling the rath yatra, came handy. Things moved fast and a three-judge bench of CJI S A Bobde, who was in Nagpur, and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna was assembled hurriedly. Mehta said the Jagannath temple trust headed by the Puri king and the Odisha government had agreed to hold the rath yatra under strict supervision and without participation of devotees. “Let the rath yatra and associated rituals, observed without a break for centuries, be allowed to be performed only by priests and sevayats,” Mehta requested. The bench took note of the Naveen Patnaik government’s U-turn and said, “Before we passed our June 18 order, we had suggested to the parties that the rath yatra could be allowed to proceed without the general congregation annually associated with it. But we were informed that it would be well nigh impossible to ensure that there is no congregation. This court was, therefore, left with no option but to grant an injunction restraining the rath yatra itself.” With the Odisha government agreeing to conduct the rath yatra in a limited way as per the action plan suggested by Jagannath Temple Administration Committee chairman Gajapati Maharaj of Puri, the bench did not feel necessary to accept Mehta’s suggestion to involve the Shankaracharya of Puri in supervision of the rath yatra. The court was also persuaded to permit the rath yatra in view of the state’s good record in managing the pandemic. However, it reminded the state government of the spread of cholera and plague in the 18th-19th century due to rath yatra and asked it to be extra vigilant and strict with implementation of health guidelines. With heavyweight lawyers C S Vaidyanathan, Mohan Parasaran, Maninder Singh, P S Narasimha, K V Vishwanathan and Mahesh Jethmalani arguing for the rath yatra, the petitioner NGO’s counsel Ranjit Kumar was muted in its opposition to the festival. When the SG, arguing for the Shankaracharya’s participation, pointed out that the Odisha government had initially objected, the CJI said, “Even the Shankaracharya had welcomed our decision on June 18, now he is opposing.” The CJI also said the judges had received threats after the order stalling the rath yatra. The bench said, “We take note of the fact that the state of Odisha has a good record of having controlled the pandemic with very little loss of life. We see no reason why the same attitude of care and caution should not be applied to the rath yatra. The state government may take such help as may be found necessary from the Union government.” It asked the state government to maintain a record of all those allowed to participate in the rath yatra or its rituals along with details of their medical condition after testing. The bench ordered the following conditions for the rath yatra: * All entry points into Puri, ie, airports, railway stations, bus stands etc, shall be closed during the period of rath yatra * The state government shall impose a curfew in Puri on all the days and during all the time when rath yatra chariots are taken in procession. During the curfew, no one will be allowed to come out of their houses or their places of residence, such as hotels, lodging houses etc. The curfew began at 8pm on Monday * Five hundred people per chariot shall include officials and police personnel and there shall be an interval of one hour between (pulling of any) two chariots. All involved will maintain social distancing at all times * Primary responsibility for conducting the rath yatra in accordance with the conditions and other norms shall be of the committee in-charge of Puri Jagannath Temple Administration. In addition, officers designated by the state government for conduct of the rath yatra shall be responsible likewise * The rituals and the rath yatra shall be freely covered by the visual media * Bare minimum number of people shall be allowed by the committee to participate in the rituals and in the rath yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-rethinks-allows-rath-yatra-with-curbs/articleshow/76519999.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 23, 2020||Business||Laws to be tweaked for check on Chinese FDI?||NEW DELHI: The government is looking to amend several laws – from the Companies Act to Sebi Act and Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) – to stipulate checks on foreign direct investment (FDI) from China and other neighbouring countries as part of an exercise to strengthen its vigil, while also creating a central database for overseas investments. Discussions on legal amendments to stipulate tighter regulations, which were notified via a press note in April, had begun before the tension at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) escalated with the finance ministry, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, ministry of corporate affairs (MCA), among others engaged in the deliberations. Read AlsoIndia’s trade deficit with China at 5-year lowIndia’s trade deficit with China is estimated to have narrowed to $48.7 billion during the last financial year — the lowest in five years — compared with $53.6 billion a year ago, as imports from across the border dropped over 7% to $65 billion in 2019-20.“A final decision is yet to be taken but the idea is to ensure that the guidelines cannot be easily diluted,” a source told TOI. In April, the government had amended the FDI rules to impose a blanket ban on investments through the automatic route by entities from countries that share a border with India – a move that was aimed at restricting investments from China to prevent a takeover of Indian companies amid low valuations. Separately, the government is also seeking to put in place a repository on FDI into the country to access details of investments across sectors and geographies along with the source of these flows. While data is currently available with the RBI and the MCA, it is tough to lift the corporate veil easily. So, the stipulations on significant beneficial ownership – which is expected to be linked with the Companies Act threshold of 10% — will not just help track the original source of investment but the database will also enable the government to quickly step in to put checks in case any surge is notice. Officially, during the last 20 years, FDI from China added up to $2.3 billion but a lot of the equity flows were routed via third countries such as Singapore and Hong Kong. With the significant beneficial ownership stipulation, it will be easier to track the flows. “Currently, we do not know how much investment is there in our start-ups or in the pharma sector from one country. The database will help us track it better,” said a government source. Tracking Chinese and other sensitive investments was part of issues flagged by the security agencies a few months ago, which had also suggested region and sector-specific checks. But the proposal was on the backburner. Sources said that for the moment, the home ministry’s guidelines on certain sectors such as atomic energy and on investments near the international borders is being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/laws-to-be-tweaked-for-check-on-chinese-fdi/articleshow/76520043.cms||Sidhartha
June 23, 2020||India||Covid deaths cross 14,000; slight dip in fresh cases||NEW DELHI: The death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic in India crossed 14,000 on Monday even as the number of new cases fell marginally below the 15,000-mark for the first time in three days. With 314 deaths reported by state governments during the day, the toll from the virus had risen to 14,006, just two days after crossing the 13,000 mark. Total Covid-19 cases in the country went past 4.4 lakh while 2.47 lakh patients had recovered from the infection. This was the first time in six days that the daily count of cases did not touch a new peak. During this six-day period, the country has recorded more than 87,000 fresh coronavirus cases. There were 14,778 new cases recorded on Monday, down from the previous day’s record figure of 15,372. The infection surged to a new single-day high in Tamil Nadu, which reported 2,710 cases, as well as Telangana (872), Kerala (138), Nagaland (69) and Manipur (57). In Maharashtra, there was almost no respite in Covid-19 infections as the state added 3,721 cases on Monday, taking its tally to 1,35,796. Maharashtra has been reporting 3,000-plus cases daily for the past six days now. This is despite the state claiming weekly growth rate of cases has dipped to 3%. The state added 113 deaths to its overall toll on Monday, though it said 51 of them are from previous weeks. The other 62 deaths have occurred over the last 48 hours, said officials, adding that Maharashtra’s toll now stands at 6,283. Experts have, however, pointed out that there continues to be glaring flaws in death reporting, as is evident from volumes being added from the past. Mumbai reported 66 deaths on Monday, but officials said only 20 were reported to them in the last 24 hours and the rest were fatalities that occurred before June 19. In Delhi, the count of new cases fell to 2,909 after recording 3,000-plus infections for the past few days. In Tamil Nadu, no district was left untouched as the state recorded its highest-ever daily count of 2,710 cases on Monday. The total number of cases in the state soared to 62,087 and the toll reached 794 after 37 deaths. While Chennai continued to remain the worst-hit district with 1,487 fresh cases, Madurai, which will go into lockdown from Wednesday, recorded 157 cases. In the north, Tiruvannamalai logged 139 fresh cases followed by Chengalpet(126), Tiruvallur (120), Kancheepuram (56) and Cuddalore (63). Three other districts that recorded more than 50 cases were Tuticorin (63), Ranipet (52) and Tiruchi (51). The doubling time – period it takes for the total number of cases to double – has been pushed to 16 days (with a seven-day average) in Tamil Nadu and 18 days in Chennai, as per calculations by epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. A day after Gujarat recorded the highest single-day tally of 580 on Sunday, the next 24 hours recorded the second highest tally of 563, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in state to 27,880. However, the number of active cases is now at 22.5% (6,278) in the state. The state also recorded 21 deaths and 560 discharges, taking the death toll to 1658 and total discharges to 19,917 – 6.1% and 71.4% of total cases respectively. In the past 24 days, it’s only the second time that the daily death toll has gone below 20 deaths for Ahmedabad district. For Surat, it was the highest daily death toll in four days. Ahmedabad recorded 314 new cases, followed by 132 from Surat, 44 from Vadodara and 10 from Jamnagar. In Andhra Pradesh, a ruling party legislator from Vizianagaram tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday as the state reported 443 Covid-19 cases and five more deaths. The MLA recently returned from the USA after visiting his daughter and also attended the state assembly session and participated in the Rajya Sabha voting. He is now under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-deaths-cross-14000-slight-dip-in-fresh-cases/articleshow/76520103.cms||---
June 23, 2020||India||CA kills wife in Bengaluru, her mom & self in Kolkata||A chartered accountant flew to Bengaluru last weekend to kill his estranged wife at her Whitefield residence before returning to Kolkata, where he shot dead his mother-in-law and then killed himself at an upscale residential complex in North Kolkata on Monday evening, report Dwaipayan Ghosh & Rajiv Kalkod. The murder-murder-suicide came amid acrimonious divorce proceedings that might have also involved a property dispute, police said. Amit and Shilpi Agarwal, also a CA, had been living separately since last the two years after their marriage turned sour. Amit brought their 10-year-old son from Bengaluru with him on Monday and dropped him at his uncle’s house before heading to his in-laws’ place Phoolbagan, police said. Neighbours told cops they heard arguments “appeared to be” over some property documents that Amit wanted his in-laws — 70-year-old Subhas and 62-year-old Lalita Dhandhania — to sign.  The first gunshot was heard a little before 6.30pm, following which Subhas ran out of his flat, bolted the door from outside and took refuge inside his next-door neighbour’s apartment. Police arrived a few minutes later to find Amit and his mother-in-law dead. Police found a suicide note from the flat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ca-kills-wife-in-bengaluru-her-mom-self-in-kolkata/articleshow/76520180.cms||---
June 23, 2020||India||News gets more space on AIR Tibetan service||NEW DELHI: Even as India works the diplomatic and military channels to de-escalate border tensions with China, public broadcaster Prasar Bharati is ensuring that the Indian viewpoint on crucial geo-political issues reaches the areas bordering the northern neighbour. The content, which historically focused on songs, cultural content and news, is also being given a sharper focus in recent months, with Bollywood music being stopped altogether on AIR’s Tibetan service, and news and commentary taking up more space. The government has doubled down on its efforts to ramp up the broadcaster’s reach through multiple platforms after it learnt that the Chinese have been jamming All India Radio’s Chinese World Service on shortwave radio. To ensure uninterrupted supply, government sources told TOI that both Chinese and Tibetan service are now also available through the direct-to-home (DTH) satellite free dish platform and through YouTube, which was operationalised earlier this year. “Many of these services have existed since the 1950s but were not leveraged adequately and there was limited audience. With digital services available since 2017 and YouTube access in the last few months, the reach has increased and improvements will be made as we receive feedback,” a government official said. TOI has learnt the government is tapping into Indian think-tanks like the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Manohar Parrikar Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses and Indian Council of World Affairs for topical and focused commentaries on relevant issues. Border regions spreading from Kashmir and Ladakh, to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh can also access radio broadcasts through AIR’s News On Air mobile app. “What is critical is that the satellite services not only ensure last-mile connectivity of Indian regions, but are also easily accessed through DTH networks in Nepal and Bhutan,” the official said. Though sharper news content is in focus, sources told TOI the public broadcaster is also working on India’s soft power projection. Through Doordarshan’s Arun Prabha channel for Arunachal Pradesh, for instance, Prasar Bharati is beaming, for the first time, the Jataka tales, presented in the Tibetan-Buddhist tradition. Arunachal’s first reality show — Sadak ke Superstar — is another programme curated by DD to tap into the region’s local talent. DD’s English channel, DD India, on the other hand, beams content not just to the Indian subcontinent, but also to Bangladesh and South Korea. The pubcaster, a government official told TOI, is also planning to set aside TV slots for targeted content for Ladakh on DD Kashir, and separate slots for Sikkimese content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/news-gets-more-space-on-air-tibetan-service/articleshow/76520198.cms||Swati Mathur
June 23, 2020||India||You ‘abjectly surrendered’ hundreds of sq km, BJP hits back at Manmohan||NEW DELHI: BJP president JP Nadda on Monday hit back at Manmohan Singh saying that as the PM, he had “abjectly surrendered” hundreds of square kilometres of India’s land to China and presided over 600 incursions made by the neighbouring country during 2010-13. Through a series of tweets after Singh targeted PM Modi over his handling of the ongoing stand-off with China, Nadda said the senior Congress functionary and his party should stop “insulting” the forces repeatedly and questioning their valour. “They did this post the air strikes and surgical strikes,” he said. Nadda tweeted that Singh’s statement was mere “word play”. “Sadly, the conduct and actions of top leaders of the Congress party will not make any Indian believe such statements,” he said, adding, “Remember, this is the same Congress that always questions and demoralises our armed forces.” In the last few days, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi has also been accusing the government of “surrendering” territory to Chinese aggression. The BJP president said India fully trusts and supports PM Narendra Modi. “130 crore Indians have seen his administrative experience in some of the most testing times, particularly how he has always put the well-being of the nation over and above everything else,” he said. Nadda said Singh rightly calls for unity. He then added that these strong words on paper fall flat when people see exactly who is vitiating the atmosphere of unity. “Hope Dr Singh is able to prevail on his own party at least,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/you-abjectly-surrendered-hundreds-of-sq-km-bjp-hits-back-at-manmohan/articleshow/76520437.cms||---
June 23, 2020||India||All 3 suspects in 2016 Tamil Nadu caste killing are now free||CHENNAI: Four years and a quarter after the caste killing of Dalit youth Shankar in Udumalpet in Tamil Nadu, the first-accused Chinnaswamy escaped the noose when the Madras high court acquitted him of all charges on Monday. He was among six men facing death penalty for Shankar’s murder and the near-fatal injuries suffered by his 19-yearold daughter Kaushalya. In its 311-page judgment, the HC also refused to overturn the trial court’s order acquitting Chinnaswamy’s wife Annalakshmi and brother-inlaw Pandithurai. With this, all three main suspects — Kaushalya’s parents and maternal uncle — are free now. The division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar also commuted the death penalty of five others into life imprisonment, but made it clear they have to serve a minimum of 25 years of imprisonment without any benefit of early release. A dissatisfied Kaushalya said she would take the case to the Supreme Court on appeal, and that she would not rest till her parents — Chinnaswamy and Annalakshmi — were punished. “If they were not party to the murder, Shankar would have been alive,” she told reporters minutes after the verdict. Shankar and Kausalya got to know each other while they were studying in a private engineering college in Pollachi, and married against the wishes of her parents. On March 13, 2016, a gang hacked the couple in broad daylight at Udumalpet in Tirupur district. While Shankar suffered 32 cuts and died, Kausalya survived the attack. The HC said the prosecution failed to provide the chain of circumstances linking Chinnaswamy’s connection to the actual assailants, and pointed out that its theories, including claims that he had made arrangements for their stay, that he withdrew money from an ATM to pay the assailants and that he met some of them at a party to discuss the murder plan were not proved beyond reasonable doubt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-3-suspects-in-2016-tamil-nadu-caste-killing-are-now-free/articleshow/76520685.cms||Sureshkumar
June 23, 2020||India||Demand up but NREGS work generation is at 50%: Audit||NEW DELHI: A central audit has found it intriguing that the work generated under MGNREGS remains half of the entitled 100 days per household annually despite a noticeable higher demand in states, urging the Centre to order a study on the mismatch. Crucially, the audit has termed the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha), which oversees the implementation of central schemes in every district, unwieldy and virtually nonfunctional. Stopping just short of calling for its disbanding, the audit has urged the Centre to review the body. For years, District Vigilance and Monitoring Committees had the oversight mandate of a handful of schemes run by the rural development ministry but in 2016, they were superseded by Disha which was charged with monitoring 41 central schemes ranging from infrastructure and power, education and food security to rural development. As per the Common Review Mission-2019, commissioned by the RD ministry, work given under MGNREGS is much less than the demand among people. In 2019, the average work per household was 48 days. It was a bit higher at 50 days in 2018 and lower at 45 days in 2017. This is around half the entitled 100 days a year for every household. It was 45 days in 2013. Given that the scheme is demand-driven without being fettered by budgetary concerns, the lower allocation of work has generally been attributed to less need for distress labour among the rural poor. But the CRM audit has given this entrenched belief a twist, even suggesting an oblique link between demandsupply work mismatch and the fact that the “MGNREGS wage rates in the states are less than corresponding minimum wages of states”. It says: “A study may be undertaken for reviewing the wage rate under MGNREGS and the reasons why number of days of work provided per household is less than half of the entitlement despite the fact that in several places visited by CRM, the demand for more work was articulated.” Interestingly, even in the high-demand season of the pandemic, as noted by TOI on June 3, the work generated remained much lower than the massive turnout of households under the job scheme. In the first 45 days after MGNREGS resumed following the lockdown, the average work per household was only 17 person days. About Disha, the CRM has noted it has not made any significant impact, riddled as it is by irregular meetings, poor processes and lack of action on its recommendations. “In one UP district, its agenda ran into 500 pages, making it very difficult for any purposive monitoring,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demand-up-but-nregs-work-generation-is-at-50-audit/articleshow/76520723.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 23, 2020||India||4 railways divisions achieve 100% punctuality||NEW DELHI: Four divisions of railways including the Delhi division on Sunday reported 100% punctuality of special trains being run by the Indian Railways. All 88 trains terminating in Delhi division ran on time, railway ministry officials said. The other three divisions reporting punctuality were Agra, Jhanshi and Prayagraj under the North Central Railway Zone. Early this month, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav had directed all zonal heads to ensure 100% punctuality in the running of 230 special trains. The railways had received criticism for delays in running these trains. Sources said it was a matter of concern since the number of trains being run is less than 2% of the 13,000 trains which railways normally run on its network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-railways-divisions-achieve-100-punctuality/articleshow/76520797.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||N Chandrasekaran appointed on RBI board again||MUMBAI: The Centre has re-nominated Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran as a non-official director on the board of the RBI for another two years beyond March, 2020, the banking regulator said. Chandrasekaran was first appointed on the RBI board in January 2016 for a period of four years. His term had ended in early March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chandra-appointed-on-rbi-board-again/articleshow/76518401.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt plans mental hospital on Kalyani medical college campus||KOLKATA/KALYANI: The Bengal government is going to set up a new mental hospital in Kalyani on the JNM Medical College and Hospital campus. According to a Nabanna official, the construction will start immediately and chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to flag off the project soon. The facility will have 50 beds — 25 each for men and women. The state is going to spend around Rs 50 crore on the project, with the construction cost estimated to be around Rs 33 crore, an official said. Principal of JNM Medical College and Hospital Dr Keshab Mukhopadhyay said the new hospital will have six stories with 7,000sqft space on each floor. A hostel facility has also been planned. “It will be a centre of excellence under National Mental Health Programme. The state will bear 40% project cost and the rest will be borne by the Centre,” said Kaustav Chakraborty, head of psychiatry department, JNM Medical College and Hospital. Psychologist Tapas Ray said there must be provision for admission of at least 3,000 patients with mental health problems in the state at any given time. Mahendra Singh, president, West Bengal Mental Health Forum, agreed the new mental hospital will be of help. Speaking of the need for more such facilities, an official said in Lumbini Mental Hospital that has 200 beds, often 215 patients are admitted and in the 250-bed Pavlov, nearly 700 patients are admitted at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-plans-mental-hosp-on-kalyani-med-college-campus/articleshow/76518766.cms||Ashis Poddar
June 23, 2020||Patna||Minister urges farmers to join ‘kisan pathshalas’||GAYA: State agriculture minister Prem Kumar has exhorted the farmers of Gaya district to join ‘kisan pathshalas’ so that they can study the behavioural pattern of monsoon and select the right type of crop for cultivation accordingly. The district has been witnessing sub-normal monsoon activity with rainfall deficit for more than one decade. It has also seen uneven distribution of rain and water shortage during the crucial cropping period. The average rainfall recorded in Gaya was reportedly 1,131.4mm till a couple of decades back. However, district magistrate Abhishek Singh recently said the average rain in the district had gone down by nearly 15%. An agriculturist from the Tekari block area, Baliram Sharma, pointed out, “Rain deficit in the crucial period of July and the first half of August causes major problems for farmers. To make matters worse, none of the eight rivers in the district is of perennial nature and depends on monsoon.” According to a statement issued by Narendra Lohani, officer on special duty to the agriculture minister, the farmers of Gaya district have been advised to join ‘kisan pathshalas’ to learn agriculture management techniques and shift in cropping patterns to deal with the vagaries of monsoon. Such ‘pathshalas’ are organized at the block level during both the kharif and rabi sowing seasons. “The government gives a grant of Rs 29,414 for each ‘pathshala’ which is tailored to local conditions like quality of soil, moisture content and other relevant factors,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-urges-farmers-to-join-kisan-pathshalas/articleshow/76516719.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||Chirag talks to Maharashtra CM, seeks proper inquiry into SSR’s death||PATNA: Political leaders in state continue to raise the demand for a detailed investigation into the alleged suicide of Bollywood actor and Patna boy Sushant Singh Rajput. LJP national president Chirag Paswan talked to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday and requested him conduct a fair and detailed enquiry into Sushant’s death. Chirag also wrote to Maharashtra CM, requesting him to conduct a thorough inquiry, identify and take action against people involved in alleged ‘groupism’ in Bollywood, which apparently forced Sushant to commit suicide in his apartment at Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Former president of BJP’s Delhi unit and MP Manoj Tiwari met Sushant’s family at their residence here on Monday. After offering condolence and consoling the family members, Tiwari said detailed inquiry by CBI is the need of the hour to find out reasons which prompted Sushant to take such an extreme step. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had also met Sushant’s family here last week. “There should be a thorough inquiry into the matter,” Modi had said after coming out of Sushant’s Rajiv Nagar residence on Sunday. On his telephonic conversation with Thackeray, Chirag said, “I spoke to Thackreyji for around five minutes and told him that Sushant’s family and his fans are in deep grief. There is palpable anger against groupism in film industry. I told Thackreyji that I have also written to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on the matter. The Maharashtra CM told me that police are investigating the matter and nobody will be spared if found guilty,” Chirag said. Talking about his interaction with Sushant, Manoj Tiwari said, “MS Dhoni-The Untold Story was produced by my brother-in-law. Right from selection of Sushant for the movie to the making of film, I always saw a bright future for Sushant. I never thought that he will leave us so soon, but we have to accept it. Sushant is being missed by entire world.” On alleged nepotism in Bollywood, Tiwari said the industry is a very difficult place for newcomers from small towns. “If somehow, someone rises to make a mark in the industry, there are many forces who try to pull him down. It is strange how can a boy, who did not succumb to deep emotional loss due to the demise of his mother when he was in Class X, take such an extreme step.” Tiwari echoed the demand for a CBI enquiry into Sushant’s death. “We have demanded a high level inquiry into the matter. If his family and fans are demanding CBI inquiry, the Maharashtra government should pay heed to it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-talks-to-maharashtra-cm-seeks-proper-inquiry-into-ssrs-death/articleshow/76516562.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 23, 2020||Patna||Fuel pinch: Petrol at Rs 82.65, diesel rises to Rs 76.19 in Bihar||PATNA: In the two weeks since Unlock 1.0 was announced, petrol price has gone up by Rs 6.3 per litre and diesel is now by Rs 7.28 per litre in the state. On Monday, petrol sold at Rs 82.65 per litre in the city and diesel for Rs 76.19 per litre, which is the highest this year so far. In the past 24 hours, diesel price went up by 42 paise while petrol became costlier by 15 paise in the state. Ajay Kumar, manager of Bharat Petroleum outlet at Dak Bunglow, said prices of petroleum products continued to rise for the 22nd consecutive day on Monday. “Petrol prices crossed the Rs 80-mark on June 15. The sale has also been affected partially from lockdown and increasing prices of petrol and diesel,” he said. He added, “On an average, we sold 12,000-13,000 litres of petroleum products per day, but now we are able to sale less than 10,000 litres per day. The sale has plummeted by 20%.” Vijay Kumar, sales executive of a filing station at Gandhi Maidan, said, “Around 40% of our customers are auto-rickshaw drivers but since the prices are increasing, a few have stopped ferrying or reduced their fuel intake. Besides, the number of vehicles is still low amid the lockdown. This has led to a decline in sale of petroleum products.” According to data provided by the oil companies, sales have increased compared to last month’s figure. Around 70,122 kilolitres of petrol was sold in the state in June (from June 1 to June 21) against 39,372 kilolitres in May during the same period. The sale of diesel in the same period in June was 1,59,060 kilolitres compared to 1,27,156 kilolitres in May. Economist DM Diwakar told this newspaper on Monday that there are two reasons behind the increase in sale of crude oil in the state. “Firstly, after unlock phase one people are coming out on road and secondly, the Kharif season has begun. Farmers in Bihar have started plantation and they need diesel and petrol for farming,” he said. “As far as prices of petrol and diesel are concerned, the Centre has hiked the excised duty on petroleum products to cover up the losses and in a bid to take advantage of low prices of oil in international market. Besides, the state government has increased the VAT on diesel and petrol to improve the economic condition. Even though the international market prices of crude oil has not changed much,” said Diwakar, also a professor at the A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies Over the past three months, the Centre has hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel twice and also some state governments have raised VAT on the two fuels in a bid to take advantage of the low oil prices and mop up additional revenues through taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fuel-pinch-petrol-at-rs-82-65-diesel-rises-to-rs-76-19-in-bihar/articleshow/76516525.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 23, 2020||Patna||Manjhi to meet Sonia on GA issues in Bihar||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi will call on Congress president Sonia Gandhi to apprise her of the grand alliance (GA) affairs in the state. Manjhi’s move is purported to send out a signal that he has been trying to salvage the anti-BJP political combine in the state and in no way involved in wrecking it, observers feel. “We are trying our level best to keep the grand alliance strong,” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said. Manjhi would leave for Delhi on Tuesday. “An appointment with her (Sonia) has already been fixed,” Rizwan said. However, whatever the outcome of his meeting with Sonia, Manjhi sticks to his demand for a coordination committee of the grand alliance by June 25. RJD has taken it as his “pressure tactics”. Manjhi has kept his option open on walking out of the grand alliance, if his demand is not complied with. In fact, on Monday, he made one more demand that the grand alliance “make any poor worker an MLC”, whatever that might mean. From among the grand alliance partners, RJD is set to win three MLC seats and Congress one from the state assembly constituency as per their strength in the House. The lone HAM(S) MLA is Manjhi himself. Among others, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) headed by Mukesh Sahni have no MLA. Rizwan said Manjhi, who had been with the NDA in the past, insisted that he would in no case rejoin the NDA. “There is no possibility of our entering the NDA. However, we will wait till June 25 for the formation of the coordination committee. Only after that we will take our own decision,” Rizwan said. “At present, we are firmly in the grand alliance, but also equally firm on our demand for the coordination committee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-to-meet-sonia-on-ga-issues-in-bihar/articleshow/76516595.cms||Abhay Singh
June 23, 2020||Patna||Met: Intensity of rain to increase from tomorrow||PATNA: Patna and several other parts of the state witnessed light to moderate rainfall on Monday. According to weathermen, the rainy spell will continue over the next four to five days with increase in intensity from Wednesday onwards. North Bihar is likely to receive comparatively more rainfall. The Patna Meteorological Centre has stated that rainfall with thunderstorm would occur at a few places in central and western parts and at many places in eastern parts of the state on Tuesday. It said light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places in the state over the last 24 hours. The places which received significant rainfall included Rosera (50mm), Indrapuri, Kudra, Taibpur, Tribeniganj, Madhepura, Deo, Jhanjharpur, Maharajganj and Supaul (20mm each). Meteorologist Sanjay Kumar said favourable position of a trough line along with other weather parameters are lading to conducive conditions for rainfall in the state. “The intensity of rainfall will increase from Wednesday onwards and it would continue for at least three to four days thereafter. It would be primarily focused in north Bihar, with several districts including West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Samastipur and Muzafarpur expected to receive moderate to heavy rainfall,” Sanjay said. He added that conditions are conductive for rainfall across the state till the end of this month. “After a long time, southwest monsoon season has been quite good this time. Apart from timely onset, monsoon has been active on most days,” Sanjay said. Southwest monsoon made its onset in Bihar on June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-intensity-of-rain-to-increase-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76516653.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Surat||FOSTTA bans delivery of finished, unfinished fabrics in market||Surat: With the cases of coronavirus on the rise in Limbayat zone, the the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) has taken a decision for not allowing the finished and unfinished fabric parcels from the powerloom units and textile mills for one week starting June 22.FOSTTA office-bearers stated that the representatives had organised a meeting with the municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, to discuss about the operational issues at the textile markets due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases at the Limbayat and central zone of the city on Saturday.It has been decided to keep the markets operational from 9 am to 7 pm by strictly banning the entry of workers and others coming from the containment zones and hotspot areas. The traders will have to strictly follow social distancing rules and compulsory checking of the people coming into the market with thermal guns.“A decision has been taken to ban the delivery of grey fabrics and finished fabrics from the powerloom units and textile mills into the markets. However, the parcels containing value addition of the fabrics will be allowed in the markets,” said Champalal Bothra, secretary of FOSTTA. “About 40% of the markets have become operational .The chewing of tobacco and smoking has been strictly prohibited and that the market managements will be fixing fine amount for those caught in the markets,” added Bothra. “The workers in the markets and textile traders arriving from other states will have to remain in the home quarantine strictly for 14 days. There will be no entry of children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years in the textile markets,” said Manoj Agarwal, president of FOSTTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fostta-bans-delivery-of-finished-unfinished-fabrics-in-market/articleshow/76518165.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||City youths try to get Sunderbans economy on track||Kolkata: A month after Amphan ravaged Bengal, the people of Sunderbans are still struggling to get back on their feet. Since then, many groups from Kolkata have been reaching out with essentials and trying to create alternative livelihoods for villagers who suffered back-to-back crises — lockdown and the cyclone. Swarnabha Dey and his friends have been providing essentials to villages in Sunderbans for the past month. Now, in a step to rebuild Sunderbans, the group has provided 100 families of Amrapara village with 10 chickens each and taught them poultry farming. Dey said, “The families will now have to provide 10 hens for another needy family in a year.” Law student Noor Mahvish and his group Metiaburz Youths have visited many villages in Sunderbans with ration kits, medicines, sanitary napkins and tarpaulin sheets. They are being helped by Al-Imdad Charitable Trust in this initiative. “It is the minimum we could do for these people,” said Noor. Calcutta Foodies Club, too, reached out to 300 people in Kakmari,150 in Glasskhali and 400 in K Plot with ration packs. The projects were run in association with the forest department and the Block Development Office. “We want to assist people with sustainable livelihood to bring the economy back on track,” said Avishek Sinha of the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-youths-try-to-get-sunderbans-economy-on-track/articleshow/76518778.cms||Dipawali Mitra
June 23, 2020||Hubballi||Amid Covid threat, education dept gears up to hold SSLC exams||Dharwad: Amid anxiety over the spread of Covid 19 and opposition from a section of parents, the education department is gearing up to conduct SSLC examinations from June 25 to July 3. Hectic preparations are on in nine districts of the north-west division of the department of public instruction to hold the examinations in fair and safe manner. The division comprises of Dharwad, Belagavi, Chikodi, Uttara Kannada, Sirsi, Vijayapura and Bagalot educational districts. Additional commissioner of public instruction Siddalingayya Hiremath told TOI that the examinations will be held at 737 centers spread over nine educational districts. In addition, 120 ‘Covid centres’ have been set up which will serve as standby. Each taluk will have a minimum of two centres and in each block 18-20 candidates will be seated. In all 2,24,979 candidates will appear for the examination and of them 6,040 are private candidates. As many as 2,000 students who have gone to their native places during lockdown have opted to write the examination at their nearest centres. The commissioner said all the candidates will be provided two masks each free of cost. Social distancing of 3ft will be ensured. On entry, all the students will be tested for temperature and will be sanitized .Those with symptoms of illness will be allowed to write the examination in a separate hall. The students will be asked to bring their own materials like water bottles. Transport will be provided to those who need to reach the exam centre. The deputy commissioners have been requested to keep the hostels open for students to stay in. The exam will be held from 10.30am to 1.30pm and the candidates have to be present at the centere at 9am to facilitate testing and sanitizing, Hiremath said. About 12,000 teachers and non-teaching staff will manage the exams. There will be vigilance squads, CCTV cameras and other security measures to ensure fair conduct of exams, he added. Hiremath called upon to students to face the exams with confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/amid-covid-threat-education-dept-gears-up-to-hold-sslc-exams/articleshow/76519964.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 23, 2020||Business||Murugappa Group reports net profit growth at 2.8% for FY20||Chennai: Business conglomerate Murugappa Group reported a 2.8% growth in net profit at Rs 2,946 crore for the year-ended March 31, 2020, compared to the previous year. Its profit-after-tax excluding special provision of financialsServices companies — Cholamandalam Investment & Finance and Chola MS — grew by 20.4% at Rs 3,489 crore.The Chennai-headquartered group’s turnover grew by 3.3% at Rs 38,105 crore during 2019-20 on a yearly-basis. Market capitalization of the listed companies stands at Rs 46,683 crore as of March 31, 2020. The group has 28 businesses including nine listed companies traded in NSE and BSE.The Group’s insurance business, Chola MS’s premium collections fell 0.7% in premium collection. Revenue of cycles and accessories business also fell to Rs 781 crore this year, compared to Rs 1,238 crore in the previous year, due to exit from institutional sales. Its NBFC arm, Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company aggregate loan disbursements declined by 4% at Rs 29,091 crores for the year ended March 20, as against the previous year. “There was a strong focus on improving cash flows and reducing debt. We have also been prudent in making suitable provisions arising out of economic conditions and the impact of the pandemic,” said MM Murugappan, chairman of the group in a statement.The group companies registered a lower capex of Rs 1,009 crore in 2019-20, with a total spend in two years (2018-19 and 2019-20) at Rs 1,610 crore as against the plan of Rs 2,000 crore. In the current financial year (FY21), EID Parry has sold 2% stake in its subsidiary, Coromandel International Limited, aggregating to a value of Rs 368 crore in the current financial year (FY21). “The proceeds from the sale will be utilized towards reduction of debt,” the company’s statement said. During the year, the group manufacturing entities have reduced loan outstanding of Rs 1,540 crores leading to an improvement in total debt equity from 0.74 times as on March 31, 2019 to 0.47 times as on March 31, 2020. The working capital in comparison to the total loan is at 1.42 times (previous year 1.22 times). Its manufacturing entities also had generated a free cash flow of Rs 1,903 crore, as against reporting loss of Rs 30 crore in the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/murugappa-group-reports-net-profit-growth-at-2-8-for-fy20/articleshow/76518742.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||Glenmark’s stock up 40% on Covid drug||TNN Mumbai: Glenmark Pharmaceuticals’ stock rallied 40% in early trades on Monday on the BSE and closed with a 27% gain after the company launched oral antiviral Favipiravir in the country over the weekend.The drug is meant to treat mild Covid-19 infections. Cipla’s stock too rallied over 9% and closed 4% up on news that the generics major also got regulatory nod to launch a drug to treat Covid-19. Glenmark closed at Rs 520 and Cipla closed at Rs 656. Despite Glenmark’s stellar run on the bourse, boosted by the news of its launch of a Covid drug, analysts are not sure how effective the drug — Favipiravir — could be for the treatment of the coronavirus. “It is very difficult to estimate financial impact at this stage considering uncertainty over potential Covid-19 patients and its longevity,” a report by ICICI Securities said. The broking house maintained its estimates and raised the price target for the stock to Rs 488 from Rs 390 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glenmarks-stock-up-40-on-covid-drug/articleshow/76518619.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Surat||Jhagadia told to plug effluent leak into sea||Surat: Taking suo moto cognizance of the allegations of untreated industrial effluents being discharged directly into the sea by industries located at Jhagadia estate, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) to ensure compliance of setting up final effluent treatment plant (FETP), providing guard pond as per consent conditions and also conduct hydro test to ascertain leakage.The allegations claimed that in violation of environmental norms, effluents from Jhagadia to Kantiyajal are being discharged into the sea through a pipeline. The order of June 19 has also asked the GPBC to file its report with the green court within two months of the order. “In view of the consent conditions which are binding, FETP and guard pond of the capacity mentioned in the consent conditions must be provided. Hydro testing may also be ensured within two months from date of this order, failing which GPCB may take further action for violation of the consent conditions in accordance with law, including recovery of compensation,” NGT order read. "We are happy with the NGT order and it’s now up to the GPCB to comply with the order and ensure that all environment laws are being followed,'' ,” Jayesh Patel, secretary, Narmada Pradushan Nivaran Samitee, (Ankleshwar), told TOI.Patel said that they have been writing about the issue of untreated discharge being poured into the sea to the governments since 2009. In October 2019, NGT formed a joint committee of CPCB, Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) and GPCB to submit an action taken report. NGT order further stated that “Hydro test is not required though GPCB has issued notice with reference to the leakage incidents on 4 November, 2019 and imposed interim compensation of Rs 10 lakh on November, 2019 to be deposited by the Narmada Clean Tech Ltd. (NCTL).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jhagadia-told-to-plug-effluent-leak-into-sea/articleshow/76518285.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||New machine installed at RMRI for Covid tests||PATNA: With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) installing Cobas 6800 machine at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) here on Monday, the number of Covid-19 tests in the state is expected to increase manifold in the next couple of days. The sophisticated machine, enabled with robotics, minimises the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to healthcare workers. It has the capability to conduct up to 1,500 tests per day. RMRI director Dr Pradeep Das said the machine has been installed and the two-day training of doctors, who will conduct the Covid tests, has also started. “We are hopeful that tests through Cobas 6800 machine would begin from June 24 or 25,” he said. Dr Das said the number of tests at RMRI would touch 3,000 from 2,000 per day after the new facility becomes operational. “The test results will be out in just three hours with the use of the new machine. The RT-PCR machines used to take at least seven hours to complete the process,” Dr Das said. “To increase the testing capacity of the country @ICMRDELHI has set up a high throughput machine in @rmrims Patna! It can test up to 1500 samples per day (sic),” the ICMR tweeted. According to health department sources, around 6,500 Covid tests are conducted at several testing facilities in the state per day. In last 24 hours, 6,550 samples were tested at different labs in the state – 2,038 at RMRI, 922 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science, 715 at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, 488 at AIIMS- Patna, 410 at Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital, Muzaffarpur, 241 at Patna Medical College and Hospital and 126 at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Bhagalpur. The remaining 1,610 samples were tested through Truenat machines at different centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-machine-installed-at-rmri-for-covid-tests/articleshow/76516839.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 23, 2020||Business||Top health companies launch telemed line||BENGALURU: A group of 100 organisations have come together to set up a not-for-profit telemedicine initiative called Swasth to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. These organisations include India’s top and largest hospital chains like Apollo and Manipal, diagnostic labs Metropolis and SRL, along with technology startups Practo, 1MG, Mfine and Curefit. The initiative is being spearheaded by Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan and former banker & philanthropist Nachiket Mor, among others. It has a capacity to reach 50,000 doctor consultations a day with an eventual target of reaching 2 million as it will continue to operate in the post-pandemic era as well. Swasth aims to be a one-stop-shop to deal with Covid-19 — from understanding the seriousness of symptoms, to directing patients to test centres close to their home, to training them about home quarantine and also directing them to hospitals with available beds. Players in the healthcare space see a fundamental shift due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the telemedicine space. “The biggest change has been in patients’ behaviour that we went from about zero teleconsults at Manipal, sporadically for a second opinion, to 300-500 teleconsults a day overnight,” said Manipal Education and Medical Group CEO Ranjan Pai. He is part of the governing council of Swasth. The platform was conceptualised in April and has been running in trial mode for the last four weeks with 5,000 consultations already done. The building blocks of the tech for the plan are being open-sourced from existing telemedicine players. Swasth has about 2,000 doctors on board, some of whom are working pro-bono while others are offered a nominal amount of Rs 100 per consult. Initially, the services are being offered in Hindi, English and Gujarati with plans to expand into more languages, besides tying up with state government authorities. “Typically, what happens is that the top 10% of the people will get access to doctors and consultations, while the remaining 90% will find it difficult. We don’t want to overwhelm the hospital system and make sure patients reach hospital when they are critically ill as, in 80% cases, they are going to recover,” said Gopalakrishnan. He is also on the governing council of the initiative. While the consultations are free right now, the platform will charge customers in the post-Covid era. The initial consultation for Covid-19 related queries is free right now. But eventually, the platform will start charging customers once the pandemic eases with plans to tie up with insurance companies for payments as well, according to Gopalakrishnan. For now, Swasth has raised Rs 10 crore from ACT Grants and is seeking another Rs 75 crore to ensure the operations can last for about one more year. The company is being registered under section 8 of Companies Act, allowing it to invest its profits but not pay dividends like the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which is behind payments infrastructure like UPI. Sharad Sharma, the co-founder of industry think tank iSPIRT, which has been instrumental in the launch of UPI and Bharat Health Stack, is also part of the governing council of Swasth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-health-cos-launch-telemed-line/articleshow/76518659.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||‘Jal satyagraha’ in Gopalganj for arrest of murder accused||PATNA: A number of residents of Bhore in Gopalganj district on Monday observed ‘jal satyagraha’ against police apathy to arrest the killers of businessman Ramashray Singh even after a year of the incident. The protesters, including women, with placards and banners stood in Lachchi Chak pond around 12 noon for over an hour demanding immediate arrest of the culprits involved in Singh’s murder. Singh (45) was shot dead when he had gone to his petrol pump under construction under Bhore police station on June 13 last year. His elder brother Harinarain Singh had lodged an FIR against nine people and apprehended the involvement of some high profile persons of the area. Though the alleged shooter Vishal Singh and one Prabhunath Singh were arrested, the other seven accused remained at large. The named accused included Braj Kishore Singh alias Buchi Singh and Raju Singh, stated to be close relatives of Vivek Singh, the alleged mastermind behind the murder. Vishal had reportedly told the interrogators that Vivek, also a resident of Bhore police station area, had given him the contract for Singh’s murder. The deceased had a dispute over a plot of land on which a multicomplex was being constructed. Police sources said Prabhunath of Bhore was released on bail from the Patna high court on August 30, 2019 while the property of four other accused was attached on the local court’s directive. The deceased’s wife Sunita Singh threatened to intensify the agitation if the culprits were not arrested soon. “We have been running from pillar to post to get justice. But nobody is paying heed to our grievances. We are apprehending fresh threat as the named accused were roaming freely in the area and intimidating witnesses,” she said. She alleged that the investigating officers were delaying the probe on the pretext of guidelines from the criminal investigation department, which has been asked by the police headquarters to assist in the investigation. “The investigation is proceeding at a snail’s pace despite the high court directive to arrest the accused at the earliest,” she told reporters in Gopalganj. Both DIG (Saran range) Vijay Kumar Verma and Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari could not be contacted despite repeated attempts on their cellphones to get comments. However, DSP Naresh Paswan said efforts were on to nab the absconding accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jal-satyagraha-in-gopalganj-for-arrest-of-murder-accused/articleshow/76516746.cms||Ramashankar
June 23, 2020||Surat||PUCL claims discrepancies in Covid data, SMC denies||Surat: The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has claimed in its report that results of at least 1,132 samples collected by health department for Covid-19 testing have been pending since March. However, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials denied the allegations.The report prepared by PUCL office bearers Krishankant Chauhan, Surat convener and Rohit Prajapti, national secretary, compared the figures declared during past three months. PUCL claimed, “Not only that less number of tests are being conducted but also there is mismanagement in compiling data that does not give the real picture of the status of the disease.” “There are clear mathematical mistakes in calculations of Covid-19 data. It is a question that these are genuine mistakes or an attempt to cover-up they provided wrong figures,” asks Prajapati. “If they cannot give proper data of tests how can we expect that they are giving the correct information,” he added further. “The (PUCL) analysis is wrong and the allegations are baseless. SMC has issued accurate data,” said A K Naik, deputy municipal commissioner, SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pucl-claims-discrepancies-in-covid-data-smc-denies/articleshow/76518346.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Surat||Floral diversity captured in e-herbarium||Surat: If you are keen about western ghat, more specifically South Gujarat’s floral diversity, satiate yourself with detailed knowledge at the e-herbarium. The South Dang Division of state forest department in association with the Department of Botany, M S University (Vadodara) has taken up a project to digitize plant specimens and upload it on the Waghai Botanical Garden (WBG) website. Spread across 24 hectares, the Waghai Garden in Dang district was established by the Forest department in 1966 and is the largest garden in the state. According to forest officers, it has 3,644 plant specimens belonging to 3,245 dicot, 399 monocot and 2 pteridophytes. Its unique herbaria has a collection of eminent taxonomists of the state. “We are updating the e-herbarium database on our website and will give open access to students, researchers, scholars and others interested in state’s flora. On an average, over 4 lakh people visit this botanical garden every year,” said Dinesh Rabari, deputy conservator of forests, south Dang division. Talking to TOI, PS Nager, associate professor, department of Botany, MS University, Vadodara, said, “We are authenticating plants, preserving and digitizing the plant specimens on the website. In some cases, if the specimens are not in good condition, these are collected again from the wild for preservation. WBG not only has a very good plant collection but also collections of prominent taxonomists like Dr R I Patel, Dr BG Vashi, Dr JR Parmar among others.” WBG comprises more than 1,200 plant species including 300 trees, 95 shrubs, over 450 herbs, 80 climbers, 25 palms, over 85 cactus and succulents, 24 types of bamboos and more. Study is still going on and we assume that the garden has more than 1,400 plant species,” said Roshan Kumar, a researcher, who is involved in the plant digitization project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/floral-diversity-captured-in-e-herbarium/articleshow/76518315.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 23, 2020||Business||Tirupur misses export target, domestic sales holds on||Chennai: Garment exports from Tirupur dropped to Rs 25,000 crore for the year ended March 2020, from Rs 26,000 crore in the previous year as Covid pandemic wiped away most of March exports. The target was to export garments worth Rs 28,000 crore. Domestic sales were flat at Rs 25000 crore for the fiscal. With nearly six lakh workers, Tirupur exports knitwear to global giants. With the Covid pandemic which started sweeping Western markets in February and March, shipments were impacted. “We hardly did any business for March. Several key markets for us were locked down and hence we could not achieve the targets,” said Raja M Shanmugam, president, Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA), an apex body of garment exporters. The bright spot was domestic sales, which remained unchanged at Rs 25,000 crore, even as the country’s economic growth slowed down. “Almost all global brands are now present in India and source from Tirupur. Our India business was flat,” Shanmugam added. With the restart of operations post Covid lockdown, he said exporters were operating at 40% to 50% of their rated capacity now. “This is the lean season for us. With guest workers leaving Tirupur, operations too are yet to gather momentum,” he added. The region employs nearly six lakh workers. Of these 2.5 lakh are guest workers who have since returned to their native towns fearing Covid outbreak. “Our domestic workers, nearly 3.5 lakh from other parts of the state have returned to work. We are in touch with the guest workers too, We hope they will return once railways commences regular services,” he said. Exporters aren’t too bothered about the present labour shortage. “We don't have many orders and since this is a lean season, it is not an issue. We will feel the labour pinch only by August or so, by which time, we hope they return,” Shanmugam said, Once things fall in place, TEA will release export projections by September. “Orders are limping, we are yet to get hold of the business. We can't comment on the market for 2020-21 till September,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tirupur-misses-export-target-domestic-sales-holds-on/articleshow/76518768.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 23, 2020||Surat||Diamond markets to remain shut on Saturday, Sunday||Surat: The diamond markets in Mahidharpura, Mini Bazaar and Choksi Bazaar will remain shut on the weekends as a matter of precaution after spike in the number of Covid-19 cases among people associated with the diamond industry. Diamond units will allow only two workers per emery wheel instead of four to maintain social distancing while units having centralized air-conditioning systems have been asked to provide better ventilation. Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidh Pani on Monday held a meeting with diamond industry stakeholders and discussed preventive measures to be taken in polishing units. The diamond polishing hub of Katargam has reported over 809 Covid-19 cases and more are surfacing daily. "We suggested that the floor of the polishing unit where Covid-19 positive case is detected should be shut and units should strictly follow hand hygiene practices and social distancing,' said Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). "A joint committee of SMC and SDA members will be set up to ensure that all polishing units follow the Covid-19 guidelines. The team will visit units and spread awareness about the coronavirus,” added SDA president Babu Kathiriya. Meanwhile, Surat city recorded over 100 new Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day even as five patients succumbed. Out of the 114 fresh cases on Monday, 41 were reported from Katargam zone followed by 15 in Varachha (A), 12 in Varachha (B) and 10 each from Athwa and Limbayat zones in the city. As many as 52 patients were discharged in the Surat city on Monday. Surat rural also recorded 19 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total to 341 till date. The cases were reported from Palsana, Olpad, Kamrej and Choryasi talukas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-markets-to-remain-shut-on-saturday-sunday/articleshow/76518202.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||40 PMCH docs, paramedical staff undergo Covid-19 test||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) administration on Monday tested 40 doctors and paramedical staff for Covid-19 after seven of its doctors, including five women medicos of gynaecology and anaesthesia department, were found infected by the virus late Sunday evening. “Those infected are under surveillance in separate rooms of the cottage ward,” PMCH principal Dr VP Choudhary told this newspaper. “We directed about 40 other doctors and paramedical staff of these two departments to undergo test. If needed, we may go for testing the doctors of other departments as well,” he said. The PMCH officials said four teams were constituted to collect samples from the 40 persons, while the department of microbiology was asked to work expeditiously and give the test reports by late Monday evening, so that further course of preventive measures could be initiated without any delay. “Doctors and staff have been put on roster duty in the cottage ward for providing medical facilities to those undergoing treatment there. However, as a precautionary step, there is also a plan for testing all doctors and paramedics of the cottage ward as there is a chance to contract the infection in course of offering medicare to others,” Dr Choudhary said. He added: “We are also in contact with the health department for offering them an option of home isolation, provided any or all of them agree to it. Wards of all departments were being sanitized to check the Covid virus spread.” Meanwhile, Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Choudhary said one doctor of a private hospital at Raja Bazar was also diagnosed Covid-positive. “As informed by the hospital administration, the doctor’s samples tested positive at the Sen lab and he was referred to the AIIMS-Patna for treatment,” he said, adding that no corona positive case was reported from any primary health centre or private hospital in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-pmch-docs-paramedical-staff-undergo-covid-19-test/articleshow/76516907.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||RJD workers protest outside Rabri Devi’s house||PATNA: RJD workers from Raghopur assembly constituency protested outside the bungalow of former CM Rabri Devi demanding nomination of party leader and former minister Uday Narayan Yadav alias Bhola Rai to the Vidhan Parishad. The biennial election to the nine legislative council seats through assembly quota is scheduled for July 6. One of the Rai’s supporters, Rajeev Ranjan, told reporters that they had come here after coming to know that his name was not shortlisted, though Rai was assured by the party in this regard. “He (Bhola) has done a lot for our area and deserves to be sent to Vidhan Parishad,” he said. The Rai supporters even dared the party to be face consequences in the upcoming assembly election if their demand was ignored. Rai, a close associate of Lalu, had won from Raghopur in 1980, 1985 and 1990. In 1995, he had left his sitting seat for Lalu, who won twice from this constituency. In 2005, Rabri contested from this seat and won. However, in 2010 she lost to JD(U)’s Satish Kumar. In 2015, Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was elected MLA from there. Sources said Rai was sent to Vidhan Parishad twice for helping the Lalu family in Raghopur. When asked about the ruckus in the party over candidature for Vidhan Parishad seats, RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan denied any protest. “Rather a few people had come to express their desire to send Bhola Babu to Vidhan Parishad. During election, such things are common in all the political parties. Bhola Babu is the party’s guardian and will not go against its wishes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-workers-protest-outside-rabris-house/articleshow/76517040.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 23, 2020||Business||Yes Bank defers tier-2 bond interest||MUMBAI: Yes Bank has informed the stock exchanges that it will skip interest payments on its upper tier-2 bonds, which are due on June 29, as it has not received permission for the same. The accumulated interest is likely to be soon after the bank completes its proposed Rs 15,000-crore capital raise, which is most likely to happen in next month. Although the interest payout is a minuscule amount (less than Rs 7 crore), the central bank has disallowed the bank from releasing funds, as it would violate the terms of the bond offer. The terms of the bonds do not permit interest payout if the bank’s capital adequacy falls below a certain threshold level. Upper tier-2 bonds are quasi-equity and despite being debt, qualify as equity because investors in these instruments get lesser priority as compared to other bonds. The upper tier-2 bonds offered interest of 10.5%. “The bank has adequate liquidity to meet all its obligations. For Basel II, upper tier-2 bonds, the specific features of the instrument require debt servicing to be linked to the bank meeting regulatory norms on capital adequacy. I would like to stress that the coupon on these bonds (Basel II, upper tier-2 bonds) is cumulative in nature and any unpaid sum will become payable once the bank meets minimum regulatory capital ratio,” said Yes Bank MD & CEO Prashant Kumar. Yes Bank’s capital adequacy slipped below the threshold despite a Rs 10,000-crore capital infusion by a consortium of banks led by SBI because of an extensive clean up of its books through provisions for bad loans. The bank now proposes to raise Rs 15,000 crore, most likely through a follow-on public issue. This would enable the bank to pay out the accumulated interest later. “The RBI has expressed its inability to accede to bank’s request for payment of interest due as on June 29, since the bank does not meet the minimum capital requirements currently. Therefore, the bank would be unable to pay interest/coupon on the said upper tier-2 bonds, which is due for payment on June 29,” the bank said in a statement to the exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-defers-tier-2-bond-interest/articleshow/76518472.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||Motorcycle stolen from Saran police station||PATNA: A motorbike was stolen from the premises of a police station in Saran district, much to the discomfiture of the senior police officers. The incident took place on the night of June 19 when three constables — Mukhdev Prasad Yadav, Chandi Lal Rai and Bachcha Kumar — were on night duty while Srichand Paswan was officer on duty. The incident came to light when a video of the stolen motorbike went viral on social media on Monday. SHO of Kopa police station Diwakar Kumar Kazi said the ‘malkhana’ incharge, who happens to be the custodian of seized exhibits in cases, has been asked to match the record to ensure that the bike had been stolen. A police complaint was lodged on the statement of the SHO with the Kopa police station against unidentified persons. The SHO said he assumed charge only three days ago and was not fully aware of the affairs at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/motorcycle-stolen-from-saran-police-station/articleshow/76517069.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||Tension with Nepal worries residents of border districts||PATNA: The situation along India-Nepal border in Bihar is getting murkier day by day and posing potential threat to the age-old cultural and ‘beti-roti’ relationship between the citizens of the two neighbouring countries. In a fresh jolt to the cordial relationship, the officials of Nepal government prevented the Indian authorities from carrying out the repair and anti-erosion work on the embankment of Lalbakeya river under Dhaka subdivision in East Champaran district. The anti-erosion and repair work is carried out every year, but Nepal has raised objections for the first time. The development assumed significance in the wake of a new political map approved by the Nepal parliament, claiming territorial command over key areas of Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand. On June 12, one Vikesh Rai, an Indian national, was killed and two others were injured in the firing by the Armed Police Force (APF) of Nepal under Sonbara block in Sitamarhi district. The family members of Vikesh are waiting for compensation from the government. “The matter has been referred to the Union government as it involves two nations,” a police officer said. “The police officers in border districts have been instructed to keep a close surveillance on the movement of people from across the border. The lapses on the part of the officers concerned will not be tolerated,” said IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar. The police stations close to the border have been asked to send reports to the SP daily. The growing tension has made residents and members of the business community worried. One Ram Mandal of Sikti village in Katihar district said, “Fear has gripped the local residents, who earlier frequently crossed the border for agricultural and business purposes.” Bibi Jahan Ara, a former panchayat samiti member of Amona under Jogbani police station, said, “My husband, who lives with me here, owns over 50 acres of ancestral land in Nepal. But he doesn’t want to go to his farmhouse due to fear of an untoward incident.” Parasnath Roy of Jogbani, who has his business in Nepal, said, “We have been caught in a catch-22 situation. We live in India but have been doing business in Nepal. People have stopped going to Nepal in the wake of border tension. We have incurred a huge financial loss. Uncertainty has gripped.” The situation in Kishanganj and Madhubani districts is no better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tension-with-nepal-worries-residents-of-border-districts/articleshow/76516765.cms||Ramashankar
June 23, 2020||Patna||BAU develops 4 new liquid biofertilizers||BHAGALPUR: The scientists at Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) have developed eco-friendly liquid biofertilizers (LBFs), which will increase the agricultural yield by more than 20%. The LBFs can be used in all kinds of crops, including pulses, vegetables, fruits and flowers. BAU scientists say the objective behind developing the LBFs is to replace chemical fertilizers, which have incalculable harmful effects on soil, causing long-term imbalances in soil pH (a scale used to measure acidic or basicity percentage) and the agriculture products. BAU vice-chancellor Ajoy Kumar Singh said unlike chemical fertilizers, the LBFs developed at BAU are high-quality bacteria-based fertilizers and increase the soil health and fertility. “The LBFs are liquid suspensions having useful bacteria (micro organisms) that fix soil nitrogen and dissolve the insoluble phosphates in the soil to make it available for the plants’ growth,” he said. The BAU has developed four types of LBFs — S Rhizobium, S PhosphoBactrin, S Nitrofix and a combination of S PhosphoBantrin and Nitrofix. “These LBFs increase the soil fertility through nitrogen-fixation process, making soil phosphorus available to plants in growth without any harm or changing the soil property and quality,” Singh said. “It is also cheaper compared to powder and granular fertilizers. The shelf life of LBFs is 2-3 times more than the conventional fertilizers and are able to increase the agriculture production substantially,” Singh said. The VC claimed the university was considering various options for commercial production of LBFs under public-private partnership (PPP) mode for making it available to the farmers at the earliest. “Many enterprises have already approached us for its commercial production,” he said. Scientist and assistant professor in the department of soil science and agricultural chemistry at BAU, Dr Mahendra Singh, said soil contains 40-45% minerals and rests are water, air and other organic matters. “Use of LBFs can increase the soil heal, fertility and productivity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bau-develops-4-new-liquid-biofertilizers/articleshow/76516631.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 23, 2020||Patna||Increased rainfall forecast causes flood apprehensions||PATNA: The weathermen on Monday predicted more rainfall in Nepal and north Bihar plains from Tuesday, causing apprehensions about flood in many areas of the state. The north and south Bihar regions are likely to have increasing amount of rainfall from Tuesday, but the volume of water to be received in three days (Thursday to Saturday) will be exceptionally large, water resources department (WRD) sources said. If the rainfall in the catchment areas in Nepal is also accounted for, the emerging scenario in the state can be easily imagined, as the rainfall received even in the south Bihar districts would also be increasingly large from Tuesday. On Monday, the rainfall received in various districts of Nepal was in the range of 21mm to 72mm in the last 24 hours. However, as per the IMD bulletin for the next five days, the rainfall would be maximum on Friday (June 26) in over a dozen districts of Bihar. Barring a dozen of small rivers, the major north Bihar rivers with origins in Nepal are Gandak, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kosi and Mahananda. As these rivers also fall in the Ganga, the lower reaches of the 12 districts, including the diara areas, might present a flood-like situation, WRD sources said. Despite the relatively heavy rainfall received in Nepal on Friday and Saturday, the water discharge through Valmiki Nagar barrage across the Gandak and Birpur barrage across Kosi river has been a tamed affair, the WRD maintained. On Saturday, the water discharge through Valmiki Nagar barrage was 1.16 lakh cusecs, which increased to 1.58 lakh cusecs on Sunday. The discharge level fell to 1.14 lakh cusecs on Sunday but increased to 1.19 lakh cusecs on Monday till 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/increased-rainfall-forecast-causes-flood-apprehensions/articleshow/76516686.cms||Abhay Singh
June 23, 2020||Surat||IMA suggests HRCT for early diagnosis of Covid-19||Surat: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Surat, has stated that people suffering with mild cough, fever and sneezing are not visiting to the doctors fearing that they would be referred to the government health officers. In a meeting with municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani and other senior officials of the health department, the IMA office bearers stated that the chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) has been one of the key diagnostic tools for early and accurate diagnostics of the coronavirus infection. IMA officials stated that the radiological diagnosis should be advised for the patients who are testing negative in the RT-PCR test. Dr Parul Vadgma, president of IMA told TOI, “We have suggested HRCT as the key diagnostic tool for the early and accurate diagnosis of the patients suffering from coronavirus.” “Community transmission is at its peak and at present also we have admitted more than 200 cases in private hospitals. More than nine hospitals have been designated for Covid. Still more hospitals will be included. All hospitals are directed to start preparedness and training of staff.” Dr Girish Modi, senior physician at IMA said, “Home treatment and monitoring system have to be prioritized. All the hospitals have been requested to launch paid home monitoring and treatment plans.” Deputy municipal commisioner, Dr Ashish Naik said, “There are myths among the people in the city that the common cough and fever will land them in the coronavirus treatment centres. Early start of treatment is the key to decrease mortality. We have started to spread awareness among the residents to seek medical treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ima-suggests-hrct-for-early-diagnosis-of-covid-19/articleshow/76518250.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||Shriram Housing Finance raises Rs 300 cr from banks||Chennai: Shriram Housing Finance Limited has raised Rs 300 crore long term debts from banks, adding to a total of Rs 700 crore it has raised since January. The mortgage lender said it has raised Rs 250 crore long term loan from state owned Bank of India at 8.5%, repayable in five years. It has also raised non-convertible bonds worth Rs 40 crore under Targeted Long Term Repo Operations 2 at an annualised coupon of 8.55%. Its MD & CEO Ravi Subramanian said, “About 55% of our customers have opted for moratorium due to Covid-19. However, we are positive that demand will pick up after the moratorium period. With loan disbursement, our focus is on affordable segment in southern India, and large projects in western and northern India.” “We have about Rs 560 crore of deals which are sanctioned for securitization, but not closed. However, we also have the responsibility to protect our (interest) margin,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shriram-housing-finance-raises-rs-300-cr-from-banks/articleshow/76518755.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Surat||Quarantined man accused of raping13-yr-old in Vapi||Surat: A 21-year-old man, who was quarantined after his wife tested positive, was detained for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl in Vapi town. The accused, Omkumar Mahato, allegedly raped the girl who lived in the same building as his. Mahato’s wife was shifted to government hospital after she tested positive on June 13 and residents were asked to self quarantine. On Monday, Mahato also tested positive, said police. As no one was allowed to go out of the building, the girl was playing in the lobby when the accused invited her to come and play in his house. When she went inside, he closed the door and sexually assaulted her. Vapi police station officials said Mahato works as a machine operator in an industrial unit in the town. He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). He was also booked for ‘malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life’ under the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/quarantined-man-accused-of-raping13-yr-old-in-vapi/articleshow/76518223.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||IDBI seeks clarity on moratorium for LC dues||Mumbai: IDBI Bank has written to the RBI seeking clarification on whether letters of credit that have devolved qualify for the moratorium on repayments. A letter of credit (LC) is a guarantee issued by bankers to a buyer of goods, assuring the seller that the lender will pay if the customer does not. Although the letter of credit is a guarantee and not a loan, it can translate into a loan if the borrower fails to repay on the due date and the LC devolves on the issuing bank. After making the payment, banks then treat it as a loan to their customer. “There is confusion on the application of moratorium for other facilities, for instance, letter of credit devolvement. Whether that can come under a moratorium, we have written to the RBI seeking clarification as we do not want regulatory action saying asset classification were not followed,” said IDBI Bank deputy MD Samuel Joseph Jebaraj. He was speaking in a webinar on ‘Impact of Covid-19 on Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code and the way forward’ organised by IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and others, on Saturday. According to Jebaraj, the moratorium was in the nature of deferment of principal and interest payment for six months as at the end of the moratorium period, the accumulated outstanding is converted into a funded interest term loan (FITL) to be repaid in seven months. According to Jebaraj, although there was a proposal for government departments to pay their dues immediately, the actual action on the ground is far from what can be done. He gave the instance of road and power sector. Jebaraj pointed out that stressed sectors would require more than just moratorium as their business model has been impacted and the demand lost may not be recovered. He pointed out that since the use of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has been put on hold there was a need for some other mechanism for restructuring loans. “While the moratorium on new admissions will not have a direct impact on existing cases, there is uncertainty over cases that are at various stages of the insolvency process as some bidders have already started renegotiations,” said Jebaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-seeks-clarity-on-moratorium-for-lc-dues/articleshow/76519463.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Helpline receives good response from SSLC students||Mysuru: Psychiatrist Dr BN Raveesh, who heads the department of psychiatry at the premier Mysuru Medical College and Research Hospital (MMCRI) has launched a helpline for students appearing for SSLC exams. As the examination system is riddled with fear and anxiety and most teachers and parents use fear as a tool to get students to study, Dr Raveesh is focusing on how to handle exam stress. His counselling sessions are receiving good response from both students and parents. With support from the district administration, MMCRI, and the and department of public instruction, the professor has set up Vidyarthi Mitra Helpline at the psychiatry department in the KR Hospital. Dr Raveesh and his team of 11 members including assistant professors, two clinical psychologists and supporting staff provide guidance and counselling to students and parents who are under stress as exams are being held during Covid-19 pandemic. Students and parents can seek help by calling 9980138016, 0821-252083 or 2520512. They can also send their queries to: raveesh6@yahoo.com. Dr Raveesh said he received a dozen phone calls from SSLC students and parents on Saturday, the first day of the launch of the helpline. “Students spoke about issues like exam fear and stress, while parents sought information regarding sending their children to write exams,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy director of public instruction Dr Panduranga told TOI that SSLC students and their parents can make use of this helpline. As many as 39,822 students from Mysuru district are writing SSLC exams to be held from June 25 to July 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/helpline-receives-good-response-from-sslc-students/articleshow/76519993.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||Covid patient hangs self at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: A 38-year-old man committed suicide at AIIMS-Patna where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. His second Covid test report in which he was found negative came after his death. Covid-19 nodal officer at AIIMS-Patna Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the deceased, a resident of Khagaul, was admitted on June 15. He committed suicide around 4pm on Monday. “He was diabetic and had returned from Delhi. However, recently he was showing signs of recovery and on Monday morning we had collected his sample for the second test and his report came negative in the evening. However, he had died by that time. It will be too early to say what was the cause behind his suicide,” said Dr Sanjeev. The deceased had locked himself in an empty room and hanged from the ceiling fan. “When he did not return to his bed, hospital staff became suspicious. Someone had seen him entering a vacant room. When he did not open the door in spite of repeated knock, the door was broken and he was found hanging,” said Dr Sanjeev. This is the second such case. Earlier, a 30 year old migrant worker had hanged himself at a quarantine centre in Hajipur. His report came after his death. Vaishali civil surgeon had then claimed that he was in depression for being kept in quarantine for the second time. He was reportedly quarantined in Delhi as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-patient-hangs-self-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/76518006.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||Cyber frauds run ‘firm’, employ over 300 on high salaries: Police||PATNA: Cyber fraudsters operating in state have set up a private company and hired over 300 educated youths to commit crime. Surprisingly, the gang led by two brothers have spread its tentacles in more than 10 districts in north Bihar and is carrying out operations for the last eight years. The Muzaffarfpur police came across a gang of cyber fraudsters that was operating on the pattern of a corporate firm in north Bihar region. The firm, nicknamed ‘PMC’ (Pankaj Management Company), had hired more than 300 educated youths from across the state on high salaries. Preliminary police investigations revealed that some gang members were getting Rs 60,000 as monthly salary from ‘PMC’, which had set up its offices in Muzaffarpur and its adjoining districts. In Muzaffarpur, the company was operating from its offices located at Laxmi Chowk, Kalambagh Chowk and Kachi Pakki Chowk. Surprisingly, the recruitment process was completed with such a precision that initially nobody could suspect any foul play. Once the recruitment process was complete, the recruits were dispatched to Jamtara in Jharkhand for training. Having finished their training, the recruits were assigned work. The recruits even got promotions. Those familiar with technical know-how were given preferences in the recruitment, police sources said. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said the police arrested six members of the inter-district gang, including its kingpin, Pappu Sahni, for their involvement in ATM fraud cases and other cybercrimes. Luxury cars, semi-automatic weapons and machines used for cloning ATM cards were seized. The 48-hour-long police operation led by city SP Niraj Kumar Singh yielded recovery of Rs 33.56 lakh in cash, jewellery worth over Rs 2 lakh and documents of property purchased by the two brothers — Pankaj Sahni and Pappu Sahni, residents of Madhuban Kanti under the Minapur police station area in Muzaffarpur district. While Pankaj is on the run, his father Umashankar Sahni, stated to be block level functionary of a political party, was released on personal bond. “Initially, the members of the gang were given 10% of the money transferred into the account of the ‘company’ from the gullible customers,” the SSP said. He added the gang members were involved in at least nine major incidents of ATM fraud in Muzaffarpur district in the last one year. “They all are graduates and tech-savvy. The members of the gang used to target the ATM debit card and credit card holders mostly in the ATMs having no security guards on duty,” he added. Elderly people or women from rural areas were the soft targets of the gang. Revealing the modus operandi of the gang, the SSP said, “In most cases, money was transferred fraudulently by cloning the ATM cards after ascertaining the secret PIN numbers of the card holders at ATM kiosks. At times, they used to install cameras in the ATM kiosks to record activities of the card holders.” During interrogation, the arrested people revealed the names of 72 of their accomplices, who were involved in cyber fraud in Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Samastipur, Vaishali, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Darbhanga and Siwan districts. An investigating officer said the gang members were equipped with sophisticated weapons. A carbine, a 9mm pistol, two pistols of 7.62 bore, a country-made pistol, a gun and 13 live cartridges were seized from the possession of the arrested people. The arrested people, including Pappu Sahni, Indrajeet Ojha, Brajesh Kumar, Rakesh Kumar and Aditya alias Golu, revealed that some members were also working as data entry operators in government-run organizations. The kingpins of the racket — Pankaj and Pappu — owned a double-storey building at their native village and a house in Balughat locality of Muzaffarpur town. The police have stumbled upon their assets in Delhi, Noida, Bhopal and a few places in Jharkhand. “We will send a proposal to the economic offences unit of the state police to investigate the ill-gotten property of the two brothers,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cyber-frauds-run-firm-employ-over-300-on-high-salaries-police/articleshow/76517990.cms||Ramashankar
June 23, 2020||Patna||Ex-LJP MP meets Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, may join RJD||PATNA: Speculation is rife over former LJP MP from Vaishali, Ram Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh, switching side to join RJD ahead of the assembly poll. Singh, considered a bahubali, met leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday. Singh, who is facing charges of murder, kidnapping and extortion, was not happy with LJP leadership ever since he was denied ticket from Vaishali in the previous Lok Sabha election. Instead Veena Singh, a turn coat, was allotted election symbol of the party and she got elected from the Rajput dominated constituency. Veena Singh’s victory was enough indication for Rama Singh to look for new pastures. It was the second defeat in succession for the veteran RJD leader and former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, first at the hands of Rama Singh in 2014 and then Veena Singh, a former MLA from Gaighat in Muzaffarpur, in 2019. A confidante of Rama Singh said on Monday, “Denial of party (LJP) ticket to Rama Singh in 2019 from Vaishali from where he had earlier got elected as MP made him very upset and he has decided to leave the party.” Though Rama Singh refused to comment, a close relative said he would join RJD by the end of this month, most likely on June 29. “He had gone to discuss the matter with top leaders of RJD. What transpired between him and RJD leaders is not known to me,” he added. Singh’s strained relationship with LJP was evident when he was seen with former state agriculture minister Narendra Singh in the election campaign in the Hajipur (reserved) Lok Sabha constituency from where Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras was contesting. “It was because of former Balia MP Suraj Bhan Singh that Rama Singh had won the Vaishali seat as LJP candidate in 2014. Had he (Suraj Bhan) not campaigned for him, he wouldn’t have won. But in due course of time, the scene got changed and the two leaders are now poles apart,” a political observer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-ljp-mp-meets-tejashwi-may-join-rjd/articleshow/76516971.cms||Ramashankar
June 23, 2020||Patna||RJD may announce names of its candidates for council elections tomorrow||PATNA: RJD’s all three candidates for the council election will file their nomination papers in the office of the returning officer-cum-assembly secretary on June 24. June 25 is the last date for filing nomination papers for the biennial elections to nine seats of the council. Sources in the RJD said the party would formally announce names of its three candidates on Tuesday. Earlier, the RJD’s parliamentary board had authorised party chief Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in multi-crore fodder scam cases, to select the three candidates. Sources close to Lalu told TOI on Monday that the RJD supremo conveyed his decision to his son and leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and asked him to declare the names of candidates by June 23. Sources said the party has asked its probable candidates to keep their papers ready for filing nomination. Insiders in the RJD said the candidature of Biscomaun chairman Sunil Singh and Farooq Sheikh, a native of Sheohar who is currently in real estate business in Mumbai, is almost final. “The third candidate would most probably be the RJD’s extremely backward class (EBC) cell state president Rambali Singh Chandravanshi. But his name is yet to be finalised by the party supremo. Any other leader from the EBC or Muslim community may replace him before the formal announcement of candidates,” a senior RJD leader, who did not want to be identified, told TOI. The RJD, on the basis of its strength in the assembly, can easily win three council seats, out of total nine for which elections will be held on July 6. The ruling JD(U), which is expected to win three seats on the basis of its strength in the assembly, is yet to announce the names of its candidates. However, sources said the JD(U) and BJP would jointly declare names of their candidates. The nominees of the two parties are expected to file their papers on June 25. The BJP is supposed to win two seats, while the rest one seat may go in favour of the Congress. Names of state’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, former acting chairman of council Haroon Rashid, former MLC Sanjay Singh and a few others are doing the rounds as prospective JD(U) candidates. In the BJP, former MLC Sanjay Mayukh is frontrunner for one of the two seats the party would get. On other seats, any former Lok Sabha member, who was denied the party symbol in 2019 general elections or a leader from either Bhumihar or Kushwaha community, would be chosen, sources in the BJP said. Congress is yet to finalise the name of its candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-may-announce-names-of-its-candidates-tomorrow/articleshow/76516998.cms||Madan Kumar
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Parents protest against school fees, demand waiver||JAIPUR: Hundreds of parents on Monday gathered in front of Warren Academy School and Modern School in Jaipur demanding fee waiver. Shouting ‘No school, no fees’, parents demanded that there should be a complete waiver of school fees for last three months due to lockdown. Dinesh Sharma, one of the parents protesting at Warren Academy School, said, “A few days back, only five parents went to the school to talk about fees waiver. School authorities asked us to come on Monday. More than 300 parents gathered on Monday to talk to school authorities about waiver of last three months fees but they refused to even meet us. Then we started shouting slogans as despite repeated requests, principal or director didn’t come out to talk to us.” After a while, administration called police that infuriated parents. Parents said that a peaceful protest was organised and instead of talking to them administration called the police without any reason. Sharma added that the school is charging for admission fees for the first time without any reason. “When we questioned the demand of admission fees ie. Rs 8,600 for one child, they had no explanation. They are also charging us for conveyance fees though our children didn’t attend school for even one day. This is not justified,” said Sharma. TOI tried contacting Warren Academy School administration but no one responded. Similarly, in Modern School around 70 parents went to talk to the principal. Mahendra Ravjani, a parent said, “There is a need to waive off the fees in totality from April to June. We went to talk to the principal but they had no clarity and said they will wait for decision made by school administration. All of us have suffered losses during lockdown. Schools should co-operate with us.” TOI tried to contact Modern School administration but they were not available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-parents-protest-against-school-fees-demand-waiver/articleshow/76519494.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Brahmapuri community centre to get Rs 20-crore mega facelift||JAIPUR: The community centre at Brahmapuri will be upgraded into a ‘smart community centre’ by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation. According to the plan, the centre will have a library, underground parking, indoor games for children, a new community hall and a recreational centre. The project will cost around Rs 19.97 crore. The proposed three-floor building will have state-of-the-art facilities like banquet hall, gymnasium, e-library, indoor games (table tennis), exhibition hall, 16 rooms, 2 dormitories and a conference hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brahmapuri-community-centre-to-get-rs-20-crore-mega-facelift/articleshow/76519492.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA to hire agency to repair Lake boundary wall||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is engaging an agency to take up reconstruction of the boundary wall around Rabindra Sarobar on Baroj Road, as well as the public swimming pool, that were damaged after several large trees were uprooted during Amphan. The project cost has been pegged at about Rs 6.1 lakh and work is to be completed within a month of starting. “The damaged boundary wall on the Baroj Road side will be reconstructed,” said an official, adding that the authorities had still not decided when to reopen the premises. A group of morning walkers of Rabindra Sarobar has sent a request to KMDA, asking them to consider reopening the premises for morning and evening walk. Officials said about 115 trees have been replanted and the process is now complete. Work is also on to replant trees that fell in Subhas Sarobar, the other lake maintained by KMDA. “About 50 trees were uprooted in Subhas Sarobar, of which 40 have been found to be retrievable. Already, 25 of them have been replanted and the remaining will be replanted in a week,” the KMDA official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-to-hire-agency-to-repair-lake-boundary-wall/articleshow/76518757.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||Adani to offer Rs 3,265 crore to take power co pvt||MUMBAI: Industrialist Gautam Adani plans to offer Rs 3,265 crore to take the Mumbai-listed Adani Power private. The business man has proposed to offer Rs 33.82 per share to acquire the 25.03% he doesn’t own of the power company from public shareholders — an over 11% discount over Monday’s closing price of Rs 38.2. Taking Adani Power private will provide more operational and financial flexibility to the management to take decisions on restructuring and new financing structures. The Adani Power board approved the delisting proposal on Monday after merchant banker Vivro Financial Services submitted the due-diligence report. Gautam Adani and family own 74.97% of the power company, which was listed on the bourses in August 2009. Adani Properties, a private limited company, proposed to buy the entire 97 crore shares of the electricity generator held by minority investors. “The delisting proposal is in the interest of the shareholders of the company,” read Adani Power’s statement to the bourses. Adani Properties fixed the floor price at Rs 33.82 a share, based on the recommendations of CA firm Dharmesh Parikh & Co. Adani Power will now seek shareholders’ nod on the delisting move by way of a special resolution. A self-made billionaire, Gautam Adani built the thermal power company into India’s largest. Today, it has a power generation capacity of 12,410MW across six Indian states. According to delisting norms prescribed by Sebi, an equity security can be delisted from stock exchanges if promoters’ total ownership in the company touches 90%. Since the start of the year, the Adani Power stock had slid 61% to its 52-week low at Rs 24.30, just days before the nationwide lockdown was announced. Since then, the stock has rallied 57% to its Monday close at Rs 38.20 on the BSE. If the promoters had offered to take the power company private at the start of the year, they would have had to pay over 60% more than what they are offering now. The total payout would have been in the range of Rs 5,300 crore. Besides the promoters of Adani Power, Anil Agarwal of Vedanta Ltd and Baring Asia of Hexaware Technologies have announced delisting plans for their respective units. On Monday, the board of Hexaware approved the delisting proposal by the PE major. ICICI Securities is working with Hexaware on the delisting plan. Baring Asia has fixed the floor price at Rs 285 for a share of Hexaware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adani-to-offer-rs-3265cr-to-take-power-co-pvt/articleshow/76518741.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||Companies have a new office address: 5-star hotels||CHENNAI: Luxury hotels are targeting corporate office clients as a means to tide over the Covid-crisis, which has brought both business and leisure travel to a standstill. Hotel brands — including Marriott, Novotel and Ibis — are tapping big corporate names in an effort to raise rental income. On offer are banquets, rooms, business centres and other space to be used as office premises along with security, Wi-Fi, housekeeping, sanitation as well as food & beverage. But the biggest draw is the affordable rent, flexi-mortgages for 3-6 months as well as 1-2 years. And no demand for a lock-in period or down payment. Toyota is currently negotiating with Marriott and Novotel for office space in Mumbai and Kolkata and also for similar packages in Bengaluru. “We are negotiating with Toyota among other automobile companies as well as IT companies. Typically, project-led businesses that require spaces for shorter duration have shown interest in this concept. Companies are not interested in long-term rent contracts — they are looking for flexible 3-6 months or 1-2 year contracts with no lock-in periods, which is why they find these packages interesting,” said Parul Thakur, senior area director, sales & distribution, south Asia, Marriott International. The hotels are customising their packages to target the business focus of their respective geographies. “We are surrounded by the startups and flexi-office culture, which is flourishing across the tech industry. Currently, our Chennai hotels are only focusing on flexi-rentals, that is 3 months, 6 months, or 11 months of rented banquet spaces,” said Rohan Sable, GM delegate-Novotel & Ibis Chennai OMR/ Novotel Chennai SIPCOT. Corporates say these luxury office offers from hotels are 40% cheaper with add-ons thrown in. Just relocating 3-4 regional offices to hotel premises has helped save one corporate client a staggering Rs 50 lakh per month. And then there are the add-ons. “We are negotiating rental agreements with hotel brands for our regional offices in multiple locations,” said Naveen Soni, senior vice president, sales and service, Toyota Kirloskar Motor said. “A round of tea/coffee is generally part of the agreement. Apart from that, we offer attractive discounts on various other hotel services. We are well equipped to provide all cleaning and sanitation services and will do temperature checks at the entrance of the hotel. Face masks and thermometers will be readily available for guests on request,” said Sandeep Johri, general manager, Novotel Kolkata Hotel & Residences. Nor is the trend restricted only to the creamy corporate layer in metro markets. Take Ibis which is offering this hotel-office service across all 13 cities where its 19 hotels are operational including tier-2 and -3 cities. “We are offering alternate office space solutions with all the amenities of a traditional office setup and more tailored to meet the needs of businesses of all sizes — from entrepreneurs to small startups to corporates,” said Sylvain Laroche, director of operations – Ibis/Ibis Styles India. Dittoed Marriott’s Thakur, “We are scouting in tier-2 & -3 cities with our mid-budget segment properties as well.” The office relocation option comes at a time when corporates including Eicher have announced that they are shutting down some regional offices as field staff work from home. For hotels this is a lifeline for survival. “The current environment has led to leisure travel hitting an all-time low. We have proactively also approached corporates to explore short- and long-term rental agreements with them,” said Johri of Novotel Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/companies-have-a-new-office-address-5-star-hotels/articleshow/76518793.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Bridge near China border collapses, dozen villages cut off||yyyyyyyPithoragarh: A bridge on the Munsyari-Milam road collapsed after a truck carrying an earthmover tried to cross it on Monday. The incident took place in Dhapa, Munsyari tehsil, around 50km from the China border. The combined weight of the two heavy vehicles was more than what the bridge could bear and it collapsed on the gorge underneath, injuring driver Godhan Singh and machine operator Lakhwinder Singh. Both have been admitted at a hospital in Munsyari. Milam is the last village on China’s border. With the bridge gone, more than a dozen villages in Munsyari tehsil, with a total population of around 7,000, have been cut off. The bridge was also used by ITBP and Army personnel to reach upper Himalayan posts. The truck and the earthmover were among the machines being used for the construction of the 64-km Munsyari-Milam road. “The project was sanctioned in 2008, with an initial estimated cost of Rs 325 crore. The Border Roads Organization (BRO) started construction from both Milam and Munsyari. Till now, an 18-km stretch from Munsyari to Milam and a 26-km stretch from Milam to Laspa have been built. Construction for the remaining 20 km, which is an especially rocky terrain, has been outsourced to a private company by the BRO,” said Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande. Munsyari station house officer (SHO) Asif Khan said, “Machines for road construction have crossed the bridge before, but the combined weight of the two vehicles overloaded it. The guard at the bridge had warned the driver not to take both the vehicles at the same time, but he didn’t listen. Prima facie, it is a case of negligence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bridge-near-china-border-collapses-dozen-villages-cut-off/articleshow/76516070.cms||Prem Punetha
June 23, 2020||Allahabad||12 cops among 16 fresh cases, Prayagraj's tally crosses 200-mark||PRAYAGRAJ: Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Prayagraj crossed the 200-mark as 12 policemen, including 10 personnel from Government Railway Police (GRP), were among the 16 patients who tested positive for the disease in the district on Monday. This was the first time in the city when cops in such large numbers tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from the 10 GRP personnel, one Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and another cop from civil police unit were found to be infected by the virus. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The GRP personnel are aged between 32 years and 46 years and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The personnel had come in contact with three other GRP personnel, who were diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier.” “The 38-year-old RPF personnel is a resident of Railway Colony. He was earlier hospitalised after complaining of fever since the past four days and is currently in home quarantine. He is asymptomatic,” said Sahai. A 22-year-old policeman who is among the new cases reported on Monday is a resident of Police Lines. “He had come in contact with a patient, who is a former SSP,” Sahai said. Meanwhile, a 36-year-old man posted as a security staffer at a quarantine centre since the past two months also tested positive for novel coronavirus. The ACMO said that the man had visited his hometown in Firozabad from June 8-13 and joined back the next day. He complained of a fever and was tested on June 18. His swab sample was tested positive on Monday. The new cases included a 31-year-old resident of Ramanand Nagar in Allahapur. “The infected man who is currently in home quarantine and was referred from SRN Hospital for testing.” The new cases took Prayagraj’s tally to 205 on Monday. While 137 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospital, seven have died so far due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/12-cops-among-16-fresh-cases-city-tally-crosses-200-mark/articleshow/76516404.cms||Kapil Dixit
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||CM announces promotion for college students||Bhopal: In the wake of Coronavirus crisis, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday announced general promotion for all university and college students in both higher education and technical education. Final-year UG and PG students will be deemed to have graduated on the basis of the highest score they obtained in previous exams. Those who want to improve their score can opt for an offline test later on, the CM said. Chouhan took the decision at a review meeting on Monday evening. A decision on reopening of schools will be taken on July 31, he said. Officials of both higher education and technical education departments refused to elaborate on the announcement, saying guidelines will be issued in a couple of days. There are 17.77 lakh examinees at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the current academic session. Those in undergrad first-year and second-year and PG second semester will be promoted without examination on the basis of the last year’s and semester marks. On May 25, the government said that exams will be held between June 29 and July 31, but on June 15, it announced they were being postponed. However, class 12 examinations will be held again for those who couldn’t appear in the exam earlier, the CM said on Monday. The school education department said arrangements are being made to distribute books to children from next week. Class 10 and Class 12 board examinations are over and results are expected in first and third week of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-announces-promotion-for-college-students/articleshow/76518770.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra man rescued from wife’s pyre, ends life in well||CHANDRAPUR: In a tragic outburst of love for his deceased better half, a man jumped into the burning pyre of his wife to kill himself, at village Bhangram Talodhi in Gondpipri tehsil on Monday evening. After he was saved from the burning pyre by relatives, the depressed husband ran away and jump into a well, and ended his life. Police sources claimed that one Ruchita Chittawar from Bhangram Talodhi had got married to Kishor Khatik from Chandrapur on March 19. Kishor works at a driving training centre near RTO office. Ruchita was three months pregnant and had gone to her maternal house in Bhangram Talodhi four days back, since her mother was ill. When Kishor reached her place on Sunday to bring her back, he received the tragic news that his wife was missing. Later, her dead body was found in a well in the village the same evening. The reason behind her suicide could not be ascertained. With both families grieving over the loss of Ruchita and her unborn baby, the funeral was held at the local crematorium at 4pm on Monday. As all family members, including Kishor, were returning home, he suddenly ran back towards the crematorium. Startled family members rushed after him, and were shocked to see Kishor had jumped into the burning pyre. They somehow managed to pull him out of the pyre. Even before they could understand what had happened, Kishors once again fled and jumped into a nearby well. Family members ran after him and tried to save him by throwing ropes into the well. He, however, did not take the ropes and let himself drown. Talodhi police have registered a case of accidental death. Watch Maharashtra man rescued from wife’s pyre, ends life in well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-rescued-from-wifes-pyre-ends-life-in-well/articleshow/76519513.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 23, 2020||Chennai||52 who flew into city from abroad tested +ve in June||Chennai: The international terminal of the city airport has been bustling with activity almost everyday this month as the number of evacuation flights bringing home stranded Indians has increased. Thirty-two flights, a majority of them from the Middle East, brought in around 4,800 people stranded abroad since June 2. There were 19 flights last month. Institutional quarantine is compulsory and samples are taken for RT-PCR tests on arrival and also before exiting from quarantine. The authorities were able to identify 52 people with Covid-19 among those who arrived on the flights this month. Test results are awaited for three flights which landed in the past three days. Almost all the patients are from the Middle East. Of the infected passengers, 33 are from Qatar. Passengers from the US and UK have also started to arrive via transit flights being operated from Delhi this week. They are treated as international passengers and quarantined here. Sources said rescue flights have increased in June as the ministry of civil aviation has allowed Air India and Air India Express to operate more flights under phase 2 and phase 3 of Vande Bharat mission. Flights were also sent to Moscow, Hong Kong, Laos, Sydney to bring back stranded people. There was a demand for flights from southeast Asian countries and the Middle East apart from the US and UK. More flights have been scheduled till the end of the month, the government has also allowed private airlines also to bring in stranded people. Two private charter planes brought sailors stuck in Colombo last week. However, direct flights may not be there to Chennai from the US and the UK yet as the government has fixed Delhi as the gateway airport, said an airport official. On Monday, a set of passengers from the UK landed in Chennai via Delhi. An AAI official said, “We look at these flights as part of the measures to prepare the airport to resume operations with social distancing norms. The airport also handled flights which arrived to pick up foreign nationals stranded in Chennai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/52-who-flew-into-city-from-abroad-tested-ve-in-june/articleshow/76519499.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deaths within hours of hospital admission down||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 deaths is steadily increasing in the state, but the percentage of people dying in the first 48 hours after admission to hospital has come down from 54% in May to 35% in June. Of the 563 deaths in June (till Sunday), 199 were reported within two days of hospitalisation, while in May more than half (90) the 167 deaths occurred within the same time span. "This means more people are being diagnosed early and brought to hospital for treatment," said former city health officer P Kuganandam. Data analysed by TOI also showed that the percentage of people who spent more days at the hospital ICUs before they died has gone up. For instance, nearly 41% of the patients spent three days to a week in June, compared to 34% in May. Similarly, the number of patients spending between 8 and 14 days went up from 9% to 19% during the same time period. "It is a good sign as it shows doctors are making adequate efforts to give them high flow oxygen and ventilation," said public health expert T Sunderraman. "Nevertheless, we experts must do periodic audits to ensure timely intervention," he said. Since April, the state and its expert panel added new drugs and debated over protocols almost every day. For instance, in early April, doctors decided oxygen saturation levels were better if they used high-flow oxygen rather than ventilation. Soon, when international studies showed remarkable improvement with prone nursing, doctors here began to practice that in the ICUs. Doctors also decided to keep patients under observation for longer time. "Initially, we gave them anticoagulants to reduce thrombosis (blood clots in vessels) on admission and many responded well. But soon after we shifted them to the ward, some patients collapsed. That’s when we discovered happy hypoxia. Their oxygen saturation was dangerously low. Before we could do anything many just died," said a doctor at Stanley Medical College Hospital, Chennai. Now, hospitals use pulse oxymeters, verify chest x-rays before they send patients to step down wards or advise them home quarantine, he said. More than anything else, there is an increase in the number of patients coming forward for testing and isolation, says former director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy. "More people seek medical assistance even for normal fever and cold," he said. AK Ravikumar, state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said better testing rate has also helped in early identification of patients including asymptomatic ones so that treatment can be started soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deaths-within-hours-of-hospital-admission-down/articleshow/76519497.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 23, 2020||Pune||29 from Mumbai head to Lonavla for fun, booked||PUNE: Seven Mumbai residents were found illegally staying in a bungalow at Tungarli near popular hill station of Lonavla and another 22 persons, all bikers from Mumbai, were booked on Sunday for travelling to Bhushi dam and other spots in Lonavla and Khandala violating the lockdown orders. A travel pass is mandatory for all inter-district movement of vehicles and those found violating this norm are booked under Section 188 of the IPC. Inspector Manojkumar Yadav of Lonavla city police told TOI, “The seven-member group from Mumbai travelled to Tungarli in a private vehicle without securing the mandatory e-passes. They were not stopped at the Navi Mumbai and Raigad borders. They may have crossed the district border posts via the old highway at a time when the policemen changed their duties.” He said their patrolling teams have been told to check the bungalows and question the occupants where the lights are on late in the night. It was during one such night patrol that their team in Tungarli spotted the bungalow with all its lights on. The team then called the officials of the Lonavla Municipal Council and searched the premises. “We found seven men in the bungalow from different parts of Mumbai. They had come to Lonavla to enjoy the monsoon for a few days,” he said. Yadav said the police and the council authorities checked their health status for the coronavirus. “All were healthy. We took down their details and phone numbers and then filed a case under the section 188 of the IPC ,” he said. The police on Sunday filed 18 cases against 22 bikers from Mumbai under the same section. Yadav said the police have deployed bandobast at picnic spots and roads to implement the lockdown orders. “Despite a ban on tourism the motorists visited Lion’s Point, Bhushi dam, Aamby Valley road and other areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/29-from-mumbai-head-to-lonavla-for-fun-booked/articleshow/76518784.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Month after transferring health secretary, U’khand removes National Health Mission director||Dehradun: In a major development on Monday, Uttarakhand government removed director of National Health Mission (NHM) Yugal Kishore Pant. Pant will be replaced by IAS officer Sonika. The reshuffle comes just a month after the state government transferred 16 IAS officers, including then health secretary Nitish Jha, who was replaced by Amit Singh Negi. Pant was one of the most visible faces of the state government in the fight against Covid-19. He, however, will continue to hold the charge of additional secretary medical, medical education, health and family welfare. Incidentally, Monday’s bureaucratic rejig happened on a day when the state crossed 100th day of Covid-19 (the first case in the hill state was reported on March 15). Meanwhile, the state government also gave the additional charge of director of state environment conservation to IFS officer SP Subuddhi, replacing IAS officer Sowjanya. The charge of secretary of Commission for Protection of Child Rights was withdrawn from V Shanmugam and given to PCS officer Jharna Kamthan. Also, IFS officer PM Dhakate was given the charge of special secretary to the CM. And the charge of additional secretary food, civil supplies, and consumer matters was taken from IAS officer Ranveer Singh Chauhan and given to PCS officer Pratap Singh Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/month-after-transferring-health-secretary-ukhand-removes-national-health-mission-director/articleshow/76516084.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Panel to probe ‘irregularities’ in Rajasthan guest house renovation||JAIPUR: The general administration department (GAD) has ordered an inquiry into the alleged irregularities in the renovation carried out at the state guest house at Chanakyapuri in DelhiThe inquiry committee was constituted under director state estates Mahesh Kumar Kayathwal. According to the complaint, general manager of the guest house Manmohan Kaplash floated tenders for repairing, polishing of furniture, sofa, chairs, replacement/repairing etc for Rs 31 lakh and IP PBX system at Rs 9 lakh issued on March 20. But due to the coronavirus outbreak, a nationwide lockdown was enforced from March 24. But surprisingly, the official claimed that all the works were completed and payments were made within a week despite the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-probe-irregularities-in-state-guest-house-renovation/articleshow/76519512.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Cops crackdown on land mafia linked to Mukhtar Ansari gang||VARANASI: In continuation of the crackdown on jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s illegal business and associates in east UP districts since last one week, the Ghazipur district administration and police removed encroachment on 80 bigha land at Andhau where an airstrip is proposed. Tightening the noose on Monday, Ghazipur officials removed illegal possession of land mafia enjoying patronage of Ansari from the proposed airstrip at Andhau. The officials also served notices to Mau BSP MLA’s wife, brothers and close aides seeking details of their arms. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan told TOI, “Land mafia associated with Mukhtar Ansari had captured over 80 bigha land at Andhau, where an airstrip is proposed, years ago. They had installed a hot mix plant along with permanent construction. After collecting all details police had given a report to Ghazipur administration.” Ghazipur district magistrate Om Prakash Arya said, “A team led by SDM Sadar, Prabhas Kumar carried out a drive at Andhau amid tight security arrangement on Monday. All the illegal construction on the land was demolished. The machines of hot mix plant machines were also seized.” “The hot mix plant was being run by Rahul Rai, Rahul Singh and Shailendra Singh. An FIR would be lodged against them and cost of removal of encroachments will also be realised from them,” said SDM Sadar Arya. ADG said, “Before initiating action against encroachment at Andhau airstrip, an account of arms and ammunition possessed by Mukhtar Ansari’s family was taken.” DM Ghazipur said arms licences of 14 people were cancelled and their arms deposited. Mukhtar’s close associate Rudra Narain Singh was booked under Arms Act for not following the process of renewal of the licences of revolver and gun since 2014. “Mukhtar’s wife and brothers have been issued notices to provide details of purchase of arms and ammunition on licences issued to them. The licences of Mukhtar’s personal assistant Jakir Hussain alias Vikky Ansari and his four associates were suspended as they failed to provide details of cartridges,” he said. Earlier this week, Mau police started targeting Mukhtar’s associates running illegal trade. Mau cops booked 11 henchmen of Mukhtar under Gangster Act for extorting money and busted an illegal slaughter house by arresting five men. Police also arrested Mukhtar’s three men involved in illegal trade of fish and seized over 10 tonne of fish on Saturday. Mau SP Anurag Arya said police is seeking Mukhtar’s remand for questioning in a case registered against him in January for making recommendation made on his letter head for issuance of arms licences to four persons, including a criminal gunned down in an encounter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-crackdown-on-land-mafia-linked-to-mukhtar-ansari-gang/articleshow/76516461.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot questions hike in fuel prices||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday questioned the continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices despite crude oil price being low in the international markets. “Petrol and diesel prices have been raised for the 16th consecutive day during the period of unprecedented hardships that common people are facing due to Covid-19. The central government should explain to the people, why prices are being hiked continuously for 16 days?” asked the chief minister in a tweet. Petrol and diesel prices have been raised for the 16th consecutive day during the period of unprecedented hardships… https://t.co/d2q5AdNYhG— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1592834073000Government should give the benefit of reduced international oil prices to the public, instead the government is profiteering from it, he said. Government should give the benefit of reduced international oil prices to the public, instead the government is pro… https://t.co/q6btaq9zvp— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1592834073000Transport minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas also joined the issue al leging that within 16 days the fuel prices were increased by Rs 9. He said the central government is more concerned with the petroleum companies than the people during the corona crisis. He said due to the dip in price crude at the international markets, petrol and diesel price should have fallen by Rs 30-Rs 35 but the central government has been raising the excise duty on petrol and diesel not allowing the people to get its benefit. He alleged that the central government is working under pressure from private oil marketing companies. He alleged that the fuel prices have sky rocketed and the central government is not bothered about the plight of the people. The price hike of diesel and petrol had a cascading effect on the price of other commodities. The Congress workers party would send post cards to the prime minister. He said the Congress would launch an awareness campaign against the Centre on petroleum prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-questions-hike-in-fuel-prices/articleshow/76519508.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajya Sabha elections: Rajasthan govt sought quarantine exemption for Congress MLA||Jaipur: BJP state president Satish Poonia has accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot of seeking quarantine exemption for MLA Wajib Ali, who returned from Australia on June 18, from the Delhi government on the basis of false information. Poonia said that Gehlot put the lives of all 198 MLAs in danger by calling Ali straight from the airport to Jaipur to enable him to cast vote for the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. The rule says anyone coming from abroad has to serve a 14-day quarantine period. BJP had the same day lodged an FIR against the Cong MLA in this matter. A new fact has now emerged that the state government facilitated the MLA’s movement from New Delhi to Jaipur by officially seeking quarantine exemption for him from the Delhi government. “The incident exposed how the Gehlot government bends the rules and shamelessly uses its machinery for political gains. They requested the Delhi government stating that Ali’s mother is ill and he is required to be at her side. BJP would have never protested for this and we wish his mother good health. But, instead of heading to meet his mother, Ali moved to Jaipur to endanger the life of lawmakers in the assembly,” Poonia said. Police are yet to blink on the complaint filed by the BJP has been termed as another act of misuse of the government machinery. “Pressure from the government is preventing police from taking any action. But today or tomorrow police has to act on the complaint,” said Poonia. The letter to the Delhi government was signed by a senior IAS officer didn’t say anything about him heading to Jaipur for casting his vote. Refuting the allegations of violating the Covid-19 protocol, Ali said he has followed all protocols for the travellers coming from abroad and will submit his testimony to police, if required. “The state did help me leave Delhi as I am the only child who could reach my ailing mother. Yes, I did come to Jaipur to cast my vote which is my constitutional right. I was tested for Covid-19 before I boarded the flight and my test report was negative. I am under home quarantine in Jaipur for now,” said Ali, who holds a permanent resident visa of Australia. Countering the allegation of arriving a day before polling in an attempt to spread Covid-19, Ali said those making it an issue must know that all international flight operations have been suspended due to the pandemic. “I boarded Vande Bharat special flight from Australia ferrying Indians to Delhi. I wouldn’t have come much before the polling day, but this was the only flight available to arrive in India,” said Ali. He left for Australia on May 22 in a special Air India flight ferrying Australian citizens to celebrate Eid with his family, including wife and two children, who are Australian citizens and extended family including his four siblings – two elder brothers and two sisters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-polls-raj-govt-sought-quarantine-exemption-for-cong-mla/articleshow/76519517.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Money changers hit as international flights grounded||CHENNAI: The currency-changing business in the city is floundering. Full-Fledged Money Changer (FFMC) outlets dealing with foreign currency, which annually did a business of more than Rs 5,000 crore, have been struggling since Covid-19 brought international travel and tourism to a grinding halt. While there are 250 RBI-authorised FFMC shops employing 6,000-7,000 people in the city, thousands of others including leading showrooms and jewellery shops are engaged in the trade without authorisation. As per statistics, Indians exchanged Rs 70,000 crore worth of foreign currency in 2019-20 for international travel, with Chennai accounting for around 8% of this, or approximately Rs 5,600 crore. With international air services grounded and tourism activities yet to resume across the world, those dealing with foreign currencies are stuck. “If there is no tourism, there is no foreign currency exchange business for FFMCs. We were one of the first businesses to be affected after the outbreak of coronavirus was reported in December 2019. Following China, people stopped travelling to other Asian countries with Europe and US joining the list later,” said V Raja, managing director of Maharaja Forex Pvt. Ltd. Money changers deal in buying and selling foreign currency, with the US dollar the most sought after followed by Euro, Pound Sterling and currencies of Asian countries such as Singapore and Thailand. K L Arun, director of citybased Prime Forex, said those being brought home from foreign countries under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ were the lone customers for currency exchange operators now. “Only 60% of forex operators in Chennai reopened shops after certain restrictions were relaxed. We are seeing more than 85% loss,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Money Changer Association has urged the RBI to allow FFMCs to offer forex services for people travelling for education, emigration, employment and medical purposes to improve their business. Presently, authorised money changers can provide services only to business travellers and tourists as per existing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/money-changers-hit-as-international-flights-grounded/articleshow/76519507.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 23, 2020||Delhi||HC stays action against Ganga Ram hospital||NEW DELHI: As indicated by it last week, Delhi high court on Monday stayed all proceedings against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) in connection with an FIR registered against it for violating the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines on coronavirus testing. Justice C Harishankar put on hold the investigation and all related proceedings against the hospital noting that the court is “convinced” that “tested on principles of prima facie case, balance of convenience and public interest.” It said that the investigation consequent to the lodging of FIR against the hospital “deserves to be stayed till final disposal of the petition”. It directed, “All proceedings consequent to registration of impugned FIR, including investigation by police, shall remain stayed till final disposal of the petition.” The court said the matter would be heard finally on August 11. Delhi Police had registered a case against the hospital’s medical superintendent on a complaint from the Delhi government, which said the hospital was not using RT-PCR app while collecting Covid-19 samples, which was “mandatory”. However, later the government had allowed the hospital to go ahead with the tests. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-stays-action-against-ganga-ram-hospital/articleshow/76518810.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021 to be held on stipulated date: U’khand CM||Dehradun: After a meeting with the members of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) and other religious leaders, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday said that Kumbh 2021 would be held in March as per schedule. He added that its format would be decided only after taking into account the Covid-19 situation early next year. “If the situation is not favourable, we may allow three people each from the 13 akharas for the shahi snan,” the CM said. Akhara Parishad chairman Narendra Giri and general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj were both of the view that the Kumbh fair should start on the set dates as it is based on astrological calculations. The state government, too, has agreed on the suggestion and given a green signal to start the mega religious congregation on the scheduled date. Rawat added that the Kumbh Mela 2021 was to start in March next year and the authorities will review the situation in February. Rawat said that the Kumbh proceedings are carried out under the guidance of akharas. “Therefore, if the situation does not improve, we can allow three members from each of the 13 Akharas for snan on the decided dates. We will take a decision in consultation with akharas members,” he said. The dates for four ‘shahi snan' (key bathing days) are March 11, 2021 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amawasya), April 14 (Baisakhi Kumbh) and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima). The six 'parv snan' days during the Kumbh are – January 14, 2021 (Makar Sankranti), February 11 (Mauni Amawasya), February 16 (Basant Panchami), February 27 (Magh Purnima, April 13 (Navsamvratsar) and April 21, 2021 (Ramnavmi). In April this year, the Centre had approved Rs 375 crore for Kumbh 2021 preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-to-be-held-on-stipulated-date-ukhand-cm/articleshow/76516092.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur cops suspect trader was not murdered, but killed himself||JAIPUR: Preliminary investigation by Jaipur police (west) on the mysterious death of a 52-year-old businessman has suggested that he had committed suicide. Police are yet to find any clue indicating that he was attacked. Though the police are yet to conclude their investigation, they have said that the businessman, who was in debt of nearly Rs 5 crore, could have deliberately given his suicide a shape of “murder and robbery.” The deceased, 52-year-old Naresh Chaudhary, was involved in mining and was a building contractor. On June 7, he was found unconscious in his car near Ajmer-Delhi highway and had some injury marks. “He had no grave injuries except a few marks on his left hand. Also, it was alleged by the family that he was robbed, as the ‘robbers’ had put red pepper in his eyes to rob him. So, we found that there was no red pepper in his eyes and his post-mortem also suggested the presence of poison in his body. If we go by the modus operandi of highway robbers, they seldom give poison to their targets,” said a senior police officer, who is part of the investigation, on condition of anonymity on Monday. The investigation also suggested that the businessman was continuously getting calls from the people he had taken loans from. “There could be a possibility that before consuming a poisonous substance, just before the Manoharpura toll, he created a situation to give it a shape of murder and robbery. He may have done this to ensure that his family may not be troubled after his death,” the officer added. However, when contacted, Ashok Gupta, additional commissioner of police (crime), said, “We are probing both suicide and murder angles. The investigation has not yet been concluded. But, we have not yet found any evidence to establish that he was robbed.” Police have also found clues that the businessman stopped for a while on Ajmer Road below the flyover and got something. “It is strange that it took him almost 90 minutes to reach Manoharpura toll from where he halted,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-suspect-trader-was-not-murdered-but-killed-himself/articleshow/76519519.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Maharana Pratap lacks control, moderation and was impatient, says a textbook||JAIPUR: The erstwhile royal family of Mewar, a direct descendant of Maharana Pratap, has objected to the downsizing and changes made to a chapter on the 16th century king in the revised Class X social science e-textbook by the Congress government in the state. The family has asked the state education department to either provide evidence to the claims made in the chapter or they should remove the controversial contents from the book immediately. The chapter on Pratap calls him ‘impatient, lacked in moderation and control’ while listing out the reasons for his failure in the battle of Haldighati. TimesViewFrequent revisions of history textbooks have become politicised and are no longer academic exercises based on new findings. In the last four years, textbooks have been revised twice in the state, which left a series of controversies in its wake rather than becoming a subject of academic debate. These revisions have come at a considerable monetary cost to the taxpayer and reflect ideological/political stands of ruling dispensations. The series of controversies have shaken the confidence of students as well as parents in the integrity of textbooks. The undue focus on rewriting history is one of the reasons for the stagnant learning outcomes witnessed among students over this period. The governments of the day would do better if they stopped interfering in crucial and critical academic exercises.The revision of textbooks was carried out by the Congress government soon after they came to power in 2018. Reports say the content of Maharana Pratap has been reduced by 40% from the previous book written during the former BJP government. The downsizing has been done in the class X printed and e-book version of ‘Sangharshkalin Bharat (1206 AD -1757 AD) while the objectionable comments were added only in the e-book which sparked off the controversy. The e-book says “Senanayak me pratikul paristhitiyon me jis dhairya, sanyam aur yojana ki avashyakta honi chahiye, Pratap me uska abhav tha. (Pratap lacked the sense of moderation and patience during the unfavourable circumstances). Reacting to the portrayal of his forefather, Lakshyaraj Singh Mewar, member of erstwhile royal family of Mewar, told TOI that it is unfortunate that frequent changes are being made in the textbooks which would confuse a generation. “The valour and courage of Maharana Pratap has been documented on the basis of rightful evidence by the historians of all ages and time right from the Sixteenth century. I would like to know whether those who are writing chapters on Pratap even have the expertise with them. If not, then it is an injustice to the students and society,” said Mewar. The family also expressed their displeasure over the downsizing of important and relevant portions of the life of the Pratap as compared to the contents in the previous book which was penned by CS Sharma, the history teacher of Meera Girls College, Udaipur, ‘Maharana Pratap are Haldighati Ka Yudh.’ “As a writer, without my permission or intimation, the textbook committee has revised, downsized and attributed content which was not written by me is an offence. I didn’t disapprove of the changes they have made which are away from facts,” said Sharma. He pointed out that the missing portion of the printed textbook includes 6-7 incidents which highlight the kind-heartedness, valour, egalitarianism and judiciousness of Pratap. Maharana Pratap’s son Amar Singh had arrested the family of military leader Abdul Rahim Khankhana in 1580. Pratap got angry at his son and directed him to release the family as he didn’t approve of attacking the family of enemies. Reacting to the controversy, BM Sharma, convener of the textbook revision committee, agreed that the textbook revision doesn’t happen without political interference. “The contents of the e-book have been written by a writer who has been asked to clarify his stand,” said Sharma, who approved the changes at first place and sent it to the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) for uploading and printing. However, it is not clear that the content which is available has been sent to print. TOI repeatedly approached state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maharana-pratap-lacks-control-moderation-and-was-impatient-says-a-textbook/articleshow/76519523.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Maharana Pratap lacks control, moderation and was impatient, says a textbook||JAIPUR: The erstwhile royal family of Mewar, a direct descendant of Maharana Pratap, has objected to the downsizing and changes made to a chapter on the 16th century king in the revised Class X social science e-textbook by the Congress government in the state. The family has asked the state education department to either provide evidence to the claims made in the chapter or they should remove the controversial contents from the book immediately. The chapter on Pratap calls him ‘impatient, lacked in moderation and control’ while listing out the reasons for his failure in the battle of Haldighati. TimesViewFrequent revisions of history textbooks have become politicised and are no longer academic exercises based on new findings. In the last four years, textbooks have been revised twice in the state, which left a series of controversies in its wake rather than becoming a subject of academic debate. These revisions have come at a considerable monetary cost to the taxpayer and reflect ideological/political stands of ruling dispensations. The series of controversies have shaken the confidence of students as well as parents in the integrity of textbooks. The undue focus on rewriting history is one of the reasons for the stagnant learning outcomes witnessed among students over this period. The governments of the day would do better if they stopped interfering in crucial and critical academic exercises.The revision of textbooks was carried out by the Congress government soon after they came to power in 2018. Reports say the content of Maharana Pratap has been reduced by 40% from the previous book written during the former BJP government. The downsizing has been done in the class X printed and e-book version of ‘Sangharshkalin Bharat (1206 AD -1757 AD) while the objectionable comments were added only in the e-book which sparked off the controversy. The e-book says “Senanayak me pratikul paristhitiyon me jis dhairya, sanyam aur yojana ki avashyakta honi chahiye, Pratap me uska abhav tha. (Pratap lacked the sense of moderation and patience during the unfavourable circumstances). Reacting to the portrayal of his forefather, Lakshyaraj Singh Mewar, member of erstwhile royal family of Mewar, told TOI that it is unfortunate that frequent changes are being made in the textbooks which would confuse a generation. “The valour and courage of Maharana Pratap has been documented on the basis of rightful evidence by the historians of all ages and time right from the Sixteenth century. I would like to know whether those who are writing chapters on Pratap even have the expertise with them. If not, then it is an injustice to the students and society,” said Mewar. The family also expressed their displeasure over the downsizing of important and relevant portions of the life of the Pratap as compared to the contents in the previous book which was penned by CS Sharma, the history teacher of Meera Girls College, Udaipur, ‘Maharana Pratap are Haldighati Ka Yudh.’ “As a writer, without my permission or intimation, the textbook committee has revised, downsized and attributed content which was not written by me is an offence. I didn’t disapprove of the changes they have made which are away from facts,” said Sharma. He pointed out that the missing portion of the printed textbook includes 6-7 incidents which highlight the kind-heartedness, valour, egalitarianism and judiciousness of Pratap. Maharana Pratap’s son Amar Singh had arrested the family of military leader Abdul Rahim Khankhana in 1580. Pratap got angry at his son and directed him to release the family as he didn’t approve of attacking the family of enemies. Reacting to the controversy, BM Sharma, convener of the textbook revision committee, agreed that the textbook revision doesn’t happen without political interference. “The contents of the e-book have been written by a writer who has been asked to clarify his stand,” said Sharma, who approved the changes at first place and sent it to the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) for uploading and printing. However, it is not clear that the content which is available has been sent to print. TOI repeatedly approached state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/maharana-pratap-lacks-control-moderation-and-was-impatient-says-a-textbook/articleshow/76529615.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Authorities crack the whip on violators||CHENNAI: With a Covid surge in north TN, authorities are searching for people sneaking back to their home districts from Chennai and containment zones.  The Tiruvannamalai police have booked more than 600 people for entering the district illegally from Chennai and other districts, while collectors of Tirupattur, Vellore, and Ranipet have sought public cooperation in spotting the returnees.  These districts have seen a spiraling of cases ever since the influx from Chennai and other containment areas. Vellore is the worst affected as more than 450 of its total 632 Covid-19 cases are linked to Chennai.  The authorities have formed village-level vigilance committees, comprising officials from revenue, health and police departments besides volunteers. With the help of the locals, the committees have been identifying people within three to six hours of their entering the districts. “We are taking legal action against them. Several of them, who tested positive, had infected their family members, friends and neighbours by the time they were picked up for screening,” said Tiruvannamalai collector K S Kandasamy. In Tirupattur district, village-level committees have been aiding the administration in tracking 40 to 50 people, who entered without e-pass, a day. “Several people entered the district on foot and on two-wheelers. But we managed to identify and pick them up from their homes,” said Tirupattur SP P Vijayakumar. Vellore and Ranipet districts have been following a similar surveillance mechanism to identify those entering the district illegally. (With inputs from Karal Marx)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/authorities-crack-the-whip-on-violators/articleshow/76519514.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 20 tonnes of fruits go waste in market||CHENNAI: Restrictions over travel within the city and suburbs in view of the intense lockdown has hit sale of fruits at the temporary market in Madhavaram, leaving vast amounts of produce rotting. About 20 tonnes of fruits including pineapple, chikoo and papaya went to waste on Monday. On the flip side, traders at the temporary wholesale vegetable market at Thirumazhisai saw brisk business on Monday. Tonnes of fruits remained unsold since Friday, when the 12-day lockdown to contain Covid-19 spread came into effect. While the wholesale fruit market operating at the Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus attracted an average 3,000 retail traders everyday, the footfall has dropped to one-third since the lockdown began, probably since commuting by small vehicles was capped at one person per mini-truck. All markets were shut for a complete lockdown on Sunday. Wholesalers at the market were left with cartons of spoiled fruits. S Srinivasan, president of Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association said nearly 200 tonnes of fruits could not be sold since Friday. About 50% was mosambi sourced from Andhra Pradesh. “In fact, this is for first time that we are dumping such high volumes (20 tonnes) of rotten fruits since the market was shifted from Koyambedu to Madhavaram 50 days ago. It is causing huge revenue losses for traders,” he said. When contacted, sources with Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, which maintains the market, said restrictions over entry of retail traders has been resolved. “Police restricted the number of passengers in mini-trucks, but the issue has been addressed,” an official said. Meanwhile, Thirumazhisai market sold about 2,500 tonnes of vegetables. “We were able to sell vegetables left over from Saturday as well,” S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-tonnes-of-fruits-go-waste-in-market/articleshow/76519516.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 23, 2020||Pune||Five trekkers from Pune violate orders, visit Mulshi||PUNE: The Paud police on Sunday booked five trekkers from Pune city for visiting Mulshi for trekking, violating lockdown orders. The local police have issued public notice telling people not to visit picnic and trekking spots in the area. Also, there is the restriction on assembly of five or more persons. Despite these orders, the five-member group of trekkers visited Mulshi. Police said trekking, picnicking and venturing into water bodies have been banned during the lockdown period. Local hotels, resorts and roadside eateries, too, are shut. A team headed by sub-inspector Anil Lawate was patrolling near Muslhi dam on Sunday morning when they spotted motorcycles parked in the area. The police team then followed the footsteps and found that the group of trekkers had gone to a nearby hill. Police then asked them to climb down and took them to the police station. A case was filed against them under the provisions of Maharashtra Police Act and under the section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Police said that the trekkers, from different parts of the city, came to Mulshi dam site for trekking during the rains. Police have put up posters and banners on Pune–Tamhini Road, ordering people not to visit the dam site or hills located in the area to contain the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-trekkers-violate-orders-visit-mulshi/articleshow/76518796.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Varanasi||Mau quarantines 59 suspected cases in Covid-care rail coaches||With pics Varanasi: Mau district administration has started utilising Covid-19 coaches arranged by the Railways at Mau junction of Varanasi division of North Eastern Railway (NER). So far, 59 people who had come into contact of confirmed cases have been quarantined in these coaches. District magistrate Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi said, “As many as 42 suspected Covid-19 positive cases on June 20 and 17 on Sunday were accommodated in these Covid-19 coaches at Mau Junction.” Mau has over 80 Covid-19 cases, of which 57 have been cured and discharged. The district has 48 beds in L1 facility, where 26 active cases are admitted. He said that these 59 people are those who had remained in contact of confirmed Covid-19 cases and have been quarantined following contact tracing till their lab test reports arrive. Tripathi said for suspected cases, an institutional quarantine centre had been created at BR Ambedkar Degree College. But, as the universityies are giving tentative dates for examinations and the campus had to be sanitised by June 24, the district administration decided to utilise the Covid-19 coaches of railway to quarantine suspected cases. Railways has deployed total 960 Covid-19 care coaches in five states, of which 372 area available in Uttar Pradesh and deployed at 23 different locations including Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction Chandauli, Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, Saharanpur, Mirzapur, Subedarganj, Kanpur, Jhansi, Jhansi Workshop, Agra, Nakha Jungle, Gonda, Nautanwa, Bahraich, Varanasi City, Manduadih, Mau, Bhatni, Bareilly City, Farrukhabad and Kasganj. These coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid care centres as per guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. These coaches can be used in areas where a state has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed Covid cases. These facilities are part of the integrated Covid-19 plan developed by MoHFW and Niti Ayog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mau-quarantines-59-suspected-cases-in-covid-care-rail-coaches/articleshow/76516572.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cops crack robbery case in five days, four arrested||JAIPUR. Five days after the salesman of a businessman was robbed of Rs 40 lakh by robbers from a forested area in Virat Nagar, Jaipur (Rural) police on Monday solved the case and arrested four persons including the kingpin. Police have managed to recover Rs 17 lakh out of the total Rs 40 lakh while a few other accused were at large. The mastermind of the case was the driver of the businessman who brought his friends and others to carry out the crime. Jaipur Range IG PS Sengathir said the accused were identified as Janak Singh (26) of Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, Arjun Burman (22) of Cooch Behar in West Bengal, Rohit Jat (20) of Ramnagar in Sodhala and Umesh Singh (20) of Nandpuri Sodhala. “Apart from this, ccused identified as Kuldeep Singh, Aman Gujjar and Hemendra Singh alias Kalliare were on the run. Our team is on the job to nab them,” said Sengathir. According to police, salesman Yogendra Kumar of Shyam Associates collected Rs 40 lakh from various shopkeepers in Dausa, Bandikui and others cities and was returning to Jaipur by a car on June 18. “The vehicle was driven by accused Janak Singh. While passing through the forests of Bealwadi in Virat Nagar area, the car slowed down and some miscreants on a bike and stopped it,” said a senior officer. After this, Yogendra Kumar was thrown out and badly beaten while the miscreants also broke the glass of the car. “Before they could understand anything, the robbers decamped with the cash bag. The behavior of the driver was doubtful and thus he was interrogated,” said an officer. Jaipur rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma said at least 50 policemen were deployed to investigate the case “We clearly had doubts on the role of driver Janak Singh. It was Janak who knew that Yogendra goes to collect cash every five days. Thus, a greed to become rich made him to plan and execute the crime with the help of others,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-crack-robbery-case-in-five-days-four-arrested/articleshow/76519521.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Textbook revision comes with heavy costs||JAIPUR: The two rounds of revision of textbooks have cost dearly to the state. Though official figures have not been disclosed by the present government, the cost of the revision done by the previous government was Rs 300 crore. The books are published in several states and transported to the state at 37 depots for distribution at the schools. “Other than the cost, it involves a large number of human resources for re-writing the textbooks, training of teachers and distributing those in districts,” said a source. In 2015-16, the state had to sell existing books in the scrap market which become redundant after the entry of new books. “At that time, books worth Rs 50 crore fetched them Rs 5 lakh in the scrap market,” said a source. To end the cycle of revision of the textbooks, the present government has adopted NCERT textbooks for classes VI to VIII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/textbook-revision-comes-with-heavy-costs/articleshow/76519531.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to launch Indira Rasoi Yojana for poor||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday announced the launch of Indira Rasoi Yojana (Indira Kitchen Scheme) to fulfill its promise of ‘no one sleeps hungry’ in the state. Under this scheme, the needy will be provided nutritious food twice a day on concessional rates. He said the government would spend Rs 100 crore in a year for the scheme. Local NGOs will also be lined up to run this scheme and effective monitoring will be done with the help of information technology. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the new scheme is nothing but her government’s scheme in a new name. “The Congress government, which specialises in renaming our schemes, has changed the name of 'Annapurna Rasoi' to 'Indira Rasoi Yojana'. But she said, “It is better late than never. Though name changed, our Annapurna Rasoi Yojana had to be relaunched on the demand of the people. “Not just name change, but change yourself ,” she advised, “other wise people will change everything.” Gehlot was inaugurating a 10-day Covid-19 awareness campaign through video conference from his official residence on Monday. He released five different types of posters, audio jingles and video films and also flagged-off five mobile vans loaded with publicity materials and equipment by the National Health Mission and UNFPA. People from all over the state attended the virtual launching function at 11,500 different locations and listened to the chief minister. District in-charge ministers, MPs, MLAs and other public representatives, in-charge secretaries, district collectors, other district-level officers from also participated in this event. The programme was broadcast live on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and on other digital platforms as well. The CM said the corona pandemic was not yet over and therefore self-discipline and self-control was most required for all citizens to be safe and healthy. He said health protocols of maintaining two-yard distance, wearing mask, washing hands at regular intervals and not spitting at public places needed to be followed as the life mantras. The chief minister said when the national level average of conducting corona tests per 10 lakh population is 4,887, Rajasthan’s average is 8,339. Similarly, compared to the national average of 3.28% fatality rate, the state’s percentage was 2.32%. Recovery rate in the state is 78% compared to the national average recovery of 58%. This shows that the corona warriors in Rajasthan, including doctors and nursing fraternity, have worked with dedication and passion to control the epidemic, the CM added. Medical and health Minister Raghu Sharma and senior officials were also present during the inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-launch-indira-rasoi-yojana-for-poor/articleshow/76519532.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Experts to help Delhi govt redraw red zones||NEW DELHI: With the Centre emphasising on redrawing of the containment zones in the capital, Delhi government has decided to take help of experts, including National Centre for Communicable Diseases (NCDC), to carry out the exercise. Based on the inputs received from various agencies, Delhi government will work out a new formula on deciding the containment zone to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, a source said. “All the stakeholders and experts are being consulted, including NCDC,” chief secretary Vijay Dev told TOI. At a meeting chaired by the Union home minister Amit Shah, which was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia, among others, it was decided that fresh delineation of the containment zones would be carried out along with serological survey from June 27 to measure the scale of the spread of the virus. As per the protocol in the capital, a residential pocket is sealed and declared a containment zone if three positive cases of Covid-19 emerge from the area. In certain cases, the district authorities contain a pocket despite one positive case if they think the spread could be larger. As on Sunday, there were 262 active containment zones in the capital with close to 2.5 lakh people covered under it. While the Centre has lifted the lockdown and allowed most economic activities, the containment zones continue to remain sealed and under close surveillance for 28 days from the last Covid-positive case that emerge in the area. The source said that divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar held a meeting with all the district magistrates on Monday afternoon to take their views on the issue. Another meeting was chaired by chief secretary Vijay Dev in the evening. “While no final decision could be taken on how the containment zones should be redrawn, it was decided that the existing ones should be left untouched,” said an official. “The NCDC, which is a premier government organisation working in the field of communicable diseases, has been roped in for suggestions on effective ways to prevent the spread of the infection, and on redrawing the boundaries of containment and buffer zones,” he added. The official said the final report, which has to be presented to the Centre and Delhi government, was likely to be ready by June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/experts-to-help-govt-redraw-red-zones/articleshow/76518863.cms||Atul Mathur
June 23, 2020||Varanasi||Now, black rice from Chandauli goes to Oz||Varanasi: After green vegetables from Ghazipur and mango from Varanasi, the black rice of Chandauli will hit the international market. On Monday, a consignment of 80 metric tonnes of black rice produced by farmers of Chandauli was procured by an exporter for export to Australia. Officials in Chandauli held a flag-off ceremony at Navin Krishi Mandi of the district to mark this achievement of creating demand of black rice outside India. After flagging off the black rice-laden truck, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Black rice cultivated in 250 hectare land by the farmers of Chandauli has been purchased in bulk by an export firm Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited, Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-black-rice-from-chandauli-goes-to-oz/articleshow/76516557.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cabs to stay off roads on June 25||PUNE: Cabs will remain off roads on Thursday because their association in the city has decided to join the protest of private bus operators demanding road tax exemption for a year from the state government. “On June 25, all the transport associations across the state will go to different RTOs and park their vehicles on their premises. We have decided to join the protest as we are also in a similar situation. If the state government doesn’t accept our demands, the cabs could go off roads from June 26,” said Guru Katti, the president of Swaraj Vahan Chalak Malak Sanghatna. “We have not been able to operate for almost three months now. Our main demands include exemption of road tax for at least a year and reduction in the interest on EMIs. Cabbies will park their vehicles on the premises of the Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad RTOs,” Katti said. At present, over 20,000 cabs are operating in Pune and around another 5,000 in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cabs-to-stay-off-roads-on-june-25/articleshow/76518819.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 23, 2020||Pune||Standoff slams brakes on e-buses||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to put on hold its plan to acquire 330 e-buses as these are manufactured by Hyderabad based Olectra, which has a partnership with China's BYD company, sources told TOI. Pune corporator and PMPML director Shankar Pawar said that the decision has been taken in view of the situation between two countries. "The issue was discussed at the board of directors' meeting. The plan to procure 330 e-buses has been put on hold. As per our agreement, if e-buses have not been operational for more than two months, the PMPML can take a decision not to run them further. The e-buses with us have not been running for three months," a senior PMPML official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/standoff-slams-brakes-on-e-buses/articleshow/76518811.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Covid recovered mother, 8-day-old baby discharged||Amravati: A 20-year-old Covid patient and her eight-day-old baby were discharged from the Covid hospital on Monday. A resident of Siddharth Nagar, the woman was admitted to the Covid ward on June 14 after testing positive, and had given birth to a baby girl the next day there. The 20-year-old was among 13 who were discharged from Covid hospital. These 13 took the city’s tally of recovered patients to 300. The woman was refused admission by private maternity homes when she was pregnant, as she had tested positive. Following this, she went to the Covid ward, where a special maternity cell was opened. Doctors and nurses at Covid hospital ensured safe delivery of the baby on June 15, with the help of medical staff from district women's hospital. Guardian minister and minister for women and child development Yashomati Thakur wished the mother and baby as they stepped out of the hospital. Civil surgeons Dr Shyam Sunder Nikam and Dr Ravi Bhushan, gynaecologist Dr Sushma Shendre, anaesthetist Dr Anup Bondre and child specialist Dr Swapnil Patil were present too. "She was the first pregnant Covid-19 positive patient admitted to the ward; and this necessitated the need to open a delivery cell in the hospital to tackle such cases in the future," Thakur told TOI. Another Covid positive woman from village Rohankheda in Morshi tehsil had delivered a baby at Covid hospital on June 19. The mother and infant are safe and sound, hospital sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-recovered-mother-8-day-old-baby-discharged/articleshow/76518814.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kanpur||Groom tests positive, bride & 10 others quarantined||Kanpur:A 25-year-old man who got married on June 19 tested positive for coronavirus on June 21, following which the bride and their family members and guests who attended the function were quarantined in Kakwan Billhaur area of the district. The man, a resident of Vishdhan locality of Kakwan in Billhaur, has returned on June 14 from Delhi where he works in a private firm. He got tested before marriage on June 17 and his sample came out positive after marriage. The bride and 10 others who attended the ceremony have been quarantined. Kakwan Community Health Centre in-charge Dr Dharmendra Rajput said, “Further action is being taken according to the Covid-19 protocol. Eleven persons including bride have been quarantined. Their other contact tracing is still underway as we have received the information that few more contacts are there in the village. It is being verified and a health team is camping in the village.” “On June 14, he returned from Delhi. On June 15, he started showing Covid-like symptoms, after which his sampling was done on June 17. On June 19, he got married to a girl in Baidi village of the district. His test report came positive on June 21,” he said. “Since the newly wedded married had come in contact with the man, hence she along with 10 others including family members and guests were sent into institutional quarantine on June 21,”said Dr Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/groom-tests-positive-bride-10-others-quarantined/articleshow/76519131.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 23, 2020||Kanpur||Akshay, Tanya win men women chess||Akshay Bansal and Tanya Verma won the men and women open titles of Kanpur Blitz online chess championship held here on Monday. Ojas Puri and Ananya Mishra stole the show in the under -10 boys and girls championship and emerged as champions. According to secretary, Kanpur Chess Association, Dilip Srivastava as many as 46 and 56 players have participated in senior and junior groups respectively. The championship was held in 9 rounds. The winners are:Men: 1. Akshay Bansal, 2. Alok Gupta, 3. Kamal Kumar, women-1. Tanya Verma, 2. Sakshi Verma, 3. Shreya Saxena. Under -10 boys: 1. Atharva Goenka 2. Atharva Sionvani , girls- 1. Ananya Mishra , 2. Aradhya Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/akshay-tanya-win-men-women-chess/articleshow/76518782.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Reforms must for workforce dogged by job insecurities||By R Gopinath and Jayashree BChennai: In the past three months, the fight against a pandemic has revealed economic and social inequalities. As the country’s workforce scrambled desperately to reach their home towns during the Covid-induced lockdown, the issues were laid bare. As job losses were reported across sectors, it is important to look closely at how secure India’s workers are. Read the entire story by TOI+Why the salaried aren't any more secure than the rest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reforms-must-for-workforce-dogged-by-job-insecurities/articleshow/76519535.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MHT-CET puts off for 5 lakh aspirants||MUMBAI: Entrance exams for over eight lakh aspirants for professional courses, including MHT-CET for engineering admissions, have been postponed in the state, after requests from parents and students. Over five lakh students had registered for MHT-CET, scheduled from July 4. Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced the decision on Monday. Entrance exams for BEd, LLB (3- and 5-year courses), March, MCA and hotel management scheduled in July and August have been postponed too. Samant said exams for courses under the department conducted by state CET cell have been postponed due to increasing Covid-19 cases in the state and country. “There have been constant demands from students and parents to postpone entrance exams. The decision was taken for safety and health of students. The new dates will be announced later,” said Samant. The decision has brought relief to around 5.3 lakh engineering aspirants and their parents in the state. Many sought postponement as they were worried about commuting to their designated exam centres. For BEd, over 55,000 students had registered, for LLB (3-year) 43,000 and for LLB (5-year) nearly 24,000. A law college principal said the state should allow them to fill seats based on graduation scores or class XII scores. Covid may make it difficult for the state to hold entrance exams, delaying the academic year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mht-cet-puts-off-for-5l-aspirants/articleshow/76518818.cms||Yogita Rao
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||No community spread in Jaipur: Dhariwal; seeks report on facilities to patients||Jaipur: Expressing anger over the Covid situation in Jaipur, the need for equipment for treatment, growing demand for beds and increase in number of complaints about mismanagement by patients admitted to hospitals, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday asked district medical officers to submit a report on the status of facilities provided to positive patients in RUHS Hospital following an inspection.This was done following several complaints received about the facilities at the hospital. He also stated that there were over 400 containment zones in Jaipur, however, maintained that still there was no community transmission in the district. He also directed the designated private hospitals not to refuse treatment to Covid patients.“We have tried our best to control community spread/transmission in the district and we have got success to a large extent. We still cannot say there is community transmission in the district. Jaipur has a population of around 40 lakh people, positive cases will occur. This is not community transmission. It can be so said where an entire locality will be infected in the city,” said Dhariwal during a press conference, as Covid special awarness campaign was launched in the state on Monday.He also said there are over 400 containment zones in Jaipur. “It’s a long battle and in hundreds of years the country hasn’t witnessed a pandemic of such proportions. Rajasthan has set an example for the country to follow in handling the crisis. However, some shortcomings in the system are always there. But, we will fix those issues as well.”“I wouldn’t say every patient who was admitted to the government and other hospitals was satisfied with the facilities. But we will ensure that people don’t face difficulties in future. If people don’t get beds in government hospitals and find private hospitals expensive, they can also get treatment at home and stay quarantined,” he said.Dhariwal informed, as of Monday, of the total 2869 positive cases in Jaipur, 2298 people have been cured of the infection. In all, 145 people have died in the district due to Covid. He said, till June 21, over 1 lakh samples have been collected. Of the total 28,829 people quarantined in Jaipur, 20,608 has completed their quarantined period and 8,221 people are still in the home quarantine. There are around 946 hospitals of different categories in the whole district. Each day more than 1,000 testing is done in Jaipur. BoxInquiry against erring officials: DhariwalJaipur: UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday said an inquiry will be initiated in the complaints received against some government employees for getting benefits under national food security (NFSA), in violation of norms, after identifying those people. He also said a probe has already been initiated against some panchayat officials (one such case came to light in Bassi) for not depositing money in the CM Covid Relief Fund account even after collecting money/cheques from Bhamashahs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-community-spread-in-jaipur-dhariwal-seeks-report-on-facilities-to-patients/articleshow/76519540.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Extreme caution urged as pandemic tightens grip||Coimbatore: Admitting that there are no more clusters or pockets of Covid-19 cases as the virus now exists across the length or breadth of the district, health department officials stressed that it is more important than ever for people to wear masks and practice handwashing even after a short walk to the nearest fruit stall or grocery store.The spread of Covid-19 cases across the district has prompted health department officials to change the prerequisite for a “containment zone”. Now, officials have decided to barricade entry and exit into every road with a positive case, even if it is a single patient. While the zone was earlier defined as a 5 km radius around every covid-19 positive case, it was later changed to a zone with 5 cases within a 1 km radius. “The five patient criteria was reduced to ‘three patients’ last week, and to one patient as on Monday,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar.They are six containment zones, including Annur, R G Pudur, Mylampatti, in the district as of Monday, but the number is likely to increase to almost 40 to 50 zones over this week. Health officials have also been working on mapping Covid-19 cases in the district. They say though the numbers are lower than recorded in April, it is more widespread this time. “The cases exist right from Karamadai in the north to Chinniampalayam and Sulur in the South, Kurudampalayam and Saravanampatti in the East to Thondamuthur in the west. In between these areas, we have cases all over the city, including Vadavalli, R S Puram, Sowripalayam, Ramanathapuram, Peelamedu, Race Course, Karumbukadai, Annur, R G Pudur among others,” said a health official. “In fact, we can pick and find places without Covid-19 cases like the stretch from KMCH Hospital till Goldwins and the areas behind it and this stretch between Ukkadam and Vellalore,” he added.Health officials assess that the Aarogya Setu app, if effective, would place a Covid-19 case within 3.5 km of any user anywhere in city limits. “The spread of cases is mainly because the lockdown was lifted and people were allowed to move around freely. This is the reason we are seeing a spike in indigenous cases across the district, from contact with earlier positive cases or contact with those with a travel history,” he said. “It is critical now for everyone to wear masks... and use handwash every one hour,” said Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/extreme-caution-urged-as-pandemic-tightens-grip/articleshow/76518828.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kanpur||‘European and UK leather industry plans to shift to India’||KANPUR: The Indian leather industry should grab the opportunity as leather manufacturers from Europe and the United Kingdom are planning to shift their production units to India, said Asad Iraqi, general secretary, Leather Industries Welfare Association . He claimed that the Indian leather industry should make every effort to attract European manufacturers as their investment would generate employment. Recently, a Korean company had entered into an agreement with a Chennai firm and assured to invest around Rs.350 crore in India, he added. Talking to TOI, Iraqi said, “Local leather entrepreneurs are ready to welcome European manufacturers as their involvement will generate employment for thousands of people”. “The infrastructure needs upgrading. At present, the tannery industry is interested in setting up a proposed 20 mld effluent treatment plant, and the effluent discharge problem will be solved once the ETP is constructed”, Iraqi further said. Kanpur’s tannery industry, he said, had got orders of Rs 300 crore from Italy, Vietnam, New Zealand and Australia but due to a 15 days roster, the exporters faced problems in fulfilling the orders. Due to lockdown, raw material worth Rs 250 crores was about to be destroyed. He said the raw material had been tanned after the state government allowed the tanneries to operate but now for processing one month time was required . Import and export specialist Zafar Firoz said that the leather industry had suffered losses because orders were cancelled by the American, German and French manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/european-uk-leather-industry-plans-to-shift-to-india/articleshow/76519592.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Man who rocked Tamil pop, yodelling into hearts||By R Rangaraj Chennai: When people first heard "Pombala Oruthi Irundhalam" from the 1967 hit ‘Athey Kangal’ there were a few words that sounded gibberish. Those turned out to be Sourashtrian words meaning "Let me go, I am afraid". The idea of infusing a different language into a Tamil song was the brainchild of two legendary Tamil playback singers from the Sourashtrian community — A L Raghavan and T M Sounderarajan. In the passing of Raghavan on June 19 in Chennai at the age of 86, the Tamil film music industry lost a singer, who was always ready to explore new territories while specialising in pop, yodelling and comedy songs with a verve of his own. He came to represent a new generation of Tamil singers who could sing Western pop. His voice with comedian Nagesh on screen was one of the perfect pairings aimed at wooing the youth. As Tamil pop began to be hummed in every household, Raghavan maintained a versatility in his Western-comedy songs from "Once a papa met a mama" in ‘Anbe Vaa’ (1966) to "Jigubugu Jigubugu Naan Engine" of ‘Motor Sundaram Pillai’ (1966) and "Poda Chonnal Pottukiren" in ‘Poova Thalaiya’ (1969), there was an amalgamation of rhythm and melody with comedy. His songs would be interspersed with effortless yodeling. A style that Raghavan developed over the years and a contrast from his early years in theatre and classical music.Ayyampettai Lakshmanan Raghavan born in April 1934 was son of stage actor A R Lakshmana Bhagavathar. His father could sing, learned to play the violin and mridangam, and made a name for himself in Thanjavur. He had acted along with Kali N Rathnam in films like ‘Punjab Kesari’ (1938) and ‘Chandragupta Chanakya’ (1940). Bhagavathar died early due to cholera, and Raghavan had to take over the family responsibility at the age of eight.Raghavan joined OAAR Arunachalam Chettiar’s Baala Gaana Vinodha Sabha and began playing small roles, mainly in mythological plays where he had to act and sing. In 1945-46, the company staged ‘Thirumazhisai Alwaar’ in Chennai. The company resorted to a novel promotional campaign by drawing the ‘naamam’ (tilaka worn by Vaishnavites) with the letters Thirumazhisai Aalwaar on the sides of trams plying on Anna Salai. Huge crowds attended the play and among them was Somu Chettiar, owner of Jupiter Pictures. He was so impressed by Raghavan’s acting and singing that he decided to cast him as Bala Krishnan in his film ‘Krishna Vijayam’ (1950). So keen was Chettiar, that he handed over `5,000 to the owner of the theatre troupe, with whom Raghavan had a contract, to end the agreement. Starting at the bottom, Raghavan’s vocal journey in films began with singing as chorus. It was in 1950, that music director C S Jayaraman gave him a song along with K R Ramaswami and T R Rajakumari, who sang for their own parts, while Raghavan had to render playback for Kamala. Young Raghavan had to stand on a table between Ramaswami and Rajakumari to reach the microphone.After his four-year stint with Jupiter Pictures, Raghavan moved to Chennai to work in the plays of S V Sahasranamam and Sivaji Ganesan. Once, while singing for a play in the city, music composers M S Viswanathan and G K Venkatesh heard him. MSV hired him to sing "Hello My Dear Raami" (‘Pudhaiyal’, 1957), alongside J P Chandrababu. In the next few films, Raghavan managed to yodle ff and on, which was new to Chennai in those days. Raghavan’s career had set off to a good start with K V Mahadevan’s "Oru Murai Paarthale Podhum" in ‘Panchali’ (1962). Among his biggest hits were "Andru Oomaip Pennaallo’ for Gemini Ganesan in ‘Parthal Pasi Theerum’ (1962), but it was "Enginrundhaalam Vaazhga" (Nenjil Oar Aalayam) that turned out to be an all-time classic. The lyrics by Kannadasan succinctly portrayed the dilemma of a doctor when confronted with his long lost love who seeks his help to save her husband’s life.Despite these evergreen emotional songs, Raghavan could never shake off the image of being the voice of a comedian. Raghavan was never really considered as the voice of the hero. Once, he did sing for Sivaji in ‘Naan Vanangum Deivam’ (1963), but the film distributors felt his voice wasn’t suitable for Sivaji. The duet had to be used for comedian T R Ramachandran, instead of Sivaji Ganesan. A duet composed for Idhayathil Nee, ‘Thingalukku’ by Viswanathan-Ramamoorthy was left out as singer S Janaki found that the tune was similar to Azhagukkum Malarukkum recorded for Nenjam Marapathillai a few days ago. This song could have boosted his career. For Raghavan, it was a case of missed opportunities that continued to dog his life. As musical assignments dwindled, Raghavan turned to production. Partnering with TMS, he launched Soundar Raghavan Movies to make ‘Kallum Kaniyaagum’. Though its songs were popular, the film didn’t do well at the box-office and TMS wanted to end the adventure. But Raghavan produced one more film, ‘Kannil Theriyum Kadhaigal (1980) (against the wishes of his wife, former actress M N Rajam), employing five music directors — K V Mahadevan, T R Pappa, M S Viswanathan, Shankar Ganesh and Ilayaraja. The songs were hits but the film flopped, creating more financial problems for Raghavan. But for all his ups and downs, Tamil film music lovers would probably pay their tribute to him with his song "Engirundhaalum Vaazhga" (May you live well, wherever you are).(The writer is president, Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-rocked-tamil-pop-yodelling-into-hearts/articleshow/76519575.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured wild elephant dies despite efforts to save him in Anaikatti||Coimbatore: An injured lone tusker that was found in a reserve forest near Anaikatti here two days ago, died on Monday despite efforts by forest department personnel to save him.After officials received information about the elephant on an agricultural field at Jambukandi last Friday, a team led by Periyanaickenplayam range forest officer S Suresh reached the spot. The animal had suffered wounds in its oral cavity and was unable to eat.A team led by veterinary doctor Sugumar took care of the animal and gave it medicines mixed with fruits. They also administered fluids. On Sunday, it managed to walk and entered the forest. As the animal was seen lying on the ground, Sugumar checked it and found several pus discharging wounds in the mouth. It died around 5am, officials said.Postmortem revealed that the elephant had suffered injuries in its upper jaw due to infighting. Tusks were removed before the carcass was buried inside the forest.District forest officer D Venkatesh said the personnel did their best to save the animal, which was 9-10 years old. “We provided fruits with medicines. More than 30 bottles of glucose were administered,” he told reporters.A 15-centimetre-deep nine-centimetre-wide wound was found on the elephant’s left upper jaw, the official said. “It could be happened due to infighting. Some people claimed that it had bit a country-made bomb. If that was the case, its tongue would be damaged. We believe that it was injured during fight with another male elephant and was not able to take food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-wild-elephant-dies-despite-efforts-to-save-him-in-anaikatti/articleshow/76518881.cms||A Subburaj
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Stop coal block auction to save tigers: Aaditya||Nagpur: Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday opposed auctioning of proposed coal blocks in Bander, near Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). TOI had first reported about the auctioning of blocks around 9km from TATR. Former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh had on June 19 drew the attention of Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar against the mines and apprised Aaditya about it. Aaditya, in a letter to Javadekar on June 22, sought Centre’s urgent intervention. He stated that the proposed coal mine falls in the tiger corridor between Tadoba-Bor-Melghat, and has repeatedly been opposed. He highlighted how Ramesh had opposed the project during UPA-II. The then chief conservator of forests and field director of TATR had also objected as “mining activity in Bander coal blocks would disrupt an important tiger corridor”. Aaditya pointed out that man-animal conflict in the state, especially in Chandrapur district, was on the rise due to shrinking habitats for spillover tiger population. “Many hurdles for dispersal of tigers were created by granting mining leases. While the government intends to focus on renewable energy, such a move is unprecedented,” he added. “We must do everything we can to protect at least areas under identified wildlife corridors,” he wrote. TOI had reported how over 1,200 hectares of rich forest land will have to be diverted if mining is allowed there. Wildlife experts said Bandar falls in the route used by tigers to disperse from Tadoba to Bor in Wardha district and Melghat reserve in Amravati district. “We must do everything we can to protect at least areas that are protected and which fall under identified corridors,” Aaditya said. He said it was crucial to rethink if the mines were necessary, and what would their adverse impact be on biodiversity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stop-coal-block-auction-to-save-tigers-aaditya/articleshow/76518848.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Viral video shows cops beating up 16-year-old boy||Coimbatore: A video showing cops from the Rathinapuri police station beating up a 16-year-old boy has become the talk of the town.The incident happened last Wednesday. The minor boy was helping out his parents at their tiffin stall at Rathinapuri when sub-inspector Chellamani and two cops came there around 9pm and asked them to close the stall, as the city police had instructed to close eateries at 8pm. While his parents pleaded with the cops to let them keep the shop open for some more time, the boy, a Class X student, recorded videos using his mobile phone. Chellamani, who noticed the boy, asked him to show the videos. The boy told him that he had deleted them. However, the officer snatched the phone from him.When Chellamani, who was about toleave the place, got on his motorcycle, the boy snatched the bike key. Chellamani got down from the vehicle and began to beat up the minor as his parents tried their best to protect him from the officer. Another cop, who was carrying a lathi, also began to beat the boy. The cops threatened to put the minor in jail. In the scuffle, the boy’s shirt was torn. Some passersby intervened and told the cops not to manhandle the minor. Ignoring their pleas, the cops dragged the boy to a police vehicle. Chellamani also slapped a bystander, who recorded the events using his phone.Meanwhile, a police officer told TOI that the boy is a Class X student. “He did not allow the police officer to discharge his duty. We have not registered a case against the minor but have booked his father under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.Child activists, who watched the viral video, said if a minor is in conflict with law, he should be treated carefully. “He should not be manhandled or taken to police station in a police vehicle. The cop should inform the special wing who deal with children,” an activist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/viral-video-shows-cops-beating-up-16-year-old-boy/articleshow/76518860.cms||A Subburaj
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid patient in your neighbourhood? Don’t panic, say health workers, doctors||NAGPUR: With Covid patients being detected from many new localities in Nagpur, many are panicking in the neighbourhood of the new patients. According to officials of health department and doctors, this panic is unnecessary and one must avoid it. Post lockdown, the increase in number of Covid-19 patients is not shock or surprise for the authorities. As per the projected figures of health department, more than 3,500 cases are expected in Nagpur by July 15. They say the hospitals and administration are prepared for this. “There is no need to panic if someone from your locality, society, or in your building tests positive. That doesn’t mean you are at risk. If we follow Covid distancing, avoid unnecessary outings, and touching risky points like lift buttons, railings, we can stay away from the infection,” said Dr Shubham Ingle, who is working in Covid ward at GMCH. The panic among people is visible these days and the feeling of insecurity and fear takes over as soon as the news of someone from their neighbourhood tests positive. At once, people start enquiring about names, whereabouts of the patients and ban entry of outsiders in their locality or housing societies and even house helps, newspaper delivery boys and milkmen. “Doctors treating Covid-19 patients in hospitals are exposed to the infection many more times, but we stay safe because we follow precautionary measures. If we can stay safe, why not you all?,” he asked. Dr Mukul Deshpande of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that not a single resident doctor in Nagpur has got infection in last 100 days despite treating hundreds of patients on a regular basis. “As doctors, we have to wear some additional protection gears like PPE kits. But common people can be safe with simple masks and regular hand washing,” he said. Doctors also said that having a positive asymptomatic patient in neighbourhood is not a big worry. “In Delhi, Mumbai and Pune, asymptomatic patients are allowed to stay at homes as they are facing shortage of hospital beds. As far as the patient is in isolation, there is nothing to worry,” said Dr Angha Pandit. In worst case scenario, if one gets infected by some or the other way, there is no need to panic. Nagpur has enough number of beds and quality treatment at GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. While GMCH now has 600-bedded facility, Mayo has 550+ beds. AIIMS not only gives a pair of uniforms and footwear to all patients, but also has facilities like TV and music system, and cartoon shows for kids. “I was in AIIMS Nagpur for 10 days and it’s a world class hospital. Apart from good treatment and nutritious food, we used to get good music to listen and all this for free,” said a patient who recovered recently. Recovery rate of patients in the city is more than 66%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patient-in-your-neighbourhood-dont-panic-say-health-workers-docs/articleshow/76517589.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Producer, wife, toddler survive mishap on Mumbai Freeway||MUMBAI: A 44-year-old Bollywood creative producer, wife and two-year-old daughter survived after their car turned turtle on Freeway, near Wadala exit, on Sunday night, when a taxi hit it from behind. The three were returning home around 8.30pm after the wife had a health check-up at Bombay Hospital. Wadala police on Monday arrested taxi driver Imran Khan (36), who suffered minor injuries and was treated at Sion Hospital. They had left their Chembur residence around 6.30pm to go to Bombay hospital. There was not much traffic due to lockdown and it being a Sunday. “It was a lucky escape after my car turned turtle after hitting a road divider. My wife is shaken and is yet to recover. We escaped because of the seat belts and safety air bags,” the producer told TOI. He said a police team and other motorists pulled them out of the car. “Some people helped my wife and child reach home, while I stayed back to file a complaint,” he said. “The taxi driver claimed he lost control of his vehicles. Due to the impact, the taxi too lost control and banged the divider,” said senior inspector Shahaji Shinde. Khan was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash and negligent driving), 338 (grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and under MV Act section 184 (driving dangerously). “Prima facie, the taxi driver was not drunk at the time of the incident but his test report is awaited,” said Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/producer-wife-toddler-survive-mishap-on-mumbai-freeway/articleshow/76518894.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
June 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: 4-lane section of new Zuari bridge to be ready by March 2021||PANAJI: One four-lane section of the new Zuari bridge will be ready for use by March 2021, as work of launching the cable-stayed portion of the bridge’s superstructure is scheduled to begin in September this year, vice-president (constructions) for Dilip Buildcon Atul Joshi told TOI. One section of the bridge was earlier set to be ready by December 2020, but work has been delayed by around six months due the pandemic. “First it was the pandemic, then labour shortage, now the monsoons, the supply chain is also being affected, all put together, it will be a delay of six months,” Joshi said. He said that though the state government had announced that the four-lane section of the bridge would be opened for use by December 2020, the actual target set by the contractors for completion of the work was October. “The actual cable stay launching will start in the month of September 2020. It will be ready by December. The miscellaneous works will take another two months or so. But one section of the bridge should be ready by March 2021. We were initially targeting October 2020,” said Joshi. The unexpected Covid-19-related lockdown has set back work on the new eight-lane Zuari bridge. Four months will be lost to the monsoon season. Besides the issues of availability of material during the lockdown and the monsoon, travel restrictions during the pandemic has meant that experts from China and France have had to cancel their scheduled travel to Goa. The experts were to oversee crucial work on the superstructure of the bridge. The new Zuari bridge is an ambitious Rs 1,403 crore project funded by the Union ministry for road transport and highways, which will be the third longest cable-stayed bridge in Goa. The new Zuari bridge project’s four-lane approach road will begin near the Bambolim Cross on the northern end and lead up to the Verna industrial estate, covering 13.6km, including the new bridge. Bhopal-based Dilip Buildcon, along with a Ukrainian company Mostobudivelnyi Zahin Ltd, was awarded the contract in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-lane-section-of-new-zuari-bridge-to-be-ready-by-mar-21/articleshow/76518898.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl doc moots asthma drug to treat breathlessness in Covid patients||Nagpur: A psychiatrist from Yavatmal has proposed administering an asthma drug as a cheap option for symptomatically treating the Covid-19 patients having respiratory distress, which is one of the main causes of death.As the expert committee of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) held an online meet to hear suggestions from various doctors, Dr Prashant Chakkarwar made the case for montelukast, a drug given to asthma patients.Following the presentation, Chakkarwar told TOI a senior member of the committee, Dr Y K Gupta said the panel was in favour of conducting clinical trials on these lines. However another member of the committee contacted by TOI said it may be too early to conclude as ICMR has been receiving a number of suggestions on treating Covid-19.He has insisted the drug can be given in low doses along with the present medication recommended by the ICMR for Covid treatment. A tablet of montelukast costs Rs 5 to 6 each, he said.According to Chakkarwar’s theory, any infection leads to generation of cytokines in the body, which in turn create antibodies to fight the disease. However, in 4% to 5% of patients Covid-19 infection leads to excessive generation of cytokines which is called a cytokine storm.Cytokines have an inflammatory property that leads to swelling of the alveoli in the lungs. This leads to respiratory distress and even death. Recent research has shown that leukotriene acts as a catalyst in cytokine generation and enhances its growth. Excessive leukotriene leads to swelling in the bronchi which are also part of the lungs. This is a condition in asthma for which montelukast is given.Montelukast hits the leukotriene generation providing ease to asthma patient. There are chances that if a Covid patient is administered the drug, it may help reduce even the normal count of leukotriene in the body. This in turn may contain the cytokine storm.Chakkarwar said reduction of leukotriene could lead to fall in immunity which could be separately treated. High dosage could also lead to depressive thoughts. A Covid patient could be given a low dose, he added.Chakkarwar is not sure whether the cytokine storm in Covid is actually caused by increase in leukotriene in the body but a chance could be taken. No research has established the cytokine-leukotriene connection in Covid, he clarified. There were papers which pointed out the connection but in other diseases, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-doc-moots-asthma-drug-to-treat-breathlessness-in-covid-patients/articleshow/76517619.cms||Shishir Arya
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Couple recall spending sleepless nights as son successfully fights Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia||AURANGABAD: A city-based couple recalled spending sleepless nights as their son, who currently lives in Saudi Arabia, was diagnosed with Covid-19. “We received a video call from our daughter-in-law in the end of May informing that our son has developed fever and cough for the last few days. She told us that one of my son’s colleagues had already tested positive for Covid-19, which added to our worries. While rapid test for Covid-19 for my son came out negative, the RT-PCR test confirmed the presence of coronavirus,” said the father on Monday. He added they were shell-shocked to know that their son staying thousands of kilometres away with three daughters and wife had to battle out against Covid-19 without their support. “As all international flights were suspended, there was not even a remote possibility that we could accompany our son during this trying times. His eldest daughter used to communicate with us through video call on a daily basis,” said the mother. Based near famous Dammam city of Saudi Arabia, the city-based private professional approached private hospitals after getting tested positive for Covid-19. “The beds in private hospitals were almost occupied and health machinery was more concerned about elderly patients of Covid-19. My son, who is in his early 40s, was advised to remain home quarantined and take proper medication. The next two weeks were very tough and we literally spent sleepless nights, worrying for our son and his family,” said the father. The parents profusely thanked a family hailing from Goa that extended all possible help to their son when others chose to distance themselves out of fear of the disease. “My son decided to lock himself in a separate room. His fever was constantly above normal, causing considerable weight loss during the treatment. He had to literally crawl while getting out of the bed to go to the washroom. It was painful to see his deteriorated health condition while battling with Covid-19. He gradually started recovering and is almost fit now after getting rid of Covid 19,” the father said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-recall-spending-sleepless-nights-as-son-successfully-fights-covid-in-saudi-arabia/articleshow/76516218.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Safaris in Tadoba buffer from July 1, core to remain shut||Nagpur: The Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) on Monday finally decided to allow tourism from July 1 through all its 13 entry gates in buffer zone. There will be no tourism in core area.The decision was taken after a meeting of representatives of home stays, resort owners, Gypsy drivers and guides. TATR has a good tiger and wildlife habitat in the buffer and there are 13 gates in Dewada, Agarzari, Junona (Mohurli range), Mamla (Chandrapur), Pangdi, Zari, Doni (Kolsa range), Kolara, Sirkada, Madnapur and Alizanza (Kolara range), Navegaon and Ramdegi (Nimdhela) towards Khadsangi.After the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on June 5 gave a go ahead to start tourism, PCCF (wildlife) granted permission to start tourism in buffer zones as it was not possible to start it in core areas at short notice.TATR conservator of forest (CF) & field director NR Praveen said, “We will open all gates with available motorable roads at these 13 gates. The entry will be offline that means no advance booking. We will also provide opportunity to guides and drivers who operate in core area as they too faced unemployment due to lockdown for 3 months.”The entry fee has been kept at Rs1,000 while Gypsy charge will be Rs2,200 and guide fee Rs350. From each gate 30-40km tourism routes are available. At least 12 vehicles (six each in two shifts) will be allowed from every gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/safaris-in-tadoba-buffer-from-july-1-core-to-remain-shut/articleshow/76517637.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Camps set up to collect answer scripts||Coimbatore: The school education department has set up SSLC camps at each of the four educational districts in Coimbatore to collect quarterly and half-yearly answer scripts and rank cards of Class X students.Schools in the district can submit answer sheets at the camps, set up on school campuses, till Saturday.Chief education officer P Usha said private and government schools have been allotted dates to submit the documents. “Depending on the strength of students in each of the four educational districts, we have asked 10 to 15 schools to submit answer scripts every day. The district education officers will head the camps. They will register the details and tally it,” she said. Schools have been asked to submit the answer scripts, along with top sheets and rank cards of students. Cancelling the Class X board exams, the state government had announced that all Class X students will be promoted and 20% of marks will be awarded based on students’ attendance. The rest will be awarded based on their performances in quarterly and half-yearly exams. For this, schools were asked to submit the attendance registers of Class X. Last week, the directorate of government exams asked schools to submit the answer scripts and rank cards of quarterly and half-yearly exams. If any document was unavailable, the schools were asked to give the reason in writing. Another direction which followed this asked the schools not to call students or parents to school for collecting answer scripts. However, following the direction, HMs and teachers were left in a confusion as many of them had given away the answer scripts to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/camps-set-up-to-collect-answer-scripts/articleshow/76518918.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Mah health varsity to conduct mini convocation on June 30||Nagpur: Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) is conducting additional (mini) convocation on June 30. This is to make sure that 11,000 plus health science students – right from degree, diploma, PG diploma to PhD - who completed internship should get degrees and MCI approval for practice so that more health care manpower will be available in state to fight Covid-19 outbreak.Students who complete their internship training after the regular convocation held last year and up to June 29, 2020, will get their degrees in the said convocation.Controller of sxamination Dr Ajit Pathak informed that eligible students should send application to the University in prescribed format available at www.muhs.ac.in completed in all respects. Certificates will be issued to the students in absentia.Mini convocation is not new for MUHS. It is organized generally in October-November so that medical graduates bound for higher studies in foreign countries get their degrees on time. This year, the regular convocation of the university was held in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mah-health-varsity-to-conduct-mini-convocation-on-june-30/articleshow/76517627.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 takes away lives of three more dist residents||Ludhiana: Three persons from the district succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours — two at city hospitals and one at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. With them, the district’s toll tally has reached 30, including 13 from outside. A 68-year-old man from Phase II, Shivpuri, died at SPS Hospital, and a 63-year-old man from Beant Colony, Jamalpur, at Fortis Hospital. A 42-year-old woman from Ludhiana passed away at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The 68-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on June 19 with complaints of fever. SPS Hospital medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Kundra said, “He was our old patient and on dialysis. He also had heart problems and diabetes. As he was showing Covid-19-like symptoms, his sample was taken on the day of admission and he tested positive on June 20. On June 21, he was put on a ventilator. Due to co-morbidities, he died around 7am on Monday. We have informed the health department, who are tracing his contacts.”The 63-year-old Beant Colony resident came to the emergency of Fortis Hospital on June 21 in a gasping state. Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Shelly Deora said, “His pulse rate was 34 per minute at 9.15pm. He was put on ventilator support and CPR was done according to protocol. Despite the resuscitation efforts, he died at 10.48pm on the same day. He also had a blood pressure problem.” He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. In the third case, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state health nodal officer from Chandigarh, said, “The 42-year-old woman from Mundian Kalan was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on June 8 with uncontrolled diabetes. No history of travel or contact was mentioned, but after symptoms appeared, she was shifted to the isolation ward on June 20. She tested positive. Her blood sugar and Covid-19 treatment started on June 21. The patient was intubated on June 22 at 8.10am and she suffered a cardiac arrest at 9.20am. She was declared dead at 10am on Monday. Her daughter, 19, too, has tested positive and is admitted to Rajindra Hospital, while her husband’s report is awaited.” Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “All three died due to co-morbidities. Deaths in the district have reached 17, besides 13 deaths from outside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-takes-away-lives-of-three-more-dist-residents/articleshow/76517639.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, CJI Bobde hears Puri rath yatra case at his city home through video link||Nagpur: In a historic first, the supreme court heard an important case regarding 238-year-old Jagannath Puri rath yatra over videoconferencing from the city. The court also passed an order allowing the yatra with strict riders, including imposition of curfew in the temple town to prevent devotees from congregating.Chief justice of India Sharad Bobde heard the case at his home in Nagpur. Two judges — Dinesh Maheshwari and AS Bopanna — were seated in their respective chambers in supreme court at Delhi. The lawyers argued the case from their respective offices. Noted lawyer Harish Salve pleaded for Orissa government from his London home while Tushar Mehta representing the Union of India argued from his office in Delhi.The hearing began at 3.30pm, as the CJI was connected through video conferencing with other judges and lawyers representing various parties, who had challenged apex court’s June 18 order staying the historic event due to Covid-19 pandemic. About a dozen applicants, including hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannatha of the temple Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, were seeking modification of court’s June 18 order.There were some disruptions in the online hearing and voices couldn’t be heard clearly. As lawyers from all parties started speaking simultaneously, CJI asked them not to speak over one another and ensure only one person talked at a time. The judge also rapped a lawyer who started arguments while the order was being dictated. He directed the registry not to allow anyone to speak during dictation. Justice Bobde also restrained the media from reporting the court’s decision till the order is signed by all three judges. He told the subordinates to type the draft and send it through email to Justices Maheshwari and Bopanna for clearance and signature.While dictating the order, the CJI clarified that the apex court wasn’t disposing of the petition but allowed the Odisha government to take final call as per the situation, including stopping of Yatra.The hearing earlier began with Mehta pleading on Centre’s behalf praying for allowing the Yatra. He contended they had discussed the formalities with Puri temple trust and Shankarayacharya of the town. He said the Yatra could be conducted with cooperation of state and temple trust and without compromising on citizens’ health.Assuring that the Yatra would only be allowed in Puri and not across Odisha, Salve informed that state wouldn’t allow public gathering and the chariot would be pulled by police personnel. He added the event will be telecast live for the public and curfew would be imposed to prevent the people from gathering.“The state would take full precaution before permitting the event and coordinate with temple trust and the Centre to make things smooth,” Salve, who also hails from the city, assured.Reminding the petitioners and respondents about outbreak of diseases like cholera and plague in 18th and 19th century that spread like “wildfire” due to people’s participation in such ritual congregations, the CJI warned that the situation could turn dangerous if rules framed for containing Covid-19 were ignored.When one of the petitioners pointed out that 2,500 pandas who work at the popular shrine would be a part of the Yatra, the SC bench clarified it could not “micro-manage” the rituals and “left it to the wisdom of state, Centre and temple management to deal with that issue”.Quoting the state’s affidavit, the CJI stated that earlier the SC restrained the event due to threat of coronavirus infection, but after its assurance, it might be possible to conduct it “in a limited way without public attention”. “The state shall maintain a record containing details of all those who will be allowed to participate in yatra along with details of their medical condition after testing,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-cji-bobde-hears-puri-rath-yatra-case-at-his-city-home-through-video-link/articleshow/76517680.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||MSRDC MD to lead Covid-19 documentation||Mumbai: Eyebrows were raised after Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation managing director Radheshyam Mopalwar was appointment to lead a team for documentation of Covid-19. A top medical professional told TOI he expected chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta to appoint an expert in public health, medical education or epidemic diseases, but they chose a bureaucrat for the crucial work. “Documentation is an important task, it remains on records for several years. We expected that in this era of super-specialization the work will be entrusted to the taskforce headed by Sanjay Oke or a former director of medical education, but it was been assigned to an IAS officer,’’ he said. Mopalwar confirmed he had accepted the assignment. “As MSRDC MD, I had done a lot of documentation for Nagpur-Mumbai Expressway. It will help me in the new task,’’ Mopalwar said. As per a two-page order issued by relief and rehabilitation secretary Kishore Raje Nimbalkar, Mopalwar will have to document events since the first case of coronavirus was detected in March. It is expected that Mopalwar will study major decisions by the state government to tackle Covid-19 and prepare a document for measures to be taken by the state government. “We expect Mopalwar to meet most collectors, chief executive officers, civil surgeons across the state, take note of steps taken for tackling coronavirus and then come up with a white paper,’’ the medical professional said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrdc-md-to-lead-covid-19-documentation/articleshow/76518925.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Pulled up over homework, 12-year-old girl hangs self||Rajkot: A 12-year-old girl, who loathed attending online classes, allegedly hanged herself after her mother gave her a dressing down for not doing homework. The girl Khushi Shingadia was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her house at Girnar Society on Mavdi Road in Rajkot on Monday morning. Her mother Disha had reprimanded her for not doing her homework. “In his statement, Khushi’s father Rohit said that Khushi disliked attending online classes conducted by her school, Jai Kishan High School. As she was not doing her homework, her mother Disha scolded her. This drove her to take the drastic step,” said Ajitsinh Jadeja, investigating officer, Rajkot taluka police station. Khushi has a younger brother. Her father is a car dealer, who also owns a garage near his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pulled-up-over-homework-12-year-old-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/76517685.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||NAPM asks government to follow SC order||Aurangabad: The National Alliance for People’s Movements (NAPM) has asked the state government to follow the Supreme Court’s orders on migrant workers and ensure that they reach their respective hometowns within 15 days. Speaking to reporters on Monday, social activist and NAPM office-bearer Subhash Lomte said that thousands of migrant workers are still stranded in the state and find no means to reach their homes. He demanded that the state government should ensure that these migrant labourers reach their homes in the light of Supreme Court’s order dated June 19. He also pointed out that the many NGOs have already provided a list to the state authorities to ensure that workers return to their home states. “Still, many of them are stranded in different parts of Maharashtra,” Lomte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/napm-asks-govt-to-follow-sc-order/articleshow/76516285.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Goa records first Covid-19 fatalities as men from Morlem, Vasco succumb to virus||PANAJI: Goa recorded its first Covid-19 fatality on Monday after an 85-year-old man from Morlem in Sattari succumbed to the disease at the ESI Covid hospital in Margao. Late evening, the state government announced another death, that of a 58-year-old man from Vasco. Another woman, 80, who was taken to the Covid hospital in critical condition, has been put on ventilator support. The deaths of Chandrakant Sawant and the Vasco man came almost three months after the state recorded its first Covid case in March. Both had co-morbidities. “The deceased (Chandrakant) was bed-ridden for the past four years,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters. “He was suffering from asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He died on Monday morning.” He said that the state government would conduct his last rites on Tuesday. The Vasco man, whose name wasn’t revealed at the time of going to press, had a heart condition. An ESI doctor said that he was transferred there from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and was in ICU for a few days. “He may have died of a cardiac ailment, and Covid could have been the tipping point,” he said. Chandrakant contracted the disease after four of his family members — son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren — tested positive more than a week ago. A health official said that he had initially tested negative. When the state government informed his nephew of his death, he decided to go along with the decision of the state government regarding his uncle’s last rites. The nephew, who has tested negative for Covid-19, has been home quarantined, said sarpanch Vidya Sawant. Every day, around 100 swabs are collected from the containment zone, which has reported 19 cases as of Monday. Chandrakant’s daughter, 50, who tested positive on Sunday, was moved to the Covid care centre on Sunday. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the deaths were unfortunate. “I stand with the family in their time of grief,” he said. “We assure the people that our team is doing everything to keep our people safe, and are following the strictest measures.” Morle sarpanch said the village of Morlem became a little tense after news of Chandrakant’s death reached it early on Monday. “We have taken all precautions after part of the ward was declared a containment zone,” he said. “Swabs of another 30 persons will be collected on Tuesday.” The sarpanch said that the village has received “good support” from Rane, and that seven persons from the village have recovered from Covid and returned home. Most of the day’s cases were from the Mangor Hill containment zone and isolated cases from Curtorim, Margao and Ambelim, where the health department is yet to establish a clear link. Seven travellers also tested positive for the virus on Monday. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that cases are termed “isolated” when the state government hasn’t found any travel history or clear link to how the person concerned may have contracted the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-records-first-covid-fatalities-as-men-from-morlem-vasco-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/76520035.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||2 home guards, an ASI, PCR cop test positive||Ludhiana: With increasing number of cops testing positive for Covid-19, their families and colleagues are a worried lot. On Monday, too, four cops tested positive. They are: a home guard on traffic duty in Daba, a Shimlapuri police station ASI, another home guard deputed at the office of deputy commissioner of police (law & order) and a 49-year-old PCR cop of Koomkalan police station. Additional deputy commissioner of police Sachin Gupta said, “The 54-year-old Shimlapuri ASI is asymptomatic, but he is a diabetic. He has been admitted to Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman. The second case is a Punjab home guard, 46, who is posted as orderly with DCP (law and order) Ashwani Kapur. He is also diabetic and has been home quarantined. As the DCP was his close contact, he, too, has been home quarantined. The third positive case is a 53-year-old Punjab home guard, who was on traffic duty. He is asymptomatic and has been home isolated. Samples of his colleagues have tested negative. The PCR cop, too, is home isolated.”“Shimlapuri sub-inspector’s elderly mother, wife and daughter, too, have tested positive. The sub-inspector had gone to Delhi to bring his mother back. It is suspected that he caught the infection there,” the ADCP added.A day before, six cops were confirmed to have contracted the virus. They included two from Sahnewal police station, two from Shimlapuri police station, a Vigilance Bureau official and a PCR cop. One June 16, a sub-inspector, 52, had tested positive, following which 11 officials, including eight cops, were quarantined. On June 21, two of the contacts of the sub-inspector were confirmed to have caught the novel coronavirus infection.The families of cops are on edge.An ASI-ranked official said, “My family got anxious when I told them that my colleagues have been quarantined. Before coming home, I call up my wife so that she and children go in another room when I return. After removing my uniform, I take a bath and then meet them.”Another cop said, “When we are on duty, we meet many people and are at risk of catching the infection. When I return home, I am more worried about my family than myself, and they about me.”According to officials, nearly 16,00 personnel of Ludhiana Police commissionerate have been sampled to date. On an average, about 100 cops are tested daily.An official said, “To save cops from novel coronavirus, we are getting them tested. Besides, they are being given medicines and advised precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-home-guards-an-asi-pcr-cop-test-positive/articleshow/76517692.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao hospital not yet ready to operate as Covid hospital||NEW DELHI: More than a week after North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital was supposed to start its operations as a designated Covid hospital, the resource-starved healthcare facility is still not prepared to meet the challenge. Senior doctors at the hospital say that they are still working out the logistics and resource allocation and the facility is not yet ready for admissions. On June 14, Delhi government had issued orders for making Hindu Rao a Covid hospital. “In view of the projections of surge in Covid-19 cases and the necessity of augmenting bed capacity urgently, Bara Hindu Rao Hospital running under North Delhi Municipal Corporation is hereby declared as a designated Covid-19 hospital,” the state health department had said in an order. The hospital had been directed to make beds available to admit Covid-19 patients as per the protocol by June 16. The orders are yet to be realised. A senior corporation official said that around 60-70% preparations have been made but the hospital faces severe shortage of resources to run a Covid facility. A doctor said that the 980-bed hospital will require at least 200 oxygen cylinders while only 100 are available. “We do not have enough PPE kits or N-95 masks to keep a Covid hospital running,” the doctor added. Mayor Avtar Singh said that the hospital will require at least 10,000 PPE kits for week-long operations. “We will also need double the number of masks and other equipment. We have sent demand letters to Delhi government, but no response has been received yet,” he added. North DMC officials said that initially they were planning to run a 200-bed Covid section, but that estimate had now been reduced to 100 beds in the initial phase. Singh said that 19 sampling centres will be created, while the administration will make lodging arrangements for healthcare workers within the campus. Officials say that the staff will be deputed on a rotational basis. As per the latest orders, 10 wards of the hospital have been closed down. “Ward 7 to 16 will remain closed till further orders. Ward 3-6 are designated for medicine department, while Ward 5 for surgery, ortho, eye and ENT,” the order issued by CMO states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-not-yet-ready-to-operate-as-covid-hospital/articleshow/76518975.cms||Paras Singh
June 23, 2020||Goa||BJP keen to induct 2 Goa Forward Party MLAs into saffron fold||Panaji: In a move to further weaken the opposition, BJP is trying to split Goa Forward Party (GFP), an NDA ally, and admit two of its three MLAs into the saffron fold. Sources privy to the negotiations said the talks are being led by chief minister Pramod Sawant and party organising secretary Satish Dhond with the two MLAs—Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar—and is aimed at embarrassing GFP president Vijai Sardesai, who has been vocal against the government and instrumental in creating unity among the opposition. The move comes after all three GFP MLAs, including Sardesai, a former deputy chief minister, were unceremoniously dropped by Sawant almost a year ago. Though there were vehement denials by both the MLAs and Sawant feigned ignorance about the issue, top BJP sources said the party has assured the MLAs of a ticket for the next assembly elections and promised to make them head of one of the numerous corporations in the state. But the main idea behind the move is to make Sardesai politically weak and marginalise his political bargaining power as there was a strong hunch in BJP that he was veering towards Congress and may strike an understanding for the next assembly polls, political observers said. “With this move, BJP wants to restrict Sardesai’s political career. It will also send a signal that the opposition is unable to hold its flock together,” one of them said. Recently, Sardesai, who was one of the key players in the formation of Manohar Parrikar-led coalition government in the state after the 2017 assembly polls threw a hung verdict, had apologised to the people for supporting BJP after Parrikar’s demise in March 2019. BJP state managers are looking at doing an encore with what they did with MGP in March 2019 when two of its three MLAs joined BJP and gave a letter to the speaker stating that they were “merging the legislative wing” of the party with BJP. Sardesai put up a brave front and said: “If my MLAs are already in touch with BJP, then what are they waiting for. Why are they taking time (to induct them into the party)?” He said it was the same BJP which had dropped both Salgaonkar and Paliencar from the cabinet and wondered whether BJP feared a Manipur-like situation after Supreme Court sent notices to the Goa assembly speaker and 10 rebel Congress MLAs who joined the party last year. “BJP cannot silence me. I did not get scared of Parrikar, who filed false cases against me. You think, these people can stop me,” he said. Sardesai said both the MLAs had clearly denied any such move and wondered whether BJP was behind these rumours. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade put the blame squarely on Sardesai and said he would have been floating the rumours. Meanwhile, in a statement, Paliencar said the BJP government was trying to divert the attention of Goemkars from the rising Covid deaths and cases by “bringing up this non-existent and imaginary political illegality that I am joining BJP”. “Sawant has completely failed in managing the economy, state coffers are empty. Money meant for labourers have been diverted to their workers. In order to divert attention from all this mess which they have created, BJP functionaries themselves are spreading these rumours and they should stop the business of political prostitution,” Paliencar said. Salgaonkar, in a tweet, rubbished the rumours. “I am not going anywhere leaving the party,” he said. In the 40-member House, BJP currently has 27 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-keen-to-induct-2-gfp-mlas-into-saffron-fold/articleshow/76520042.cms||Murari Shetye
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||GTB Hospital staff protest for PPE kits, masks||Ludhiana: A day after a 23-year-old staff nurse at GTB Hospital here tested positive for Covid-19, her colleagues working in the isolation ward protested demanding protective gears like PPE kits, gloves, masks and caps.Over 100 staff members, including nurses, ward boys, attendants, Class IV employees and other paramedical staff working in the emergency ward and ICU of the hospital, joined the protest. They claimed that despite having been in regular touch with the nurse testing positive, they have neither been quarantined nor their samples taken for testing.Protesting outside GTB Institute of Nursing Education, they demanded of GTB Hospital director Amardeep Singh Bakshi, its medical director Dr Parveen Sobti and medical superintendent Dr Harish Sehgal to provide them the quality protective gears.One of the nurses said, “For the last three months, we are doing duty at the emergency ward and ICU, but we have not been provided any PPE kit. We were given green gowns to wear. They have told us to wash the masks and wear them again. Now, we are buying masks, caps, etc on our own.”There have been four Covid-19 patients at the hospital, including the staff nurse. Two persons have died and one was referred to DMCH.An attendant said, “The even the staff members, who were directly in touch with positive patients, were not given PPE kits. In fact, we have not been quarantined and no samples taken so far. We should be quarantined for one week, but the hospital authorities told us to bring or replacements first, or else our salaries would be deducted. Doctors suggested to take anti-fever medicines and do gargles, but didn’t recommend quarantine. They also asked us to wash the protective gears and re-use them. The nurse contracted the infection due to lack of protective gear.”Contacted by TOI, Dr Sobti said, “A staff nurse who comes from home has tested positive. She used to stay in a hostel while performing her duties at night. The PPE is given to the task-oriented staff and we are following ICMR’s guidelines. We give three masks to each staff member and each mask is used four times. After 20 days, they are issued another set of masks. According to guidelines, N95 masks can be worn four times. Sampling of 21 staff members was also done on Sunday and samples of other employees were taken on Monday.”GTB Hospital managing committee president Amardeep Singh Bakshi said, “We are a charitable hospital and running hospital with collective funding. The staff safety is our first priority and PPE kits will be procured according to requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gtb-hospital-staff-protest-for-ppe-kits-masks/articleshow/76517704.cms||Mehak Jain
June 23, 2020||Goa||Ex-health minister, nurse & intern at ESI hospital test Covid-19 positive||PANAJI: A former cabinet minister who served in the Manohar Parrikar-led coalition government tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The minister, himself a practicing a doctor, had been admitted to a private hospital for kidney disease. After he developed a chest infection, he was moved to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, an official at the state’s premier public hospital said. “His condition is stable. He will shortly be transferred to the Covid hospital.” At the Covid hospital in Margao, a nurse and an intern have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The intern was part of the team that recently performed a surgery on a Covid-positive woman who delivered a baby at the hospital. An government official said that the nurses who shared a room with the positive case have tested negative. “She (the positive case) is a Vasco resident, and we suspect she may have picked up the infection there,” an official said. Meanwhile, Goa’s active Covid tally shot up to 711 on Monday after 46 fresh cases were reported. Seventeen patients were cured on Monday, and they’ve all been sent to home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-health-min-nurse-intern-at-esi-hosp-ve/articleshow/76520039.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 3 women, 5 men succumb to Covid-19 in GMCH||AURANGABAD: As many as eight people have died of Covid-19 between Sunday and Monday at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad, taking the death toll to 191 in the district since the outbreak of the viral infection. Arvind Gaikwad, the officer on special duty at the Government Cancer Hospital and the media coordinator for GMCH, said the patients who died belonged to different age groups and were suffering from other serious ailments. Of the two women who died on Sunday, one is a 25-year-old from Qaisar Colony and the other a 36-year-old from Hanuman nagar in the Pundaliknagar area. A 73-year-old man from Roshan Gate, a 70-year-old resident of Garkheda and a 55-year-old man from Sillod also succumbed to the infection on Sunday. On Monday morning, the dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility at the government hospital recorded three deaths. A 59-year-old woman from Kohinoor Colony, a 62-year-old man from Rajabazaar and a 49-year-old man from Uttamnagar succumbed to the infection. Gaikwad said that of the total deaths registered in the districts so far, 151 were recorded at the dedicated facility on the GMCH premises. Of the 178 Covid-19 patients being treated at the hospital, the condition of 124 patients is said to be critical. Of the 3,632 Covid-19 cases registered in the district, 1,668 patients have recovered from the viral infection and been discharged from hospitals. As many as 1,473 patients are currently undergoing treatment at different Covid facilities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-women-5-men-succumb-to-covid-19-in-gmch/articleshow/76516350.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||OF unions stopped in strike path by govt’s ‘non-core’ demands||Nagpur: As the Army has raised concern over short supply from the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the unions have pointed out that some of the items like troops’ clothing were declared non-core by the government itself. Now, in wake of the tension with China, the Army is looking at the ordnance factories to meet the requirement.The Army had the freedom procure non-core items from private sector and there were plans to phase out production of these goods at the ordnance factories.A proposal by the government to corporatize the OFB set-up had let to the unions moving a strike ballot. With 99% of workers voting in favour of an indefinite strike, the unions have planned to hold a meet in July second week to decide the course of action.In the light of developments along the line of actual control (LAC) and an impending strike, the department of defence production (DDP) has written to the OFB listing out over 40 items that are in shortage. The list includes over 20 items like high altitude and cold weather clothing, wind cheaters, caps, bags, jackets, camping gear and combat dress. A press release by the three unions — All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF), Indian National Defence Workers Federation (INDWF) and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) — points out that all these items were declared as non-core, but now being treated as critical due to the LAC crisis.The items are made in factories at Kanpur, Shahjahanpur, Hazratpur in Uttar Pradesh and Avadi in Tamil Nadu. Two years ago, the clothing items were declared non-core. Earlier, there were plans to stop the production totally at the ordnance factories. However, the BPMS insisted that it should be phased out gradually. After this, production was reduced to 50% in the first year and by another 25% in the following, said Mukesh Singh, general secretary of BPMS.Now as there is a need, the items have been declared as critical and ordnance factories are being asked to speed-up the supply, he said.The unions have said in order to avoid an indefinite strike in the wake of border situation, the government should drop the idea of corporatizing the OFB set-up. This will motivate the workers to put up their best efforts as they are at present anguished by the plan to change of ordnance factories into a public sector undertaking.“The situation warrants building up confidence in the minds of our brave soldiers by providing them with all the protective gear, comfort item, as well as arms and ammunition. Therefore, to avoid strike in the most strategic defence industry, the Prime Minister may intervene and issue instructions for withdrawing the proposal to corporatize the OFB,” said the press release by the three unions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-unions-stopped-in-strike-path-by-govts-non-core-demands/articleshow/76517721.cms||Shishir Arya
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman jumps from fifth floor of hospital, ends life||PUNE: A 36-year-old woman from Wanowrie family, which ran a business in the Caribbean island country Jamaica, ended her life by jumping from a fifth floor window of the KEM hospital building in Rasta Peth around 4.30am on Monday. The woman was in the hospital for the treatment of her 13-year-old son, who is diabetic and suffers from kidney ailment. Based on a note, purportedly written by her, and the initial statements by her son and the hospital’s staffers, senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of the Samarth police told TOI, “The woman was driven to despair by the loss of her husband (to cancer) three months ago and the critical condition of her son. She might have taken the drastic step because of all this.” The woman and her mother were in a fifth floor room where her son was admitted. To his horror, the boy saw his mother jumping from the window. He cried loudly drawing attention of the hospital staffers, the police said, adding that she died of multiple injuries due to the fall. A note written in English with a “Suicide Note” header on a plain paper, read: “I, xxxx xxxx (name withheld), I am committing suicide on my own freewill. No one should be blamed for it. I want my brother xxxx and xxxx to take the custody of my kids and deposit mine and xxxx (husband’s) insurance amount half and half on their names in Indian Bank. They should get this money when they are 26 and 24 years old respectively. Bye.” The note was recovered from the hospital room, police said. The woman’s father-in-law told TOI, “She was very depressed after my son passed away three months ago. She was also quite worried about her son’s health condition. My son and his family were staying in Jamaica where he was running an electronic goods business. She was a housewife. They all came back to Pune for the treatment of my son and grandson. It is very unfortunate.” The family also had a small business outlet in Wanowrie, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-ends-life-by-jumping-from-5th-floor-of-hospital/articleshow/76518936.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Criminal tries to end life in Pimpri police lock-up||PUNE: A criminal on police records, arrested recently in an ATM theft case, slit his wrist and neck multiple times using a zip runner of his trousers in the Pimpri police lock-up on Sunday afternoon. The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch had recently arrested Ajaysingh Dudhani (20) with his accomplice in connection with the theft of an automated teller machine (ATM) containing Rs 5.71 lakh from a kiosk at Thermax Chowk in Nigdi. He was in the custody of the Nigdi police and was kept in the lock-up at the Pimpri police station. Around 1.30pm on Sunday, an officer from the Nigdi police had gone to the lock up for interrogating Dudhani. “To avoid the interrogation, Dudhani ripped off the zip runner of his trousers and slit his hands and neck,” said an officer from the Pimpri police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-tries-to-end-life-in-pimpri-police-lock-up/articleshow/76518946.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Decision on reopening of schools after July 15: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state government will take a decision after July 15 about starting the academic year. He said that Diwali and Christmas vacations would be curtailed to cover the syllabus. The government has decided to promote all students studying in Classes IX and XI to Classes X and XII, respectively, Sawant said. “The state government has not taken any decision to start the new academic year for the students. We will take a decision after July 15,” he said. The chief minister, who also holds the education portfolio, held a meeting with secretary education, education director and Goa Headmasters’ Association and principals’ forum and some parent-teacher associations over the new academic year. He said as there is no 100% internet connectivity in the state and all parents don’t have smartphones, the education department has never said that online and offline education is compulsory for students, but we have provided training to 11,000 teachers to keep the students occupied. Referring to the online and offline initiatives taken by some schools, Sawant said that even if a student did not attend the online or offline classes, teachers will teach the entire syllabus to those students when classroom education resumes. He said that the government is considering tie-ups with channels for online education and videos would be uploaded for offline education. “Parents should not panic if they don’t have a smartphone and think that their children will miss the syllabus. Nobody should buy a smartphone by taking loans,” the chief minister said. He said that aided schools cannot ask parents to opt for online education. Sawant said that the education department will issue a circular in the next few days making it compulsory for teachers to attend school. “Teachers should compulsorily go to schools and prepare student worksheets, take home work and distribute books,” he said. He said that by the end of the month, students up to Class VIII will get their textbooks. Reacting to reports that some schools are demanding donations for online classes, Sawant said, “If we get a complaint then action would be taken against that school. If somebody has already paid a donation then he should personally meet me and lodge the complaint.” He said that it has come to the notice of the government that some people are taking donations in the name of pre-primary schools so that they will be given admission to join primary school of the same institute. “If we get complaints then we will act against those schools also,” he said. Sawant said that only those schools that do not get grant-in-aid can take donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-after-july-15-cm/articleshow/76520044.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||30 more cases take dist count to 589||tnnLudhiana: As many as 30 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday, taking the district case count to 589. Besides them, 156 patients from outside Ludhiana have tested positive here to date. At present, 231 patients from the district and 53 from outside are admitted to city hospitals as active cases. On Monday, 934 samples were sent for test. “On Sunday, 1,025 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, of which 910 have tested negative and 115 reports are pending. Of other 70 pending samples, 43 are negative, one will be retested and 26 are positive. Apart from it, three reports from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) are positive and a Ludhianvi has tested positive in Fatehgarh Sahib” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.16 in Prem Nagar Prem Nagar containment zone reported 16 cases, including two boys, aged 7 and 12; nine men aged 19, 24, 28, 42, 42, 54, 55, 65 and five women aged 20, 36, 39, 39 and 61. 3 cops Three cops have caught the virus. They are: a 54-year-old resident of Savan Vihar Colony, Jamalpur; a 46-year-old resident of Guru Harkrishan Nagar, 33 Feet Road, Giaspura; and a 53-year-old man of Shimlapuri. Travel history A 53-year-old woman from Harikrishan Vihar, Meharban, has tested positive. She has a travel history of Delhi.6 contactsSix positive contacts of Covid-19 patients include a 42-year-old Sherpur market man; a 60-year-old man and a 39-year-old woman of Rahon Road; two men, aged 11 and 37, of Nandpura Basti, Jodhewal; and a 24 year-old man of Jamalpur.In Fatehgarh Sahib A 29-year-old man of Ludhiana’s Krishna Nagar is admitted to a hospital in Fathegarh Sahib. He is a contact of a positive patient. At pvt hospitals Three patients have tested positive at DMCH. They are: a 61-year-old-man from Shivpuri’s Phase II; a 40-year-old man from Guru Nanak Pura, Civil Lines, who is admitted to MCH, Vardhaman; and a 63-year-old man from Beant Colony, Jamalpur Awana, Focal Point17 curedOn Monday, 17 patients were discharged from hospitals. Six of them were admitted to Meritorious Covid Care Centre, five at MCH, Vardhman, two at civil hospital, three at CMCH and one at Fortis Hospital. With them, 338 patients from the district have been cured so far, besides two from Delhi and one from Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/30-more-cases-take-dist-count-to-589/articleshow/76517755.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Thane||Murder accused escapes from Covid centre||KALYAN: A 49-year-old murder accused escaped from a Covid care centre. Police have registered an FIR and have launched a search for him. They said the Titwala resident had on May 30 killed his wife. Khadakpada police said Kalyan sessions court had remanded him to police custody, when he had fever. A Covid-19 test came positive. A health team of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation shifted him to Tata Amantra Covid care centre. Sources said on Sunday afternoon he fled from the centre, raising doubts over security. The health team was worried that he may spread the virus. A Khadakpada police official said they had some clues and would soon arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/murder-accused-escapes-from-covid-centre/articleshow/76519073.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Murder-accused who jumped parole four years ago nabbed||Rajkot: An absconding murder accused who had jumped parole and was hiding for the last four years was caught from Bhachadar village under Rajula police station in Amreli district on Monday.Police said the accused, identified as Joru Dhakhada (46), had obtained a week-long interim bail from April 27, 2016 and May 3, 2016 from the Gujarat high court. He was lodged in Rajkot Central Jail in a murder case. After his release on the interim bail, he was supposed to produce himself before the jail authority on May 10, 2016. However, he went absconding. “Meanwhile, we received a tip-off that Dhakhada had come to his native in Bhachadar village. Acting on the information, we raided his house and arrested him,” said M A Mori, inspector with Amreli special operation group.“At present, we have lodged Dhakhada in Amreli district jail. We have collected his samples for Covid-19 test, and once his test report comes, we will be transferring him to the Rajkot Central Jail,” added Mori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-accused-who-jumped-parole-four-years-ago-nabbed/articleshow/76517735.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic delays memorial at ‘Faujiyan Da Pind’||Ludhiana: Families of martyrs and ex-serviceman are awaiting completion of the project, wherein a memorial and other infrastructure will be developed by the income tax department in association with industry and Nathowal panchayat, to honour the services of the village Armymen. The project has suffered delay due to Covid-19. On July 26 last year on Vijay Diwas, The Times of India had carried two news stories on Nathowal, also known as Faujiyan Da Pind. The income tax department had then approached the village panchayat and expressed interest in developing a memorial. On August 16, chief commissioner of income tax Binay K Jha, in the presence of villagers and members of industry, laid the foundation stone of various projects, including martyrs’ statues, community hall and a sports ground. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) assured all help in completing the project.District public relations officer (DPRO) Prabhdeep Singh, who belongs to the village and has been coordinating with the income tax department for the project, said construction work would start after Covid-19 subsides. He said an architect had visited the site, maps have been prepared and construction material was also delivered, but things got delayed due to the pandemic. Balbir Singh, husband of the sarpanch, said the villagers were waiting for the start of the work, which would be the best gift to their village. Mansa Khan, a villager, said, “We have about 400 ex-servicemen, 40 serving Armymen and 18 martyrs from the village. They have given a distinct identity to our village. We are elated that infrastructure listing the achievements of the village is being constructed here and people from various places will come to visit it.” When I-T dept adopted NathowalLast year after reading news stories by TOI, chief commissioner of income tax Binay K Jha had said that under the income tax department’s social responsibility activity, it had decided to adopt Nathowal village, and the laying of foundation stones for various projects was a part of it. During a programme organised last year, Jha had said the statue of Kargil war martyr Surjit Singh would be installed in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-delays-memorial-at-faujiyan-da-pind/articleshow/76517745.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 23, 2020||Allahabad||Akshayvat reopens this week, but with fixed timings for darshan||Prayagraj: Clearing the air about the date when the shrine would reopen during the lockdown, authorities have decided that the centuries-old Akshayvat tree, located inside the Allahabad Fort, will reopen for devotees within the next three to four days. Akshayvat had been closed since the last three months because of the lockdown. Inspector general of police (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “During a meeting convened by Prayagraj Mela Pradhikaran last week, district authorities, police, and army officials decided that Akshayvat would reopen shortly for darshan. It would take around three to four days for the shrine to be sanitized, after which it would reopen this week. After getting Army officials on board, authorities decided that district police would be tasked with the responsibility of managing the devotees. There would be fixed timings for darshan. People would be able to visit Akshayvat between 7am to 12 noon and then from 3pm to 5pm.” The IG said that authorities would strictly follow the safety protocol when they allow devotees to start visiting the place of worship. Moreover, it would be mandatory for visitors to wear masks. “We have drafte a security plan for the place of worship and adequate police force would be deployed.” On Monday, a sub-inspector, 10 constables and five women constables were assigned duties at Akshayvat. Ever since places of worship reopened during the lockdown after government orders on June 5, devotees had been waiting eagerly for Akshayvat to reopen too. The Akshayvat tree was opened to public for the first time during the Kumbh-2019. He also said devotees would also be able to visit Patalpuri and Saraswati Koop through another route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/akshayvat-reopens-this-week-but-with-fixed-timings-for-darshan/articleshow/76516364.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty hotel sealed for hosting businessman from New Delhi||Udhagamandalam: Revenue department officials sealed Hotel Charing Cross in Ooty on Monday after it accommodated a guest from New Delhi. Cops who came to know about the stay of the guest, a 35-year-old man on business trip, had informed revenue officials. The man is from Vikaspuri in Delhi, Ooty tahsildar Kuppuraj said. “We sealed the hotel as they violated rules. A notice has also been issued to them,” said the official. “Health department officials had collected samples from the man at the airport as well as at the Burliar checkpost for Covid-19 test. We are waiting for the results.”Authorities shifted the man to the isolation ward of the Ooty Government Hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-hotel-sealed-for-hosting-businessman-from-new-delhi/articleshow/76518942.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||BMC aims to up virus doubling rate to 50 days with 50 ambulance-clinics||Mumbai: The BMC intends to lengthen the average coronavirus doubling rate to more than 50 days in the next three weeks from 36 days now, with the help of 50 newly added mobile ambulance-clinics that will visit congested slums and collect samples of symptomatic patients on the spot. BMC commissioner I S Chahal, too, has started visiting slum hotspots to check the status of sanitization of community toilets and operation of local dispensaries. Chahal said visiting these slums will help him get first-hand information about the problems on the ground. On Monday afternoon, he visited Appapada slum, a virus hotspot in Malad (East), and asked residents seated outside their homes or at windows in the narrow bylanes a fixed set of questions: How many times are the community toilets cleaned in a day and if the local dispensary, which the BMC has provided with free PPE kits, operates daily. TOI had accompanied Chahal during his visit to the Malad slum. When told by residents a toilet block was cleaned twice a day, Chahal reprimanded local officials and shared his contact number with a slum dweller, asking him to call him if it is not sanitized six times a day from Tuesday. Chahal said, “Such visits can help understand problems on the ground, so they can be addressed. Toilets are a key source of virus spread in slums.” Meanwhile, in some wards, the virus doubling rate is lower than the average of 36 days. Under the ‘mission zero’ rapid action plan, the BMC is targeting wards with low doubling rates in Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Mulund and Bhandup. Officials said since most new cases in the Mulund-Bhandup belt are from buildings, they have created awareness among residents about precautions. In other areas they are trying to control the spread with the help of the 50 ambulance-clinics donated by Bharatiya Jain Sanghatna and CREDAI-MCHI. These dispensaries will have doctors, and visit slums, screen slum dwellers door-to-door, collect samples of symptomatic people and shift them to quarantine facilities. Additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide will supervise the drive. Chahal said Mumbai is in a better position today, stating the authority was anticipating a daily increase in cases at over 2,000 since Mission Begin Again launched on June 3. He said, “It is almost 20 days since Mission Begin Again started, but we are getting 900 to 1,300 cases daily, despite the relaxation in public movement.” He said the BMC is prepared for a spike in cases during monsoon. “We will have around 20,000 hospital beds by July-end. With an increased doubling rate, we could treat two lakh patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-aims-to-up-virus-doubling-rate-to-50-days-with-50-ambulance-clinics/articleshow/76518951.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag school link of SNC med officer||Visakhapatnam: Surgeon Rear Admiral Arti Sarin, an alumnus of Timpany School, Visakhapatnam has taken charge as command medical officer (CMO) of the medical unit of Southern Naval Command (SNC), Kochi, on promotion to the rank of Surgeon Rear Admiral. Surgeon Rear Admiral Sarin graduated from the prestigious Armed Forces Medical College, Pune and was commissioned into the Armed Forces Medical Services in December 1985. She has two postgraduate degrees — an MD in radiology from AFMC Pune and a DNB in radiation oncology from Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. In addition, she has trained in gamma knife surgery at the University of Pittsburgh, USA. In her naval career, she has tenured at Naval Science and Technology Lab, Visakhapatnam and served in the naval hospitals at Port Blair, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Mumbai. She is also a recognised teacher and examiner at various universities and has several medical publications to her credit in peer-reviewed journals. Currently, she is spearheading SNC Kochi’s fight against Covid-19 through developing solutions and setting up quarantine facilities. Her husband, Surgeon Rear Admiral CS Naidu, from Andhra Pradesh, is currently the CMO of Eastern Naval Command (ENC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-school-link-of-snc-med-officer/articleshow/76517773.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Students barred from riding bikes to SSLC exam centres||Mysuru: With the SSLC exams set to begin from June 25, authorities are taking extensive measures to ensure the safety of students. Going an extra mile, the officials of the district administration have barred students from riding two wheelers other than bicycles to the exam centres. The ensure, students adhere to the order, officials will keep an eye on how the students are arrive at the exam centres. “Only parents must ride two wheelers to drop students at the centre. The decision has been taken to ensure the safety of the students as it is a common practice in the rural areas for students to ride bikes with friends to the exam centres. This could potentially expose them to Covid-19 as they won’t be sure of their friends’ health status,” said the officials. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga confirmed the decision. “Last year in Mysuru district, two SSLC students who were on their way to the examination centre in Nanjanagud riding a bike died after their bike hit an electric pole. So, we decided to ensure that no student arrives at the centre driving any vehicle. Only bicycles are exempted,” he said. “We have also barred autos as they are almost always overcrowded and may violate the social distance norms,” explained an officer from DPI. Speaking to TOI, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) director V Sumangala said: “We are micro managing transport facilities at school level. KSRTC buses and school vans will be hired. The state transporter will also operate special routes for the students.” BOX Mobile phones banned at centres The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has directed the DDPIs to ensure the appointment of mobile phone acquisition officers to recover the mobile phones of the students as well as exam duty employees at the exam centres. Senior officials of the DPI will be appointed as mobile acquisition officers, said DDPI Panduranga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-barred-from-riding-bikes-to-sslc-exam-centres/articleshow/76519998.cms||Shrinivasa M
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Factory owner hangs self after heavy losses||Rajkot: Reeling under heavy losses and financial distress due to lockdown, a businessman allegedly hanged himself in Rajkot on Sunday late night.The victim Kavin Dudhatra was found dead at his Ramnagar Society on Kothariya Road. Police said 28-year-old Dudhatra owned a factory manufacturing auto parts in Atika Industrial Zone, in partnership with his brother-in-law Hitesh Patel.“On Sunday, his wife and two children had gone to Patel’s house to attend the birthday party of the latter’s daughter. Dudhatra had told them that he would come there from the factory. However, instead of going to Patel’s house, Dudhatra went to his house and took the extreme step,” said an official from the Aji Dam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/factory-owner-hangs-self-after-heavy-losses/articleshow/76517779.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two areas in Shivajinagar ward see significant spikes in Covid-19 cases||PUNE: Khairewadi on Ganeshkhind road and the Mula road neighbourhood near Khadki — both part of the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward — have had a substantial rise in Covid-19 cases in the past 10 days. Khairewadi had three cases until June 13. But that number now stands at 59. The area has been declared micro-containment zone. The locality and a few adjacent areas have an estimated population of over 2,500 people, with many living in small houses in tight clusters. A drive is now ongoing to identify those with symptoms similar to Covid-19.  “We have asked residents to remain in their homes. It has been observed that people have been gathering in common spaces within the containment zone. We have heightened our vigil,” one official said. Khairewadi, along with the neighbourhoods of Wadarwadi, Janwadi, Pandavnagar and Gokhalenagar — all within Shivajinagar — have been witnessing a spurt in coronavirus cases over the past two to three weeks. Scattered cases have also been reported in Model colony and along Senapati Bapat road. In the Mula road area, which has had 20 cases so far, all internal lanes have been blocked. Only the main road is open for transport. This neighbourhood too, officials said, has small houses and narrow lanes. On June 2, it had no more than two Covid-19 cases. “Most shops have been closed here. Residents have been told to wear face masks at all times,” an official with the PMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-areas-in-shivajinagar-ward-see-significant-spikes/articleshow/76518964.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four link roads opened to facilitate smooth flow of traffic in twin cities||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Monday declared open four of the 37 link roads to facilitate smooth flow of traffic in different areas of the twin cities. According to the officials of Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited (HRDCL) the other 33 roads are expected to be ready by July-end. In the first phase, 37 link roads covering a distance of 44.67 km are being built at a cost of Rs 313.6 crore. The four link roads, covering a total distance of 4.67km, were developed at a cost of Rs 33.80 crore. These roads link High Tension Line to Miyapur Road, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Serlingampally zonal office to NH-65 and Prashasan Nagar (Rd No.70 Jubilee Hills) to Narne Road (Rd No. 78, Jubilee Hills). “The roads are being developed as part of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP). Under CMP, the link and slip roads will be built by 2024 to help the 8.9 million population of Hyderabad. The aim of CMP is to decongest traffic on the main roads,” said an official from MA&UD. The newly laid link road connecting Prashasan Nagar to Narne Road is expected to ease traffic on Rd No. 45 (Jubilee Hills) and KBR Park. The distance between Prashasan Nagar and Narne Road is 2.2 km, but with the newly-developed road the distance has been reduced to just 500 metres. Similarly, the newly-laid link road from High Tension Line to Miyapur will be useful for residents of Hydernagar, Nizampet and Bachupally, who commute on National Highway 65 and JNTU road. The distance to reach Miyapur metro station from HT Line is around 4 km, but if people use the newly-laid road the distance is only 1 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-link-roads-opened-to-facilitate-smooth-flow-of-traffic-in-twin-cities/articleshow/76518949.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Rains could trigger Covid-dengue coinfections: Experts||PUNE: Last week, at a private hospital in the city, an elderly patient tested positive for both Covid-19 and dengue. Similar cases have been reported from countries such as Thailand and Malaysia, where dengue fever is prevalent. Experts in Pune — where nearly 50 people died of dengue last year — said with the onset of the monsoon, the city is likely to see a rise in the number of cases in which the pandemic has seemingly merged with prevalent illnesses such as dengue — a coinfection. Both the viral diseases (dengue is caused by the mosquito-carried DENV virus) and Covid-19 are difficult to distinguish because of overlapping symptoms. Fortunately, however, they are easily identifiable in a laboratory. Medical experts TOI spoke to said patients coming in with fever should be tested for both dengue and other seasonal viral and bacterial diseases even if their Covid-19 test is negative. Sahyadri hospital's infectious disease expert, Raman Gaikwad, said, “The man who tested positive for both dengue and Covid-19 complained of fever, body aches and a headache. He was admitted to our hospital on June 8. His blood test showed a slightly low platelet count. We tested him for dengue as well as for Covid-19. He tested positive for the dengue antibody (IgM) and also on the RT-PCR test for Covid-19.” The patient only had moderate Covid-19 symptoms. He responded well to standard treatment protocols and recovered from both illnesses within two weeks. He also has diabetes. “With the monsoon here, we are likely to see more such patients with coinfection of Covid-19 and other seasonal illnesses such as dengue, typhoid, rickettsia and leptospirosis. General practitioners will need to have a high index of suspicion while treating patients with fever during the pandemic,” said critical care expert Girish Date of Sahyadri hospital. But overlapping symptoms can make clinical diagnosis, for either of the diseases, difficult. “Dengue fever and Covid-19 are difficult to distinguish because they, early on, share certain features like fever, myalgia (body aches) and headache. But their laboratory features are different and are easily identifiable in such settings," said infectious diseases expert Mahesh Lakhe from the Columbia Asia hospital. The experts said prevention is key to staving off both diseases. “Cleanliness in and around our homes and mosquito-control measures are key to avoiding dengue infection since it (dengue) doesn’t have any targeted antiviral therapy available. And frequent hand washing, wearing a mask while venturing out and observing social distancing can keep Covid-19 at bay,” Lakhe said Sassoon hospital’s senior microbiologist, Suvarna Joshi, said, “Consistent high-grade fever, body aches and rashes are typical signs of dengue. For Covid-19, highlight symptoms include mild to moderate and often intermittent fever, sore throat and respiratory trouble.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rains-could-trigger-covid-dengue-coinfections-experts/articleshow/76518958.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||700 tree parks, 75 Yadadri model plantations to dot city||Hyderabad: As part of the Haritha Haram programme, 700 tree parks and 75 Yadadri model plantations will be taken up in the city. At a review meeting with corporators and GHMC officials on the implementation of Haritha Haram programme at GHMC head office on Monday, IT minister K T Rama Rao directed officials to take up Yadadri model plantation on government land where there is adequate space, such as at University of Hyderabad, Osmania University and National Geophysical Research Institute. Planting mosquito repellent plants along lake bunds to reduce mosquito menace and herbal or medicinal plants to minimise bad odour was also proposed. KTR instructed the corporators to prepare a green action plan for their respective wards by June 30. The corporators have been asked to furnish the details of open spaces, schools, colleges, government institutions, number of parks, graveyards, lakes, ponds and nalas where the saplings can be planted. Speaking about sanitation measures, the minister said that about 3,000 public toilets will be built by August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/700-tree-parks-75-yadadri-model-plantations-to-dot-city/articleshow/76518940.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 23, 2020||Agra||No pay, no work, 6,000 staff, temporary workers tell AMC||AGRA: Around 100 staffers of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday went on a hunger strike, demanding payment of their salary. They said more than 6,000 staff and workers would boycott work if not paid by Tuesday. Both permanent employees and temporary workers of the civic body have not received their salary since the last 52 days. They said they were finding it difficult to make ends meet. According to AMC records, the civic body has 1,600 permanent sanitation workers on its rolls while 3,000 workers are outsourced. Besides, there are around 1,500 permanent and contractual clerks, drivers, officer boys and mechanics. Talking with TOI, state vice-president of the urban local body association Vinod Allahabadi said, “For the past several days, we have been raising the issue of not getting salary but the authorities have not taken cognizance of the matter. Risking our life, we worked during the Covid-19 lockdown and continue to do so. We have decided to completely boycott work if we don’t get salary by Tuesday." On learning about the workers' protest at the AMC head office, mayor Naveen Jain went to meet the protestors. He directed the civic body's chief finance officer to ensure the workers get their salary by Tuesday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-pay-no-work-6k-staff-temporary-workers-tell-amc/articleshow/76516377.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 23, 2020||Trichy||Chain-snatching, shop break-ins rise in Trichy||Trichy: After the relaxation of lockdown, crimes have also started cropping up in the city. Trichy city police recorded a chain-snatching and a shop break-in at Karumandapam and Anna Nagar area. L Angelisha, 35, a private bank staff from Alpha Nagar in Karurmandapam was on her way back home on a bike in the night on June 20. When she was about to open the front gate of the house, a man snatched her six sovereign gold chain and fled the scene. The Cantonment police registered a case on Saturday. On Friday, Thillai Nagar police received a complaint from G Kaviyarasan, 25 from Sivaprakasam Salai in Anna Nagar in Trichy. According to his complaint, he had planned to open a bakery at Sivaprakasam Salai and purchased all the equipment and materials. As the lockdown was imposed, he shelved his plan until the normalcy returned. On June 12, when he visited the shop and he found the shop was burgled. He found 21 items including kitchen items, electronic gadgets like laptop, computer, LED TV, CCTV camera, two air-conditioners stolen from the store. Thillai Nagar police visited the spot and kicked off the investigation. A case was registered. The value of the stolen goods was Rs 3 lakhs, according to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chain-snatching-shop-break-ins-rise-in-trichy/articleshow/76520601.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Agra||2 more Covid-19 deaths in Agra, 2 bank managers infected in Meerut||Agra: At least two more Covid-19 deaths were reported from west UP's Agra district on Monday. The deceased included an 83-year-old man suffering from chronic kidney disease and a 61-year-old man suffering from SARI. Two bank managers and one army man were among those found infected in Meerut. In Agra, the two Covid-19 patients died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 79 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Also, at least eight new positive cases surfaced till Monday evening, taking the tally to 1,147. While 16 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,147 cases, 83.16% have recovered, with 116 active cases. CMO RC Pandey said, "So far, 953 people have been cured of the infection and discharged." Moreover, in Meerut, at least 19 more cases were reported on Monday, taking the total tally to 796, including one found in Kanpur. There were no new deaths, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. There were 11 fresh positive cases in Bareilly, and of these, six are relatives of a positive contact in Kanhaiya Tola locality while two others belong to Baheri. They are undergoing treatment at KGMU in Lucknow. Total cases in Bareilly are now 186, with 78 active ones, three deaths and 105 discharged patients. In Budaun, four new cases were reported and of these, three are from Sahaswan and one from Wazirganj. On Monday, five people were discharged from hospital, while there are 40 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-more-covid-19-deaths-in-agra-2-bank-managers-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/76516366.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for throwing out his aged parents||Rajkot: A man drove his aged father and mother out of his house in Manhar Plot area of Rajkot on Monday. Police arrested Kailash Satparia (45) and his wife Bhavna Satparia (40) for the alleged crime. According to the complaint lodged by Jairam Satpariya (70), his son and daughter-in-law picked up a fight with him and his wife Mani Satpariya (65) over the issue of selling scrap.“Kailash sold the scrap collected by Jairam. When Jairam asked him as to why had he sold the scrap without his permission, Kailash and Bhavna allegedly picked up a fight with Jairam and Mani. The accused allegedly pushed their aged parents to the ground and threw them out of their house,” said an official from Rajkot A division police station. It was the police who approached Jairam after a video shot by one of his neighbours, in which Kailash is seen pushing Jairam and his wife to the ground, had gone viral on WhatsApp and social media.In his complaint, Jairam has alleged that Kailash wants him and his wife to vacate the house as he wants to usurp his property. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-throwing-out-his-aged-parents/articleshow/76517867.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: CP issues best practices advisory for housing societies||PUNE: The city police commissioner, K Venkatesham, on Monday released an advisory on best practices for residential complexes to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The advisory has been compiled based on some of the best practices being followed by some residential societies in the city. We shall also come out with similar advisory for the slum areas in the city in next two or three days. The work of compiling the advisory is in progress,” Venkatesham said in an online news conference. He said, “Over 100 buildings have reported positive cases in the past few days. Some buildings adopted the best practices and handled the situation well to prevent the spread of coronavirus. We held meeting with the buildings’ office-bearers and collected details of the best practices followed by them. We studied them in details and compiled the advisory for buildings, apartments and housing societies.” The advisory includes compulsory wearing of masks, installing wash basin and water tank, hand sanitizer, soap, liquid soap at lifts, checking residents with thermal temperature gun and oximeter at entry points. Maintaining social distance of two metres (6ft), warning residents against assembling in groups, monitoring movement of foreigners and people coming from outside states. The domestic helps would have to keep cellphones, keys and purses in a bag, it stated. Pune’s divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said he would issue an order directing the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police and civic commissioners to start acting against people not following the social distance norms at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-issues-best-practices-advisory-for-housing-socs/articleshow/76518973.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Didn’t infringe MLAs’ rights: T cops tell HC||Hyderabad: The state police on Monday informed the Telangana high court that they did not disturb the rights and privileges of Congress party legislators. Rajiv Ratan, additional DGP (legal), said this in an affidavit filed before the court in response to a plea filed by Telangana Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy and a few other legislators. Justice T Vinod Kumar posted the case to June 26. The Congress legislators charged the police with disrupting the opposition leaders at the behest of the diktats of the ruling party. “We were not allowed to meet the people, not even to distribute vegetables and groceries to the poor,” they said. Ratan, in his affidavit, said that those who declared their intentions to violate Covid-19 norms were detained at their residences as part of their duty to enforce lockdown norms. “We acted in tune with section 151 of CrPC in respect of those who violated the Covid-19 guidelines of the Union health ministry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/didnt-infringe-mlas-rights-t-cops-tell-hc/articleshow/76518960.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Agra||3-month-old girl suffering from hydrocephalus to be sent to SGPGI Lucknow||Agra: A day after TOI reported that a three-month-old baby girl suffering from hydrocephalus – build-up of fluid in cavities in the brain – was not being able to avail required treatment at the SN Medical College (SNMC), principal of SN Medical College Dr Sanjay Kala made arrangements for her to be shifted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow for specialised treatment. The child would be sent to Lucknow if the family members are willing and after her condition is stable, the official said. Dr Sanjay Kala told TOI that he would arrange for an ambulance to transfer the child. Meanwhile, after being shifted from the surgery ward to pediatric ward on Monday evening, doctors provided medicines to the child who was having frequent fits. According to the parents, the condition of the child improved on Monday and she was able to sleep. She is being kept under close observation. Her parents, Pooja and Lavkesh Kumar are residents of Khandari locality. On April 15, she was admitted to the SNMC and underwent a surgery. However, after a few days, her head started swelling again due to accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the brain. She was again admitted to the SNMC on June 14. The parents had alleged that the child was not being provided proper treatment. The SNMC principal said, “Pediatric surgeon Dr Puneet Srivastava is taking care of the child. She was born with a neural tube defect. Due to hydrocephalus, her head has swollen. She is paralyzed below the waist and has a severe spinal defect. Presently, she is not in condition to undergo a surgery. Fluid is being frequently extracted from her brain. Parents have been informed in detail about her critical condition. She can be sent to SGPGI Lucknow if they are willing. I will arrange an ambulance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-month-old-girl-suffering-from-hydrocephalus-to-be-sent-to-sgpgi-lucknow/articleshow/76516373.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, GHMC takes to video calls for grievance redressal||Hyderabad: With staff numbers at the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office dipping after few workers tested positive for COVID-19, civic body officials will now be taking up complaints on Google Meet from Tuesday. Instead of their office, officials will now be available online between 4pm to 5pm — regular visiting hours at the head office — on all working days. Residents who wish to report their grievances have been advised to visit the portal — www.ghmc.gov.in — and click on the citizen connect option on the homepage to get in touch with officials through video call. Grievances can also be reported by visiting https://meet.google.com/poj-qrex-hzh. Both links will direct the complainant to the same page. According to GHMC officials even top officials will be available to solve their grievances. “Head of departments (HODs) will be available and I will also be available to address grievances,” GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar said. “This is an additional feature which will help the people amid Covid-19,” said a GHMC official. Members of housing societies who interacted with TOI, welcomed the move. “As Prajavani, the weekly meeting where people interact with officials in presence of the commissioner is not being held, an initiative like the Google Meet with officials was the need of the hour,” said Narasimhan A, president, Golf View Apartments, Nanakramguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-ghmc-takes-to-video-calls-for-grievance-redressal/articleshow/76518955.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Half of 1.32 lakh Covid-19 patients got well, government data shows||PUNE: Close to half the 1.32 lakh Covid-19 patients in the state have recovered. The state health department on Monday said 67,706 or 49.86% of the patients have recovered, reiterating that while cases have undoubtedly gone up, so has the recovery percentage. In Pune, the rate of recovery was around 60% as per the data given by divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. As of Monday, there were 61,793 active cases and the case fatality rate in the state is 4.63%, the report issued on Monday said. Subhash Salunkhe, technical expert to the state government, told TOI on Monday that the state is seeing a rise in cases. “Nearly 4,000 cases were added on Sunday and over 3,000 cases on Friday and Saturday. But the recovery percentage is also at 50%.” As relaxations on the lockdown measures are being implemented, there is bound to be a surge in cases which has been witnessed in all states, Salunkhe added. “States like Kerala and Karnataka, after the lockdown relaxation measures, have seen a rise in cases. We need to be focused on the recovery percentage,” he told TOI. The expert said the state is testing a large number of people and hence there are more cases coming forth, but early detection has helped in faster recovery leading to the discharge of Covid-19 patients. He said till date there were 7.73 lakh laboratory samples tested. Health minister Rajesh Tope had told TOI earlier that it was time to look at the recovery rate. “Cases will rise as the state is testing more. With rates reducing in private laboratories, testing will only increase,” he said. “Maharashtra is testing 5,847 persons per million, higher than the national rate of 4,610, and double than its earlier figure,” Tope’s statement on Monday said. On March 9, when the first patient was reported in the state, there were just two laboratories in the state in Mumbai and Pune. From May 26 to June 20, the number of laboratories has increased by 30, the minister added. The highest number of tests are being carried out in Maharashtra which is also the worst-hit. Tope’s statement said consistent efforts were made by the government to increase the number of tests over the past three months. Leading epidemiologist Giridhar Babu from Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru analyses that the state’s seven-day average growth rate was at 12% on March 21 which rose to 23% in the first week of April. “The growth rate has steadily decreased and remained at 3% for the last two weeks. The RO from 0.85 on June 14 is shown an increasing trend to 1.3 on June 20. This typically happens due to expanding to the newer susceptible areas while the earlier focus of transmission seem to be under control,” he said. The R0 value indicates how contagious an infectious disease is. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had last week taken a swipe at the MVA government alleging that even though the state has the capacity to test more than 30,000 samples per day, only 14,000 tests were being carried out which in turn was projecting lower statistics by testing fewer samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-data-shows-half-of-1-32l-covid-19-patients-got-well/articleshow/76518988.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 23, 2020||Pune||PCMC increases testing for early detection of contagion||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has ramped up testing to ensure early detection and treatment of Covid-19 patients to arrest mortality rate. The civic body is testing around 500 samples a day. A week earlier, the civic body was testing around 200 to 300 samples a day. Pimpri Chinchwad has recorded over 1,200 cases this month and 31 deaths till June 21. The death rate (total deaths divided total positives) in the municipal limits has gone up to 1.7% as of June 21 from 1.5% in May-end. The PCMC plans to increase testing and detect patients early to keep the death rate below 2%, said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner of the PCMC. There were zero deaths reported in March, three in April, eight in May and 31 till June 21. Of these, 80% had some co-morbid conditions, a civic official said. Positive cases have risen by over 1,200 in the first 21 days of June. According to civic data, this month, an average of 13 out of every 100 samples have been positive, compared to 10 out of every 100 samples in May. In April and May, the positive cases rose by around 100 and 400 respectively. Officials said the challenge was not the number of positive cases, but to keep the death count low. “If push comes to shove, the PCMC would declare home quarantine for all asymptomatic patients and keep all the 4,500 regular beds and 450 ICU beds in public and private hospitals only for symptomatic, co-morbid and vulnerable patients,” a civic official said. The civic body’s infrastructure and protocols for testing at the 550-bed Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital is being audited by the Armed Forces Medical College. After approval, it would add capacities to test over 700 samples at a single centre. “When the centre is ready and cleared, it would cut reliance as it would be our own centre and also cut down waiting time,” Patil said. In some cases, the waiting time was as high as five days, which according to the municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, led patients to complain about lack of infrastructure at the hospital. “This is the time when community participation can help the government in saving lives. Either people should self report or the community should help and if detected early, lives can be saved,” he told TOI recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-increases-testing-for-early-detection-of-contagion/articleshow/76518980.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Minor kills woman for resisting theft bid||NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old woman who was found with her throat slit at her Rohini home last week was murdered by a teenager who had entered her house to commit burglary. The 16-year-old suspect has been sent to a reform home. He is a student of Class X at a government school in northwest Delhi. The boy was allegedly addicted to drugs and planned to steal a mobile phone and other valuables from the house. On the night of June 19, he entered the house but was spotted by the woman, police said. When confronted, he allegedly whipped out a knife and slit her throat. Police were alerted about the incident when the woman’s son came home and discovered the murder. “An FIR of murder was registered and a team under SHO Jitender Singh formed to investigate,” said DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra. The cops subsequently scanned the CCTVs of the area and spotted a boy running hurriedly around the time of the incident. It was also found that a call had been made to a mobile seller from the stolen phone after the incident. The seller was shown the CCTV footage and he confirmed that the boy tried to sell the phone to him. The boy was later tracked from a nearby locality and he confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-kills-woman-for-resisting-theft-bid/articleshow/76518983.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Court seeks Centre & state’s stand on holding pending CISCE exams||MUMBAI: After asking the state government whether it was adopting a ‘wait-and-watch’ approach, the Bombay high court on Monday sought its ‘clear’ stand on permitting the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board to conduct its pending ICSE (class X) and ISC (class XII) exams in July. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde also directed the Centre to inform its decision taken pursuant to the Allahabad HC’s June 15 order to treat as representation a public interest litigation to cancel pending CBSE and CISCE papers. “The respective stands of the central and state governments are required to be known,” the judges said, posting the hearing on Wednesday. The HC heard a PIL by advocate Arvind Tiwari, a parent of an ICSE student, against holding the pending exams in July. On June 17, the HC had directed the CISCE board to present its methodology for alternative grading for students who may opt not to physically appear for the exams. The board’s advocate, Aditya Mehta, had sought adjournment till June 26, to submit the grading plan, which will be finalized a day prior. He said the Supreme Court is to hear a similar issue regarding CBSE exams on Tuesday. The judges directed that the SC order, if any, be brought to its notice. Earlier during the hearing, the judges asked if the state’s stand would differ if 10%, or 25% or 50% of the students opt to take the exams. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the state government, at this stage, is not in position to allow CISCE exams and the option of physical exam was given because of the board’s stand. The judges said they are concerned about the rising coronavirus cases and toll in Maharashtra and the fact that the state . They reminded that Maharashtra is the top state in coronavirus cases. Advocates Rahul Tanwani and Karl Tamboly, representing the parents, said principals are forcing students to submit the option to take the exam by Tuesday. The judges gave an assurance that they will extend the deadline for students to exercise their options and allow them to change it later. “Don’t worry. Don’t submit your option tomorrow,” said CJ Datta. Senior advocate Birendra Saraf, also representing parents, said many students were willing to write the exams and hence this option should not be taken away from them. When he pointed out that Karnataka had allowed exams to be conducted, the judges told him not to compare the two states and said the parents should give an undertaking that it will be at their risk and peril that their children will sit for the exams. Tiwari, along with advocate Atal Dubey, pointed out that in Karnataka, after the father of a student who had appeared for an exam had tested Covid-19 positive, the exam centre staff and 24 students were placed in home quarantine. “That cannot be ruled out in Mumbai and Maharashtra,” said Tiwari. The judges said they will “keep this in mind”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-seeks-centre-states-stand-on-holding-pending-cisce-exams/articleshow/76519002.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 23, 2020||Agra||One killed, 12 injured after bus collides with sand truck on Agra-Lucknow eway||Agra: A truck driver was killed and at least 12 passengers of a private bus coming from Delhi were injured in a road accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway late on Sunday. The accident occurred at '14.600' km stone of Dauki police limits in Agra district at 1:35 am, when a sand laden truck from Etawah struck a divider and veered off towards the other lane, following which a speeding bus from Delhi heading to Basti district collided with the truck. Chief security officer of UPEIDA patrol team Jagdish Singh said, "The impact of the collision was so severe that the truck broke into three parts. The truck driver was also killed on the spot, while the bus driver was critically injured. At least 12 passengers, out of 38, were hurt." Singh added, "The truck had left Fatehabad toll plaza at '21' km stone just a few minutes ago, and it is difficult to say how he hit the divider and went across to the other lane." Identification of the deceased man was underway by Dauki police. His body has been sent for postmortem, while the injured were taken to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-killed-12-injured-after-bus-collides-with-sand-truck-on-agra-lucknow-eway/articleshow/76516386.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Trichy||2 more ambulances to handle rising Covid cases in Trichy||Trichy: The district will now have six 108 ambulances for Covid-19 duty as the district administration assigned two more 108 ambulances for on Monday. District collector, S Sivarasu, allowed the 108 ambulance service to use two more ambulances for Covid-19 duty after the issue of lack of vehicles was brought to his notice. Trichy Corporation officials have been lamenting about the delay in 108 ambulances reaching the houses of Covid-19 patients to take them to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) while the ambulance service pointed out lack of coordination from the civic body. Out of the 30 ambulances in the district, three have been shifted to Chennai, six have been assigned to ferry Covid-19 patients to the MGMGH and the remaining 21 for other cases. Since the number of cases reported daily was very high, four ambulances weren’t enough in the district to ferry patients from their residences to the hospital comfortably. The situation has changed in the last two weeks with the increase in cases every day, putting the district administration, health department and police on their toes. As the number of cases has been rising to double digits in various parts of the city and rural areas in the last one week, it was challenging for the 108 ambulance service to attend to calls from corporation officers handling the shifting of the Covid-19 patients to the hospitals. Corporation staff said they had to wait for four hours to five hours for the 108 ambulance to turn up at the patient’s house. People in rural areas also echoed the same view. On the other hand, the 108 ambulance staffers on condition of anonymity said there was a lack of coordination and communication among the corporation staff. “If the corporation staff could give us a list of patients in the morning, we can assign the vehicle according to the locations. A vehicle can carry at least five patients in a single trip. The other vehicles can be assigned to the rural areas if there is any patient. It will reduce the burden on patients waiting for the ambulance,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-more-ambulances-to-handle-rising-covid-cases-in-trichy/articleshow/76520604.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Teenager makes face shields for policemen in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Police personnel were surprised when a 14-year-old boy gifted them 100 face shields he had made at home using a 3D printer. Zareb Vardhan, who will appear for his board exams next year, thought of the gift after coming across several instances of people arguing with policemen at pickets from a close distance, considered hazardous during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. He created a design on a software and then printed the face shields using transparent acrylic sheets on the 3D printer he has in his study room. “They are ergonomically designed to cover the whole face from ear to ear, making them more comfortable to wear through the day,” Vardhan told TOI. He handed over the face shields to Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava at his office on Monday and got a commendation letter from the top cop. The masks were distributed among policemen across the capital on Tuesday for trials. “In the times of difficulty, some break down while others break records. Performers are born in difficult times and not in comfort zones. Instead of just sitting back at home, he... produced 100 face shields that speaks volumes about his public-spirited attitude,” reads the commendation note. Vardhan said he had bought the 3D printer using his pocket money and was looking for an opportunity to use it for something constructive. His study room has now been turned into his workshop. “I found that printing a face shield using acrylic is a cheaper alternative to the ones available in the market. Other materials that are stronger can also be used,” he said. Vardhan, who studies at a well-known south Delhi school, plans to produce a few more shields and distribute it among other police forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teenager-makes-face-shields-for-policemen/articleshow/76539967.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 23, 2020||India||Singh to Modi: You can’t let China use your words to appropriate our land||NEW DELHI: Amid the raging controversy over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘no-intrusion’ remark over the Ladakh face-off, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has asked the BJP mascot to rebuff China’s bid to use his words to appropriate Indian territory, warning him of “historic betrayal of people’s faith”. Making a surprise intervention in the charged debate, Singh said Modi should be “mindful of the implications of his words and declarations on our nation’s security as also strategic and territorial interests”. “China is brazenly and illegally seeking to claim parts of Indian territory such as the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Tso lake by committing multiple incursions since April 2020 till date. We cannot and will not be cowed down by threats and intimidation nor permit a compromise with our territorial integrity. The PM cannot allow them to use his words as a vindication of their position and must ensure that all organs of the government work together to tackle this crisis and prevent it from escalating further,” he said in a written statement on Monday. In a withering attack on the BJP government over its ‘no-intrusion’ claim, Singh said, “We remind the government that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership. The truth cannot be suppressed by having pliant allies spout comforting but false statements.” Singh’s attack pertains to the June 15 clashes which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers. At an all-party meeting on the issue, PM Modi said there were no Chinese intrusions in India. The remark triggered a storm as army veterans and experts argued that Chinese were in occupation of Indian land in key areas. China followed Modi’s remarks to say Galwan belonged to it and Indian forces had transgressed. Calling these interpretations “mischievous”, PMO later said Modi’s comments were specifically in the context of the areas in Galwan Valley where the skirmishes took place on June 15. Singh said, “We call upon the PM and the government to rise to the occasion, to ensure justice for Col B Santosh Babu and our jawans who have made the ultimate sacrifice and resolutely defended our territorial integrity… Their sacrifice cannot be allowed to be in vain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/singh-to-modi-you-cant-let-china-use-your-words-to-appropriate-our-land/articleshow/76520924.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Trichy||Grocery shops lack safety measures against Covid-19||Trichy: The death of a 65-year-old grocery shop owner in the city due to Covid-19, with no travel history, has brought to fore the vulnerability to the disease and lack of preventive measures in grocery shops. Corporation sources said that the shopkeeper who died on Sunday only frequented between his house and shop situated less than a kilometre away, in Ariyamangalam zone. Both he and his wife did not travel outside their neighbourhood. Two weeks back, the shopkeeper fainted while returning home and was diagnosed with Covid-19. His wife tested positive a few days later. But, the samples collected from three employees of the store and the victim’s neighbours were negative. Officials suspect that the shopkeeper could have contracted Covid-19 from one of his customers. Such an incident may recur as locals are worried as neighbourhood grocery stores lack Covid-19 preventive arrangements like hand sanitizers, while masks were being used only to avoid penalties. Customers also frequently make physical contact at the billing area of grocery stores. “Grocery shops lack water connections, so handwashing is not possible. There is lack self-responsibility in dealing the pandemic among both traders and customers,” Suresh Alvar, a grocery shop owner from Puthur. Though grocery stores sell hand sanitiser to customers, the outlets fail to keep one for their personal use. Social distancing also goes for a toss as customers race against each to complete the hasty purchase. “Grocery shopkeepers are wearing mask but handwash or hand sanitiser is missing. Though we insist them, they cite constraints as excuses,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/grocery-shops-lack-safety-measures-against-covid-19/articleshow/76520607.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Medical stores told to operate from behind curtains||Rajkot: Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday ordered all the medical store owners to put a curtains in their shops to maintain social distance between them and customers. The order was issued after the meeting with office bearers of medical store association. The order has been issued to maintain social distance at medical store and to prevent the spread of Covid virus. “A medical store owner is required to put a plastic 5-6 foot high in his shop,” stated the order. Municipal commissioner M A Gandhi said, “In first phase we have ordered medical stores because they fall in high risk category. Whoever will come to these stores are patients or relatives of patients. In second phase, we will cover retail provision and grocery stores.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/medical-stores-told-to-operate-from-behind-curtains/articleshow/76517900.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pharma sales dip as people stay indoors in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown has led to drop in sales at medical stores in Visakhapatnam. Doctors are partly attributing the trend to healthy habits and social distancing which have reduced everyday ailments. Sales of some common medicines have gone down by between 35 and 40 per cent. The drop was as high as 80 per cent for certain drugs, including the ones to treat infertility, according to medical shop owners and wholesalers. Many people had stocked medicines for chronic ailments like blood pressure and diabetes during the lockdown, apprehending there might be a crisis later. The owners of some standalone medical stores in several neighborhoods of Visakhapatnam said as coronavirus started spreading, many people stocked paracetamol, a common medicine for fever. “Because of Covid-19 and the lockdown, people have been maintaining social distancing. Schools are closed, many people are working from home. Chances of infection have come down. I’ve barely had patients with influenza in the last couple of months,” said physician Dr K V Srinivas. “Children mostly contract common cold and flu from school or playground. As for adults, they get infected at workplaces and on public transport,” he said. Wearing masks has also helped prevent the spread of the common cold to a great extent, said Mohan Sirvastav, a physician in PM Palem. Doctors also attributed drop in medicine sales to the new hygiene habits that most have been forced to adopt. “With frequent washing of hands, chances of gastroenteric diseases are bound to go down. Similarly, masks reduce chances of acquiring respiratory infections,” said Dr K Santosh Kumar, internal medicine specialist. Yet another reason for the drop in sales is that far fewer people are visiting hospitals because they are scared of getting infected by coronavirus or doctors have not yet started seeing patients. “I have decided not to step out to even visit my doctor. If I have a problem, I call up my doctor and follow his advice,” said K Jayaram of MVP Colony and a patient of bronchial asthma. The owner of a medicine store in Akkyapalem Babulu said sales of antibiotics have gone down. While he would sell 12 to 15 strips of expensive antibiotics daily before the lockdown was imposed, sale has now come down to barely one or two a day, he said. “A large number of doctors treating infertility are not seeing patients for safety reasons, sales of those drugs have dropped,” said Harish Sonthalia, a wholesaler in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pharma-sales-dip-as-people-stay-indoors/articleshow/76517910.cms||Siva G
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Deepak Mhaisekar stresses on masks, social distancing norms||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Monday reiterated that citizens should continue to use masks and follow social distancing norms, as assessment of the Covid-19 reports indicated that every fifth person in the containment areas could be positive for the virus. “With nearly 18% of samples sent from the containment areas testing positive, it is essential to follow the social distancing rules, he said, emphasizing on stringent rules to penalize people for not wearing masks. He said fines to the amount of Rs500 have levied by the corporations and local authority 0 for the first violation of the norms, followed by FIRs for repeated violations.  Mhaisekar said there could be several asymptomatic persons in the community and the way forward was to follow the guidelines. “Considering the rise in positive cases, especially for samples from the containment areas, citizens should not take it lightly. They should wear masks in the right way and follow the hand hygiene instructions,” he told TOI. During a video conference held under the additional chief secretary, he said strict fines would be slapped on people not adhering to the rules. With the focus on tracing the co-morbid patients, Mhaisekar said, people with comorbdities would be at risk if citizens got in contant without masks or protections. On reconciliation of data in the death figures, he said there 70 cases, of which 47 were duplicate names, 13 were names that were out of district and 10 cases were reconciled as the death summary report came in late. The state government is carrying out a large-scale data reconciliation exercise to remove glitches in the Maharashtra’s Covid-19 figures. In Pune division, Solapur continued to register the highest death mortality (8.5%). Ä detailed assessment is being done on 100 deaths and co-morbid patients identified among the beedi manufacturng and textile workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mhaisekar-stresses-on-masks-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/76519003.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||2 students of Classes X & XII end lives in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Two students, both starting important academic years, ended their lives on Sunday in Kolhapur. Police said the investigations were under way and did not reveal any exact reason for the children taking such an extreme step. A girl studying in Class XII committed suicide at her house in Kolhapur city, while a boy studying in Class X also ended his life. The police have registered cases of accidental death in both instances, which are not connected. Both the children were found hanging from the ceiling. Police said that the girl wished her father and uncle on the occasion of Father’s Day and went to her room around noon. She told her parents that she would be attending online tuition. However, the girl did not open the door for a long time, making her family suspicious. When the family forcibly broke open the door, they found the girl hanging from the ceiling fan in her room. She was immediately rushed to Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital, where she was declared dead on the arrival. Police did not find any suicide note and investigation is in progress. Her father is a businessman, while her mother is a nurse. In the other incident, the boy had gone to meet his grandfather, who lives nearby, along with mother and sister on Sunday evening. He returned home early, leaving behind others from the family. When the family returned home, they found his body hanging to a ceiling fan. He was taken to a private hospital and later to Miraj civil hospital. But he was declared dead on arrival. Police are investigating both the cases from all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-students-of-classes-x-xii-end-lives-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76516421.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Trichy||Plea to convert mayor villas into quarantine centres||Trichy: The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has mooted a plan to convert the bungalows of the mayor and deputy mayor into isolation centres, instead of turning schools into temporary quarantine facilities to isolate Covid-19 patients. The two posh buildings are underutilized since their inauguration 10 years ago. For the past two days, the corporation has converted at least five schools and community centres in all the four zones in the corporation into temporary Covid-19 isolation centres. As the news spread, a section of residents of Wireless Road near KK Nagar, E Pudur, and Pappakurichi in Thiruverumbur resorted to protests against setting up isolation centres in residential areas. It was then the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) mooted the plan. The two bungalows near Bharathidasan Road were built at an estimated cost of Rs 50-60 lakh each in 2009. The bungalows can at least accommodate 15 people each, the residents said. “Schools may reopen in a month or two. We should not take risks by using the educational institutions. As the expensive bungalows are underutilised, the local body can utilise the bungalows first,” S R Kishore Kumar, Trichy east assembly constituency in-charge of MNM, said. As there is no elected council, the bungalows remain locked since 2016. Even before, the facilities were seldom used by the then elected representatives. However, corporation officials maintained that the two bungalows are unlikely to be used as Covid-19 wards. “We have been frequently cleaning the bungalows, but not too many patients can be accommodated in it,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-convert-mayor-villas-into-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76520610.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune's Covid-19 tally soars past 16,000, death toll breaches 600-mark||Pune: Twelve more people succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, pushing the total death toll in the region to 604. Besides, 352 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Monday, a huge decline from 823 and 675 recorded on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. With this, the total case count in PMR has breached the 16,000-mark and has risen to 16,031. Of the new cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded 203, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported 128, while rural and Cantonment areas together added 21. The PMC health department said 255 patients were discharged in the last 25 hours after they were declared cured, taking the total cured tally to 7,672. According to PMC health officials, the caseload of active patients for Covid-19 increased to 4,496 on Monday. “All these patients were being treated at various hospitals and Covid centres. About 280 of them were at critical stage and 55 among them were on ventilator,” a health official said, adding 3,220 swabs were collected for testing on Monday. The PMR’s death tally had reached 500-mark on June 15 and took just seven days to surge beyond 600. The patients who succumbed to the infection on Monday included a 44-year-old man from Vishrantwadi, a 30-year-old man from the Dattawadi area, a 59-year-old man from Katraj, a 77-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 55-year-old man from Katraj, an 84-year-old woman from Kothrud, a 61-year-old woman and a 69-year-old woman from the Shivajinagar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-caseload-breaches-16000-mark-death-toll-above-600/articleshow/76519018.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 23, 2020||Delhi||PPE kits found dumped at Lodhi Crematorium; SDMC to probe||NEW DELHI: A shocking incident of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits being discarded carelessly at Lodhi Crematorium came to light on Sunday evening. Despite clear cut directions issued for safe use and effective disposal of used PPE kits separately, visitors found them scattered all over the parking space on the crematorium premises. “I visited the place for a cremation ceremony around 7 pm on Sunday. After attending the event, when I came out to get my car, the parking lot was vacant and PPE kits were scattered all over. It was really scary as these must be used kits thrown by negligent hospital staff coming here to drop Covid-19 bodies or those attending to their relatives. It could lead to infection to other visitors,” said a person on the condition of anonymity. “After a few minutes, I spotted a worker collecting them with the help of a stick with a sharp edge and carrying them to a nearby dustbin via a trolley. There was already garbage lying in huge quantities there and everything was getting mixed. On being questioned whether these would be picked separately by someone, the person was clueless. I could also see used PPE kits thrown near the wooden logs kept within the crematorium premises,” added the person. “As per norms, the PPE kits should be sanitised before they are taken out. They should be packed separately and disposed of as per biomedical waste rules,” said a senior corporation official. When contacted, a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official said that while the crematorium is run by an NGO, the garbage is lifted by it regularly. “The incident has come to our notice and we are inquiring about the lapses. The collection and transport of municipal waste to the nearest SDMC dumping point is the responsibility of the crematorium management. However, in this time of the coronavirus pandemic, SDMC is also assisting them in cleaning the garbage and waste. We are looking for defaulters and will surely take strict action,” added the official. A priest at the crematorium told TOI that despite being warned, people leave their used masks and PPE kits here. “Now, we will install separate bins for disposing biomedical waste and make it mandatory for everyone to use them,” he said. Watch Shocking! PPE kits found dumped at Delhi's Lodhi Crematorium; probe ordered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ppe-kits-found-dumped-at-lodhi-crematorium-sdmc-to-probe/articleshow/76519014.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Few takers for Sachkhand Express from Marathwada||AURANGABAD: After a brisk response, Nanded- Amritsar -Nanded Sachkhand Express has been witnessing lower occupancy from Marathwada currently. Authorities in the railways said that the inter-district travel was still banned in Maharashtra, which has affected the occupancy of the popular train. “Sachkhand express largely finds takers from pilgrims who visit the gurdwara in Nanded. The drop in movement of devotees is another reason behind the low earnings of the train,” said a senior official from South Central Railway (SCR). SCR authorities said the long-distance train was being extensively used for inter-state travel in other states such as Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. “While there are less takers for long-distance journey via Sachkhand express, the train is finding many takers for inter-state travel in few states other than Maharashtra,” said officials. Setting aside the fear of Covid-19, around 875 passengers from Nanded division, including nearly 300 from Aurangabad, had boarded the Sachkhand Express, which resumed its journey after a gap of almost two months on June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/few-takers-for-sachkhand-exp-from-mwada/articleshow/76516441.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: BJP summons MLA over cross voting, not to take any action||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh BJP is unlikely to take any action against its MLA from Guna, Gopilal Jatav, who had allegedly cross voted in favour of Congress candidate Digvijaya Singh in the recently held Rajya Sabha elections. BJP's state organising general secretary, Suhas Bhagat on Monday summoned Jatav at the state party head office and sought clarification. In the RS elections held on June 19, Digvijaya Singh got 57 votes including one from an Independent MLA, Kedar Dabar and two others, one claimed to be a BJP MLA. BJP's polling agents had confirmed this to the party leadership. The Congress leaders too have confirmed that Digvijaya got support from non-Congress members including BJP. "It's surprising that BJP has not accepted that its party MLA voted for Digvijaya Singh. The BJP must act against the MLA or clarify who cross voted for the Congress candidate," said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja. The BJP leadership has officially clarified that one vote from the party got rejected, but kept mum on cross voting. Several party MLAs had on June 19 admitted that Jatav cross voted for the Congress. "Gopilal Jatav met party leaders in the office. There was a meeting, but the details of the deliberations are not known. The party is meeting all MLAs ahead of by-polls," clarified BJP state media in-charge, Lokendra Parashar. Sources in the party disclosed that Jatav, a six-term MLA since 1990 and a former MoS, was upset over not being considered for a ministerial berth. He was likely to be inducted in the cabinet during the scheduled expansion of Shivraj cabinet. But after this incident, his chances to make it to the cabinet appear bleak. When TOI tried to contact Jatav, he did not respond to phone calls. "BJP leadership is aware of the party position in the house. In 2018 assembly elections, the party lost power to the Congress by a margin of eight seats. In such a tight situation, party is hesitant to act against dissident MLAs. A similar situation had compelled the party to avoid action against party MLAs Narayan Tripathi and Sharad Kol in the past. In wake of the crucial by-polls to 24 seats, the SC leader, Jatav, too seems to have got away this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-summons-mla-over-cross-voting-not-to-take-any-action/articleshow/76517928.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Phone a friend to clear doubts on Delhi University admissions||NEW DELHI: Sparsh Singh wakes up early, sets up his laptop and waits for the clock to strike 10am to answer a steady stream of queries from across the country on the Delhi University admissions. He is one of the 22 student volunteers trained online as first responders for any such question as the DU admissions has turned totally online due to the corona pandemic. They have taken the place of the helpdesk on the campus and to make it convenient for them, DU has shifted the facility from its conference centre to the homes of the volunteers. The team usually daily responds to 250 calls and several hundreds of emails from applicants and their parents. Singh, a BTech student of DU’s Central Institute of Education, said every department and college was asked to send the names of students who would be willing to volunteer. “After we sent our applications, we were interviewed online and asked if we were familiar with the admission process and willing to help the university,” he said. In May, the volunteers were trained by faculty members and officials of the admission branch to handle all types of queries. “We had regular sessions with them where we would clear their doubts and also make them aware of the nuances of the admission process,” said admission branch head Shobha Bagai. She pointed out that since the volunteers won’t come to the campus, it was necessary to tell them everything in detail. Singh concurred and said there were several presentations from various departments and sections like those dealing with sports and extracurricular activity admissions. “We were told about the queries that would come our way and how we would tackle them. We were also asked to go through last year’s bulletin of information.” The students are connected on WhatsApp and DU has shared the numbers of four volunteers who can forward queries to the rest. “If they get some tough questions, they approach admission branch members and we help them real time,” said Suman Kumar, a member of admission branch. The volunteers also have to deal with fake news. “From June 8, we started getting multiple calls as some websites reported that DU had released its form. There were other misinformation-related queries too,” said another volunteer. Many have even got a new phone number for this work, the volunteer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/phone-a-friend-to-clear-doubts-on-du/articleshow/76519029.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown triggers rise in domestic groundwater consumption in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus lockdown, combined with the dry weather, led to a surge in domestic consumption of groundwater and its depletion during the summer months. Even though commercial establishments remained shut due to the lockdown, the increased groundwater consumption by a large proportion of people who made the switch to working from home or stayed indoors has led to groundwater depletion. Groundwater depleted considerably in areas across the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, with Marredpally, Tirumalagiri, Erragadda, and S R Nagar areas being the worst affected. Officials of Hyderabad district groundwater department, who assessed the groundwater levels between March and May, said piezometers installed at 22 areas in Hyderabad and Secunderabad showed that groundwater levels dipped between 0.30 and 3.92 meters below ground level. In two different areas at Marredpally, the groundwater table fell 3.92 meters below ground level. In West Marredpally, the groundwater level was 3.48 meters, in Erragadda, it was 2.53 meters and in S R Nagar, it was 2.16 meters below ground level. “Usually, families go on a vacation during summers but this year, due to the lockdown, they stayed indoors and drew groundwater,” a senior groundwater department official explained. Meanwhile, on a positive note, groundwater level rose at Vengal Rao Park, where the water level was 1.05 meters above the ground level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-triggers-rise-in-domestic-groundwater-consumption/articleshow/76518989.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 hotbed to lowest case growth rate, H-East ward leads the way||MUMBAI: From among the first few wards that had crossed 1,000 Covid-19 cases and reported over 100 deaths to recording the city’s lowest case growth rate—at 0.9%— and the highest case doubling rate of 79 days, H-East ward, where chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence is located in Bandra (East), has managed a sharp turnaround in the last 30 days. Mumbai’s case doubling rate is 37 days. Till June 19, the total case tally in the ward was 2,678, including 171 deaths. The recovery rate is around 79% with 2,116 patients discharged after treatment. Assistant municipal commissioner Ashok Khairnar said that stringent containment measures with police assistance coupled with aggressive screening of Covid suspects have helped the BMC manage to slow the spread of the coronavirus in H-East ward, which has a population of around six lakh and cosmprises areas like Bandra-Kurla Complex, Kalanagar, Nirmal Nagar, Vakola, and the densely populated slum pockets of Behrampada and Bharat Nagar along the eastern Bandra-Khar-Santacruz belt. A central government team had also visited various areas in the ward on three occasions in May and June. “In the initial days of the outbreak, the ward would record 90-95 Covid-19 positive patients a day. Now, we get an average 25 new cases of day, most of them from housing colonies,” said Khairnar, adding that they are now foccusing on controlling the numbers in buildings. Admitting that the slum colonies of Behrampada and Bharat Nagar posed a challenge as the people lived in cramped rooms and use community toilets, Khairnar said the BMC worked systematically—first it screened all local residents, isolated those with symptoms and then monitored people’s movement in the areas using a drone. “We appointed containment from among locals to inform the BMC of any fever cases and asked the elected representatives to appeal to the residents to come forward in case of symptoms,” he said. “The police were very helpful too whether it was ensuring containment zones were completely sealed or using drones to ensure people’s safety. In some slums, we also installed foot-operated sanitiser dispensers.” Local MLA Zeeshan Siddique from Congress said what also helped is early detection of even mild cases owing to stringent screening. “Now, those with even the mildest symptoms approach the authorities on their own,” Siddique said. Lauding the civic staffers who have been working 24x7 to curb the spread of Covid in H-East ward, local corporator Tulip Miranada pointed out some loopholes that need to be plugged. “The BMC isunaware of the fact that many patients have got themselves admitted in private hospitals. The BMC has to track them down so that contact tracing can begin immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-hotbed-to-lowest-case-growth-rate-h-east-ward-leads-the-way/articleshow/76519031.cms||Richa Pinto
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||In the 16th consecutive day hike petrol, diesel price up by Rs 10||Bhopal: Fuel prices are on fire. In the 16th consecutive day of hike on Monday, prices went up by 55 paise and 34 paise per litre on petrol and diesel in the state capital. Petrol was sold at Rs 87.16 a litre in Bhopal on Monday, while diesel touched a record high of Rs 78.33. Petrol and diesel have seen a hike of Rs 9.60 and Rs 10.06/litre respectively from June 6 onwards. Madhya Pradesh government had slapped a Re 1 Covid cess on petrol and diesel 10 days ago. The cost of the fuel was constant during the lockdown between March 17 to June 7. Common man is under tremendous stress after the fuel prices touched the roof, said the people who reached the fuel stations and ended up paying the highest price for fuel in the last two years. Earlier on October 4, 2018, petrol and diesel had touched the highest ever rates of Rs 89.83/litre and Rs 79.63 a litre respectively. “The prices were gradually reduced to ensure that they remain below the psychological barrier of Rs 90 (petrol) and Rs 80 (diesel) a litre,” said a fuel station owner, adding, “but there is a yawning gap between the crude prices of 2018 and 2020. In 2018, it was about $100 per barrel while on June 22, it was $41,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-the-16th-consecutive-day-hike-petrol-diesel-price-up-by-rs-10/articleshow/76517950.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Trichy||Traders implement two-week lockdown after villager tests +ve||Thanjavur: After a villager near Marunkulam in Thanjavur tested positive for Covid-19, around 100 traders in the village have shut down their shops for 15 days. The traders have also appealed to the district administration to close down a Tasmac outlet, which is functioning in the panchayat, stating that it would spoil all their efforts in fighting Covid-19. Marungulam is a commercial hub for the residents of 20 villages including Vadakkupatti, Puthupatti, Vengarayankudikadu, Kollangarai, Vallundampatti, Suriyampatti, Athinampatti, Ezhupatti, Arumalai and Samipatti where people purchase all their needs from around 100 shops. A 40-year-old construction labourer of Vallundampatti tested positive for Covid-19 on June 19 and was quarantined at the Government Medical College Hospital. Health officials are trying to get his contact lists, sources said. Following the incident, traders have decided to close down their shops for 15 days. By using the public addressing system, traders also created awareness among the residents of the surrounding villages not to visit the shops and remain indoors to contain the spread of the virus. Traders could easily take a decision to close their shops at a meeting. But, the state-owned Tasmac outlet is still functioning despite the residents opted to follow the lockdown, Ramesh, a trader, said. “Already we closed our shops for nearly two months causing huge revenue loss. Ever since the spread of the virus across the country, no one in the area was infected by Covid-19 until a few days ago. However, one of the residents tested positive now. So, despite the revenue loss, we have decided to close our shops,” he said. “The district collector should take steps to close the tasmac at least for 15 days for the safety of the people,” a villager from Marunkulam said. On Monday, the district recorded 36 new Covid-19 cases taking the toll to 308. Most of them are returnees from Chennai and other districts and states, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-implement-two-week-lockdown-after-villager-tests-ve/articleshow/76520620.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 23, 2020||Trichy||P’kottai admin asks public to inform about illegal entries||Pudukottai: Round the clock vigil has been tightened at 13 inter district check posts following increase in Covid-19 cases in Pudukottai district. The collector has asked officials to approve only genuine request for e-pass and also requested public to alert officials about people entering their locality from other districts or state. Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari carried a surprise inspection in the section where officials approve e-passes. She checked with the officials if the requests were genuine and supporting documents have been attached appropriately. Approval is given only for marriage, medical emergency and death. So far 882 people were intercepted at these check posts with symptoms and shifted to the hospital for check-up and quarantine centres. Alerts from locals and neighbours have helped officials identify 42 people who entered the district from other states and districts without the notice of district health officials, said the collector. She asked the people to keep updating the health staff and the district administration on 04322-221733, 04371-220501, 04322-222207 and 1077. According to health officials, 1,200 beds including 34 ventilators have been kept ready to tackle any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pkottai-admin-asks-public-to-inform-about-illegal-entries/articleshow/76520616.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Northeast riots: Bail to school owner, cops move HC||NEW DELHI: The owner of Rajdhani Public School who was booked in a northeast Delhi rioting case was recently granted bail by a Delhi court. The court found inconsistencies in the witness statements and observed that, prima facie, the man was not present at the crime scene. However, on Monday, police approached the Delhi high court challenging the trial court’s order. The high court sought the stand of the private school owner and posted the plea for Tuesday. It also made it clear that if the accused is still in custody then he shall not be released till the high court takes up the matter on Tuesday. Earlier, the bail order passed by additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav highlighted that Faisal Farooq had been running several schools in the area for the past 18 years and had faced no complaint till date. While granting bail, the court noted that “nothing in this order shall be construed an expression on the merits of evidence to be adduced in the matter.” Farooq’s counsels RK Kochar, Gaurav Kochar and Gaurav Vashisht had argued that heinous charges could not be invoked against him due to no evidence to prove his presence at the crime scene. They also pointed out a considerable delay of 11 days in lodging of FIR. It was argued that the school owner was himself a victim of the riots as two of his schools, including Rajdhani Public School and Victoria Public School, had been severely damaged. Police contended that witness statements proved Farooq’s presence at the scene of crime and accused him of “facilitating” rioters to use Rajdhani School's rooftop to attack another school—DRP Convent Secondary School. Farooq has been accused of being in contact with members of Popular front of India, Pinjra Tod, Joint Coordination Committee of Jamia Millia Islamia. The court, however, noted that the chargesheet in this regard was “bereft of material” to show such links. The court also found that the complainant school—DRP School—through its manager made a general complaint of damage to the school property and no one was named. The FIR was registered on the basis of his statement. The court was of the view that “riots also took place at Rajdhani Public School”. “The applicant kept on calling police to report about damage to his school from February 24, 2020, but FIR in his case was not recorded immediately,” the order observed. According to the call data records , calls were made to the police six times, but the investigating officer did not collect the PCR forms of these calls, the court said. One of the witnesses, who “probably” recorded his first statement on March 8, claimed to have seen Farooq in front of the gate of Rajdhani Public School around 1.30 pm and even heard him ask the guard of the school “to permit Muslim persons inside the school”. But the court found that in his statement “he did not say a word about him having seen the applicant at the scene of occurrence or having heard stating anything to the guard of the school” before a magisterial court on March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-bail-to-school-owner-cops-move-hc/articleshow/76519035.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 outbreak hits ACB traps||AURANGABAD: The number of public servants landing in the traps of anti-corruption bureau has taken a massive beating during the Covid-19 pandemic. As per data compiled by the state ACB, total number of successful traps registered a dip of -26%, -81% and –61% in the months of March, April and May, respectively, as compared to the 2019 figures. Last year, in March, April and May of 2019, the ACB carried out 78, 58 and 76 traps respectively. As many as 96 people were arrested in March followed by 77 in April and 106 in May. This year, there have been 58, 7 and 30 successful traps in the months of March, April and May respectively. With markets and government offices cautiously making efforts to return to normalcy, the gap between the number of traps carried out by ACB in the month of June 2019 and June 2020, has considerably reduced to 12%. In terms of numbers, the first six months of 2019 witnessed 421 traps and 561 arrests, while this year so far there have been only 280 successful traps and 391 arrests. A senior ACB official said that due to overburdened police staff across the state, several ACB personnel had to be temporarily repatriate with the respective police units for contributing their bit in the Covid-19-related duties. “This issue was clubbed with the movement of ACB teams getting leaked due to strict lockdown, as these men on most of the occasions were forced to disclose their identities after being stopped by policemen at check points,” he added. Now, the policemen and officers have started returning to their deputations in ACB, and officials believe that soon working at the ACB will return to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-outbreak-hits-acb-traps/articleshow/76516457.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Govt to bear baby’s medical expenses||Kochi: The two-month-old baby girl, who sustained serious head injuries after being assaulted by her father, underwent a surgery which lasted for more than four hours on Monday. According to sources in MOSC medical mission hospital, Kolenchery, the surgery began around 9:15am and went on till 1:30pm. “The surgery was a subdural evacuation for removing a blood clot from the brain. When the injury happened, the baby was only 54-days-old. She is on oxygen support in the neuro intensive care unit,” hospital sources said. A medical bulletin by the hospital on Monday evening stated that progress on the child’s condition would depend on the next 24 to 48 hours. “The child was subjected to surgery after finding a bleeding between the skull and the brain on both sides. At the time of surgery, it was seen that the bleeding was causing an increase in pressure in the brain. The pressure was relieved through surgery. The child continues to remain in critical condition in the ICU,” the bulletin said. Meanwhile, minister for social justice, women and child welfare K K Shailaja on Monday said that the government will ensure that the infant who was attacked by her father gets expert treatment. The minister urged neighbours and relatives to be careful about the safety of children since in many cases children face abuse within the families. The minister on Monday said that the department of women and child development would bear the medical expenses of the infant. She also said that people can report any kind of abuse against children to the number 1517 under the Thanal project. The accused father, Shaiju Thomas (40) is now under remand in judicial custody.  Doubts over the child’s parenthood is considered as the motive behind the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-bear-babys-medical-expenses/articleshow/76517968.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||St. Stephen’s admission to start from June 30||NEW DELHI: The admission registration to Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College is slated to begin from June 30. The college is, however, yet to take a decision on the admission process, since it conducts both entrance tests and interviews. Earlier, the admission committee of DU had asked colleges that had 15% interview component to do away with the process in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent social distancing norms that had been issued. Mahesh Gopalan, the admission tutor of St. Stephen’s, said: “Right now, we are just starting with the registration process. We are monitoring the Covid-19 situation and further decisions will be taken in due course. We are yet to decide on the interview round.” St. Stephen’s, being a religious minority institution, conducts its own admission process. After releasing its cutoff, the college conducts tests and interviews. Both together hold 15% of the total component, while the remaining is decided as per the Class XII board exam. “Usually we began the admission process after the CBSE results were declared. This time, however, we are starting early as CBSE is yet to declare the results,” Gopalan added. In a notice put out by the college, it states, “All applicants to St. Stephen’s College must fill and complete their registration process in the Delhi University admission portal. Only those who have a registration number issued by the university will be eligible to apply for courses at the college.” This process was started by the university a few years back by making it mandatory for students to first register with the varsity portal. The university’s registration process started on June 20 and will continue till July 4. Waiting for CBSE’s decision on board exams, DU is yet to announce the cutoff. Another minority institution, Jesus and Mary College, which also conducts its own admission process, will follow DU’s schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stephens-admission-to-start-from-june-30/articleshow/76519050.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: With shoots cancelled, junior film artists struggle to survive||VISAKHAPATNAM: While normalcy may be returning to some industries after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, the film industry in the Port City is yet to see an upswing in its fortunes. Telugu, Tamil, Bengali, Bhojpuri and Kannada filmmakers prefer to shoot in Vizag city between March and May on account of the favourable weather conditions here. With a maximum temperature in the range of 36-37 degrees Celsius, summer temperatures here are lower than in several parts of the country. But this year, the pandemic has hurt the livelihoods of nearly 5,000 families who depend on the film and related industries, said Vegi Venkata Rao, a production manager. Most film artists, Venkata Rao said, depend almost entirely on film shoots held in the city and have no alternative livelihood. “The state government offered various sops and compensations to a section of people like autorickshaw drivers. The government should consider our plight also and support our livelihood,” Venkata Rao told TOI. Almost all junior artists in the industry, such as supporting aritsts, light and cameramen, suppliers and models, live in and around Allipuram, Barma Camp and Kancharapalem. All these artists work under 10 production managers, who take on contracts for films and arrange for artists as per the demand from film producers. Film director RV Subbu, who is fom Vizag city, said, “We were supposed to have a nearly month-long shoot in Vizag in April, but it was cancelled soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25. We are also helpless now. Megastar Chiranjeevi’s team met chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who responded positively to our pleas.” Meanwhile, theatre managements said the government has promised measures in the form of relief from electricity charges, but no official statement has been issued so far. TP Anantham, manager of Leela Mahal, said as per the government’s assurance, the fixed electricity charge between Rs 50,000- Rs 70,000 per month should not be collected for the lockdown months. When contacted, TV Surya Prakash, superintending engineer, AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL), Visakhapatnam, told TOI ,“We have not received any official call from the government regarding relief in electricity charges to film theatres,” Surya Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-shoots-cancelled-junior-film-artists-struggle-to-survive/articleshow/76517959.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Miyawaki makeover in Gujarat: Dense forest on Saurashtra University’s five-acre land proposed||RAJKOT: A barren rocky piece of sprawling land near Saurashtra University’s (SU) botany department could well become the lungs that would breathe out oxygen on the varsity campus. SU will be the first university in the state to convert this five acres land into a dense forest using the Japanese Miyawaki method. This method of tree plantation has also been adopted by states like Telangana to create thick urban forests. As many as 50,000 trees that are native to the region will be planted using Miyawaki technique and it will take around 30 years for the forest to flourish. The university will soon sign a memorandum of understanding with Sadbhavna Trust, a local non-government organization (NGO) that is actively engaged in mass plantations in the city. Vijay Dobaria, of the NGO, said, “In this method, the distance between two trees is just about two feet. The trees should be planted in four layers. When a tree is about 10 foot tall, it is a shrub while those above 20 feet are categorized as trees. The trees planted in layers using this scientific will result in a dense forest.” “Deciduous and evergreen plants will be selected for this project and native species available in Sasan or Barda forest will be chosen. In the first three years, the plantation will require one lakh litres water per day. SU has built a water tank and initiated talks with the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) to provided treated sewage water. It also plans to use a drip irrigation system to maintain these trees. Over the years, the forest department has carried out urban afforestation in 60 acre land of SU for which SU pays Rs 30 lakh per year for maintenance. The university is spread over 365 acre land. SU’s pro vice-chancellor, Vijay Desani, said, “We are the first university in Gujarat to create an urban forest of this scale.” . The plantation technique and cluster plantations allow for the trees to grow 10 times faster, while it absorbs 30 times more carbon dioxide, the density is also almost 30 times more than normal plantations of equal number of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/miyawaki-makeover-dense-forest-on-saurashtra-univs-5-acre-land-proposed/articleshow/76517975.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||2-year-old boy among 20 new Covid-19 patients in Satara||KOLHAPUR: As many as 20 new Covid-19 patients were identified in Satara district on Monday evening, taking the tally of active patients to 156. The fresh cases mainly emerged from Phaltan, Khatav, Patan, Karad and Jawli. A two-year-old boy and four children in their teens were among the new patients identified on Monday. Officials from the district administration said that a majority of the patients were in the high-risk category. Meanwhile, families of many people who have returned from Mumbai, which is one of the worst affected cities hit by Covid-19, are contracting the viral infection. As many as eight patients have been identified from two families in the last two days. Four members of a family from Wadgaon near Karad tested positive for Covid-19 last week. A 57-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 within days after his son and daughter returned from Mumbai. Three of his family members, who were in the high-risk category, also tested positive for the viral infection. The administration has sealed the borders of Wadgaon village and started the contact tracing exercise. In a similar incident, a man, along with his five family members, returned to Mhate Khurd village in Jawli tehsil from Navi Mumbai on June 11 and were put in jome-quarantine. One of the man was taken to the hospital after he started experiencing breathlessness. Later, three of his family members tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-yr-old-boy-among-20-new-covid-patients-in-satara/articleshow/76516473.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Pregnancy no ground for leniency: Cops in HC||NEW DELHI: Opposing any relief to jailed Jamia student Safoora Zargar, Delhi Police on Monday told Delhi high court that she was not the only pregnant accused and couldn’t be given preferential treatment. In a status report filed in the court, police maintained that a clear case has been made out against Zargar and she was not entitled to bail for the grave offences, which “were meticulously and surreptitiously planned and executed by her.” Zargar was arrested under the anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against Citizenship Amendment Act. She has raised her 23 weeks pregnancy as one of the grounds to seek bail. “So far as grounds of pregnancy raised by the applicant to seek bail is concerned, it is respectfully submitted that it is not even the case of the petition that she is not being granted proper care during the custody,” police said, adding that till date, as many as 39 deliveries have taken place in Delhi prisons in the past 10 years. “There is no exception carved out for pregnant inmate, who is accused of such heinous crime, to be released on bail merely because of their pregnancy,” Delhi Police said, arguing that “the very fact of rearing of life ought to have been a check on the activities which had a potential to cause, and did in fact cause, large-scale destruction of life and property.” The police’s report filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair claimed there was strong, cogent, reliable and sufficient material available to prove the direct involvement of Zargar, MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia. Zargar, a Jamia coordination committee member, who was arrested by Special Cell on April 10, had challenged the June 4 order of trial court, which denied her bail, in high court. The report, filed through DCP Special Cell, informed the high court that WhatsApp chats, statements of witnesses and co-accused clearly implicated Zargar as being the co-conspirator in the crime of instigating large-scale disruption and riots, not only in Delhi, but also in other parts of the country. Police claimed that the protests were organised following the ‘Shaheen Bagh chakka-jam’ model and 21 protest sites were converted to chakka jam resulting in heightened tension and riots in parts of the capital. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi urged Justice Rajiv Shakdher to grant them a day’s time to seek instructions on the issue, saying it will be in the “larger interest” if they were given indulgence. The court, which conducted the hearing through videoconferencing, allowed the request after Zargar’s counsel said she had no objection and listed the matter for Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pregnancy-no-ground-for-leniency-cops-in-hc/articleshow/76519048.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Extremely heavy rainfall this week: IMD||Kochi: With the southwest monsoon becoming active and expected to slowly pick up intensity, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Idukki district on June 26. IMD has issued warning of very heavy isolated rainfall on June 25 for Kollam and Idukki. On June 26, there is a similar warning of very heavy rainfall for Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode. People living in the coastal areas have been warned of squally weather with wind speeds of 50-60kmph likely to prevail over southwest and adjoining westcentral Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas. High waves in the range of 2.7-3.1 meters have been forecast along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasargod. Surface current speeds vary between 35-54 cm/sec. Meanwhile on Monday, Vadakkara received extremely heavy rainfall of 25cm while Kannur and Thalassery recorded 18cm each. Taliparamba got 15cm while Quilandy recorded 13cm. Other places that recorded very heavy rainfall are Cherthala, Vaikom, Irikkur which got 9cm rainfall each. Karipur airport, Manjeri, Kumarakom, Kudulu got 8cm each while Kozhikode, Kanjirappally, Piravom, Thodupuzha and Ottappalam recorded 7 cm each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/extremely-heavy-rainfall-this-week-imd/articleshow/76517999.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||CBSE yet to take call on exams, but schools ready||NEW DELHI: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to decide on holding the board exams, but the schools in the capital have prepared themselves to hold the tests. From stocking up on sanitisers to ordering infrared thermometers and putting signage and marking boxes to maintain social distancing, the schools are not leaving anything for the last moment. Many have even prepared classroom plans. On Tuesday, CBSE will submit its stand at the Supreme Court, which is hearing a public interest litigation filed by parents demanding cancellation of the exams in the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases. Another board, Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), has given options to its students to either appear for the boards or take the marks of the pre-boards/internal assessment. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “In no way we are going to compromise the safety of the children. As I have less students appearing for the boards, I can keep around three children in a room.” If CBSE finally holds the examination, she will prepare circulars and instructions to be sent to the students and the parents, Joshi said. A school in Rohini has put up hand washing stations on each floor, marked social distancing boxes on the premises and put up signage. Students will use their foot to operate “contactless” sanitisers. “We had prepared our SOPs in March itself, so we have taken all necessary precautions,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School. Modern Public School at Shalimar Bagh has installed face detection machines to check temperature and will also mark students’ attendance without physical touch. The shoes will also be sanitised at the entry. “Only three desks have been placed in a row. We also have isolation rooms. In case a child feels unwell, he can sit in that room and take the exam,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School. Government schools are also getting ready for the examination. “We have ordered masks for our children in case anyone does not have it. Sanitisers and hand washing facilities will be provided outside each classroom. In one class, not more than 12 students will be placed,” said A K Jha, principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini Sector 8. However, education minister Manish Sisodia had written to the Union human resource development ministry that it would be difficult to hold examinations in government schools as many of them were being used as shelters and food distribution centres during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-yet-to-take-call-on-exams-but-schools-ready/articleshow/76519063.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district has 34 active Covid-19 cases, 699 discharged so far||KOLHAPUR: Three new Covid-19 cases were reported from Kolhapur district on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 741 in the district. The three new cases were reported from Ajara, Chandgad and Gadhinglaj tehsils. 15 more patients were discharged on Monday, bringing down the number of active cases to 34. So far 699 patients have been discharged and eight people have succumbed to the infection. The number of people in 19 institutional quarantine centres in Kolhapur city has come down to 814. As many as 945 people are currently in home quarantine. 4 new cases in Sangli Four new Covid-19 cases were reported in Sangli district on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 298. Of the four cases identified, one is a nine-month-old child from Nigdi village in Shirala tehsil. One of the parents of the child had a travel history from Mumbai and had previously tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, a 72-year-old woman from Malgaon in Miraj tehsil sucumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. Doctors claimed that she was a cancer patient and was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. The woman’s death has taken the district’s death toll to ten. 14 patients were discharged on Monday Of the 298 Covid-19 cases registered in the district, 197 patients have been cured and while 91 are still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-has-34-active-cases-699-discharged-so-far/articleshow/76516507.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Veggie vendors await green nod for weekly markets in Bhopal||BHOPAL: As city enters into unlocking step-by-step, over 5,000 vegetable vendors desperately await the district administration’s green signal to open up the weekly markets. Vowing to take all precautions like social distancing, and wearing masks compulsorily, the vendors said that their families depend on the income from these weekly markets. It has been more than three months of “joblessness”, and “if the business doesn’t open up now, we won’t be able to feed our kids,” they said. The president of vendors’ union of new Bhopal (comprising of Bittan Market, New Market, and Kotra weekly markets), Hariom Khatik said, “ The condition of our vendors is pathetic. If markets doesn’t open up soon, they be completely ruined. Not only are the vendors, but people also missing the weekly markets. It was not only fresh vegetables or fruits they got here but also spices, chicken, fish.” On usual days, 15,000 people visited Bittan Market from 4.00pm to 11.00pm. He, however, suggested that the district administration can decide to open the market in phases so that there is minimised risk and also some income for the vendors. Khatik said that he has submitted an application to the district collector, BMC commissioner and deputy commissioner, BMC, Vinod Shukla, urging them to allow the weekly markets to operate. Khatik and president of BHEL Weekly Market Vendors’ Union, Haseen Qureshi, were expecting to meet the officials of the district administration on Monday, but it could not happen. Qureshi, who is president of vendors’ union of all the four weekly markets in BHEL (Habibganj, Barkheda, Piplani, and Barkheda), said that more than 6,000 vendors, who sold vegetables, fruits and other things in those weekly markets are on the verge of economic ruin. “Please do something. Markets must open. When shopping malls and markets have opened, why not weekly markets? At most of the places, it is just for two days in a week that weekly markets operate. As far as observing precautions are concerned, we all area to abide by the norms” he said. People, on the other hand, seemed divided on the issue. “I regularly visited Bittan Market. I miss the fresh vegetables but I don’t know whether the crowd can be regulated in weekly markets (haats as we call them) in the same way as a shopping mall. The administration should take a call on the issue when it deems fit”, said Prerna Sharma, a resident of Char Imli. The spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore, when queried on the issue said “As of now, there is no date decided for the opening of weekly markets, but an order in this regard can be expected in next two-three days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/veggie-vendors-await-green-nod-for-weekly-markets/articleshow/76517995.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Govt allots 385 acres for Greyhounds training unit||Visakhapatnam: The state government has allotted 385 acres for the training centre of the anti-Maoist elite force Greyhounds at Jagannadhapuram village under Anandapuram mandal in Visakhapatnam district. State principal secretary (revenue) Usha Rani on Monday visited the site along with district officials. The Greyhounds operations base is currently located in Kapuluppada, close to Timmapuram on the Beach Road. The state government had planned a separate training centre for the special police force in Andhra Pradesh following bifurcation. A Greyhounds base was set up in Hyderabad in undivided Andhra Pradesh in the late eighties and came into force in the early nineties. District collector V Vinay Chand and joint collector M Venugopala Reddy furnished details of the training centre to the principal secretary. The principal secretary examined the site on which around 90 farmers are cultivating cashew, mango and other crops on an extent of 145 acres. The principal secretary interacted with farmers, who have been cultivating land for four decades. They urged her to ensure that compensation was made. Revenue officials asked farmers to lodge objections at the tehsildar’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-allots-385-acres-for-greyhounds-training-unit/articleshow/76517991.cms||Siva G
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Photos: Face of 2008 Delhi serial blasts tragedy set to wed||NEW DELHI: It is a tale of two images. Depicting despair and joy, the photos were captured 12 years apart, but the subject has remained the same — Simran. Now a young woman, Simran, who became the face of tragedy after losing her father in the Delhi bomb blasts in 2008 when she was a child, is all set to marry on June 25. When TOI visited her house, Simran was waiting for her haldi ceremony to begin. Dressed in a bright yellow attire, she posed for the camera with her loved ones. But amid the celebrations, there was also some nervousness, as the wedding has twice been postponed already due to the Covid pandemic. The photo showing Simran clinging to her mother, Kamlesh, at her father's funeral became the symbol of loss. But she has dealt with loss, and says she believes good things do not evade good people. Simran grew up living one day at a time, concentrating on her studies to fulfil her father's dreams and helping her mother make key decisions in rebuilding their lives. “When I arranged Simran's wedding, the first thing she demanded was that she should continue her studies,’ said Kamlesh. The bomb blasts still linger in the background, and conversations during wedding planning often veer to her father. “I don’t recollect much about him, but I know that the days after the tragedy were filled with despair,” said Simran. “When my family was arranging a groom for me, I often found my mother talking about father’s death, but wiping away the tears before I could notice them.” Arranging dinner for the dozen guests who had come for the wedding, Kamlesh said, “What is happening seems unreal. I never thought I’d be able to see Simmu get married.” It was a difficult journey since 2008, but Kamlesh made it with a little help from her mother and second husband, Heera Lal. Kamlesh remarried in 2013, and the couple have a seven-year-old son. “Papa arranged everything for my wedding,” said Simran, referring to her stepfather. “When life takes something away from you, it also gives you the courage to deal with it.” She looks forward to a new life with her groom, who is from Punjab. Simran dragged her stepfather to the markets, chose her own ensemble and jewellery, even had a say in the wedding date. “I chose the date because I want to appear for some exams. As for my wedding dress, everyone wanted me to go for the traditional red lehenga, but I chose deep pink, my favourite colour,” she smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-dozen-years-later-her-terror-tears-have-turned-into-wedding-smiles/articleshow/76519060.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Metro rail back on track, after 3 mths||Bhopal: The ambitious Bhopal Metro rail project — that was on hold due to the nationwide lockdown over the COVID-19 pandemic — is back on track. The first phase of construction of the project is underway. Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MPMRCL) officials said the construction work has restarted in keeping with COVID-19 protocol. “Thirty per cent of the workforce has been deployed, as per government guidelines. Construction work has begun in three locations, near AIIMS Bhopal, Subhash Nagar and the casting yard at Kanhasaiyan, for girders. We expect to cover up for the lost time,” said a senior MPMRCL official. The nearly Rs 7,000 crore project had been halted around March along with many other major construction works. The main Metro depot is to be constructed along Arera Hills (Stud Farm) area. The first connect of the Metro rail is planned from Subhash Nagar to AIIMS Bhopal. “Some of the workforce has not returned and there are restrictions in keeping with COVID-19 protocols and safety reasons. The lockdown period was utilised for resolving planning and design issues,” the official added. For swift construction, much of the components are readied off-site and placed once the pillars are constructed. According to reports, Line-2 of Bhopal Metro’s Phase I project is expected to be completed as per the new timeline. Part of package-01 (Subhash Nagar to AIIMS Bhopal) is the first section of Metro and about 15 km in length. The Rs 250-crore phase began in October 2018 and was to be originally completed in 27 months. Stations en-route are expected to be located at Subhash Nagar, KV1, MP Nagar I and II, Habibganj railway station and AIIMS Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/metro-rail-back-on-track-after-3-mths/articleshow/76517977.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Delay in testing symptomatic patients a concern for team||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The delay in initiating testing and isolation protocol for symptomatic patients arriving at hospitals, especially family/primary health centres, continues to be a grave concern for the district health team.  55-year-old security employee at Medical College Hospital (MCH) was confirmed with Covid-19 on Monday. He is the second staff from the hospital to test positive. He developed fever and fatigue on the evening of June 16 and went to Family Health Centre, Kadakampally, in his two-wheeler next morning. However, despite presenting himself with clear symptoms, he was allowed to return home. The epidemiological team is probing the reasons why he was sent home without being referred for further testing and treatment. He was allowed to stay at home and the next day he went to a private hospital at Anayara. He was accompanied by his son and went in an autorickshaw which has been identified. The blood investigation revealed thrombocytopenia ( low platelet level) and he was administered with IV fluids. He was referred to the MCH from the private hospital. He attended Covid OP at MCH on June 19 and he was admitted that day. Sample testing was done the same day and he was tested positive on June 20. Given the nature of his work and extent of contacts he may have developed, the samples were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Alleppey, for confirmation. The results from NIV were also positive. He used to work in casualty, main gate and OP and was mainly involved in crowd management. He had worked in Covid OP from May 2 to May 6 where his duty was to disperse the crowd and shift patients to red channel at the earliest. He has not been in direct contact with a Covid positive patient, as per preliminary reports. The 52-year-old auto driver, who was tested positive recently, had also moved around with symptoms for five days before he was admitted to General Hospital (GH) and his swab samples were taken. He had visited Iranimuttam PHC with clear symptoms and although he was advised to go to GH, he went back home. He then revisited the PHC two days later and a lab. He went to a provision store and a margin free shop on the same day. Two days later he went to a private hospital and he was again advised to go to GH. He ignored the direction again and went home. The nursing assistant at MCH, who contracted the disease in the first week of June, had ignored testing despite presenting herself with body pain, tiredness and dryness of throat at FHC, Vattiyoorkavu. It was only during a follow up call it was known that she had persisting symptoms and sample testing was done. In the meantime she had contact with husband, father, daughters and grandchildren. Her father and husband were also tested positive later. Ten others were tested positive for Covid 19 in the district on Monday. Eight came from abroad and two persons arrived from Mumbai and Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/delay-in-testing-symptomatic-patients-a-concern-for-team/articleshow/76517988.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP 112 office shut again as more staffers test positive for Covid-19||LUCKNOW: The headquarters of UP112, the UP Police emergency helpline, had to be shut again hours after resuming operations on Monday after six more employees and their three contacts were diagnosed with Covid-19, taking the number of its cases to 24 in four days. A total of 23 cases were reported on Monday pushing the city’s tally to 829. The UP112 building in Gomtinagar Extension that runs 24X7 helpline for attending emergency calls to UP Police, fire and ambulance services apart from other urgencies had been closed on Saturday afternoon for sanitisation for 48 hours after five staff members had tested positive for novel coronavirus.  Operations had resumed at around 10am on Monday, but the headquarters were again closed in the evening. ADG UP112 Asim Arun said the office will now reopen on getting a green signal from CMO Lucknow.  The first case was reported on Thursday when a technical employee of the helpline managed by a private company was found infected. Later, eight members of his family tested positive, followed by his five colleagues on Saturday. Five more staff members and their three contacts tested positive on Monday, said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. All contacts of those who tested positive on Monday have been asked to home quarantine themselves and will be tested. Besides, samples of more employees will be collected for test. Earlier, chief minister’s Covid-19 helpline operational from a building in Vibhuti Khand was shut after an outbreak.  The remaining cases detected on Monday included three persons of Natkheda and two each from Geetapalli, Rajajipuram and Gomtinagar extension. They all are contacts of people found infected earlier. Besides, one resident each of Mohan Road, Aliganj, Mawaiya and Charbagh also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up112-office-shut-again-as-more-staffers-test-positive/articleshow/76519736.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||13 RAF men test Covid-19 positive, Bhopal’s count rises to 2,626||BHOPAL: As many as 23 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital, here on Monday. It included 13 security personnel and test report for another two dozen is awaited, according to reports. The 13 security personnel are from the Rapid Action Force (RAF). They are based out of Obaidullahganj and were on duty in Bhopal recently. The test took place, after two RAF personnel tested positive last week. Later Covid-19 test and health screening of others was undertaken. The security personnel were deployed in various location of the state capital during the lockdown. The positive diagnosed have been admitted to AIIMS-Bhopal. Meanwhile, more Covid-19 cases in police were diagnosed on Monday. Three people security duty in the Raj Bhawan tested positive. The total number of Covid-19 in the governors house has risen to 15. At the end of May first of the cases from Raj Bhawan was reported. It led to health screening of over 300 people, In Baghsewania, six members of a family were diagnosed with Covid-19. It has put health authorities on an alert. Four people were diagnosed with the infection in Koh-e-Fiza area. Till now, since the pandemic began, state capital has reported 2,626 Covid-19 cases. Another health worker, tested positive in Anna Nagar. She has been hospitalised. A pregnant woman has been tested positive for the infection in MP Nagar. Bairagarh and Shahjehanabad reported three cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13-raf-men-test-covid-ve-bhopals-count-rises-to-2626/articleshow/76518017.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Another found Covid +ve after death, city toll 15||Lucknow: The Covid test report of a 78-year-old man, who died at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) on Friday, came positive on Monday, taking the city toll to 15. The last 11 causalities have occurred, on an average, at every 27 hours. This was also the seventh case where a patient was found positive after death and 14th in which patient was above vulnerable age of 55 years. Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “The deceased, Bhagwan Das, had been living in an ashram on VIP Road for the past few months and had returned to his residence at Blunt Square in Charbagh after he started keeping unwell. He developed fever and breathing difficulty on Friday and was the family got him admitted to RMLIMS where he died within hours after admission. The body was handed over to the family for funeral as per the safety protocol and members were told to follow home quarantine.” Das’ samples had been taken soon after his admission to the hospital on Friday. Five family members and ashram residents who had come in contact with Das are being tested. Of 15 Covid deaths in the city, 11 people have died between June 5 and 22, one in April and three in May . Fourteen of them were admitted to the hospitals in the last stage and 13 had comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-found-covid-ve-after-death-city-toll-15/articleshow/76519744.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Congress accuses Nitin Gadkari of lying about mining||PANAJI: A day after Union minister Nitin Gadkari addressed a virtual rally, Congress on Monday came out strongly against the BJP government, accusing the ruling party of lying and issuing false promises to the mining sector. Gadkari’s silence on core issues faced by the average Goan indicates the BJP’s insensitivity towards the marginalised, Congress said. “Gadkari blatantly lied to the people of Goa by saying that the BJP government has resumed mining in Goa,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. Chodankar addressed a press conference along with opposition leader Digambar Kamat, former Union minister Ramakant Khalap and former MLA Agnelo Fernandes at the party head office. “With his statement he has not only insulted the mining dependants, who are suffering because of mining closure since 2012, but has rubbed salt on their wound. The BJP is actually not interested in starting mining activity in Goa and is just giving false promises to the people,” Chodankar said. With the state government frequently borrowing to meet expenditure requirements, the per capita liability is increasing while the Centre continues to deny Goa Rs 750 crore as compensation for drop in GST collections. “The CM has admitted that not even a single rupee has been received from the Centreagainst the Rs 2,000 crore package demanded by the state government. This clearly indicates that the Modi government has pushed the country into financial emergency,” Kamat said. Kamat once again demanded that the state government must come out with a financial package to help small entrepreneurs and traditional occupations. The tourism sector, which has also suffered due to the pandemic, lockdown and faulty policies of the government, has not been addressed by Gadkari, said Fernandes. “If the government fails to revive the tourism sector now, there is danger that tourism may collapse for next five years,” Fernandes added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-accuses-gadkari-of-lying-about-mining/articleshow/76520162.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||MSU study projects Covid cases to touch 49K by July||Vadodara: Covid-19 positive cases in the country are expected to 10.64 lakh while death toll could touch around 32,000 by July-end, according to a study published by MS University’s Department of Statistics. The study done using the widely used Auto-Regressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model also show that the confirmed cases in Gujarat are expected to touch around 48,796 with 2,695 deaths and 36,310 recoveries by July. “ARIMA model has been successfully used by researchers to predict cases in China, Thailand, South Korea, Iran, Italy and Brazil,” said Dr Khimya Tinani, who along with professor K Muralidharan guided the MSc students - Akash Deshmukh, Bhagyashree Patil, Tanvi Salat and Rajeshwari Rajodia. The research ‘Analysis and forecasting of Covid-19 cases across hotspot states of India’ has been published in the journal of statistics and applications, a UGC Care listed journal. “ARIMA model has been previously used for many other viral infections, flu and even for HIV-AIDS,” said Muralidharan. “Going by the current trend, the cases are rising by 1.5 % on daily basis and this rise will continue if there is no intervention,” he said, adding that the peak cases will come between July 15 and August 15. To check the accuracy of the model, the first round of forecast was done for the period between April 15 and April 25. For this, the statisticians had used data of the period between January 30 and April 14 as the base. “After the first round of forecast, we checked the accuracy of the model by matching the predicted numbers with the actual numbers. The accuracy in predicting cumulative confirmed cases of India was 98% while model accuracy of cumulative recovery cases and death cases stood at 97% and 78% respectively,” said Tinani. The researchers have now forecast the Covid-19 cases, recoveries and deaths till July 31 of India and its six hotspot states. “The forecast now has been prepared based on actual data available for the period between January 30 to June 20,” said Tinani. The forecast suggests that confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country would be 10,64,142, deaths would be 32,278 and recoveries would be 6,90,496 by July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-study-projects-covid-cases-to-touch-49k-by-july/articleshow/76518024.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid count crosses 12k mark in MP, 175 fresh cases in a day||Bhopal: The number of Covid positive cases in the stsate crossed the 12,000 mark on Monday. With 175 positive cases reported on the day, the tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 12,078. Apart from the new cases, six casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these deaths were reported includes Indore (4) and Bhopal (2) districts. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 521. Of the 51 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 31 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures includes Bhopal (23 new cases), Indore (44 new cases), Jabalpur (12 new cases) and 11 new cases each in Neemuch and Morena districts. On the brighter side 200 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 9,215. Thus, 76.2% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on June 22. There are only 2,342 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-count-crosses-12k-mark-in-mp-175-fresh-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76518031.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Vicar found dead in well in Ayarkunnam||Kottayam: A priest was found dead in a well in the compound of a church near here on Monday. Fr George Ettuparayil (Soniyachan), 55, a native of Mankombu in Alappuzha, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the well of St Thomas Church, Punnathura near Ayarkunnam in the district. He was the vicar of the church. The body was found after cops searched the well on Monday morning, with hands tied with plastic rope and a heavy stone at one end. The CCTV cameras were found switched off and the priest’s mobile phone was in silent mode. The priest had gone missing since 10:45am on Sunday and parishioners searched for him till night. A police case was registered at around 10pm. Ayarkunnam station house officer Sajeev Cherian who arrived at the church on Monday morning decided to check the well. The cover of the well was found moved and the wall inside the well was damaged at some places. The body was fished out by the fire and rescue personnel. Later, the body was shifted to medical college hospital. Police suspect that the priest had tied both his hands together and a heavy stone tied to the rope before jumping into the well. As per preliminary findings of the autopsy, conducted in the government medical college hospital here, the death was due to drowning. Except some minor aberrations, there were no major injuries on the body. Meanwhile, some parishioners said that the priest was mentally disturbed after a fire broke out in the church compound 17 days ago. The room where rubber sheets were stored was destroyed in the fire and four people had suffered burn injuries. Parishioners also raised the doubt that the financial crisis of the church during the lockdown and being left alone during this period depressed him. It was also alleged that he had sought a transfer from this church. DSP R Sreekumar said that there was no mystery in the death of the priest. The primary finding is that he drowned to death, said the officer. Meanwhile, the archeparchy of Changanassery in a press note condoled the unnatural death of the priest. In a joint press note by the PRO of the diocese Joji Chirayil and the coordinator of Jagratha Samithy Fr Antony Thalachelloor it is mentioned that the priest had taken charge as vicar of the church in February this year. “We understand that the injuries suffered by some persons in a fire which broke out in the church compound caused much sorrow to the priest who had high blood pressure,” they said in the note. They also said that the diocese of Changanassery will cooperate with police in the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vicar-found-dead-in-well-in-ayarkunnam/articleshow/76518045.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||She won battle with virus, but lost to brain TB||Lucknow: She defeated Covid-19 after fighting for 14 days in ICU but lost to pre-existing serious medical conditions that had aggravated due to the infection. Chandra Bajpai (60) died at RMLIMS on Sunday due to multiple-organ failure, two days after she was declared to have recovered from novel coronavirus infection. A resident of lndiranagar, the elderly woman was admitted to the neurosurgery department of the institute on June 5 following complaint of severe headache. Her sample was sent for Covid-19 test as per protocol before starting any treatment. The report came positive the next day. She was kept in the ICU of the isolation ward in a Covid-19 hospital and was on a ventilator as her condition further deteriorated on June 12. “The patient was brought in semi-unconscious state and diagnosed with brain TB. The ailment had damaged the outer layer of the brain. She also had acute kidney and liver infections. Dialysis was done twice during treatment. In the meantime, two consecutive tests of Covid-19 came negative on June 17 and 19, following which she was declared to have recovered from the disease,” said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Srikesh Singh. Institute director Prof AK Tripathi said “Novel coronavirus in all probability aggravated her pre-existing health conditions and had damaged brain and kidney by the time she recovered from Covid-19.” Lucknow chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “As the woman had recovered from Covid-19, the death will not be counted in Covid-19 casualties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/she-won-battle-with-virus-but-lost-to-brain-tb/articleshow/76519751.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt pumps oxygen into Covid-19 fight||NEW DELHI: With almost half of the total active Covid-19 patients currently under home isolation, Delhi government has decided to give each of them a pulse oximeter to regularly monitor their oxygen level, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. He added that facilities had been ramped up and the number of people being tested daily had been increased from 5,000 to 18,000. Kejriwal said the novel coronavirus affects the respiratory system leading to a sudden drop in the oxygen level in the body, thereby resulting in breathlessness. With pulse oximeter, a device clipped onto the fingertip, a patient can monitor the oxygen level every couple of hours. Patients can return the device to the government after they have recovered. A pulse oximeter costs between Rs 1,000-3,000. Delhi government has planned to procure about one lakh such devices. Doctors say the normal oxygen level in the body is 95-100%, but if it drops to 90% or below, the patient can require hospitalisation. The CM said a helpline number would soon be provided where patients under home isolation would be able to call for help after a fall in the oxygen level. “Every district will have oxygen concentrators. A team will carry a concentrator to you to regulate your oxygen level. If required, you will be immediately shifted to a hospital,” he added. According to the health bulletin released on Sunday, Delhi had 24,558 active Covid-19 cases of which 12,106 were in home isolation. Delhi government, with the help of the Centre, has started using antigen kits for rapid testing of suspect corona patients, which gives results in 15-30 minutes. While about 5,000 people were being tested earlier per day, the CM said that the number had been increased to 18,000 daily in the last one week. He added that some labs were earlier involved in “unacceptable” activities and showing positive results of uninfected people. “Action was taken against them. Now, all labs have been directed to work to their full capacity in a fair manner,” Kejriwal said. The number of people needing hospitalisation had also decreased, the CM said, adding that 6,200 beds were currently occupied and about 7,000 were vacant. On June 12, 5,300 beds were occupied, which meant only 900 more beds were used in the last 10 days even though the number of cases had surged by 23,000. “This means either the number of new patients being admitted in the hospitals is the same as those recovering or very few actually require hospitalisation,” the CM said. Urging all political parties to rise above their differences and work together in this time of crisis, Kejriwal said this was not the time to play politics. “If we fight each other, we will lose our battle against corona,” he added. Taking a swipe against China, the CM said that people and political parties must stand united against the most populous country. Supporting the Centre on the face-off against China in Ladakh, he added that India was fighting two battles — one by doctors and nurses against the virus spread by the neighbouring country and the second by soldiers at the border. “Twenty of our soldiers laid down their lives, but didn’t step back. The country will never retract its steps in the fight against the virus,” Kejriwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-pumps-oxygen-into-covid-fight/articleshow/76519081.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Treks planned in monsoon cancelled||KOLHAPUR: Over 100 trekkers group have decided unanimously to cancel several treks planned during the monsoon season. Most of the treks are organised in the Sahyadri mountain ranges. The famous trek from Panhala to Pawankhind, which is organised by several trekking organisations and attended by thousands of trekkers, has been cancelled. The 50km trek passes from Panhala fort to Pawankhind and is usually scheduled in July and August. Amar Adake, convenor of the trekkers groups said, “We have unanimously decided to cancel the trek from Panhala to Pawankhind due to the Covid-19 outbreak. We had to take this decision despite knowing many trekkers will be unhappyy.We will soon convey our decision to the district administration. We appeal to everyone not to organise treks in small groups or in individual capacities.” The trekkers stop by in some remote hilly villages, through which trek route passes. The villagers earn by charging the trekkers for stay and food. However, many villages have decided not to allow trekkers pass through their village as they fear that most of them maybe coming from the red zones and spread the infection in their villages. Since the villages are small and remotely located, the health facilities cannot be made available to them if Covid-19 cases emerge. The villages have conveyed their decision to the trekkers groups and soon it will be conveyed to the taluka-level authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/treks-planned-in-monsoon-cancelled/articleshow/76516554.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||12 doctors held in liquor raid||Vadodara: Vadodara rural police arrested twelve resident doctors of Waghodiya-based Sumandeep Vidyapeeth for having a liquor party in the early hours of Monday. According to the police, a resident of Shyamal County society had complained to the control room at midnight that a group of people had gathered in one of the houses in the society and were making noise. Based on the information, the police raided the house and found 12 people having liquor. “There were 12 people including five women, all of them sloshed as they were unable to stand properly and were speaking senseless things,” a police official said. Cops found six empty bottles of high-end Indian made foreign liquor brands. When questioned, all 12 accused said that they were resident doctors and they either live in rented homes or at the hostel. The accused are natives of Ahmedabad, New Delhi, Hyderabad, Amritsar, Tamil Nadu, Aligarh and Madhya Pradesh. “We have released them as it is a bailable offence but our investigation regarding the source of the liquor is underway,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-doctors-held-in-liquor-raid/articleshow/76518049.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Only 50% shops to open on a given day||Thiruvananthapuram: Shops functioning within major market centres in the city and provision stores and shops selling perishable goods in shopping malls will function on alternative days and only 50% of shops will remain open on a given day in markets in the city. In a meeting convened by minister Kadakampally Surendran here on Monday, the decision to ensure only 50% open shops in markets and alternate working days for stores was made as part of reducing crowd in markets and shopping centres. Entry of public to the markets will be regulated with the help of police, said mayor K Sreekumar. “Provision stores in markets like Chalai and Palayam are among the spots which experience frequent crowding. By introducing alternate working days and halving the number of open shops on a specific day, crowd could be controlled,” said Sreekumar. All shop owners have been instructed to ensure handwash corners and sanitizers and the staff should ensure that customers comply with social distancing measures. In case of shops failing to comply with such measures, corporation will cancel the trade license temporarily and shops will have to be shut down. An emergency meeting of merchants who conduct trade at Chalai and Palayam will be convened by corporation as part of implementing the decisions. Mayor K Sreekumar said that corporation health team will intensify surveillance in coastal areas where many fishermen go to Tamil Nadu for fishing. Many places in Tamil Nadu are reporting a spurt in number of cases and surveillance will be strengthened in coastal wards. The city corporation will also open five new institutional quarantine facilities centred around Poonthura, Vizhinjam, Shanghumugham, Attipra and Kazhakkoottam health circles. Apprehensions were recently raised over home quarantine of foreign returnees in coastal areas and corporation plans to house such people in Covid care homes in coastal areas. Sreekumar also said that corporation will monitor crowd during marriages and funerals. Ward-level surveillance will be strengthened and activities of volunteers will be intensified. New arrangements have also been introduced in corporation office as part of crowd control. Complaints and grievances will be received in a special counter which has been set up outside the main office of city corporation. In addition to this, complaints can be mailed to mayor’s grievance redressal cell on complaints.tmc@gmail.com or can be posted on the website smarttvm.corporationoftrivandrum.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/only-50-shops-to-open-on-a-given-day/articleshow/76518051.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kanpur||Out of 57 Covid patients from Kanpur shelter,one is HIV positive, other has Hepatitis-C||Kanpur: A day after the Covid-19 tally at a city's government shelter home for girls went up to 57 -- five of them pregnant -- the district authorities confirmed that out of the five Covid positive minors, one also tested positive for HIV and another for Hepatitis C. While DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Monday released details of the five pregnant girls who tested positive for Covid to reiterate that they were pregnant at the time of admission under Pocso Act at the shelter home, he said that a probe had been ordered into the lapses in quarantining the rest of the inmates after the first case of Covid was detected on June 15. Swarupnagar's Government Shelter Home superintendent Mithlesh Pal confirmed that one among the five minor Covid-19 positive pregnant inmates was also found to be infected with HIV while other had Hepatitis C. Both are in advanced stage of pregnancy and were brought to the shelter home in December last, said shelter home sources. Their status was confirmed when they were taken for Covid test after the first round of spike on June 17 and were referred to a maternity hospital after health workers there came to know that they were pregnant. A complete blood test at the hospital, which probably was not done before, revealed that one is the carrier of HIV and the other of Hepatitis-C. "Both the girls have been isolated and at present are undergoing treatment for Covid 19 at Upper India Sugar Exchange maternity hospital being run by GSVM medical college," Pal said. There are two shelter homes on the Swarupnagar campus, one is for minors and the other for adults. "The shelter home for minors has 171 inmates, 57 of them have been found positive. The one which houses adults has 59 inmates, none of them have been found positive," she said. "The minor inmates are being housed there on the directions of the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC)," she added "65 of them have been admitted here under Pocso Act." Meanwhile, child rights activists have alleged that the home for minors has a capacity to house 90-100 inmates, but it has 171 girls. District administration sources told TOI that infection spread because of the blatant negligent approach of the shelter home authorities. The first case of coronavirus was detected there on June 15 and two days later, 33 more cases surfaced. It sent the shelter home officials into a tizzy and they started isolation and testing of other inmates. But 16 more cases were reported on June 19 and eight on Sunday, taking the tally to 57. Besides, a staff of the shelter home was also found infected. There was no new case on Monday. DM Brahma Dev Tiwari told TOI that an SDM and a deputy SP-rank officials have been assigned to conduct an inquiry into the lapses and submit a report to his office. "If lapses are found, the guilty will be brought to book," he added. Taking cognizance of reports about the shelter home, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Monday sought details of the matter from the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights . Based on the details shared by the UPSCPCR, NCPCR chief Prinak Kanoongo issued a statement that one member of the state commission visited the shelter home on June 17 to carry out an inspection. The state commission went on to issue instructions to the authorities concerned for measures to provide treatment and adequate safety to the girls affected by Covid-19. The UPSCR has also written to other children homes in the districts to take adequate measures in their children homes and shelters to protect the inmates from Covid-19. Kanoongo said that they are in touch with the state commission and are closely following the developments in the matter. The National Human Rights Commission, too, has issued notices to UP chief secretary DGP over news reports about the shelter home. "The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that 57 minor girls tested positive for the novel coronavirus at a state-run children's shelter home in Kanpur," the NHRC said in a statement. The commission has observed that the contents of the media reports, if true, are enough to prima facie believe that the public servants have failed to provide safeguard to the victim girls and apparently were negligent in protecting their right to life, liberty and dignity in the custody of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/out-of-57-covid-patients-from-kanpur-shelterone-is-hiv-positive-other-has-hepatitis-c/articleshow/76519752.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Will ensure better prices for agri produce: Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday said that the government was committed to ensuring better market and decent prices for agriculture produce. “Production increase alone won’t solve the problems plaguing the agriculture sector. The market for agriculture produce should increase proportionately to that of production. Farmers should get fair price for their produce. In order to ensure these, government would set up wholesale markets, district-level warehouses, block-level markets and weekly markets under Subhiksha Keralam programme,” the chief minister said. The Subhiksha Keralam programme was specially designed to address the food security needs in view of the new challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic. He was inaugurating via videoconference the distribution of coconut saplings, second phase distribution of fruit tree saplings, farmers’council and Njattuvela market here on Monday. Vijayan said that Subhiksha Keralam programme aimed to promote in a big way agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries. “The programmes aimed at converting barren land into arable one is getting overwhelming response. All those who are part of the initiative to plant one crore fruit trees should ensure the after care of these saplings,” he said. The state currently has very low acerage of coconut plantation with yields too pretty low. That’s why the government has decided to procure and distribute hybrid varieties of coconut tree saplings through Krishi bhavans, he said. According to the chief minister, vegetable cultivation in the state has increased substantially to 14.72 lakh metric tonne as school students to home makers have ventured into it. “It shows that vegetable cultivation is fast becoming a culture in Kerala,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/will-ensure-better-prices-for-agri-produce-cm/articleshow/76518087.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New unit for Covid care at T’puram MCH||Thiruvananthapuram: As the threat of a possible, community spread looming large in the capital, health department has made elaborate arrangements to accommodate suspect cases at the medical college hospital (MCH). A special unit has been set up at the hospital to admit persons who are being brought from containment zones of the capital. Under the emergency medicine department, a new casualty wing, exclusively for Covid care, has been set up. Health minister KK Shailaja said the special unit was set up to ensure proper protection for patients and also to ensure the safety of healthcare workers; triage to operation theatres are ready here.  A treatment room, procedure room, wards, ICU, swab testing centre, separate X-ray room have been set up. All these facilities have been made available for Covid suspect and positive patients. Persons coming from hotspots and containment zones to OP and general casualty wings will be referred to this new unit. A special helpdesk will be set up in the OP unit and general casualty unit to guide these patients. Patients will be first attended by doctors on triage duty. If specialty doctors have to be consulted, then they will be called to examine the patient at the new unit. Separate wards and ICUs for positive and suspect cases have been set up at the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-unit-for-covid-care-at-tpuram-mch/articleshow/76518093.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||In message of social distancing, Lord Jagannath will not step out for yatra||Lucknow: Don’t be disheartened that you will not be able to take part in the procession of Lord Jagannath’s rath yatra on Tuesday. The divine sibling trio of Jagannath, sister Subhadra and brother Balbhadra will come to your home, albeit virtually. Due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, city temples has been forced to cancel the annual rath yatra. But, temple authorities have decided to live-stream the ‘aarti’ and other rituals on their Facebook pages for digital ‘darshan’. Earlier, Chowk’s Shri Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra and Navratra Mela Samiti, which has been organising the rath yatra at Badi Kaliji temple for more than 100 years, and Daliganj’s Madhav Mandir, had decided to take out a symbolic rath yatra for devotees with only 10 people on board. However, with district administration not allowing the rath yatra, temples will now perform digital ‘aarti’ with 10 people of the management. “The temple will remain closed for devotees. Those who wish to offer prayers can do so from outside the temple or visit its social media handle. We have also decided to distribute food and masks among the needy,” said Anurag Sahu, spokesperson of Shri Radha Madhav Sewa Sansthan of Daliganj’s Madhav Mandir. One of the city’s oldest puja committes, Aminabad’s Shri Mahant Shatrughan Das Rath Yatra Samiti, will also organise its 96th year celebration via Facebook Live. Member Surya Prakash Pathak said that this year, the lord himself will send out a message of social distancing and not step out for the procession. “At 8am, we’ll perform ‘maha aarti’. People can perform the aarti with us in their balconies. All of it will be live-streamed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-message-of-social-distancing-lord-jagannath-will-not-step-out-for-yatra/articleshow/76519759.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Cases rise in VMC’s west zone||Vadodara: The western parts of the city witnessed a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Monday. Eight of the 44 Covid-19 cases reported since Sunday night were from the west zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC).The west zone had been witnessing a relatively lower number of Covid-19 as compared to the other three zones of the city. The cases reported on Friday were nearly equally distributed in all zones. Eight cases each were reported in the east and west zones of the city and nine cases each were reported in the north and south zones. The rural areas of the district also registered nine cases even as a person from outside the city was also tested positive. Sources said that the case form Sola in Ahmedabad that tested positive in the city was of a doctor treating Covid-19 patients. In all, 265 persons were tested for Covid-19 in the city. This is the highest number of tests conducted since May after the mass testing in Nagarwada in the Month of April.As many as 18 patients were discharged from various facilities and home isolation in the city. In all, 1,255 persons have been discharged in the city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cases-rise-in-vmcs-west-zone/articleshow/76518091.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai region: Power users feel the heat of ‘inflated’ bills||MUMBAI: Scores of electricity consumers across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai have complained of receiving “inflated” bills, ranging from Rs 4,000 to Rs 20,000, this month. These are four to eight times the normal bill expected during summer. TOI recently reported that consumers can expect higher bills in June as they would be based on “actual meter readings” for the past three summer months. Meter readings were suspended during the lockdown. But many consumers alleged that post-reading calculations in the June bill were “inaccurate” and “abnormally high”. Consumers who complained include those from MSEDCL supply areas in parts of Mumbai, Thane, and Navi Mumbai, as well as customers of Adani Electricity and Tata Power in Mumbai. BEST is reportedly yet to distribute its June bills in the island city. Leader of the opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has pointed out that owing to the lockdown, consumers have been excessively billed by electricity distribution companies. “On account of the lockdown, taking metre readings was not possible for these companies. They have charged hugely and demanded payments for three months in a single month. Many people have lost their jobs or are facing pay cuts. In such a situation, they are unable to pay the amount at once,” he said, asking Thackeray to correct the “anomalies”. “My average power consumption always comes to between Rs 1,600 and Rs 1,800 per month. My summer bills vary from Rs 2,700 to Rs 3,200. This has been the pattern for years. Even if we consider a jump, it cannot be for Rs 16,000—the amount which I was billed for June. This is supposed to be a calculation for three months, but is almost equivalent to my bill for 10 months,” said Sibi Sathyan, a resident of Navi Mumbai. Frustrated consumers gathered outside power firm offices to protest on Monday. “Several citizens also made WhatsApp groups such as ‘Kamothe Electricity Bill’ to bring aggrieved citizens from Panvel, Kamothe and Kharghar on a common platform,” said D K Roy, a resident of Pride Paradise, Kamothe. His bill was nearly four times the usual amount. MSEDCL chief spokesperson Anil Kamble said that meter readers were finally going to residential sites and collecting actual readings. “This will take into account consumption for March-May, for which one has been billed less as there was no meter reading and it was the average based on winter months. But now the bill will be higher,” he said. A Tata Power official said, “For the period of 91 days for which the bills are being sent out, the family remained inside home for all 24 hrs. Tata Power would like the consumers to look for such lifestyle changes while reflecting over the last three months of lockdown and compare it with lifestyle pre lockdown or last year’s same months. Adani Electricity’s spokesperson said, “Actual consumption in the months of April, May and June is comparatively higher due to seasonal impact (summer) and increased usage (advent of lockdown/work from home). Now the consumers will start receiving bills based on their actual consumption with appropriate tariff slab benefits.” In the past, politicians from national parties have represented consumers for inflated bills in Mumbai, and sources indicated that a few political representatives met a group of consumers on Monday. Social media too was abuzz with complaints against Adani and Tata Power. “Devendra Soni has received a bill of Rs 19,498 for May & June 2020 which is too much of the average amount we have been receiving before this pandemic and over the years @CMOMaharashtra @TataPower,” read a tweet from the handle @Nikita47967353. A tweet from daksh @sunshinezoned stated: “Adani Electricity, its an overcharged bill of Rs 4,140 for June 2020. I cleared the dues for May yet the number of units and average reading is a lot more than I usually get billed for.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/power-users-feel-the-heat-of-inflated-bills/articleshow/76520171.cms||Somit Sen
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Police bandobast to be reduce in Malegaon||NASHIK: The Nashik Rural police will reduce its Covid related bandobast in Malegaon in a phased manner as the situation in the textile town is returning to normalcy. Approximately 1,200 personnel have been deployed in Malegaon since April. Due to the dense population in the textile town, the spread of the contagion was fast, so to control it, a large number of police personnel were deployed. SP Arti Singh said, “Since things are coming back to normalcy in Malegaon, the forces are slowly being moved out.” During the course of the bandobast, around 200 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, while three succumbed to the infection. Police have been working relentlessly to ensure that people remain indoors and follow the lockdown rules. Even with the relaxation of the lockdown norms, residents of Malegaon are acting very responsibly, said the police. According to reports till Monday evening, 929 people had tested positive in Malegaon, out of which 71 have died and 782 patients have recovered from the infection. Currently, 76 patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-bandobast-to-be-reduce-in-malegaon/articleshow/76516604.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Tararani Aghadi may contest KMC polls independently||KOLHAPUR: Tararani Aghadi, which had stitched an alliance with the BJP to constitute the opposition in Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), is likely to contest the upcoming civic body election independently and not keep its partnership with the saffron party. The Aghadi is run by the Mahadik family, most of whom are currently with the BJP. After the defeat in the 2019 elections, former NCP MP Dhanajay Mahadik broke ranks to join the BJP and was made the state deputy president. The Aghadi is run by Dhananjay’s uncle Mahadev Mahadik, whose one son and daughter-in-law are also in BJP. During the 2015 KMC elections, the Aghadi and the BJP had contested the elections with separate symbols. The Aghadi had won 19 seats, only second to Congress which had bagged 27 seats. Together with the BJP which had won 14 seats, the Aghadi accounted for 33 seats in the house. Speculation is rife whether this time, the Aghadi will fight the elections as a separate entity with a different symbol or merge with BJP. Swarup Mahadik, a functionary of the Aghadi, told TOI, “We will soon begin discussions with corporators within our outfit on how to go about for the upcoming elections. We will discuss with BJP state president Chandrakant Patil on how to get maximum seats.” The Mahadiks have a significant clout of followers in the city. Last time, Dhananjay Mahadik had stayed away from campaigning as it may have invited the wrath of the NCP leaders. Now, that he is in the BJP, he is most likley to be at the forefront to represent the saffron part in the civic election. Local political experts claimed that after change in power in the state, many local satraps were likely to flock to the ruling Congress-NCP alliance, which has found a new partner in Shiv Sena. Therefore, to ensure no one defects to the ruling coalition and to avoid disgruntlement, the Aghadi will the election in alliance with the BJP but independently with a different symbol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tararani-aghadi-may-contest-kmc-polls-independently/articleshow/76516583.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Police to crack down on illegal parking||NASHIK: City police have come out with a notification stating that they will take strict action against owners of vehicles that are parked in the no-parking areas, eventually leading to traffic snarls. As per the notification, the city’s vehicle population is increasing rapidly, but the motorists are not adhering to traffic rules. This results in large number of illegal parking on both sides of the roads that blocks the flow of vehicular traffic. “Under the NMC Smart City Parking Project there are eight on street parking lots and two off-street parking lots that can accommodate around 1,200 two and four-wheelers at one time,” a police officer said. “However, it has been observed that most of the motorists do not make use of the pay-and-park system and instead park their vehicles near the parking lot or on the opposite side of the parking lot,” he added. The police have warned of strict action against such motorists. The pay-and-park smart parking system has been set up at Kulkarni Garden, on the stretch between CBS and Shalimar, from Gadge Maharaj bridge to Talkuteshwar, Model Colony Chowk to Bhonsala College, opposite Pandit Colony, Jehan Circle, Shahid Circle to Model Colony Circle, Veterinary Hospital to Ashok Stambh and at Agora Complex at Canada Corner and near Shatabdi Hospital at Mumbai Naka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-to-crack-down-on-illegal-parking/articleshow/76516588.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Man dupes 20 graduates on pretext of jobs in LMRC||LUCKNOW: A man running a fake job consultancy firm duped at least 20 graduates of money on the pretext of providing them jobs in Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC), against which four victims lodged an FIR at Krishna Nagar police station on Sunday. One of the complainants, Vineet Kumar (21), a resident of Azad Nagar and an ITI graduate, said that he met one Alok Mishra through a friend in January this year. Mishra introduced himself as an employee of LMRC, who runs a job consultancy firm as part time work, and offered Kumar a job of installing LED solar panels on stations. Mishra took Rs 15,000 on the pretext of registration, medical fitness certificate and documentation work for the job. However, Kumar said that when he did not receive the offer letter, he went to take back his money which Mishra refused to return. Later, Kumar also found out that Mishra doesn’t work in LMRC. He also met three other people who claimed they were also duped by Mishra. Together, they lodged an FIR. SHO, Krishna Nagar, DK Upadhaya said, “We are recording the statements of the victims and working on to trace about how many were actually duped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-dupes-20-graduates-on-pretext-of-jobs-in-lmrc/articleshow/76519766.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Tiger that mauled 5 dies due to ‘septicaemia’||NAGPUR: Problem tiger KT-1, which was responsible for killing five people in Kolara range in buffer zone of Tadoba, died on Monday at Gorewada Rescue Centre. Another tigress having barbed wire injuries to its neck was shifted to the centre from Nagbhid. The death of KT-1 is suspected to be due to septicaemia. The sudden death of healthy sub-adult tiger took forest officials and wildlife buffs by surprise. As no injury was visible, initially officials thought it must be a snake bite. However, veterinarians say septicaemia is a serious bloodstream infection. It is also known as blood poisoning that occurs when a bacterial infection elsewhere in the body such as lungs or skin enters bloodstream. “KT-1 must have died due to injury caused after darting. There was around 16cm abscess in the thigh region where the dart had hit. The vets removed half litre of pus from the spot where injury was,” sources said. TATR field director NR Praveen said, “The tiger was absolutely fine when captured on June 10 and shifted to Gorewada the next day. I’m really surprised hearing about its death.” FDCM divisional manager Nandkishire Kale said after the tiger was brought to Gorewada it was quarantined. The tiger showed poor appetite since arrival and was under observation of Wildlife Research and Training Centre (WRTC) team but was alert and active. In the early hours of Monday, KT-1 appeared in distress and hence veterinarians were called but the big cat showed no sign of recovery and died at 7am. The post-mortem was performed by Dr Madhuri Hedau in the presence of Dr Shirish Upadhye, Dr Mayur Pawshe, Dr Kolangath Sujit, NTCA’s Hemant Kamdi and Kundan Hate. In another development, an 8-year-old tigress that had entered a house in Nagbhid on Sunday evening was tranquillized and shifted to Gorewada. It too is reported to be critical. “The tigress is weak and has a barbed wire fence injury to its neck. There were hundreds of ticks on her body and her canine teeth have worn out and broken,” said Gorewada officials. Chandrapur chief conservator (CCF) SV Ramarao said, “The tigress had injury in its neck. After medical examination, it was transferred to Gorewada as it was unfit for re-release."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-that-mauled-5-dies-due-to-septicaemia/articleshow/76519774.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Cop joins birthday bash with crackers||Vadodara: A constable of Chhani police station and three minor boys were among six persons booked for celebrating birthday of one of them by bursting crackers during night curfew. Police said that all of them, including the cop Hardeepsinh Mahendrasinh, were celebrating birthday of a 17-year-old boy outside Saptpadi party plot in Chhani on Friday night. A video of the celebration went viral on WhatsApp following which an FIR was registered. In the video, the birthday boy is seen cutting cake and firecrackers are seen bursting behind him. The video was shot by another minor boy despite others asking him to stop shooting. Later, he posted the video as his WhatsApp status which invited trouble for them.“In the video, the constable was not seen but his name is being heard. However, when probe revealed that he was also present there, we booked him too,” said a police official.A departmental inquiry has also been ordered under the assistant commissioner of police Paresh Bhesaniya, who will submit his report within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-joins-birthday-bash-with-crackers/articleshow/76518102.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Over 8,700 booked for curfew violations since March 22||NASHIK: Police in the city have booked more than 8,700 people under Section 188 of the IPC for various coronavirus-related curfew violations between March 22 and June 21. Section 188 pertains to disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant. In a bid to stop the spread of coronavirus, the police had clamped certain restrictions on people like public gathering, moving out of the house unnecessarily, making mask-wearing compulsory etc. Senior police officers said the cases would soon be taken to the court for necessary action against the violators. Police said the unnecessary movement of people on the streets was leading to the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Even on Sunday, the police booked 51 people who were out without any valid reason, that too, without taking proper precautions including wearing masks. Covid-19 cases are fast increasing in the city. While there are certain relaxations to the lockdown, people are still ignoring the safety basics like wearing masks, maintaining social distance etc. The Nashik rural police pointed out that recently, the Yeola court of Judicial Magistrate of First Class (JMFC) had slapped 154 people with a collective fine of 1.67 lakh. These people had violated the curfew orders in Niphad, Lasalgaon, Yeola and Satana areas. The police have again requested people to not venture out of their houses unnecessarily and help the administration control the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-8700-booked-for-curfew-violations-since-march-22/articleshow/76516616.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body waives late charges on water tax bills||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to waive the fine charged on the water tax bills issued during lockdown. The corporators and citizens are fuming over the water tax bills being issued with the fine amount for not paying the bill on time. For the months of March and April, the citizens were locked in their home due to covid pandemic. The civic body had issued average bills to the consumers as actual bill could not be calculated as at many places the civic officials were not allowed entry in residential societies to take down the readings of meters. Also, most of the bill receipts could not be issued physically due to lockdown. However, bill amount were uploaded on KMC website and consumers were asked to pay the bill amount online. “Very few consumers paid the bills through online mode. The bills for April and May have the fine amount included for non-payment. However, we have decided waive the fine amount. The citizens were insisting on waiving the entire bill as they did not have any income during lockdown. However, we cannot waive the entire bill amount as water was consumed for that period,” Prashant Pandat, water tax superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civic-body-waives-late-charges-on-water-tax-bills/articleshow/76516610.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Now, KSIDC asks corp to lease out land||KOCHI: As a prelude to construction of waste-to-energy plant, Kerala state industrial development corporation (KSIDC) has sent a letter to Kochi corporation authorities asking them to lease out around 22 acres of land at Brahmapuram for setting up the plant. A few days ago, the state government had issued an order cancelling the agreement between GJ Eco Power Private Limited, the private partner of Kochi corporation, and the local body for constructing a WTE plant at Brahmapuram. The government had cancelled the deal after the private firm failed to make arrangements for raising funds. The government, then, entrusted KSIDC to take measures to construct the WTE plant at Brahmapuram. "The KSIDC has written to Kochi corporation seeking measures for leasing out land required for setting up the plant. The request by KSIDC will soon be placed for consideration of the corporation council. It is up to the council to take a decision," a corporation official said. Meanwhile, KSIDC is learnt to have taken measures to invite tenders from firms for setting up the plant. The private firm with which the corporation had entered into an agreement earlier had moved Kerala high court challenging the decision of the state government. But the court disposed of the petition by just asking the state government to hear the private firm once more before proceeding further with the decision to cancel the tender. Then, the LSG secretary heard the arguments of the private firm’s representative. However, the government found that there was no merit in the arguments of the firm and decided to cancel the pact. Meanwhile, the opposition LDF has come up with plans for promoting decentralized projects for treatment of municipal solid waste. The health standing committee of corporation, which is now chaired by CPM councillor Prathibha Ansari, has endorsed decentralized projects. A meeting of the committee held on Monday decided to take measures promoting decentralized projects for the purpose. “Moreover, there should be measures for minimising the quantity of municipal solid waste. Households which have adequate land should make arrangements for disposing maximum solid waste on their own. The local body should encourage such endeavours,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. The existing windrow compost facility at Brahmapuram is in a dilapidated condition and treatment of waste at the plant is not done properly. But the corporation and a few other local bodies depend on this facility for treating waste. Though the local body had spent Rs.2 crore for constructing a structure that can house the windrow compost plant a couple of years ago, it remains unused. The existing plant may collapse any time. Moreover, waste treatment too would come to a grinding halt then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-ksidc-asks-corp-to-lease-out-land/articleshow/76516628.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Legal scrutiny a challenge for tweaking of land law||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has indicated about a major policy shift that could change the very crux of a law that was enacted to ensure social equality with respect to land holdings — the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1963. During his weekly television show, Naam Munnottu, the chief minister said the government is thinking of allowing cultivation of fruit crops in the plantations as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project. This would need a major amendment in the Act. But the real challenge would be to amend the act in such a way that it would successfully pass the legal scrutiny. The basic intention of the act was to bring in a cap on the extent of land that could be held by an individual or a family, that has been fixed at 7.5 acre and 15 acre respectively. However, section 81 of the act says that plantations, land owned by religious, charitable or educational institutions, sites of temples, churches, mosques and cemeteries and burning and burial grounds, land occupied by educational institutions, land comprised in mills, factories or workshops which are necessary for their operations, private forests, etc, are eligible for exemption from the land ceiling limits. It is under this section that the plantations exist in private hands in the state and the exemption has been provided to coffee, cardamom, rubber, cinnamon, cocoa, tea and cashew plantations that existed before April 1, 1964. Also, section 87 explains that any land that has been converted to any other class of land, not included in the list of exemptions, will be considered to have been acquired after April 1, 1964, and will come under the provision of land ceiling limit. This would mean that any kind of conversion of land use will invite the provisions of land ceiling limit, and will not be eligible for exemption from the extent of land which one can hold. According to revenue department sources, if the government amends these provisions to allow cultivation of other food crops in the plantations, these would automatically be an injustice to those who had to surrender their excess land till date. “An individual, who had land more than the maximum stipulated 15 acre, and who wanted to cultivate any other crop had to surrender the excess land to the government. It would be an injustice to such individuals or families once this amendment is brought in. If the amendment is challenged in a court of law, this will be cited as a major law point,” sources said. Even the previous UDF government’s amendment in the act, allowing conversion of 5% of plantation for tourism purposes, is also likely to be challenged in the court once the new amendment kicks in, sources added. The amendment of the act brought in 2013 by the UDF government had inserted section 81(4) that says that “a person holding plantation may use not exceeding 5% of the extent of such holding for floriculture or for cultivation of vanilla or medicinal plants or other agriculture crops or for establishing hotels or resorts or other tourism projects and for purposes ancillary”. The government had subsequently brought in an order clarifying that only 10% of this converted land can be used for tourism purposes and the remaining 90% of land should be used for medicinal crops, cultivating decoration flowers, milk production or cropping spices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/legal-scrutiny-a-challenge-for-tweaking-of-land-law/articleshow/76518270.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||New SOP for home isolation in Delhi: What all you need to know||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of Health Services of Delhi government released a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) for the management of Covid-19 patients on Monday, making it mandatory for all mild and asymptomatic positive cases detected through RT-PCR tests to go to Covid care centres till a team of the district surveillance officer (DSO) physically verifies that the person can be kept in home isolation. However, those tested with new rapid test for Covid-19 antigen — where the report is made available within half an hour — will be assessed for the severity of illness by the medical officer at the testing site. If the patient is found eligible for home quarantine, a team of DSO will be sent for a home visit to check the isolation facilities. The new SOP is divided on the basis of the test — RT-PCR or rapid test — conducted on the person. According to it, the one tested with the rapid antigen kit and found eligible for home isolation will be given a pulse oximeter by the medical officer of the testing facility. The officer will also explain the use of the gadget to monitor the oxygen level in the body and the protocol of home isolation. “The patients in home isolation will be free from treatment after 10 days as per the policy of the Union health ministry,” said an official. As a follow-up process, the home-isolated patients will be called by a team (outsourced/linked with health centre/medical students) for nine days and their record — temperature, oxygen level and urine output — will be maintained. Earlier, a private firm, which was handling the contact and management of all home quarantine patients, used to carry out the exercise. But its contract was scrapped last week by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who had also abolished the home isolation system but later reviewed his decision. For those tested with RT-PCR kits, which takes 24-48 hours to give results, a team of DSO will be contacted to assess the severity. While those who needed hospitalisation will be transferred by ambulances, mild or asymptomatic patients will be moved to Covid care centres to assess eligibility of home isolation. The home isolation patient will be provided with a contact number for any consultation along with details of CATS ambulance. If his house is not found fit for home isolation, the patient will be admitted to a Covid care centre. The new plan also laid down the procedure for contact tracing with a team of dedicated callers recording details of people who came in contact with the infected person since the onset of symptoms and the potential sources he may have met in the past seven-10 days. With almost 3,000 cases emerging daily, a source said there was a backlog of about 10,000 new patients in the past four days. They have got neither any call to advise them on quarantine protocol nor any health status update. Watch New SOP for home isolation in Delhi: What all you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-sop-for-home-isolation-in-delhi-what-all-you-need-to-know/articleshow/76519128.cms||Atul Mathur
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Child marriages see a surge in Telangana districts, 142 stalled||HYDERABAD: As many as 142 child marriages were stopped across the state between January to June. A spurt in the cases was also seen after the lockdown began, according to activists. An activist from Girls Advocacy Alliance (GAA) claimed that ground reports revealed a high number of child marriages between March and June. In Nagarkurnool alone, 20 child marriages were stalled by the district child protection officer between May 15 and June 15. Rangareddy, Wanaparthy, Gadwal, Narayanpet, Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam among other districts are also said to have witnessed a high number of child marriages. “Migrants who returned from other districts to Nagarkurnool are conducting marriages. Usually, they keep the children under the guardianship of grandparents. Elopements in the area increased due to this and they felt that they should protect the girls and get them married,” said Nagarkurnool district child protection officer, Imtiyaz Raheem. However, the Nagarkurnool child helpline number (1098) has not been working. “The calls are made from NGOs. There are instances where a girl studied intermediate but was married off as the parents had three daughters to look after,” said Imtiyaz. “In Gadwal, child protection officers stopped 42 marriages and in Wanaparthy, 40 child marriages were stalled and another 19 in Narayanpet,” child rights activist K Subhash of Nalgonda said, adding: “We have been reporting a large number of child marriages in the district.” According to child rights activist D Prakash, Vikarabad district is another hotspot for child marriages. “We have reported seven to eight child marriages during the lockdown,” he said. Tribal areas in agency areas of Nallamala and Adilabad are also witnessing large number of child marriages. “Officials can’t even reach some of these places. Only revenue and police personnel worked there during lockdown. In some areas, even without priests, family members are conducting such marriages. It is also saving costs for the families,” said an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/child-marriages-see-a-surge-in-t-districts-142-stalled/articleshow/76519105.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Crop loan issue: Chandrakant Patil attacks state||KOLHAPUR: Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Monday expressed fear that the farmers would be forced to approach private money lenders if the state government failed to excute the crop loan waiver plan announced immediately after coming to power. Talking to reporters after submitting a memorandum to district collector over poor disbursal of crop loan, Patil said, “BJP is launching a state-wide agitation to awaken the government over the issue,” he said. “The nationalized and district banks are not entertaining the loan demand of the farmers despite government order that it would pay the loan amount with interest of the farmers whose accounts are non-performing assets. The government should take up the issue with Reserve Bank of India immediately as banks cannot grant loans to NPAs,” he added. Patil also said that monsoon and agriculture operations cannot be postponed and the government must act immediately. “The farmers are facing difficulties as their produce are not being sold because of coronavirus. The banks have so far disbursed only 15% of the loan target set by the state government,” he said. Patil also criticized the government saying that it was incapable to take a decision because its a multi-party government. “Experienced and senior leaders of Congress and NCP were not offering benefit of their experience to the chief minister,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/crop-loan-issue-chandrakant-patil-attacks-state/articleshow/76516622.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer killed by five in Kawant||Vadodara: A 49-year-old farmer in Chhota Udepur district was murdered and his brother and son were injured after they were attacked by five people over a past dispute on Sunday.The deceased Ratan Rathwa was going to Kawant police station along with his brother Haresh and sons Mohan, Mahesh and Jayesh, when they were intercepted by Samsher Rathwa, Amarsing Rathwa, Vikesh Rathwa, Rajesh Rathwa and Govind Rathwa around noon. Ratan and his sons were going to the police station to lodge an offence against Samsher and his kin for attacking Haresh on Sunday morning.Police said the accused had grudge against Haresh as he had registered a complaint against them in the past. They had made an unsuccessful attempt to attack Haresh and his son in the morning when they were returning home after buying vegetables. When Haresh informed at home about it, they decided to approach police.While on way to the police station, the five accused attacked them near Nani Chikhli village in Kawant taluka and beat them up with spade. Haresh told police that Ratan was hit on his head repeatedly while he and Jayesh were hit on their backs. Mohan and Mahesh managed to escape and they called an ambulance. The trio was taken to health centre at Kawant where doctors declared Ratan dead before admission and Haresh and Jayesh were discharged after treatment.An offence of murder, assault, rioting, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy was registered against the five accused who are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-killed-by-five-in-kawant/articleshow/76518145.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||SSC grades out, available online||Hyderabad: After cancelling Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam and declaring all students passed due to the coronavirus pandemic, the directorate of government examinations, Telangana on Monday said the result of Class 10 or SSC exam would be based on internal assessment. The board uploaded grades of students on to its website www.bse-telangana.gov at 3 pm on Monday. “Students can collect their marks memos from their respective school principals. In case of any discrepancies in the memo, the SSC board can be contacted for recertification,” said education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy. She advised students to take their interests and ambitions into consideration while opting for streams in the next academic year. This year, 5,34, 908 students registered for SSC examination and all of them were declared passed. After appearing for three exams, the high court of Telangana directed the state government to postpone the remaining exams due to the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the state. Subsequently, after the high court refused to give permission to conduct exams in GHMC areas, the state cancelled the examinations. Every year, the internal assessment is given 20 per cent weightage and the remaining is determined through board examination. This year, however, students are graded based on inter assessment alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ssc-grades-out-available-online/articleshow/76519100.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hubballi||New inmates not being subjected to Covid-19 test at Hindalga||Belagavi: Hindalga Central Prison in Belagavi is a historic place, one that housed, among others Veer Savarkar. Currently, it is home to 1,162 inmates, the safety of whom is being jeopardised owing to a lapse in procedure by the authorities concerned. Although the state government has mandated that all new prisoners be subjected to a Covid-19 test before they are allotted a cell at the jail, the authorities at Hindalga are not testing incoming inmates to the medical examination. ‘Cyanide’ Mohan, Bannanje Raja, ‘Cyanide’ Mallika, Umesh Reddy and Lashkar terrorists are among the notorious inmates currently housed at the prison. Karnataka director general and inspector general of police Praveen Sood has made it clear that that those being sent to custody are tested for the pandemic. But Belagavi deputy commissioner SB Bommanahalli appears to be unheeding of these orders from the state’s top cop. Interestingly, Hindalga chief superintendent of police (prisons) Krishna Kumar has appealed several times to Belagavi city commissioner and district superintendent of police, pressing on them the need to test new inmates, his requests have fallen on deaf ears thus far. “We are keeping new prisoners in separately to ensure they are isolated from the others. We are also assisting not accused in crimes such as murder or rape, get bail at the earliest. This will help them, and reduce the chances of inmates at the jail contract the infection,” said a cop at Hindalga. He added that two oxygen cylinders had been purchased and kept at the prison. Belagavi principal district and sessions judge has also enjoined on Belagavi police to ensure the safety of all prisoners. In Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, prisoners are being admitted only after medical tests have ruled out Covid-19 infection. However, Belagavi city police commissioner BS Lokesh Kumar said that all those named in the chargesheet were being tested prior to their appearing before the magistrate. Belagavi DC Bommanahalli, however, contradicted Lokesh’s views, stating that inmates were being tested only if instructed by the magistrate. “We have not received instructions from the government to test all new inmates,” Bommanahalli said. DGP (prisons) Alok Mohan told TOI that a court order stipulated that those remanded to judicial custody had to compulsorily undergo Covid test. “They will be in quarantine until we get the results. Only if they test negative for the novel coronavirus will they be taken to the prison,” he added. Krishna Kumar said that he would write to Belagavi DC, seeking directions to the top cops in the district to ensure adherence to the government and court’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/new-inmates-not-being-subjected-to-covid-19-test-at-hindalga/articleshow/76517565.cms||Shreyas HS
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||7 yrs on, martyr’s kin still await Rs 30L reward||Hyderabad: The state government has been prompt in handing over the monetary benefits to the family of Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu but the family of Lance Naik Mohd Feroz Khan is still waiting for their entitlements. It has been almost seven years since Feroz Khan was killed while fighting Pakistani troops in Balakote sector of Poonch in Jammu & Kashmir. The Centre had conferred him with the Sena medal (gallantry) posthumously but the cash reward of Rs 30 lakh from the state government is yet to be given to the family. Interestingly, the Pay and Accounts department rejected Hyderabad collector’s recommendation in January this year saying that budgetary allocation was not made for the amount. The general administration and finance departments have remained unmoved on the file. Feroz Khan of Madras Regiment, who lived in Salaheen Colony of Nawab Saheb Kunta in Old City, was killed on October 15, 2013 in J&K. The then united Andhra Pradesh government had given Rs 5 lakh and after formation of Telangana, the ruling TRS government gave his family 200 sq yard residential plot. But the monetary benefit has not reached the family while the martyr’s father-in-law has been doing the rounds of the secretariat and Hyderabad collectorate offices. “My daughter Nasreen Khan is facing severe financial problems raising her three children, who are now 12, nine and seven-years-old. There are also debts as we constructed a house for her,” Shaik Moinuddin, father-in-law of Feroz and who is currently residing in MS Makta near Raj Bhavan, told TOI. He said the state government was prompt in extending monetary benefits and also giving land to the families of those who laid down their lives for the country. But in some cases the benefits were getting delayed. Moinuddin said a cash grant for gallantry was recommended by the Regional Sainik Welfare Officer in October, 2018. Based on the recommendation letter, the Hyderabad collector wrote a letter to secretary, GAD, in November, 2018. As per the government’s GO, Rs 30 lakh should be given to the gallantry awardees. Since Nasreen Khan was given about Rs 23,000 earlier, the government had sanctioned the balance of over Rs 29 lakh. The Hyderabad collector wrote letters to the finance department and GAD on this but there was no progress. Meanwhile, 34-year-old Nasreen Khan said they have faith in the government and urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to see the amount was released at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-yrs-on-martyrs-kin-still-await-rs-30l-reward/articleshow/76519045.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Bring T workers back from Gulf: Cong to CM||Hyderabad: TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said that the Centre and the state government failed to help the poor workers who lost their jobs due to the pandemic and asked chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to make arrangements to bring back Telangana migrant workers stranded in Gulf countries. In a letter to the CM, Uttam Kumar and TPCC Covid-19 task force chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy stated that a large number of workers were in distress as they were thrown on the roads by their employers without being paid salaries for the last few months. The Indian association, Sharjah is providing food and shelter to a large number of Indian workers stranded in UAE. They are also organising chartered flights to various cities in India helping the stranded workers to return to their native places, they said. “They have requested your goodself to grant general permission to operate chartered flights to Hyderabad in their letter to you on June 6. We request you to kindly grant permission to Indian association Sharjah at the earliest to enable them to bring back Telangana migrant workers stranded in UAE,” Uttam said in the letter addressed to the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bring-t-workers-back-from-gulf-cong-to-cm/articleshow/76518984.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Wastewater can give early Covid warning’||AHMEDABAD: A breakthrough has been achieved by IIT-Gandhinagar in the quest to swiftly gauge the prevalence of Covid. Scientists from the institute are among a handful of researchers in the world who have found that wastewater at sewage treatment plants can be used as an early warning system to detect the presence of Covid. The findings — released on Monday — will be particularly important for Ahmedabad, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus. The information can be used to alert the public about the areas where infections are prevalent or re-emerging. The study has found a direct correlation between an increase in nCoV2 gene copies of the virus at the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation wastewater plant at Pirana and the rise in Covid cases in the city. A United Kingdom-based environmental microbiologist, Andrew Singer, had tweeted on June 18: “The first proof of the capability of wastewater surveillance for Covid-19 in India through the detection of the genetic material of SARS-CoV-2.”  Manish Kumar, a faculty member of the earth sciences discipline at IIT-Gandhinagar, said: “It is a big relief we found no evidence that sewage water let into the Sabarmati river stream could lead to community transmission of Covid.” He went on to say: “All gene strands encountered by us in effluents were broken and inactive.”  Kumar said Covid-19 symptoms take 3-14 days to appear in human beings, leading to a substantial delay in diagnosis. “The sewage samples can help us detect the extent of infections,” he said. IIT-Gandhinagar had collaborated with the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) for the study. Kumar was part of independent group comprising a Swedish research collaborative (KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm), and the Dutch KWR Watercycle Research Institute. The scientists had chosen the wastewater emerging from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s 106 MLD Pirana plant as it received infectious SARS-CoV-2 virus excreted by patients at Asarwa Civil Hospital. Kumar and his team were looking for specific genes on May 8 and May 27. The spike in the recovery of genes matched the rise in Covid cases in the city.The scientist said the gene ‘copy loading’ — the quantity of genetic material of the virus — detected on May 27 was almost 10 times higher than what was detected on May 8. This corresponded broadly with the trajectory of the incidence of the disease. The number of active patients in the Ahmedabad city was two times higher on May 27 than on May 8, the researchers claimed in their study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wastewater-can-give-early-covid-warning/articleshow/76519110.cms||Paul John
June 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka readies for SSLC exams amid Covid-19 fears; mock drill on Wednesday||BENGALURU: Even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Karnataka, the education department is all set to conduct SSLC exams — 8.5 lakh students are expected to appear at 3,000 centres — from Thursday. While thermal screening and masks are a must, parents aren’t allowed to crowd outside. The exam starts at 10.30am, but students can start coming at 7.30am to avoid rush. A mock exercise of safety measures will be held at 11am on Wednesday, which will be open for parents and students. Students and staff have to compulsorily undergo thermal screening. In case any student forgets to wear mask, it will be provided at the centre. Only students with hall tickets and exam centre staff will be allowed within 200m of the centre. Students from containment zones, those outside the state and kids with fever/cold will take the exams at separate halls. District officials have to ensure no student is deprived of transportation facilities, said minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar. Inter-state buses have been arranged for 367 students from Kasargod, Kerala. In case of students in flood-prone areas who may have trouble commuting to and from the exam centre, officials have to make lodging arrangements for them near the centre, and provide a jeep/bus between the two places. Two exam centres have been arranged in Goa. Students who’ve tested positive for Covid-19 or have relatives who’re infected can take supplementary exams as fresh candidates. No exam centre will be located inside a containment zone. Also, if an area is declared a containment zone during conduct of the exam, centres in the locality will be shifted immediately to alternative facilities. In every education block, three centres have been reserved for any contingency (612 in total). Thus far, 16 reserve centres have been utilised by the government as some areas have been turned into containment zones. Of these, three are in Bidar, two in Kalaburagi and one in Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Ballari each. The other eight are in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-readies-for-sslc-exams-amid-covid-fears-mock-drill-tomorrow/articleshow/76518737.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi colleges optimistic as e-classes gain momentum||KOCHI: After the initial fumbling and hesitation, the academic curriculum has begun to smoothly flow with a few hours of regular online classes in city colleges. While students in the city colleges have been writing their exams by going to their nearest centres, NRK and NRI students have been told to wait until further instructions from the government or they may have to write it in the next year. However, they have all been included in online classes through Moodle, Youtube and apps like zoom, Microsoft, Google etc., Juggling between all this, classes have become interesting even for teachers as they are learning ways to innovate and connect with students. "We are getting almost 95% attendance every day. That’s much more than what we get during regular classes," said Fr Prashant Palakkappillil, principal, Sacred Heart college. He said online classes began by June 1 which was followed by examinations and now classes have picked up. College authorities said most students have got smart phones and hence, they are able to attend classes and for those students who are having difficulty in connectivity, alternate arrangements are being planned so that they don’t lose out. Moodle is the common teaching platform being used for colleges as it is a learning management system and helps teachers keep a record of student activity. "We had started planning on introducing online academic activity almost two years ago and the software was installed. Some of the teachers were given basic introduction to using the tool but it wasn’t implemented. When Covid lockdown came into force, we revived it and teachers started preparing modules based on their courses. We started classes for second and third-year students and even conducted semester exams for students who are in Kerala. Since it is mandatory to have two live sessions, teachers append the videos into the moodle. Students are asked to login to moodle so that they can see the link. It helps in even checking the amount of time students are logged in and they are given assignments. The SH college has kept a dedicated server for these classes. "Teachers also send online links of Youtube videos. We are doing live sessions so that teachers can see students. If the load increases, then we tell students to mute the audio. Right now, all are not using the server at the same time and hence it’s okay. However, we might have to move to Cloud if load increases," said Fr Prashant. Teachers, meanwhile, admit the challenges in conducting examinations. "While conducting internal exams, we have attempted to innovate and put such timelines so that students do not have time to send answers to their friends. And that is done by juggling the multiple-choice, problem-solving and analytical questions with a time limit within which they must upload. It is a challenge because students these days are very tech-savvy and hence, they manage to find a solution. We cannot repeat the same method more than twice," said Prasad J C, head, department of computer science and engineering, federal bank institute of science and technology (FISAT).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-colleges-optimistic-as-e-classes-gain-momentum/articleshow/76516651.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Priest tests +ve, Ahobilam temple closed||Tirupati: Ahobilam temple in Kurnool district was closed for pilgrim worship after a 37-year-old priest tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. In a statement, Sri Ahobila Math Paramparadeena Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanams, stated: “One of the staff archakas at the temple tested positive for coronavirus. Hence the temple has been closed temporarily as per the instructions of the 46th jeeyar of Sri Ahobila Math who is the hereditary trustee of the Ahobilam temple. The decision was taken to close the temple for pilgrim worship considering the wellbeing of all and to prevent the further outbreak of the novel coronavirus.” Daily rituals will be performed in the main temple complex but devotees will not be allowed inside. Endowment officials told reporters that pilgrim worship at the temple will be revived within two days after a thorough sanitation and disinfectant drive inside the temple complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/priest-tests-ve-ahobilam-temple-closed/articleshow/76519124.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Can’t afford sanitization cost, say aided schools||Nagpur: Private aided schools say they cannot afford sanitization costs due to the ban on charging fees and below-par allocation of non-salary grants. Principals and school owners’ associations say schools will have to shell out anywhere from Rs10,000 to Rs50,000 per month to outsource the deep sanitization of schools. The cost variation depends not only on the area covered but also the type of cleaning agents used. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive committee member of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said the costs are overwhelming for most of their members. “With no scope for fee collection and non-salary grants being below par anyway, there is no possibility of our members being able to meet the expenses. The non-salary grants given to us are calculated on the outdated formula based on the 5th pay commission,” said Fadnavis. He added that money for this should be sourced funds available in various government schemes. Zafar Khan, founder president of Schools Headmasters’ Charitable Trust Association, said that schools owned directly by government are in a better position. “NMC and ZP schools will get covered by their respective authorities as they have funds available. We will be the worst hit because neither do we have the staff to indulge in such deep cleaning nor the finances to hire an outside agency,” said Khan. He added that Covid-19 sanitization is not simply about mopping floors. “Benches, doors, grills, staircase railings, cupboards etc have to be sanitized twice a day at least,” said Khan. Education activist Shahid Sharif says it’s a bad idea to even think of schools reopening till a proper solution for the sanitization cost is found. “NMC has asked schools to bear the costs, schools say they can’t afford it. Now if schools reopen and something happens to students, will the NMC commissioner take responsibility,” said Sharif. Headmasters’ Association feels this may not be the right time to ask government for funds. “For now, all schools can ask for funds from the management and get things done. Later, we can approach the government and ask for reimbursement of the same. We know that even the state government is cash strapped,” said Madhusudan Mude, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cant-afford-sanitization-cost-say-aided-schools/articleshow/76519520.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Domestic help, two others held for murder of 85-year-old||HYDERABAD: A domestic help and her paramour were arrested on Monday for the murder of an elderly woman in Chappal Bazar in Kacheguda. Police also arrested the owner of the domestic help service providing company for assigning 45-year-old D Lakshmi to the victim’s house without obtaining ID proof. The victim, S Kamalamma (85), was smothered to death by Lakshmi on June 20. “We identified Lakshmi leaving the house in the early hours of June 20 from the victim’s house. Special teams tracked down Lakshmi and her lover Mahendar in Malakpet. We recovered 10 tola gold, Rs 26,000 cash, four saris and a cellphone from the accused,” Kacheguda ACP Sudhakar said. Lakshmi killed the elderly woman within two days of joining work at the latter’s house. Police said after committing the murder and stealing valuables, Lakshmi met Mahendar at Old Malakpet and handed him over the stolen property. S Satish Kumar, who runs Honem Care Service from Uppal and assigned Lakshmi to Kamalamma, was also arrested. “Satish did not collect the address and ID proofs of the accused while employing her and assigning her to work at the victim’s house. Within two days after reporting for work, Lakshmi committed the murder,” the ACP said. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/domestic-help-two-others-held-for-murder-of-85-yr-old/articleshow/76519363.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Nalas throw up mattresses, 22,000 tonnes garbage removed||SECUNDERABAD: To prevent flooding of low-lying areas during rains, officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Secunderabad Zone, engineering wing, removed silt from nalas and storm water drains in nearly 15 areas in Secunderabad. Over 22,000 tonnes of garbage and silt was removed from open nalas. According to the GHMC official records, of 19.62 km, the civic body authorities have completed desiltation works in 12.36 km of open nalas in Secunderabad till date. According to officials, vast amounts of plastic waste, thermocol, mattresses, wood, glass, iron scrap, clothes, pillows and diapers were found to be clogging the drains in many areas. “The GHMC deployed earth movers to clean the nalas. In our jurisdiction, a total of 15,410 tonnes of waste was removed from nalas in Begumpet and Kukatpally and transported to Jawaharnagar dumpyard. Desilting works are still in progress,” GHMC executive engineer, Begumpet-Kukatpally stretch, S Srinivas told TOI. GHMC executive engineer Pramod Kumar said desiltation works were completed in nala passing through Sitaphalmandi, Lalapet, Chilakalguda, Anna Nagar and other areas and that the remaining part of the nala will be desilted within a week Meanwhile, GHMC officials urged residents and managements of commercial establishments not to dump waste, scrap and other disposable items into nala or drains as they can block the nalas and advised people to use dustbins to dump the garbage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalas-throw-up-mattresses-22k-tonnes-garbage-removed/articleshow/76518924.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents, activists urge Telangana government to cancel nursery admissions||HYDERABAD: Child rights activists and parents are demanding that the state direct schools to not admit nursery students during the academic year 2020-21. They said that the children should instead start their education at homes. “Nursery and KG students will not able to able to follow guidelines laid down by the government or schools. So, it would be better if preschools and creches are directed to remain closed this year,” said Achyuta Rao, a child rights activist. Rao, who filed a petition with the Telangana State Human Rights Commission on this issue, said that with a majority of parents working from home during the pandemic, it should not be difficult to take care of their wards at homes. Seconding with Rao, members of Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) also said that there won’t be any harm if the young students lose an academic year. “The play schools and kindergartens are not even recognized by the education department. Schools may or may not be able to successfully ensure that these children follow all guidelines. So, it would be better if children below five years of age are home schooled for a year, “said Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA. Few parents, however, said that it would be better to wait for the government to release instructions about the start of the academic year before taking a call on whether or not young children should be allowed to go to schools this year. “Although many schools have started their admission process, right now, there is no clarity on when the academic year will begin. Parents should wait before seeking admissions in preschools until clear instructions are released,” said Nagati Narayana, president, Telangana Parents Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-activists-urge-govt-to-cancel-nursery-admissions/articleshow/76518971.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment board battles poor healthcare infrastructure amid coronavirus outbreak||SECUNDERABAD: Poor health infrastructure in the Secunderabad Cantonment is proving a deterrent in the fight against Covid-19, medical officials have alleged. “The situation is really pathetic here. They don’t even have basic facilities. The major problem we face on a regular basis is transport. We don’t have a vehicle to conduct a house-to-house survey. Whenever there is a new positive case, we have to rush and screen the entire area. For that, we have to request the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials for a vehicle ,” said a medical officer. The official said that he was shocked to see the poor condition of the buildings being used for medical services. “Many of the buildings allotted for medical purposes are in dilapidated condition. For the past one year, we have been urging the SCB to provide proper buildings for hospitals. The district medical and health department (DM&HD) has been requesting to SCB to provide basic infrastructure,” the official added. Three medical officers, deputed by DM&HD, are working at three urban primary health centres in the Cantonment area to tackle Covid-19. They have been forced to use the SCB’s dispensaries as the health centres are in bad shape. “There is a severe shortage of staff and medical equipment in the cantonment. Though the Centre has launched several health schemes, none of them are being implemented here due to scant medical facilities. SCB dispensaries can handle only outpatients. In case of any major medical emergency the locals have to rush to Gandhi Hospital or a private facility,” said a senior DM&HO official. An SCB health wing official said that they are looking for suitable buildings for medical facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-board-battles-poor-healthcare-infrastructure-amid-virus-outbreak/articleshow/76518953.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Residents of Nashik make Diwali travel plans||NASHIK: Nashikites passionate about traveling have started exploring the possibilities of spending their Diwali vacation in domestic tourist destinations. Rajendra Bakre, the president of Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN), told TOI that some of the members have started receiving enquiries from Nashik residents about spending a few days in some tourist destination within the country later this year. “It is certainly a positive development as far as the travel agents are concerned. It also shows that the people in the city are keen to travel — something they could not do during the summer season due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” added Bakre. Most queries are about destinations that might be safe for travel given the Covid-19 crisis. People want to know if the hotels would start functioning by then, if there are any special packages the agents are offering etc. The bulk of the enquiries are related to destinations in states like Kerala, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim etc. Bakre added many of TAAN’s members have started opening their offices for a few hours every day since the lockdown was relaxed. The pandemic has severely affected the business of the city-based travel agents. The cumulative loss incurred during the summer amounts to over Rs 100 crore. Datta Bhalerao, the former president of TAAN, said he too has been receiving inquiries from city residents about holidaying during Diwali. “The people in the city love to travel. In fact, every summer, a sizeable number of people travel to Europe. But this time, they could not do so due to the Covid pandemic. Now that the lockdown is being eased gradually, they have started making plans again,” added Bhalerao. He said there is an imperative need for the tourism sector to thrive again as livelihoods of a large number of people depend on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/residents-of-nashik-make-diwali-travel-plans/articleshow/76516637.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||MUHS to organise mini convocation||NASHIK: Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) will hold a mini convocation on June 30, without the presence of students and the faculty, to issue degree and diploma certificates to the students. The university will be sending the certificates to respective colleges. The chancellor of the university and the Maharashtra governor has permitted the varsity to organise the mini convocation which will have no gathering of people. Ajit Pathak, the university’s controller of examination, has written to all colleges affiliated to MUHS to inform the students concerned about the issue of certificates. The students have to send filled up application forms to the university by June 26. The forms can be downloaded from MUHS website www.muhs.ac.in. After the deadline, the university will receive the forms with late fees. According to the circular, the eligible PhD candidates,undergraduate students, postgraduate students and diploma courses students who will be completing their internship training by June 29 can apply for certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-to-organise-mini-convocation/articleshow/76516647.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM calls on Colonel Babu’s family, hands over Rs 5 crore ex gratia||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday handed over a cheque for Rs 4 crore to Santoshi, wife of 38-year-old Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu who was martyred in a stand-off between the Indian Army and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15. Out of the ex gratia amount of Rs 5 crore that he had announced to the family on behalf of the state government, KCR gave a cheque for Rs 1 crore to Upendar and Manjula, parents of Col Santosh Babu. In addition to the ex gratia amount, a residential plot of 711 sq yards in Banjara Hills was also allotted to Santoshi who was given the land documents for the property by the chief minister. KCR also explained to her about the Group-1 job being given to her and handed over the letter to her in the presence of chief secretary Somesh Kumar. The Group-1 job entitles her to a deputy collector-rank post. The chief minister, who travelled by road to Suryapet town, spent half an hour with the family at their residence in Vidyanagar. He paid homage to the memory of Col Santosh Babu by placing flowers at a photograph put up at the home and also signed on a painting of the martyr. He also interacted with Col Santosh Babu’s children. Authorities closed all shops on the main road from Suryapet bus stand to Shankar Vilas Centre in view of the CM’s visit as a security measure. No movement of people was also allowed into Vidyanagar area and the place was barricaded. The family of Col Santosh Babu were provided masks and hand gloves by the health authorities and the place was also sanitised in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, energy minister Guntakandla Jagadish Reddy, roads and building minister V Prashanth Reddy were among the small group that accompanied the CM to the house of Col Santosh Kumar and conveyed their condolences to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-calls-on-col-babus-family-hands-over-rs-5-cr-ex-gratia/articleshow/76519027.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad locals aid students from poorer sections with smartphones||HYDERABAD: As online classes appear to be the way forward for the post-Covid-19 schools, several economically backward families are not in a position to provide smartphones to their wards to be able to take classes. However, many good hearted citizens have stepped up to ensure that education of such students does not suffer. “I wanted my child to go to a private school to get good education. My wife and I have struggled to pay their fees, but now the school has told us that some classes will be online,” said Raju M, a driver from Domalguda. He says he cannot afford smart phones for his daughter and son who are in classes eight and six respectively. To battle this situation, residents across the city say that they have been raising money or giving their own second-hand phones to their domestic help. “A domestic worker I know wanted a smartphone for his children. The couple are already in debt and struggled through the lockdown. I thought I should at least help them to raise the money,” said Madhu Shrinagesh, a teacher and a resident of Sainikpuri. Lakshmi Jayakumar, who lives in Vayupuri, has already given her old phone to her domestic help. “She had asked for a phone for her brother. My husband passed away recently and I thought this was the best way his phone could be put to use by someone who really needs it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-aid-students-from-poorer-sections-with-smartphones/articleshow/76519057.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Scrap vendor murders father-in-law in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A scrap vendor bludgeoned his father-in-law to death in an inebriated condition at his house in Nalgonda town on Sunday night. The victim, Venkateshwarulu (45), was a native of Bapatla in Guntur district of AP and the accused has been identified as Ch Gopi from Ram Nagar in Nalgonda. “During the argument, in a fit of rage, Gopi hit Venkateshwarulu on his head with a pestle. Venkateshwarulu sustained a head injury and collapsed. Famiily members rushed him to a hospital where he succumbed while undergoing treatment on Sunday night,” Nalgonda police said. Based on the complaint lodged by Venkateshwarulu’s kin, a murder case was registered. Gopi has been taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scrap-vendor-murders-father-in-law/articleshow/76518998.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||With govt backtracking, citizens start own plantation drive||Nagpur: With the state government’s ambitious tree plantation programme taking a back seat amid Covid-19 pandemic, citizens have taken upon themselves to increase the declining green cover of the city. In a first-of-its-kind initiative, citizens have started voluntary tree plantation drive in the city. The target is to plant 1,000 saplings across the city by the end of monsoon. The first phase of the plantation drive was started from Sunday at Bharat Nagar, where residents planted nearly 30 neem and amaltas saplings. “While the government has shelved its tree plantation plan, we have come together to plant saplings in good numbers. This is the perfect time for planting trees as for the next three months, we won’t have to worry about watering them,” said honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das. The plantations are being carried out in a scientific manner. Over 150 pits have been already dug and work on more is underway. Some citizens are contributing money while others are pitching in labour and garden soil. “We are only focusing on planting five indigenous species – neem, amaltas, karanja, kadam and shahtoot,” said environmentalist Shrikant Deshpande. Site selection is also being kept in mind. “We are mostly choosing sites that are protected from grazing and have watering facility. In the coming days, over 100 saplings will be planted in the campus of Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT). Similarly, sites in Ravi Nagar and other areas are also ready,” said Das. To ensure further protection, the greens will encourage citizens to donate tree guards in the memory of their loved ones. “Our aim is to increase green cover in urban areas that have seen massive loss of trees due to unplanned and unnecessary concretization in the name of development,” added Das. Citizens want to reclaim the title of greenest city for Nagpur. “Planting trees isn’t enough, proper maintenance needs to be provided to every tree in its growing years. If every citizen takes up the responsibility of one tree in his area, Nagpur will definitely be the greenest city,” said Padmanabhan Pillai, who is a part of the initiative. Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision has taken up similar green initiative under its newly-elected president Jatin Sampat. “To celebrate the installation of our new committee, we will be providing free saplings to all our members and the general public. Environment-friendly tree guards will also be provided at affordable rates,” said Nilanjan Bhowmick, director, environment, at the club. Species like amaltas, karanja and saptaparni have been selected for plantations. Those interested in procuring saplings can contact Bhowmick on 9657552244.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-govt-backtracking-citizens-start-own-plantation-drive/articleshow/76519491.cms||Manka Behl
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Armed goons smash 30 vehicles, target houses||Nagpur: A gang of armed goons went berserk, damaging more than 30 two-wheelers and two autorickshaws, and striking on doors and windows with swords in the dingy Galli No. 7 at Kuradpeth in north Nagpur on Sunday midnight. The second such incident in a fortnight, believed to be a fallout of gang rivalry, has triggered fear and panic. Police claimed around a dozen goons created the ruckus but residents claim the number could be anywhere between 30 to 50. Pachpaoli police have arrested five goons with long records. The incident took place even as cops are engaged in intense anti-crime drive ‘Operation crackdown phase 2’ across the city to target goons. City police chief BK Upadhyay took serious note of the incident and issued fresh instructions to bring even petty criminals under surveillance, including those with as few as two offences against them. On Sunday night, some residents of Kuradpeth standing outside their houses were left stunned when the armed goons swarmed into their lane. The residents could only rush inside to dodge the goons swinging swords at them. A resident, still reeling in fear of the goons on rampage, said the goons threw around some 100 bikes and scooters in the lanes, and damaged them with swords, rods, baseball bats etc. “Most of them had faces covered,” said a resident, on condition of anonymity. Durga Kale, a widow who earns a livelihood selling vegetables, said the goons have damaged her handcart. “Last time, the goons had damaged vegetables worth Rs3,000 and this time they have broken my cart,” she said. The goons also slashed her neighbour’s door with swords. Ashok Gourkhede, an autorickshaw driver, said his vehicle too was damaged. His family members said they were already reeling under losses due to lockdown and now the vehicle, their only means of livelihood, is damaged. The goons also barged into the residence of one Manoj Wasnik and forced him to part with cash Rs2,500 at knifepoint. The goons also damaged his electric meter box. Sources from the locality said the goons of Virendra Babu Bakri wanted to attack Saurabh Wasnik over an old enmity. The armed goons were led by Babu Bakri. Police said Babu Bakri, Wasnik and their accomplices were charged with dacoity as they had barged into the residence of Manoj Wasnik and robbed him. Apart from Wasnik and Babu Bakri, the three other persons arrested were Alakshit Ambade, Rahul Jarunde and Roshan Bihade. Police have also seized sharp weapons from them. “We had registered offences against the goons in the past too, but they were evading arrest. We have now invoked stringent provisions of dacoity against them. More people would be arrested soon,” said senior inspector Kishore Nagrale of Pachpaoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armed-goons-smash-30-vehicles-target-houses/articleshow/76519498.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Round 2: Mayor files police plaint against Mundhe, 2 others||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi and ruling party (BJP) leader Sandip Jadhav lodged a complaint on Monday at Sadar police station against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and two officials of the Smart City special purpose vehicle. They alleged that the three have committed violations in the operation of the Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). Refuting all allegations, Mundhe said it is a pre-planned continuation of his “character assassination and an attempt to make me fall in line as per their wish”. Joshi and Jadhav are nominee directors of NSSCDCL. On Sunday, Joshi had released a letter he had written to Mundhe in which he had made many allegations. At a press conference after filing the complaint, Joshi said Mundhe was never appointed by the board of directors (BoD) as either director or CEO of NSSCDCL. “The BoD’s permission is required to become authorized signatories. Mundhe, chief accounts and finance officer Mona Thakur, and accounts officer Amruta Deshkar forged documents and gave powers to the civic chief, who released mobilization amount of around Rs20 crore to two private companies. TDS and GST were not deducted. Also, Rs57 lakh was given to another company and later taken back,” he said. Mundhe claimed that as commissioner he is the ex officio director of NSSCDCL. “I am authorized to work as CEO on orders issued by chairman Praveen Pardeshi. Whoever becomes CEO, s/he automatically becomes an authorized signatory,” he said. According to the civic chief, he signed the bills for “disbursement” only after clearance from engineers and finance department. “This can be discussed at a BoD meeting. I have asked Pardeshi to hold one,” said Mundhe. Joshi also accused Mundhe of sacking 12-13 employees without notice. “He also deducted Rs2,500 from the salaries of all towards the CM Relief Fund. Three employees had objected to it,” said Joshi. According to Mundhe, no objections were raised before deduction. Further, Joshi said Mundhe cancelled a tender worth Rs42 crore for the BoD-approved garbage transfer stations and floated a tender of Rs50 crore for bio mining. To this, Mundhe said, “I had consulted the chairman. As CEO, decisions taken were in the interest of the company.” Joshi said he decided to file a police complaint as letters to Mundhe and Pardeshi went unanswered. “Its an unfortunate situation in NMC’s history,” he said. On Joshi and Jadhav filing a police complaint, Mundhe said, “They seem desperate to malign and demoralize me, and my team.” DCP Vinita Sahu told TOI that the complaints are of “procedural lapses” and not “misappropriation of funds”. “We will seek legal advice before taking further steps,” she said. Sources in the police department said Joshi's complaint is to the tune of crores and may be referred to some specialized unit at a later stage. On Saturday, Mundhe had walked out of a NMC general body after corporator Harish Gwalbanshi alleged he was a blot on the name of Tukaram. While saying that no one supports the remark, Joshi said, “I request Mundhe to attend the meeting on Tuesday.” Joshi has appointed a committee, led by standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, to conduct an inquiry on the alleged violations of converting a market building to a dedicated Covid health centre at KT Nagar. The report will be tabled on Tuesday. President of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan NGO Prashant Pawar said that netas are targeting administrators who are doing a good job. “The citizens will protest in front of the houses of politicians. Mundhe should expose their irregularities at the general body meet,” he said. CHARGES AGAINST MUNDHE, 2 OTHERS* Not authorized signatories * Released mobilization amount of around Rs20 crore to 2 pvt companies without sanction * Sacked employees without notice * Deducted contribution to CM Relief Fund without permission * Cancelled approved orders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/round-2-mayor-files-police-plaint-against-mundhe-2-others/articleshow/76519550.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||RTOs resume driving tests under Covid shadow||Nagpur: After three months of lockdown, all the three regional transport offices (RTOs) have resumed learner’s and permanent driving license tests from Monday. The deputy RTO (East) and rural office got the construction of their new offices done during the lockdown period. Now, both the offices have started functioning from their new premises at Chikhli (in East Nagpur) and near Nagpur rural police headquarters in North Nagpur. Maharashtra Regional Transport Office (RTO) has resumed registration of vehicles and issuing driving licences. Transport commissioner had issued a circular on June 16 to resume operations across its 50 offices in the state. Subsequently, the city offices resumed services including issuing licences, secondary licencing, vehicle registration and transfer from Monday. The department had temporarily shut operations after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March this year, and has resumed operations after nearly three months of inactivity. TOI visited the offices and found the departments, especially city office, following Covid-19 guidelines strictly. Deputy RTO Atul Ade said the office has rescheduled the earlier slot bookings by the applicants. Through SMS we have informed all the applicants, he claimed. All the three offices have fixed the quotas of each job according to the number of officers and staff available. Candidates without masks and hand gloves were not allowed to appear for the learner’s licence tests, while for PDL test the transport department officials ensured sanitization of the vehicle before the test. All the three offices have focused more on learner’s licence test to ensure non-spreading of the coronavirus. Apart from reducing quotas for LL test, the department has also altered seating arrangements and kept at least one or two seats empty between two candidates. Even though the RTOs have reduced the quotas for the tests, there was low turnout of visitors. At city office, the department received 20 applications for driving licence renewal, 37 appeared for LL test, while eight appeared for permanent driving test. The low turnout was also observed at deputy RTO East office as it conducted LL and DL tests for 55 and 15 applicants, respectively. Deputy RTO Vinod Jadhav said the office also handled 80 different works pertaining to non-transport, transport vehicles and 35 renewal of licences. ARTO Sneha Medhe from rural office said against appointments of 11 and 109 slots for LL and PDL, respectively, only 7 and 65 applicants appeared for the tests. From Thursday onwards, the office will implement new slots of 60 for LL and 80 for DL, said the ARTO. Testing Times Thermal guns to screen people entering offices Hand sanitizer dispenser outside LL test rooms and entry of offices Assistant motor vehicle inspectors ensuring Covid distancing is followed Reduction in quotas of LL and PDL tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rtos-resume-driving-tests-under-covid-shadow/articleshow/76519534.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Goons preferring to shun friends, aides fearing to be caught ‘preparing for dacoity’||Nagpur: The strategy of the cops to slap charges of ‘Preparing for dacoity’ under section 399 of the Indian penal code (IPC) in the ongoing ‘Operation crackdown phase II’ has led to a situation where the goons are either not stepping out of their homes or are preferring to move alone without their so-called friends doubling up as bodyguards. The cops generally invoke IPC 399, a punishment which could lead to imprisonment up to 10 years as well as a fine, whenever they find goons with friends. The section cannot be invoked when someone is found alone, said a police official. It’s learnt that cops try to nab the goons in groups so that they can slap them with section 399 which also means a longer period behind bars. Procuring bail is also not easy. City police, after the launch of Operation crackdown’, has invoked section 399 of the IPC against 15 gangs sending several goons behind bars in an effective manner. “We ensure strict legal action and enforcement of law against the goons,” said DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane. Police claimed section 399 IPC has been effective to reduce crime. In 2018, there were 30 cases following which the number of murders was 77 which was lowest in the last five years. According to a senior officer, goons are appearing before police whenever being summoned but they ensure that a family member accompanies them. “Seasoned goons are not moving out unless required and even if they do, they are keeping a family member like a wife or mother or brother with them,” said the cop. It’s learnt that some top names in the city’s underworld like Swapnil, Bhoge, Waseem, Genteel, Dallu and Gajju are either staying put at home or have remained untraceable with their mobile phones switched off. “Goons are feeling the heat now with crime branch and their local police stations both summoning them for checking their whereabouts regularly. The cops have warned the goons to land up at crime branch or police station whenever they are summoned,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goons-preferring-to-shun-friends-aides-fearing-to-be-caught-preparing-for-dacoity/articleshow/76519509.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP to make cheaper goods than China: Min||Lucknow: Addressing government and industry representatives from 44 countries during a webinar on Monday, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh spoke about the major industrial reforms that UP government has initiated to make UP an investment hub. The minister said that investors from within the country and abroad had shown interest in investing in UP, especially in sectors like manufacturing, civil aviation, tourism, agro and food processing, renewable energy, textiles, IIT, electronics and defence and aerospace. “Efforts are being made to develop UP as a manufacturing hub and special focus is being given to ensuring that compared to China, UP is able to produce cheaper goods,” he said. The webinar was organised by CII and Swiss think tank and economic forum Horasis. Singh said that such a platform will help in branding UP internationally and will get it more investments. Enumerating the various initiatives taken by the government, Singh said labour reforms had been carried out, along with changes in the logistics and warehousing policy. “Within 72 hours of establishment of an industry, the NOC will be granted. A consultant is being hired to increase GDP. Infrastructure improvement is being carried out through expressways and a new airport at Jewar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-make-cheaper-goods-than-china-min/articleshow/76519782.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||30 private hospitals notified in Mysuru to treat Covid-19 patients||MYSURU: The health and family welfare department has notified 483 private hospitals across the state to treat Covid-19 patients in view of the spike in cases in different districts. In Mysuru district, 30 hospitals, which are part of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), are empanelled for Covid-19 treatment. Similarly, four private hospitals in Chamarajanagar, 8 in Chikkamagalur, 9 in Mandya, 11 in Hassan, 30 in Mysuru and 22 in Shivamogga have been notified. Since there are no superspecialty private hospitals in Kodagu, Covid patients will be treated only in the district hospital, said DHO Dr Mohan. The hospitals have to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the state government and charges will be based on treatment package approved by SAST. The hospitals can collect swab samples and send them to the district Covid lab, said Mysuru DHO Dr R Venkatesh said. Dr SP Yoganna, chairman, Suyog Hospital, one of the empanelled hospitals said, the hospital is ready to serve patients. “We have a 7-bed isolation ward to treat the Covid patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/30-private-hospitals-notified-in-mysuru-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/76517793.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 4 burglars caught in action||NASHIK: As many as four burglars were arrested by Nashik Road police while the suspects were stealing goods from a bakery in the wee hours of Sunday. According to police, all the suspects — Rohan Jadhav (24), Ganesh Chavan (20), Shahrukh Shaikh (23) and Nadeem Pathan (20) — are history-sheeters. They were produced on the court on Monday following which they have been sent to 14-day judicial custody. “We got a call at around 2 am that some burglars were stealing from a bakery in the Subhash Road area. We immediately plunged into action and reached the spot. Upon seeing us, the suspects started fleeing following which we managed to nab two of them. The other two managed to give us a slip. However, we managed to arrest them on the same night after getting information about them from the arrested suspects,” a police officer said. Goods worth Rs 67,000 that was stolen by them was also recovered by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-burglars-caught-in-action/articleshow/76516660.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govts response on plea by siddha practitioner||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea moved by a siddha practitioner seeking the ministry of Ayush to conduct virology study and publish the results after testing the herbal medicine formulated by him which could be a solution for Covid-19 cure. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi was hearing the public interest litigation filed by S Subramanian, a resident of Madurai. Subramanian claimed that he has formulated a mixture of 66 herbs called IMPRO, which would not only prevent but cure Covid-19. The powder should be boiled in water and consumed twice a day before food. Drinking this medicated water regularly would also increase the immunity, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govts-response-on-plea-by-siddha-practitioner/articleshow/76519791.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Cusat looks at options to conduct UG exams||Kochi: After successfully completing exams for postgraduate students online, Cochin university of science and technology (Cusat) is working on logistics to conduct BTech examinations for its students on the main and Kuttanad campus. “Postgraduate students are less in number and most of them are in Kerala. However, the number of students under engineering stream is huge and many of them are from other states, especially north India,” said Santhosh Kumar G, professor and director, centre for information management, which is coordinating all the online activities of Cusat. He said in some of the streams, there could be around 500 students and it is very difficult to coordinate the examination. Cusat officials said PG students have a good rapport with their teachers and hence in case of any difficulty, they would reach out to their faculty. But that wouldn’t be the case in BTech courses. The same dilemma exists for officials of Kerala university of fisheries and ocean studies (Kufos) who had fortunately finished the examination of the undergraduate course (BFSc) in March and the PG was scheduled for April. “We have started third semester online classes for PG students so that when things move to normal, we would be able to complete their practical and theory exams. This would ensure that their academic calendar is not affected,” said Manoj Kumar, registrar. Since Kufos had introduced the use of visual media techniques in masters programmes and doctoral research last year, it has come handy for faculty in developing online content. The visual problem appraisal (VPA), as it’s called, was introduced by the then vice chancellor, late A Ramachandran. The VPA set consists of a series of filmed interviews complemented with documentaries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-looks-at-options-to-conduct-ug-exams/articleshow/76516679.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 23, 2020||Meerut||Abandoned by kin, man, 80, found dead at an abandoned factory in Meerut||Strap: Surendra Was Living In The Factory For Last Five Years Meerut: An 80-year-old man, who made an abandoned factory his home and survived on whatever little locals offered him in the last five years, was on Monday morning found dead in Meerut’s Daurala area. When police reached there, they found Surendra’s body, somewhat a skin-on-skeleton figure, lying on a cot with an empty glass by his side.Before coming to Meerut and making the empty factory his home, Surendra used to live in Samaspur village in Hastinapur area with his family. Locals say that the elderly man was forced out of his house by the family.Police have dismissed any criminal intent behind the incident.“There was no external injury on the body of the deceased. Though the family of the deceased insisted on cremation, the body was sent for post-mortem examination. Finding of the report is awaited,” Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (city) said.According to police, Surendra had taken refuge in the abandoned factory five years ago and had been living there since with locals helping him occasionally with bare necessities of food, clothing and medicines. On Monday morning, locals alerted police after they spotted the elderly lying unconscious on the cot. Sources claimed he was being treated for his respiratory problem. “Surendra used to take care of himself. He used to be spotted at the local temple and flour mill once in a while. His condition deteriorated due to age,” said Jitendra, pradhan of Siwaya village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/abandoned-by-kin-man-80-found-dead-at-an-abandoned-factory-in-meerut/articleshow/76516667.cms||Piyush Rai
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||2 Amravati patients die in Nagpur, Vidarbha Covid toll 128||Nagpur reported death of two Covid-19 patients on Monday when two persons — hailing from Amravati district and tested Covid positive in Nagpur — died at GMCH. They include 36-year-old auto-driver from Amravati’s Mominpura and 75-year-old man from Namuna in Amravati. Both were brought to Nagpur for non-Covid illness but they tested positive for Covid-19 on June 16. With this, the Covid death toll of Nagpur has reached 20, with seven of them being non-Nagpur residents. Together, Vidarbha recorded 85 new cases on Monday taking total Covid cases to 3,799. Out of Monday’s 85, Akola alone accounts for 51 cases while Nagpur (14), Amravati (8), Buldhana (8), Bhandara (2), Gadchiroli (1) and Chandrapur (1) follow. On the recovery front, 78 patients in Vidarbha were discharged on Monday taking total recovery post 2500-mark to 2,528. Highest 34 were from Nagpur while 16 recovered from Washim. Total 13 patients were discharged from Amravati, including a mother and her newborn. Eight patients discharged from Buldhana and 3 from Gondia. Recovery rate of Vidarbha once again remained above 65% despite the number of patients was more than the number of recoveries. Swab samples of a 55-year-old man from Malkapur who died on June 16 tested positive in Buldhana on Monday becoming 8th Covid-19 death in Buldhana. With 8 new cases, total Covid-19 cases in this district reached 165. On the other hand, 8 patients recovered from here taking recovery count to 122. Now, Buldhana has 35 active cases. AMRAVATI: While Amravati posted a triple century of recovered Covid-19 patients on Monday, eight new positive cases have taken its Covid count to 438 now. A release from civil surgeon’s office said 13 patients, including a woman who delivered a baby at the Covid Hospital on June 15, were discharged following their recovery today. This has taken the number of recovered patients to 300. The Covid virus made its entry in Anjangaon Surji town in Daryapur tehsil today as a 60-year-old male reported positive from there. In city, Nandanwan colony and Rajgirnagar also posted their first case through a 55-year-old female and a 36-year-old male, respectively. Hotspot Badnera took its count to 58 as a 17-year-old boy from Mhada Colony there tested positive. Likewise, Habibnagar reported its 16th case through a 74-year-old woman. A 60-year-old male from Sabanpura took the locality’s count to seven this morning while Forest Colony reported its fourth case through a 46-year-old male. With the discharge of 300 and deaths of 18, the number of active cases is 120 now. Ten of them are in Nagpur. YAVATMAL: Currently 63 active positive patients are in the isolation ward of both the GMC and the rural Covid-19 care centres. Initially, patients were found in the city but later this trend has changed and it slowly sneaked into the rural parts. It has mostly affected the tehsils like Ner, Darwha, Digras, Arni, Mahagaon, and Pusad. The administration has promptly contained affected areas and requested public not to venture out without essential reasons. So far, Yavatmal has recorded 234 positive patients of whom 161 have recovered and discharged from GMC isolation ward. On Monday, district collector MD Singh and SP M Rajkumar visited containment area of Arni and instructed officers to take precautionary measures to avert spread of Covid-19. Health department has so far sent 46 swabs from this area for testing. Fifty more swabs are to be collected. CHANDRAPUR: One more person was detected positive to novel coronavirus infection on Monday and with this total number of patients in the district has now reached 57. New patient is 28-year-old youth, native of Sneh Nagar in city, who had returned from Mumbai on June 13. He was home quarantined. His sample was gathered on Sunday which tested positive today. Meanwhile, 43 out of total 57 patients have been treated and discharged from hospital. Presently, there are only 14 active patients in Chandrapur. GONDIA: No new case has been reported from the district for fifth day in a row. Two more patients from Tirora of 30-35 age group were discharged today. Number of active cases has gone down to 30 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-amravati-patients-die-in-nagpur-vidarbha-covid-toll-128/articleshow/76519793.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teams of ‘Doctor Mitra’ to scan slums||Ahmedabad: After the Arogya Rath and the Dhanwantri Rath, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to come up with the ‘Doctor Mitra’ scheme. Under the scheme, a team of physicians along with lab technicians and others will be going in slum areas and not only treating people but will also carry out surveillance.ACS, forest and environment, Rajiv Gupta, who is especially deputed to handle Covid situation in Ahmedabad, said that a meeting of the AMC officials was held on Monday and it was decided to start the new project ‘Doctor Mitra’.Gupta said that apart from the 74 urban health centres and seven community health centres giving treatment, 74 Doctor Mitra teams will be moving in the slum area between 5pm and 10pm and will give treatment to the local for fever, cough, cold and will also conduct the basic laboratory test. These teams, based on the report, will give medicines to the locals.Gupta said the team will have a physician, a medical officer, laboratory technician and a paramedical staff. The members of the teams will be appointed on a contract for three months and the physician and the medical officer will get Rs 30,000 per month, while the pharmacists, laboratory technician and paramedical staff will be paid Rs 10,000 per month.Gupta said that Asha workers, health workers and other AMC workers will be given incentive for encouraging people to download Arogya Setu app.An employee who ensures 20 downloads in a day will be given Rs 5 per download and if he/she ensures more than 20 downloads, will be paid Rs 10 per download.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teams-of-doctor-mitra-to-scan-slums/articleshow/76519123.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Group from Godhra stranded in Karachi set to return home||Vadodara: The group from Godhra that had gone to Karachi for a wedding, but got stranded due to travel restrictions following the Covid-19 pandemic, will now be able to leave Pakistan on Friday.The group had made plans of travelling to Lahore from Karachi on Monday and were looking to cross the border on Tuesday if all went well. However, they could not get a permission for departure from Karachi in time. The group has now got a formal written intimation regarding the permission to cross the border from the Pakistan government. “In all, 750 persons from India are set to travel back from Pakistan between June 25-27. On each day, 250 persons will travel to India,” said Salim Murshad who is coordinating efforts for the return of the group from Godhra. Ishak Bokda, a member of the group, said that they will be travelling together on Friday. “We have been given permission to move now,” he said. The group will be travelling to Lahore and then to Wagah border. From there, they will go to Amritsar. They have given an undertaking to undergo quarantine and follow other Covid-19 related protocols on their return to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/group-from-godhra-stranded-in-karachi-set-to-return-home/articleshow/76518173.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP gears up to implement PM plan for street vendors||LUCKNOW: The state government is set to execute the exercise of granting Rs 10,000 as working capital to around 15 lakh street vendors hit by lockdown as part of the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors’ AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme, scheduled to kick off in July. According to the guidelines issued by the department of urban development for the implementation of the scheme, Rs 10,000 would be given as working capital to street vendors, who will have to return the amount to lending banks within a year. No collateral would be required for the loan. The loan would be provided by scheduled commercial banks, regional rural banks, cooperative banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFC), micro-finance institutions and a few self-help group banks. SIDBI has already partnered with the housing and urban development department at the Centre. An order, issued by principal secretary (urban development) Deepak Kumar, says the scheme will take in its ambit the vendors which have been working before March 24 (when the first phase of lockdown was imposed) and those who were issued due identity cards by respective local bodies. The order directs local bodies to carry out a month-long drive to identify street vendors who have been left out and issue identity cards to them. “Those who were left out in the survey or have been working on the geographical boundaries of local bodies would be required to get a letter of recommendation from their respective town vending committee,” Kumar said. The scheme would also cover those vendors who were provided help by the state government during lockdown period and the ones who produce proof of membership of the National Association of Street Vendors of India/National Hawkers Federation. The department has directed local bodies to ensure that all procedures related to letters of recommendation are completed within 15 days. “If the vendors pay their loans timely or before the due date, they would qualify for further working capital,” the guidelines said. The vendors would get a subsidy of 7% on interest payable which would be deposited in their account every third month. The scheme will also promote the facility of cashback for digital payments. The state government will also constitute a nine-member monitoring committee at the state level which will be headed by the principal secretary (urban development).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gears-up-to-implement-pm-plan-for-street-vendors/articleshow/76519798.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Ashada Navaratri begins at Kanaka Durga temple||Vijayawada: As the auspicious month of Ashada began on Monday, Varahi Navaratri of goddess Kanaka Durga started at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams (Kanaka Durga temple) atop Indrakeeladri shrine. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas launched the festivities by offering ‘Ashada Sare’ (silk robes) to goddess Kanaka Durga along with his family members. Thousands of devotees, mainly women, visit the temple during Ashada masam to offer special prayers seeking prosperity and good health. “Ashadam is the favourite month of goddess Kanaka Durga. People believe that she is their family member and offer ‘Ashada Sare’ to the goddess. Bonalu is famous in Telangana state and ‘Ashada Sare’ is a similar kind of festival,” said Siva Prasada Sharma, Sthana Acharya of the temple. The Shakambari fest will also take place in Ashada month and it is believed that worshipping Shakambari blesses the devotees with abundant food and crops, he added. Vellampalli Srinivas said he is fortunate to offer the first ‘Ashada Sare’ to the goddess this year. “We are taking necessary measures to continue regular rituals and celebrations despite Covid-19. Arrangements made by the officials are excellent. Social distancing and sanitisation are being strictly followed. Devotees should follow these guidelines and offer ‘Ashada Sare’ safely,” Srinivas said. Temple authorities has decided to give online permissions for offering ‘Ashada Sare’. Executive officer MV Suresh Babu said that offering ‘Ashada Sare’ in groups is prohibited for this year as Covid-19 is spreading rapidly. “We have decided to allow devotees to offer ‘Ashada Sare’ respecting the age-old traditions. But social distancing is a must. Devotees who wish to participate in this ritual should book online tickets and come individually along with their offerings. Special counters will be arranged at Maha Mandapam to offer ‘Ashada Sare’,” Suresh Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ashada-navaratri-begins-at-kanaka-durga-temple/articleshow/76516681.cms||Venu Lanka
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Woman murdered by her daughters, partner||AHMEDABAD: A 37-year-old woman was allegedly strangled by her partner and two teenage daughters in Amraiwadi in the early hours of Monday. While the daughters in question are 19 and 17 years old, the victim also had a two-year-old daughter with her partner, Girish Parmar. Police sources said Ranjan Solanki had had a divorce and was in a relationship with Parmar for three and a half years. As Ranjan had many fights with Parmar and her daughters over money, they grew tired of her and wanted to get rid of her. Senior police officials said Ranjan’s eldest daughter is married. “Ranjan had once gone to her husband and taken money from him. The man then left her as Ranjan was not returning the money. Thus Ranjan’s daughter was also living with her for the last four months. According to police sources, about a week ago, Parmar and the two daughters decided to get rid of Ranjan. “They formed a plan according to which Parmar would leave the house on Sunday night and late in the night, when Ranjan was asleep, the older daughter would call Parmar and they would murder her,” said a police official. According to the plan, Girish left the house on Sunday night saying he would return late. “Ranjan went to sleep at about midnight. At about 2am, the elder daughter called Parmar and told him that Ranjan was asleep. Parmar went to the house with a dupatta, and the three of them strangled her,” a police source said. As planned, the elder daughter called the police control room and told the cops that her mother had died. “Cops arrived at the spot and saw the three standing there and Ranjan lying dead on her bed. We thought something was fishy from the behaviour of the daughters. We questioned them and they broke down and confessed to having murdered Ranjan with Parmar’s help. We sent the three of them for Covid-19 tests before we formally arrest them,” said DCP, Zone 5, Ravi Teja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-murdered-by-her-daughters-partner/articleshow/76519129.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||FDA seizes hand sanitiser worth over Rs 22,000||NASHIK: The Food and Drugs Administration recently seized illegally manufactured hand sanitiser worth Rs 22,550 from a row house at Kalanagar in the Amrutdham area of the city . The raid was conducted by drug inspector J D Jadhav under the guidance of joint commissioner (drugs) of FDA, DM Bhamre, The FDA officials found that a woman was preparing hand sanitisers under a certain brand name for sale without acquiring permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-seizes-hand-sanitiser-worth-over-rs-22000/articleshow/76516678.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||With no online option, Nalgonda sarpanch wants schools opened||Hyderabad: A sarpanch in Nalgonda has requested the district collector and officials from the education department to reopen schools immediately as online or offline classes have not been started yet. The sarpanch, in his letter, assured that the students can adhere to physical distancing norms due to the small population. “Children are sitting at home for the last three months and have almost forgotten what they learned. It’s time for the government school in our village to be reopened so that students can resume their education,” Venkata Ram Reddy M, the sarpanch of Anumula village, to TOI. He said that the village is located in the remote part of Nalgonda where there are no cases of Covid-19, adding that online classes are not an option in the village. Managements of private budget schools in rural Telangana said that only 10% to 15% of the schools are offering online classes. “Out of 350 schools in Nalgonda, only about 15 schools are offering online classes. Neither the managements nor the parents are inclined towards virtual classes,” said M Ram Mohan, president, Telangana Recognized Schools Management Association, Nalgonda district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-online-option-nalgonda-sarpanch-wants-schools-opened/articleshow/76519134.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man propositions, threatens woman in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old woman from Naroda has accused the husband of her husband’s sister, of threatening her with dire consequences if she doesn’t have a sexual relationship with him. According to FIR filed at Naroda police station, the woman, an Asha worker, lives with her husband and children in Naroda. The accused also lives in Naroda. The complainant stated that about ten years ago, the accused used to harass her whenever she left her house. “She said he used to follow her and had grabbed her by the hand several times. He used to pester her to enter a sexual relationship with him but she had flatly refused,” said a police official. Two years ago, the accused sent a gift to the complainant’s house. “This came to the knowledge of the woman’s husband who then cut off all contact with the accused. After the elders of the family intervened, they arrived at a compromise over the matter,” added a police source. “On Saturday, when the woman was home alone, the accused came in. He grabbed her hand and again made sexual demands,” the police source said. “This time, according to the FIR, the accused threatened her saying that she would inevitably have to have sex with him, otherwise he would kill her whole family. The woman told her husband about what had happened and they lodged an FIR against the accused,” said a Naroda police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-propositions-threatens-woman/articleshow/76519135.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon hospital dean reports drop in Covid-19 deaths||NASHIK: Enhanced manpower and medical equipment have enabled the Jalgaon medical college and hospital to reduce the number of Covid-related deaths in the hospital. Dean Jayprakash Ramanand told TOI that several instances in the past where 5-6 deaths used to take place in a day at the hospital the death toll now hovers around 1-2 a day on some days. “We have taken several steps to step up the quality of treatment at the hospital. That is helping the patients get better treatment and recover. But our ultimate aim to reduce the death toll to zero, and we are working as a team to achieve that,” added Ramanand. The medical college was in the eye of a storm earlier this month after an elderly Covid-19 patient went missing and five days later, her body was recovered from a toilet in the hospital ward where she was admitted. The state government had then removed Bhaskar Khaire from the post and appointed Ramanand as the dean. He took charge on June 13. Prior to this, Ramanand was the HoD of pharmacology at the Dhule-based government medical college hospital. Apart from getting an additional team of 16 doctors, the hospital has got 18 more nurses from the Mumbai-based Gokuldas Tejpal Hospital. The district health department would be providing 20 more nurses. “The number of Covid beds in the ICU has been increased from 10 to 30 and the number of oxygen beds has gone up from 90 to 150. We are also getting a pipeline to have an oxygen facility in 50 more beds and are getting more ventilators. The hospital is also in the process of getting three technicians to operate the digital X-ray machine,” he said. Sources said the new dean has sent a strong message to all doctors to desist from shirking duties or else they would be marked absent, which would result in loss of pay. Allegedly, over a dozen of them were not performing their duties properly, affecting the treatment of Covid patients. “My biggest challenge is to regain the faith of people. They should not be scared to get admitted at the hospital. I would appeal to people to get tested early if they have Covid-like symptoms so the we can start the treatment on time,” added Ramanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-hosp-dean-reports-drop-in-deaths/articleshow/76516695.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Aaditya urges Javadekar to stop mining near Tadoba||Nagpur: The Maharashtra government has raised a note of dissent over the Centre putting up the flora and fauna-rich proposed coal block at Bander, near the world-famous Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), for auction. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, on Monday, dashed off a letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar opposing the mines. In the letter (copy with TOI), Shiv Sena’s Thackeray has sought urgent intervention of the Centre on the issue. He stated that the proposed coal mine falls in the tiger corridor from Tadoba to Bor and Melghat tiger reserves, and has repeatedly received objections in the past. As reported by TOI in 2009 as well as on June 19 and 20, the Bander coal blocks are 7 to 9 kilometres from the Tadoba. On June 19, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh too had written to Javadekar opposing the mines. He had also apprised Thackeray about it. Thackeray highlighted how former Ramesh had opposed the project during the UPA-II regime. The then chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director of TATR too had raised strong objections on the project, stating “the mining activity in Bander coal blocks was going to disrupt an important tiger corridor between Tadoba and other wildlife areas of Central India”. The state minister pointed out that man-animal conflict in the state, especially in Chandrapur district where Bander is located, is on the rise due to shrinking habitats for spillover tiger population. “Many hurdles for dispersal of tigers were created in the past because of granting various mining leases. While the government intends to focus on renewable energy, such a move is unprecedented,” added Thackeray. The minister has sought protection of the crucial wildlife corridor. “We must do everything we can to protect at least those areas that fall under identified wildlife corridors,” he wrote in the letter. As reported by TOI, over 1,200 hectare of rich forest land will have to be diverted if mining is allowed in the area. According to wildlife experts, Bander falls in the route used by tigers to disperse from Tadoba to Bor in Wardha district and Melghat reserve in Amravati district. “We must do everything we can to protect at least those areas that are currently protected and which fall under the identified corridors,” said Thackeray. The minister added that it is crucial to rethink “if this mine is necessary and what will its adverse impact be on biodiversity”. On June 18, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the Centre is opening up 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. He added that the auction will usher in an era of competition and transparency. The Jharkhand government has moved the Supreme Court claiming that the auction is happening when there is a negative global investment climate. It also claimed that the social and ecological damaged has not been looked into properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aaditya-urges-javadekar-to-stop-mining-near-tadoba/articleshow/76519806.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Use ambulances to conduct tests, carry suspects: AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday directed officials to take up extensive campaign about coronavirus and increase the number of tests. He wanted them to ensure that 50% of the tests are conducted in the containment zones every day. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials on the coronavirus status in the state on Monday at his Tadepalli camp office. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, health principal secretary K S Jawahar Reddy, nodal officer, Krishna Babu, DGM Gautam Sawang and other officials were present. Addressing the review meeting, the chief minister asked the officials to contain the spread of the pandemic by increasing the number of daily tests and shifting the positive cases for treatment. He also wanted them to demarcate the containment areas and ensure that lockdown and containment norms are followed. The chief minister told the officials to make use of the 104 ambulances. He said the 104 ambulances are fully equipped with the Covid-19 test kits, besides other important test kits. The initial tests should be done in the ambulances from where the suspects or the positive cases should be moved to the nearest primary health centre and Covid-19 centre, the chief minister said. He further directed them to ensure that the 104 ambulances visit every village at least once a month. He directed the officials of the health department to monitor the movement and working of the staff in the ambulance. The chief minister also emphasised the need to intensify campaign about coronavirus across the state. He directed the officials to take up door-to-door campaign to raise awareness about the dangers of the disease and the safety measures to be followed. “We are fighting the virus and not the victims and this should be communicated, people must be sensitised on this. Let there be no stigma attached to the disease,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/use-ambulances-to-conduct-tests-carry-suspects-jagan/articleshow/76516699.cms||Gopi Dara
June 23, 2020||Amaravati||Use ambulances to conduct tests, carry suspects: AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday directed officials to take up extensive campaign about coronavirus and increase the number of tests. He wanted them to ensure that 50% of the tests are conducted in the containment zones every day. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials on the coronavirus status in the state on Monday at his Tadepalli camp office. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, health principal secretary K S Jawahar Reddy, nodal officer, Krishna Babu, DGM Gautam Sawang and other officials were present. Addressing the review meeting, the chief minister asked the officials to contain the spread of the pandemic by increasing the number of daily tests and shifting the positive cases for treatment. He also wanted them to demarcate the containment areas and ensure that lockdown and containment norms are followed. The chief minister told the officials to make use of the 104 ambulances. He said the 104 ambulances are fully equipped with the Covid-19 test kits, besides other important test kits. The initial tests should be done in the ambulances from where the suspects or the positive cases should be moved to the nearest primary health centre and Covid-19 centre, the chief minister said. He further directed them to ensure that the 104 ambulances visit every village at least once a month. He directed the officials of the health department to monitor the movement and working of the staff in the ambulance. The chief minister also emphasised the need to intensify campaign about coronavirus across the state. He directed the officials to take up door-to-door campaign to raise awareness about the dangers of the disease and the safety measures to be followed. “We are fighting the virus and not the victims and this should be communicated, people must be sensitised on this. Let there be no stigma attached to the disease,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/use-ambulances-to-conduct-tests-carry-suspects-jagan/articleshow/76524086.cms||Gopi Dara
June 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: In home of sitars and tanpuras, Covid-19 deepens economic strain||MUMBAI: At Sitarmaker gully in Miraj, world-famous for its tanpuras and sitars, business is bleak. The small town in Maharashtra’s sugar belt is known for hereditary craftsmen whose instruments have been used by generations of Hindustani music vocalists and their disciples. It is here that the Kirana gharana founder Abdul Karim Khan lived and is buried. However, the pandemic has hit the master craftsmen hard. There have been barely any new orders since the lockdown began. The lack of transport has also made it difficult to send their instruments both within India and abroad. “This year, I expect business to be 50% down,” says 64-year old Niyaz Ahmed, who goes by the name Balasaheb Mirajkar, and is a sixth generation sitar-maker. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: In home of sitars, tanpuras Covid deepens economic strain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-home-of-sitars-and-tanpuras-covid-deepens-economic-strain/articleshow/76520184.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
June 23, 2020||Nashik||CBD sets up 20-bed quarantine facility||NASHIK: The Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD), has set up a 20-bed quarantine facility at a school run by it as the area is witnessing a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. The contacts of positive patients would be admitted to the new facility with around-the-clock monitoring by a doctor and two nurses . Senior officials said that four rooms of Combine Primary School have been acquired for the purpose and that five beds have been set up in each of the four rooms. There are a total of 28 beds in the cantonment board hospital for Covid patients and those with symptoms. Over the past few days, since the number of patients has increased. On Monday 24 patients were admitted in a separate facility set up in the Cantonment Board hospital The board hospital not only gets patients from the cantonment area but also from the adjoining villages. This hospital is closer for the residents of the adjoining villages as opposed to the Bytco hospital at Nashik Road or the Nashik civil hospital in the city. Meanwhile, the residents of Deolali Camp were yet to decide on the Janata Curfew. Bhagwan Kataria, the vice president of CBD, said that the opinion is still divided on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-sets-up-20-bed-quarantine-facility/articleshow/76516716.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy sailor electrocuted on duty in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: An engineer working onboard Indian Naval ship INS Rajput died after getting electrocuted while on duty in Vizag on Sunday night. Despite immediate medical first aid on the ship and efforts to revive Rahul Jangin (19) at INHS Kalyani, the sailor succumbed on Sunday night. Based on information from the Naval authorities, the Malkapuram police, led by Inspector K Durga Prasad, visited the spot. The police officer said that the sailor was handling water maintenance of the blowers in the ship and might have suffered electrical shock due to a short-circuit. A case has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC (death due to electrical shock). Police have shifted the body to a morgue for post-mortem. The mortal remains of Rahul Jangir will be flown to his hometown in Jhunjhunu of Rajasthan, where he will be laid to rest with military honours. He is survived by his parents and two siblings. An inquiry has been ordered by the Navy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-sailor-electrocuted-on-duty/articleshow/76519143.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Consider providing face shields to cops: HC||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday directed the state government to examine the feasibility of providing face shields to all the frontline policemen in the state. The court was hearing two public interest litigation’s - one filed by R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of an NGO ‘People’s Watch’ and another petition filed by members of the Louie Sanitary Workers Welfare Association. When the case was taken up for hearing on Monday, the counsel appearing for one of the petitioners, Henry Tiphagne submitted that the policemen on roads are not given face shield, which is essential for their very protection. A division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi observed that there is sufficient force and substance in the submission and the court cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that policemen are getting afflicted by Covid-19 in droves. The judges also directed the corporations under the jurisdiction of this court to submit individual reports regarding the number of cleanliness workers working under the respective corporations and details of protective gear distributed to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consider-providing-face-shields-to-cops-hc/articleshow/76519804.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Another Qaida man held for radicalising youth on social media||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) arrested an alleged al-Qaida sleeper cell operative, Salman Wani (26) from Ramban area of Kashmir on Monday. Wani was arrested by the UP ATS on the basis of information extracted during the interrogation of Inamul Haq, who was arrested from Bareilly on June 18. The UP ATS said that Wani had circulated photographs of Zakir Musa, founder of the Indian wing of al-Qaida, Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind on social media and asked several of his followers to become like Musa. Police also seized mobile phones and SIM cards found in his possession. Additional director general (ADG) of UP ATS, DK Thakur said that the ATS scanned Haq’s social media account and found Wani’s profile suspicious. “Wani used to send messages to others on Facebook about planning terror activities and ‘jihad’. His WhatsApp and Telegram accounts also have many objectionable messages,” said the officer. Thakur said that Wani used to post banned literature of al-Qaida on social media. The UP ATS said that anti-India conversation was retrieved from his WhatsApp and Telegram messaging apps. Police said that Wani was produced in a Kashmir court and then brought to Lucknow on transit remand for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-qaida-man-held-for-radicalising-youth-on-social-media/articleshow/76519810.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||Boy, 10, sodomized by two youths in a Bareilly village||Bareilly: A 10-year-old boy was sodomized allegedly by two youths in a village in Aonla area of Bareilly on Sunday. Police have registered a case and arrested both the accused.According to the complaint, the boy was playing with his friends when the two local youths—Vishal, 19 and Vikas, 21 offered him sweets and took him along to a deserted place outside the village where they sodomized him. The accused also shot a video of the assault and threatened the boy to remain quiet about it.When the boy reached home, he told his father about the assault and the family lodged a complaint at Aonla police station on Sunday. The accused were taken into custody and Monday.Station house officer (SHO) of Aonla, Suneel Singh, said, “We have booked the accused under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and under POCSO Act. The victim was sent for medical examination and his statement was recorded in the presence of his father under section 161 of CrPC. The accused have been arrested and we are questioning them. They will be sent to jail soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-10-sodomized-by-two-youths-in-a-bareilly-village/articleshow/76516711.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru violence: Udupi DC seeks more time to file report||Mangaluru: Due to the pandemic, Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, who is heading the magisterial inquiry into the alleged police firing in connection with the December 19 violence in the city, will seek more time from the government to submit a report. “I have asked the government for more time. Two more hearings are to be conducted,” he told TOI. The DC was expected to submit the report before the government on Tuesday. Following the December 19 violence and the death of Nauseen Kudroli,49, and Jaleel Bengre,23, due to alleged police firing, the state government commissioned two probes, one magisterial and the other CID. As per the government order, a report on the inquiry was to be submitted before March 23. However, the DC had requested the government for more time as once the hearings are completed, documents, videos and records will have to be examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-violence-udupi-dc-seeks-more-time-to-file-report/articleshow/76518211.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vijayawada||CM briefs guv on budget session, Covid response||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Monday at the Raj Bhavan. The chief minister was accompanied by government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and others. It was a customary meet between the chief minister and the governor after the budget session where the chief minister thanks the former for his address to the Houses before the session begins. The governor and the chief minister were closeted for half-an-hour, where the chief minister thanked the governor for his live address to the Assembly and Council. The chief minister was understood to have briefed the governor about the developments in the legislative council where the Appropriation Bill was not passed and the House witnessed unruly scenes. Sources in the Raj Bhavan said that the chief minister also briefed the governor about the state government’s response to coronavirus and explained its decision to cancel SSC and intermediate supplementary exams. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-briefs-guv-on-budget-session-covid-response/articleshow/76516722.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Preparations continue as usual at Jagannath temple||AHMEDABAD: The constant chants of devotees and the usual crowds might be missing from Jagannathji Temple premises on Monday – on eve of the Rath Yatra – but for those visiting the temple for decades, it was nothing amiss in terms of preparedness. The elephants were painted, the entire temple premises were decorated with flowers and lights and the chariots were kept ready like every year. The day was even dotted by the high-profile visits including Gujarat CM who performed the evening aarti. In the evening, tractors were brought in to check the chariots, giving rise to the speculation that the chariots could be pulled by a vehicle instead of khalasi youth as is usual. The temple trustee Mahendra Jha said that they were hopeful of getting a permission for carrying out the procession. “But we appeal to the devotees to maintain social distancing and follow all rules – including a possible curfew – to make it a success,” he said. Sources close to the development said that the temple authorities even explored the possibility of a limited procession in the block of about 500-600 metres and returning to the temple, before the state government announced that they would approached the Gujarat high court to allow the procession with restrictions. The flow of devotees was controlled right from Jamalpur Darwaza by city police to ensure that there is no crowding at the temple. The news of nod for procession at Jagannath Puri infused new vigour among the visitors who hoped that the city will also be allowed to carry out procession. “It’s after all a tradition of 142 years and just the procession with chariots with minimal persons could be a feasible option,” said a devotee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/preparations-continue-as-usual-at-jagannath-temple/articleshow/76519172.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Flying squads catch people flouting safety measures||Madurai: The residents of Iravathanallur, who have been flouting facemask and social distancing rules, were fined by the flying squad that conducted a surprise check in the village located in the suburbs on Monday morning.The team consisting of tahsildar Sivakumar, police inspector Gandhimathi and sanitary inspector Sivakaminathan fined a large number of bikers who were leaving for their work place without wearing a mask. As the information spread through the village, everyone started wearing a mask when they came out of their houses. They also closed down a canteen meant for ex-servicemen in Kalainagar on Monday morning. As rumours of Madurai was gearing up for yet another lockdown, hundreds of ex-servicemen started gathering at the canteen to stock liqour. At least half of them were aged more than 60 years. The team spoke to officials concerned and closed it by 10am as they refused to maintain social distancing. More than 10 shops have been closed down for not maintain social distancing by this team alone. The 10 flying squads put in place by district collector Dr T G Vinay have been making visible changes on the ground since Saturday. An official from the flying squad involved in a check at Tallakulam and its surrounding areas said they are levying a fine of Rs200 for not wearing mask and not maintaining social distancing. Other fines are also levied as per motor vehicle act for violations. “People pay scant respect for rules like wearing a mask and social distancing. They gather and chat without following them,” he said.Officials said that each team is collecting fines up to Rs 10,000 on an average daily for various violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/flying-squads-catch-people-flouting-safety-measures/articleshow/76519819.cms||V Devanathan
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||3-month-old given burns on belly to treat swelling||Amravati: In a bizarre case of superstition, a three-month-old boy from Bortha village in Chikhaldara tehsil of Melghat tribal belt in the district was administered burns with a hot sickle to treat swelling on his belly on the advice of a quack. The mother and the baby have been admitted to the district general hospital here even as Chikhaldara police arrested the infant’s father and a woman quack (bhumka). As the baby had swelling on his stomach for a couple of days, parents had taken him to a quack instead of government health centre on June 20. The quack advised them to give burns with a hot sickle on the belly of the boy to mitigate the swelling. The parents acted accordingly. When the news reached the flying squad of the health department at Katkumbh, it reached the village and shifted the mother and the baby to Churni primary health centre from where they were taken to the district general hospital here. Meanwhile, Chikhaldara police arrested the father and the dai who “treated” the baby under Black Magic Act. When guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, who also happens to be state women and child welfare minister, learnt of the incident, she rushed to the hospital and made enquiries with the mother and also with the medical staff. “It is sad to see such an incident happening in tribal-dominated Melghat region even after having all medical facilities in place,” said Thakur. Thakur called for running an intensive public awareness campaign in Melghat with the coordination of health, rural development, forest, police and revenue departments. “Administration should take a serious note and ensure that there is no recurrence of such superstitious incidents,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-month-old-given-burns-on-belly-to-treat-swelling/articleshow/76519822.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Complete lockdown in Madurai city and adjoining areas from midnight till June 30||MADURAI: A lockdown, from June 24 to July 1, will be enforced in Madurai city and adjoining rural areas in Paravai town panchayat and villages in Madurai East, Madurai West and Thiruparankundram blocks to contain the spread of Covid-19. There will be a complete lockdown without any relaxations from midnight on June 28 to 6am on June 29. As the number of cases touched 849 in Madurai, with 157 more on Monday, officials said that curbing the spread in the district was key to control the situation in other southern districts. The district administration plans contact tracing and focussed testing during the lockdown. Health officials will organise fever clinics for early detection of cases. House-to-house survey will be carried out in the lockdown areas to identify potential Covid-19 cases at an early stage. From June 17 to June 22, southern Tami Nadu recorded a spike in Covid-19 cases. The 1,265 fresh cases in the region in six days account for more than a third of the 3,747 cases reported in the 10 districts so far. There has been a 50% increase in the number of cases in six days compared to the total in the region from March to June 16. Total cases that were 189 on June 17 and 183 on June 18, crossed the 200-mark for the first time with 226 cases on June 19 and remained above 200 for two more days – 292 on June 20 and 212 on June 21 – before touching 353 on Monday, the highest in a day. As many as 2,132 cases or 57% of these cases are from three districts with Madurai leading with 849 cases, followed by Tirunelveli (644) and Tuticorin (639). Madurai had 299 cases in just three days. Only 77 (6%) cases reported from June 17 to 21 are from imported other states or countries. The rest are local cases that include those who travelled from Chennai, their contacts and local spread. Attributing increase in sample testing as reason for the spike, officials are asking public to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Sivaganga, with 103 cases till Monday, has the least number of cases in the south. After cross-notifying dozens of cases to other regions, it crossed 100 cases for the first time. From a total of 15 deaths shown in the health department bulletin till June 16, it climbed to 27, an 80% increase. Tenkasi is the only district without a Covid-19 related death in the entire region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/complete-lockdown-in-madurai-city-and-adjoining-areas-from-midnight-till-june-30/articleshow/76519820.cms||M K Ananth
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Taps to run dry in Panchavati tomorrow||NASHIK: Parts of Panchavati division will not get tap water on Wednesday as the civic water supply department will be undertaking repairs to the pipeline that has developed leakages near Meri. The water supply will resume on Thursday, but at a low pressure, said the NMC on Monday. It will be normal from Friday. Water supply will, however, be normal in Nashik East, Nashik West, Satpur, Cidco and Nashik Road divisions. Three elevated water tanks in Durga Nagar, Makhmalabad and Ramkirshna Nagar in Panchavati division are connected with this distribution pipeline. The areas that will not be supplied water on Wednesday are Shridhar Colony, Onkar Nagar, Shivtej Nagar and MSRTC workshop in ward no. 1, Meherdham, Yashodanagar, Kalyani Society, Ramkrishna Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Irrigation Colony, Tambe Mala, Dhadge Nagar, Gokul Nagar, Swami Vivekanand Nagar and some parts of ward no. 6 in Panchavati division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/taps-to-run-dry-in-panchavati-tomorrow/articleshow/76516736.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Usilampatti police sub-division records zero road accident deaths in 3 months||Madurai: The Usilampatti police sub-division, comprising nine police stations, did not record even a single road accident death in the three months since March. Although, all sub-divisions have reported lesser number of road accidents and deaths due to lockdown enforced to curb Covid-19 spread, zero deaths for over 100 days is being seen as an achievement in the police circles.Data obtained from the Madurai district police shows that Usilampatti sub-division has reported 52 accidents between March 1 and June 10, but none of them were fatal. An official from the Usilampatti sub-division said that most of the fatal accidents involved heavy vehicles including buses and share autorickshaws and are reported in Theni Main Road due to over-speeding and vehicle congestion. With the lockdown in place, these issues were addressed by the police presence on road. Moreover, strict enforcement of helmet has also helped in bringing down road accidents, he said.Peraiyur sub-division reported a highest of 13 deaths in the corresponding period, which was followed by 10 deaths in Thirumangalam, seven in Melur, three in Oomachikulam and two in Samayanallur. When it comes to number of total accidents (including fatal and non-fatal) Samayanallur tops the list with 56 accidents. It was followed by 55 in Thirumangalam, 52 in Usilampatti, 34 in Melur, 27 in Oomachikulam and 16 in Peraiyur.A police officer from Madurai rural police department said that there was a steep decline in number of road-accident deaths reported in the month of April. As per last years data, 23 people died in road accidents on an average every month. But, total 27 people were killed in three months this year. While, 15 deaths were recorded in March, just two deaths were recorded in April and 10 in May. Eight people were killed till June 10, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/usilampatti-police-sub-division-records-zero-road-accident-deaths-in-3-months/articleshow/76519817.cms||V Devanathan
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 under house arrest for vowing to ensure yatra||Ahmedabad: Ranip police on Monday placed four members of Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad (AHP) under house arrest after they announced they would ensure that the Rath Yatra is held, despite a petition in this regard pending before the high court. Inspector J B Khambhla of Ranip police said that an AHP leader, Nikunj Parekh, had declared on social media that he would meet Mahant Dilipdasji Maharaj, the priest of Jagannath temple. Parekh and another AHP member were placed under house arrest in Chandlodia in the early hours of Monday. Later, two others were detained at their houses in the same area. However, the cops did not charge the four over their provocative videos posted on Facebook. Khambhla said that police did not file any FIR against the outfit’s leaders. He said they will remain under house arrest till Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-under-house-arrest-for-vowing-to-ensure-yatra/articleshow/76519221.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Meerut||‘Mentally-challenged’ man attacks minor, mob thrashes him to death||Meerut: A man, identified as Israr, who is said to be 'mentally-challenged' was attacked and killed by a mob in Saharanpur’s Deoband area on Thursday evening. The accused - in his 30s - attacked a man with a sickle and snatched his motorcycle. He later attacked a minor boy with it, police said.Israr was later thrashed by the mob which tried to overpower him as he went "berserk"."He (Israr) sustained fatal injuries when people tried to overpower him after he attacked a minor boy and injured him critically," Ashok Kumar Meena, Saharanpur SP (rural areas) said.Israr is said to be a resident of Imlia village in Deoband. He initially attacked a man from his village. Later, using the same sharp-edged weapon, he attacked a four-year-old boy from the neighbouring village. "The minor boy is currently under observation in a critical condition," the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mentally-challenged-man-attacks-minor-mob-thrashes-him-to-death/articleshow/76516733.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC issues fresh appeal as Covid-19 cases rise sharply||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued a fresh appeal to people to strictly follow the social-distancing rule and wear face masks, failing to do which will result in uncontrollable rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the city. The civic body on Monday said the growth rate of Covid-19 patients, which was around 30-35 patients per day by the first week of June, has shot up to 100 patients per day in the last four days. The NMC projected the rise in growth rate of positive patients up to 150 per day by the end of this month and around 200 per day early in July, if the matter is not taken seriously. Taking serious cognizance of this, mayor Satish Kulkarni has called a special general body meeting on Thursday to discuss measures to curb Covid-19 cases. The mayor expressed disappointment over people not abiding by the social distancing and other rules while ruling out the possibility to impose a lockdown in the city. “People are rushing to the markets for purchases and not maintaining physical distance in public places. Around 20% of people is still not wearing face-masks in public places. This is a matter of serious concern. It is in the hands of citizens to contain Covid-19,” Kulkarni told TOI. A civic official said, “We have introduced a fine of Rs 200 each for citizens caught without face-mask, but a section of them is still avoiding it. We have decided to strictly implement the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-issues-fresh-appeal-as-covid-19-cases-rise-sharply/articleshow/76516729.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Men in khaki under Covid-19 threat in UP||LUCKNOW: Coronavirus is spreading rampantly among those deployed in frontline duties. As a result, UP Police has started large-scale testing of its personnel and UP DGP has directed to begin basic training of cops to safeguard themselves against the virus. So far, the maximum number of personnel who have tested positive, 100, are from Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), while 48 personnel of Government Railway Police (GRP) and eight from homeguard have tested positive. Another 198 cops have tested positive for the virus across the state. The tally of infected cops stands at 354. While as many as 206 personnel have been cured, three cops have been killed due to coronavirus. So far, samples of 3,697 personnel have been taken for testing and 448 other cops have been quarantined across the state. DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said there was no need to panic as more than half of the personnel who were infected by the virus had recovered. “We have taken precaution while being on frontline duties and hence have fewer infections than compared to other states of the country,” he said. To minimise risk, Awasthy has directed cops to begin basic training to identify the virus and also practice wearing PPE kits and using other safety equipment. He has instructed formation of a ‘Covid care centre’ at PAC, GRP, CB-CID offices, police lines and police stations. Any personnel suffering from cough or cold must report to the centre or a hospital. “A cop trained in wearing of PPE kit must be available round the clock in shifts. Police chiefs of districts which have not completed such training must ensure it is done at the earliest. Cops stationed here must also know basic information about the spread of coronavirus and steps taken to contain it. Cops must learn use of infrared thermometers and oxymeters,” said the officer. The DGP added that all cops returning from leave must be tested at the Covid care centre before resuming duty. On the other hand, ADG PAC, Binod Singh said that a special diet for men in sensitive was being prepared to help boost their immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/men-in-khaki-under-covid-19-threat-in-up/articleshow/76519826.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||PS receptionist tests positive, curbs on complainants at stn||Hyderabad: In the wake of several policemen contracting the coronavirus, Humayun Nagar police have introduced restrictions on the entry of complainants at the police station. A rope has been tied demarcating the point to which people are allowed entry and steps have been taken to ensure strict physical distance between police and complaints. The reception has been moved outside the station building. The move was taken after a staffer working at the reception contracted the virus while dealing with people who come to the police station to register complaints. Now, for any complaint to be registered, only one person is permitted entry. Complainants and visitors are allowed entry to the re-located reception centre only after sanitising their hands using the sanitiser provided by the police. “To avoid physical contact while taking complaints or other documents, visitors have been asked to leave petition documents at a distance, which is collected after sanitisation. Complainants can come back after an hour and the SI concerned will address the petitioner from a distance,” assistant commissioner of police (Asif Nagar) Shiva Maruthi told TOI. So far, three IPS officers and several lower rung policemen from the Telangana police force have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ps-receptionist-tests-positive-curbs-on-complainants-at-stn/articleshow/76519148.cms||Srinath Vudali
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Wedding lensmen take up odd jobs to support families||MADURAI: The lockdown in place to contain Covid-19 has forced many wedding photographers across Madurai, who lost their livelihoods, to take up various odd jobs to feed their families during this crisis. A Sathish Prabhu, 42, a city-based wedding photographer, who lost all his orders worth close to Rs 3 lakh due to lockdown is now running his chicken shop full time, which used to be his side business. He said that he had invested close to Rs 20 lakh towards equipment for wedding photography and videography and has to pay Rs 25,000 towards EMI. “My chicken shop is not doing well either. Earlier, I earned Rs 25,000 every month from it by operating only for three days in a week. I operate it throughout the week now, but hardly earn Rs 15,000,” Prabhu said. R Raja, another wedding photographer from Vilachery, has returned to his less profitable but physically demanding welding store, which he once ran. “I have to earn something to feed my family. Apart from welding, I also paint vehicles like autorickshaw. The work is tiresome but I do not have any other option,” he said. M R Balakumar, another wedding photographer from Avaniyapuram said he has now taken up his father’s trade of bag making (bags issued in textile stores). The demand for bag has also come down due to low sales in stores. “I was earning Rs 25,000 on an average in a month through photography. But now, I am finding it difficult to earn even Rs 8,000 ,” he said. It’s not just photographers who have taken to less profitable jobs but many have taken up odd jobs to keep themselves afloat during the troubled Covid times. A businessman, who plied four school vans to ferry students, is now working in an eatery. Umar Ali, a resident of Yagappa Nagar, said that he employed four drivers to run his vehicles. But due to lockdown, there is no income. He spent all his savings to pay salaries to his drivers. “I am taking up all sorts of jobs coming on my way like loading and unloading vegetables at markets and serving food at an eatery. I would need more than Rs 1 lakh to get my vehicles ready to get fitness certificate and to pay insurance, without which I cannot move the vehicle after lockdown is eased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wedding-lensmen-take-up-odd-jobs-to-support-families/articleshow/76519830.cms||V Devanathan
June 23, 2020||Amaravati||All families to be screened for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP government has decided to conduct comprehensive Covid-19 screening and testing to cover every household in the next 90 days. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, at Monday’s review meeting on Covid-19 situation, directed officials ensure screening of every family in the state in the next 90 days and take samples wherever necessary. “The 104 ambulances should be used for the purpose. For urban areas, a separate strategy should be adopted,” he said. He also asked officials to create awareness among public to remove the stigma attached with the virus. “Hoardings should be erected to this effect. One 104 vehicle should be made available in each mandal. The team should carry with it ANMs, Asha workers and village volunteers,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/all-families-to-be-screened-in-ap/articleshow/76519154.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||All families to be screened for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP government has decided to conduct comprehensive Covid-19 screening and testing to cover every household in the next 90 days. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, at Monday’s review meeting on Covid-19 situation, directed officials ensure screening of every family in the state in the next 90 days and take samples wherever necessary. “The 104 ambulances should be used for the purpose. For urban areas, a separate strategy should be adopted,” he said. He also asked officials to create awareness among public to remove the stigma attached with the virus. “Hoardings should be erected to this effect. One 104 vehicle should be made available in each mandal. The team should carry with it ANMs, Asha workers and village volunteers,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-families-to-be-screened-in-ap/articleshow/76521997.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Private hospitals to face action for not admitting Covid-19 patients||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Monday directed the health department officials to file police complaints against private hospitals for not admitting Covid-19 patients under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY). There are 21 hospitals with 609 beds in the city that have registered under the scheme. As per the government’s rule, all Covid-19 patients, even if they are not registered with the scheme, are to be provided treatment in private hospitals that are a part of the scheme. “If these hospitals refuse to admit the patients, they will face legal action. The municipal commissioner has directed us to file police complaints against the hospitals that refuse to admit patients under the MPJAY,” said an NMC health official. “So far, we have not received complaints against private hospitals related to the MPJAY scheme. But we are keeping a check on whether Covid-19 patients are being treated in the hospitals as part of the scheme,” said NMC officials. Apart from these, there are nine other hospitals with 335 beds, reserved for Covid-19 patients in the city. These hospitals are not registered with the MPJAY, but they will charge patients as per the rates fixed by the state government. Game has already set up a separate panel, led by additional municipal commissioner B Sonkamble, to settle the issues related to overcharging in private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-hosps-to-face-action-for-not-admitting-covid-patients/articleshow/76516749.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||E-W work: Cracks appear in building||Kolkata: Twenty-four residents from two buildings at Bowbazar were evacuated as one of the structures developed minor cracks due to the East-West Metro tunnelling on Monday. Work on the Bowbazar-Sealdah stretch had resumed on Friday after three months. Engineers of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), which is implementing the project to link Howrah Maidan with Sector V in Salt Lake, examined the buildings, advising that they shift elsewhere for precaution. The evacuees —18 from 94, BB Ganguly Street and the rest six from 7, Durga Pithuri Lane — have been put up in two central Kolkata hotels. This is the second time the residents had been evacuated. They had to be shifted earlier after the tunnel boring machine (TBM), digging the west-bound tunnel and nicknamed Chundee, had hit an aquifer that led to subsidence and building collapses on August 31 last year. The work that had been stalled for 170 days had resumed on February 18 on Calcutta High Court’s orders. Chundee’s twin, Urvi, digging the east-bound tunnel, had reached the same spot where Chundee was lying defunct 14m below the ground. It has covered around 50m since Friday and is now about to reach the main road, BB Ganguly Street. “KMRC is extra vigilant this time. The engineers inspected our house and spotted some minor cracks. They told us to shift out of the house for safety,” said Priyanka Dutta of 7, Durga Pithuri Lane. Dip Malakar of 94, BB Ganguly Street sounded anxious, saying, “KMRC said we could return home in two days after the TBM dug through our building, which is sturdy enough. But memories of the August 31night came to haunt us. We had stayed out of our home for nearly two months from September 1. We had spent Durga Puja and Diwali in the hotel.” Urvi is due to move out of the epicentre of the cave-in — Durga Pituri Lane off Bowbazar — where Chundee had hit the sand aquifer on August 31, last year. Urvi will dig around 700m to turn right towards Sealdah station, from where it will take U-turn to build the rest of the west-bound tunnel. The two TBMs, commissioned for the last leg of the 2.45-km of underground tunnelling between Esplanade and Sealdah, will be pulled out of this spot when Urvi completes building the east-bound tunnel and around 800m of the west-bound tunnel in the next few months. Urvi had reached the junction of Durga Pituri Lane and Shykrapara Lane when the lockdown was enforced. The spot is now an open area as 27 houses, which had collapsed or had been partially damaged, had to be razed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-work-cracks-appear-in-building/articleshow/76519152.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||State sugar administration begins issuing share certificates to farmers; first ever move in state||Pilibhit: Principal secretary of UP cane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, is promoting a system of issuing share certificates to all sugarcane growers who are registered with the cooperative sugarcane societies for their supply of cane to sugar mills, as well as those who have contributed share capital to sugar mills, in the form of deductions from the procurement price of their sugarcane. This is being done to make the functioning of cooperative cane and sugar mill socities in the state completely transparent and accountable.As per Bhoosreddy, this is a first-ever move by the state cane administration, one that will facilitate farmers with valid documents to authenticate the contribution of their share capital. He added that certain idiosyncratic modules have been developed to “feed” shares-related particulars in departmental ERP (enterprise resource planning) for the purpose of precise updating of share certificate records.Giving updated details to TOI, he said state cane societies have already completed 77% of the work of feeding data by working on war footing. Share certificates will be issued to all cane growers who have deposited their respective share money at least a year ago, he said.“Share money” is the amount that every cane grower pays to his respective cane society compulsorily to become its registered member as per assigned bylaws, and includes Rs 200 as one-time share capital and Rs 21 as membership fee.With respect to sugar mill societies, share capital of farmers is the money deducted by mills from the sugarcane price paid to farmers in order to raise additional capital.Regarding progress in the matter, Bhoosreddy said the department has completed feeding data on 40.71 lakh shareholders, out of the total 56.73 lakh eligible registered members in 169 cane societies in the state who have deposited Rs 113.20 crore in total as share value. The share value of those whose data is already entered into the system is on a par with Rs 81.07 crore. Issuance of share certificates to these farmers would be initiated soon, he said.He also said that 80% of the total shareholder farmers of 24 cooperative sugar mills through their respective cane societies in the state have already been issued share certificates. These societies had a total of 11.28 lakh shareholders who had contributed Rs 160.53 crore to cooperative sugar mills. Of these, 9.05 lakh cane growers had been issued share certificates to the tune of share capital worth Rs 118.26 crore, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/state-sugar-administration-begins-issuing-share-certificates-to-farmers-first-ever-move-in-state/articleshow/76513401.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to begin Covid-19 testing in 5 district labs||HYDERABAD: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s claim that more Covid tests would be done, the government is gearing up to conduct tests in five districts. The government has sent a letter to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), seeking permission to do the the tests in the new labs. The new labs will function in the district hospital centres of Nizamabad, Gadwal, Suyapet, Medak and Karimnagar. The five new government facilities have been asked to convert their cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) facilities to do Covid-19 tests. With CBNAAT facility, TB tests are done. The authorities have made arrangements to do RT-PCR tests in their labs for which permission is awaited. “We are expecting to get permission in next one week,” an official said. Official said having the testing facilities in districts will help get the results within 24 hours. With no testing facilities in the districts, the samples are being sent to Hyderabad in ambulances, which is taking to time get the results. At present, Telangana state has 28 lab testing facilities for Covid-19. Out of these, 18 are in the private sector and the rest are government facilities. Among these 28 labs, only two — Warangal and Adilabad — are functioning in districts, while all the others are operating in Greater Hyderabad limits. Presently, the state government is conducting 2,000 tests a day in government facilities, while other states have achieved the capacity of 10,000 tests per day. “Increasing the testing capacity will help people to not go to private labs. It will also help the government contain the spread of the virus,” said an official. The samples of erstwhile Warangal district are being tested in MGM Hospital in Warangal and samples from erstwhile Adilabad district are being tested in RIMS, Adilabad. Meanwhile, health minister Eatala Rajender alleged that the central government did not allow the state get the big testing machine from Chennai which can do more than 5,000 tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-begin-covid-19-testing-in-5-district-labs/articleshow/76519151.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 23, 2020||India||Rush defence supplies, India to tell Russia amid crisis||NEW DELHI: India is set to ask Russia to fast-track contracted weapon systems as well as urgently rush critical spares for its fighter planes, main battle tanks and submarines amid the ongoing troop confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who left for Moscow on a three-day trip on Monday morning, will also press Russia for air transportation of the spares and related equipment — for Sukhoi-30MKI and MiG-29 fighters, T-90S main battle tanks and Kilo-class submarines — instead of the time-consuming route through shipping, sources said. “The visit will give me an opportunity to hold talks on ways to further deepen the India-Russia defence and strategic partnership. I shall also be attending the 75th Victory Day Parade in Moscow (on June 24),” Singh said. He will also use the opportunity to brief his Russian counterpart General Sergei Shoigu on the bloody border skirmishes with China during their bilateral meeting on Tuesday. Over 60% of the weapons systems used by the 1.5 million strong Indian armed forces are still of Russian origin, though India has increasingly turned to the US, France and Israel for arms imports over the last 15 years. China, meanwhile, has cosied up to Russia, emerging as its second-largest client (after India) for military hardware and software needs of its 2.2 million People’s Liberation Army. Over 70% of China’s arms imports now come from Russia. On Tuesday, apart from seeking to resolve all pending issues, India will also ask Russia to expedite delivery of the five squadrons of S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) deal inked in October 2018. The S-400 deliveries were originally scheduled to begin from October 2020 and end by April 2023. But the delay in payments due to India working out a mechanism to get around the threat of financial sanctions by the US, under its CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanction Act) law, and some other issues has pushed back the start of deliveries to end-2021. China, incidentally, has inducted six S-400 batteries under a $3 billion deal inked with Russia in 2014, with the deliveries beginning in January 2018. The S-400 version India will get can detect, track and destroy hostile strategic bombers, jets, spy planes, missiles and drones at a range of 380 km. India is also finalising plans to procure 21 more MiG-29 jets, which will cost around Rs 230 crore each, as well as 12 additional Sukhois to replace the ones that have crashed. The IAF has so far inducted over 250 Sukhois of the 272 originally contracted in batches from Russia for well over $12 billion, with the bulk of them being licence produced by defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics. But with their relatively poor serviceability, India has for long been asking Russia for proper maintenance support and supply of spares for its crucial weapon systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rush-defence-supplies-india-to-tell-russia-amid-crisis/articleshow/76520949.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||Corona panic: Bally woman’s body lies on road for 11 hours||Howrah: Fearing the spread of Covid, locals on Monday refused to allow the husband of a 58-year-old deceased to take her body into their flat in a six-storey building on Bireswar Chatterjee Street in Howrah’s Bally. The locals claimed that as the woman’s elder son was a Covid patient admitted to a private hospital in Salt Lake, there was every possibility of his mother having been infected with the disease as well. The woman, Rajkumari Jain died on way to a hospital around 4am on Monday. But her body lay out in the open in front of the building for 11 hours. “An asthma patient, she had been unwell for some days and complained of breathlessness in the early hours of Monday. Along with our daughter-in-law, I took her to hospital after calling a doctor. We called an ambulance and took her to Uttarpara State General Hospital where doctors said she had passed away. As we took her back in the same ambulance, locals, including the residents of our building, had gathered outside. They did not allow us to take her body into the flat. We were forced to keep her body in the open. Around 4.30am it was raining and my wife’s body was wet and swollen,” said the woman’s husband, Binod. Former local councillor Prabir Ray Chowdhury said, “I found locals agitating. I reasoned with them that this was inhuman on their part. I requested them to help the family remove the body. I called state minister Arup Ray and an ambulance arrived from Howrah Municipal Corporation. The body was taken to Howrah hospital for post-mortem.” Howrah CMOH Bhabani Das said, “Covid test is not possible so many hours after her death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-panic-bally-womans-body-lies-on-road-for-11-hours/articleshow/76519174.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five under graft lens over hand sanitiser licence||HYDERABAD: A deputy director (incharge joint director and licensing authority) and four inspectors of Drugs Control Administration (DCA) have been shunted out following corruption charges. These officers were reportedly collecting Rs 4 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for issuing a licence to manufacture hand sanitisers though the licence fee prescribed by the government is just Rs 7,500. Director general, DCA, Preeti Meena issued memos to the accused officers and removed them as a licensing authority. Senior scientific officer of quality control Y Naveen Kumar has been made the new joint director and licensing authority. “We have received complaints from the Bulk Drugs Manufacturing Association (BDMA) against some of the officers. We have acted upon the corruption charges and removed a deputy director (joint director FAC) and four drugs inspectors from their posts,” Preeti told TOI. Sources said with Covid-19 cases rising rapidly in the last couple of months, the demand for use of sanitisers has quadrupled. This has led to many private players queueing up before the DCA to get manufacturing licence. Till March, only 40 units in Telangana had the licence to manufacture sanitisers. Following complaints of shortage of sanitisers, the state government directed the DCA to grant licences to manufacturers liberally, within two hours of applying. According to senior DCA officials, about 70 to 80 new licences had been granted in the last two months alone. These units produce about one lakh litres a day. “With many manufacturers approaching the DCA for the licences, one officer started demanding huge bribes. While the licence fee is Rs 7,500, some officers allegedly collected Rs 4 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for issuing a licence. There are corruption charges even in issuing licences to other manufacturing units and blood banks,” official sources said. Representatives of BDMA and some entrepreneurs brought the matter to the notice of industries minister KT Rama Rao and lodged a complaint against the officer, who was also the incharge licensing authority. Sources said following specific directions from the minister and special chief secretary of health, action was initiated against the corrupt officers. “There will be zero tolerance on corruption,” Preeti said. Apart from corruption, there were also allegations that the DCA was turning a blind eye towards inferior quality sanitisers in the market. The DCA will crack the whip on manufacturers producing inferior quality sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dca-shunts-out-5-officers-on-charges-of-corruption/articleshow/76519165.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||NSA slapped on two jailed for Kamlesh Tewari murder||Lucknow: Authorities in Lucknow have slapped the National Security Act (NSA) against the two men accused of conspiring the murder of Kamlesh Tiwari.The accused Yusuf and Asim Ali, are in jail.Tiwari, 45, was the founder of Hindu Samaj Party and an appellant on behalf of Hindu Mahasabha in the Ayodhya title suit. He was shot and stabbed to death at his party office-cum-residence in Khursheedbagh on October 18. Later, an SIT headed by then IG range Lucknow was formed to probe the case. The SIT found a sweet box bearing the address of a shop in Surat. Working in co-ordination with Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), the SIT had picked up the alleged killers from Karnataka, Maharashtra and various districts of Uttar Pradesh. The police has so far arrested 13 persons in connection with the murder. However, one of the conspirators, Tauquir, is still on the run and is said to be hiding in Nepal.Additional deputy commissioner, west, SN Singh, said that NSA was invoked against co-conspirators Asim and Yusuf, who are currently in Lucknow district jail. All 13 conspirators were named in the chargesheet, under sections of murder, criminal conspiracy, harbouring offenders, causing disappearance of evidence, cheating and dishonesty, besides various charges under Arms Act and Information and Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nsa-slapped-on-two-jailed-for-kamlesh-tewari-murder/articleshow/76519832.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: More rigorous testing in revised action plan||NEW DELHI: With the capital witnessing a worrying rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths now, Delhi government has put in a place a revised Covid response plan. It seeks to ensure rigorous contact tracing and tests of all symptomatic and asymptomatic high-risk contacts and formation of containment zones around home and workplace of the patients within 24 hours. According to the revised plan shared by Delhi government, despite the rising count, those reported from containment zones represent only 19% of the cases, which implies that Delhi’s containment strategy has been successful. An epidemiological analysis of the new cases shows 45% of the positive cases have features of clustering. Surveillance and contact tracing will be further strengthened as part of the plan. All symptomatic and high-risk contacts will be tested between fifth and 10th day of contact. The government is planning to put the movement information of a Covid-19 patient in the public domain in the form of flow charts while keeping the person’s identity anonymous. However, it will be ensured that Aarogya Setu app is downloaded by all, especially in the containment zones. The app will be coupled with ITIHAS system for cluster projection and those with Orange status on the app will be told to undertake the rapid antigen test to ensure early diagnosis. A serological survey planned with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) will start on Saturday and will be completed by July 10. Total 20,000 tests are planned to be done across all 11 districts of Delhi and across all sections and ages. The survey has been planned with NCDC and state- and district-level teams have been identified to coordinate the testing across the state as per the timelines identified by a high-level committee under the chairmanship of Niti Aayog member V K Paul. An active case search in containment zones and vigorous contact tracing of positive patients will be undertaken to analyse the reasons for clustering. Also, the containment zones will be redefined in line with the guidelines of NCDC. Awareness programmes will be carried out throughout the city using mass media and interpersonal communication. District teams will work at the local level on increasing awareness. District teams, as part of the response plan, will be in place from Tuesday and containment zones will be reviewed and redesigned from Friday. From June 30, house-to-house screening and response in containment zones will be carried out, which will be expanded to the rest of Delhi from July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-rigorous-testing-in-revised-action-plan/articleshow/76519190.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 23, 2020||Nashik||Agriculture department inspects fertilizer shops to check hoarding||NASHIK: A day after state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse raided a shop involved in hoarding of fertilizers in Aurangabad, the agriculture department has started inspection of the fertilizer shops across Nashik to ensure that such activities are not being carried out in the district. An agriculture department official said they are yet to get any complaints against the traders, but they are inspecting shops to ensure nobody indulges into hoarding of fertilizers. “We have started inspection of all the fertilizer shops in Nashik district to ensure that they are not involved in hoardings of fertilizers. We will take action against the erring fertilizers shops if they are found involved in such illegal activities,” the official said. “We have also formed teams of quality control officials to keep an eye on sale of fake seeds and fertilizers in the district. The quality of seeds and fertilizers are being checked by our teams,” he added. Bhuse had raided the shop in Aurangabad after complaints from the farmers against the trader about hoarding fertilizers. Meanwhile, the agriculture department has projected kharif sowing on 6.33 lakh hectare in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/agri-dept-inspects-fertilizer-shops-to-check-hoarding/articleshow/76516760.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||YSRC MLA among 443 fresh Covid-19 cases in AP||Visakhapatnam: A ruling party legislator from Vizianagaram tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday as Andhra Pradesh reported 443 Covid-19 cases and five more deaths. While the cumulative caseload rose to 9,372, authorities said the fresh deaths were reported from Krishna, Kurnool, Anantapur, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts, raising the death toll to 111. The MLA had recently returned from the USA after visiting his daughter and also attended the state assembly session and participated in the Rajya Sabha voting. He is now under home quarantine. The personal security guards and driver of the legislator have also tested positive for the virus. As many as 128 people were discharged from various treating facilities on Monday. There are currently 4,826 active cases in AP with 4,435 cumulative recoveries and 111 deaths. The recovery rate has further declined to 47 percent with the sudden spurt in the cases in the last three weeks during the unlock 1.0. The state registered 5,696 cases in June alone, translating into a 61% caseload of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrc-mla-among-443-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ap/articleshow/76519179.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu sees nearly 50% spike within six days||Madurai: Southern Tamil Nadu has recorded a massive jump in the number of Covid-19 positive cases from June 17 to 22. Total 1,265 fresh cases were recorded in southern districts in just six days, according to the health department bulletin, making the total go up to 3,747. In other terms, it is more than a 50% increase in just six days, compared to the total in the region from March to June 16.The total cases that were 189 on June 17 and 183 on June 18, crossed the 200-mark for the first time with 226 cases on June 19, 292 on June 20 and 212 on June 21 before touching 353 on Monday (June 22), the highest in a day. As many as 2,132 cases or 57% of these cases are from three districts with Madurai leading with 849 cases, followed by Tirunelveli- 644 and Tuticorin- 639.Madurai had recorded 299 cases in just three days including 153 on Monday. Only 77 (6%) cases reported in 10 districts between June 17 to 21 are imported from other states or countries. The rest are local cases that include those who travelled from Chennai, their contacts and local spread. Attributing increase in sample testing as the reason for the spike, officials are asking the public to wear masks and maintain social distancing and have also stepped up vigil at borders.Sivaganga with 103 cases till Monday has the least number of cases in the south. From a total of 15 deaths shown in the health department bulletin till June 16, it climbed to 27 by June 22, which is an 80% increase. Tenkasi is the only district without a Covid-19 related death in the entire region, while Madurai tops the list with eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tamil-nadu-sees-nearly-50-spike-within-six-days/articleshow/76519831.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Murdered woman not identified yet||HYDERABAD: Three days after the body of a woman, wrapped in a plastic bag was found in a nala at Sanathnagar, police declared it as a case of murder as forensic experts located a head injury. Cyberabad police said that the victim is yet to be identified. Investigators are still waiting for the final post mortem examination report to find whether the woman was raped and murdered. On Saturday, a worker at a construction site alerted the police after he noticed foul smell emanating from a plastic bag in the nala. When the police opened the bag they found the body in a highly decomposed state. Officials estimate that the woman was murdered three days before the body was found. “The upper part of the body was completely decomposed and beyond recognition. We are yet to make any breakthrough in this case,’’ said PV Padmaja, deputy commissioner of police. As there are no missing complaints registered, police are verifying if there are any instances of missing women in Sanathnagar and the nearby areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/murdered-woman-not-identified-yet/articleshow/76519175.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: APPSC Group-I mains from November 2||AMARAVATI: After dilly-dallying for months, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has finally released the schedule for Group-I mains exam. It will now be held in November, a little after UPSC civil service prelims. The exams were originally scheduled to have been held in March but postponed twice due to Covid-19. APPSC secretary and senior IPS officer PSR Anjaneyulu in a notification released on Monday said the Group-I mains would commence on November 2 with qualifying exam in Telugu. Similar exam in English will be held on November 3.  Then all the subject papers from I-V will be held on every alternate day from November 5. The exam will conclude on November 13. “Since UPSC prelims are scheduled in October and mains in January, we thought it is ideal to hold the Group-I mains in November,” said PSR Anjaneyulu. Several other examinations including for degree college lecturers, gazetted rank officer posts in mining, welfare departments, civil assistant surgeons, assistant director town and country planning, town planning assistants, non-gazetted posts in different departments would be held in September and October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/appsc-gr-i-mains-from-november-2/articleshow/76524117.cms||Samdani MN
June 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Soy farmers worry as seeds fail to germinate||AURANGABAD: Farmers from across the region are worried as a large amount of soybean sown this year has failed to germinate, forcing the already stressed farming community to opt for re-sowing. With each passing day, more farmers are coming forward with complaints of low-grade seeds. Activists said the situation is same in Vidarbha and western Maharashtra. Aurangabad division agriculture joint director DL Jadhav told TOI: “Farmers are facing an issue with soybean seeds. There is an expert committee that is looking into the matter and we will identify the culprits.” Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve, who raised the issue with agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse, demanded compensation for farmers. He also sought action against the companies and traders who sold the bad seeds. He said there are about 200 companies from Maharashtra and MP that have together sold 6 lakh quintal of low-grade seeds. Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel said the farmers' losses should be recovered from the companies and traders, instead of putting burden on the exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/soy-farmers-worry-as-seeds-fail-to-germinate/articleshow/76516783.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Why no bogies for migrants, asks court||HYDERABAD: Vexed with lame excuses put forth by South Central Railway (SCR) officials and their failure to help migrants stranded due the lockdown, the Telangana high court has directed the divisional railway manager (DRM), Secunderabad, to appear before the court on Tuesday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Monday gave the direction while hearing PILs seeking transport, food and accommodation for the stranded migrants. The bench heard the reasons put forth by SCR counsel Pushpender Kaur, who pleaded inability to provide extra bogies and sufficient berths under emergency quota in regular trains. Petitioners’ counsel Vasudha Nagaraj told the court that of 185 migrants, staying near the Secunderabad railway station, 90 of them were provided transport to their native places by some good Samaritans. “Even now, there are 95 migrants looking for transport. Of them, 47 are from Patna,” she added. The bench sought to know why SCR cannot make arrangements to the migrants from Patna at one go. “When will you become sensible enough to apply the same rules in favour of the poor and impoverished? When you can earmark special bogies for marriage parties, why cant you do it for poor migrants? That too when ordered by Supreme Court itself,” the CJ asked the SCR counsel. The bench also refused to believe the contents of a report filed by the collector who said only 60 people were staying at the shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-no-bogies-for-migrants-asks-court/articleshow/76519188.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mangaluru||MLC questions DPI’s recovery of special allowance from teachers||Mangaluru: Taking umbrage at the notice issued by the director, department of public instruction (DPI) to all deputy directors across Karnataka, wherein they have been asked to recover the special allowance of Rs 200 that was given to all teachers of government and aided higher secondary schools and PU colleges, SL Bhoje Gowda, MLC for the Southwest Teachers’ constituency, has pointed that this was in violation of the orders of the Supreme Court. In the order, the director has asked all the deputy directors to recover special payment dating back from April 2006. Gowda said that the order issued by the director of DPI had not taken into account the order of the apex court, which had, in its verdict, upheld the payment of the special allowance. The issue had gone to the Supreme Court after the state government filed a case against an order issued by the high court. The state government, by modifying an order on March 29,2006, sanctioned an allowance of Rs 200 per month to the teachers. However, the director of DPI, citing the order of the Comptroller and Auditor of General dated March 31, 2017, has sought recovery of the allowance. Gowda said that he had spoken to Araga Jnanendra, Thirthahalli MLA and chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, and pointed to the impact that such an order on the 16,367 teachers covered within its ambit, will have. “The department has stated that those who joined as teachers after August 1, 2008 in aided and government schools are not eligible for the special allowance. For the director, acting at the behest of DPI commissioner, to ask subordinates to file FIR against those drawing the special allowance is a cruel act,” said Gowda, adding that he would be compelled to explore legal options if the government refused to retract the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mlc-questions-dpis-recovery-of-special-allowance-from-teachers/articleshow/76518296.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Alarming rise in Madurai's Covid cases||Madurai: Covid-19 cases in Madurai continue to increase alarmingly since the beginning of June. The district saw a record single day spike of 157 cases on Monday. With 849 total cases, it now ranks sixth among the districts in the state behind Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, and Kancheepuram. Since the beginning of June, local Covid-19 cases in the district started climbing up gradually in an alarming rate as the government relaxed lockdown norms. While May reported only 184 cases, in June the number of cases increased to 594 in the district. Initially, it took 12 days to reach the first 100 cases in June. Then, it took only six more days to reach 200 cases and only two more days to cross the next 100 cases. Now, in just two days, as much as 226 cases have been recorded. The alarming increase could have forced district authorities to enforce a complete lockdown starting from Wednesday. While around 70 cases in June were those who returned from Chennai or other districts, the rest of the cases were local cases and their contacts. The district has also been witnessing a rise in cases, which have no direct contacts or travel history. Among the cases reported in the last three days, 120 cases had influenza-like illness (ILI) from various areas and were not contacts of Covid-19 patients. A number of frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, health workers, and police personnel have also tested Covid-19 positive. Further, with Monday’s cases, the total number of active cases in the district has climbed to 452, surpassing the total number of discharged cases - 389. The district has also reported eight deaths, the sixth highest number in the state and the highest in south Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alarming-rise-in-madurais-covid-cases/articleshow/76519833.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC notice to govt on power bill waiver||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday issued notices to the state government and Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Limited (TSSPDCL) asking them to explain their stand on a public interest plea which wanted them not to collect electricity bills pertaining to the lockdown period as scores of people lost jobs, suffered wage cuts, businesses incurred losses and traders collapsed. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the authorities two weeks to explain their case. The plea was filed by Mohammed Waliullah Sameer, a trader from Janaki Nagar in Tolichowki. Sameer’s counsel Md Rafiudin Kaleem urged the court to direct the state not to collect the domestic power bills and resort to disconnection of power for non-payment. “Let the charges for these three months be waived by the state and that will be a relief for the crisis-struck people,” he said. The bench sought replies from the authorities on the waiver plea. The judges, however, refused to interfere in two more PILs filed by Mahesh Loya and S Naresh, who charged the power utilities with resorting to wrongly invoking higher slabs while issuing power bills in June. Senior counsel L Ravi Chander told the bench that the TSSPDCL staff did not physically verify electricity meters of residents during the lockdown. They asked the people to pay power bills equal to the corresponding period the previous year. The bench told him that the Electricity Act has some in-built remedial mechanism for such grievances. “We heard that the state too had constituted a high-power committee to look into the grievances,” the court said. The bench directed advocate general BS Prasad to give wide publicity to the formation of the committee and its purpose. The case was posted to June 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-govt-on-power-bill-waiver/articleshow/76519192.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Rain bounty in Kutch, Mandvi pounded again||RAJKOT: Rain gods continued to shower joy on arid Kutch district for the second day with Mandvi town again getting maximum rainfall of 112 mm on Monday, 102mm coming in just two hours between 6am and 8am. The skies opened up around 4am with almost all talukas, especially Abdasa, Nakhatrana, Bhuj and Gandhidham, recording significant rainfall. There was heavy waterlogging on the roads in these towns and houses in low lying areas were also inundated in Mandvi town. Vehicles were also submerged due to waist-high water at many places.  The incessant rainfall also damaged a causeway in Mandvi. According to reports, an internal road connecting Bhadia and Tragdi village was washed out and closed for the traffic while 24 goats and sheep got swept away in a natural drain in Bhasar village adjoining Mandvi. As the local check dam started overflowing in Bhasar village, waters gushed inside many houses. Around 14 people who got trapped in water due to wall collapsed were rescued by fire brigade of Mandvi municipality. Five people were also rescued from drowning by locals in Siracha village of Mundra taluka following heavy influx of water in a natural drain. In Abdasa taluka, Sutri village was almost sliced into two parts for few hours due to flash flood in the local river. Villagers heaved a sigh of relief after the water levels receded. While there was no loss to life, there was huge damage to vegetables and fruits, especially pomegranate and dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-bounty-in-kutch-mandvi-pounded-again/articleshow/76518329.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: APPSC Group-I mains from November 2||AMARAVATI: After dilly-dallying for months, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has finally released the schedule for Group-I mains exam. It will now be held in November, a little after UPSC civil service prelims. The exams were originally scheduled to have been held in March but postponed twice due to Covid-19. APPSC secretary and senior IPS officer PSR Anjaneyulu in a notification released on Monday said the Group-I mains would commence on November 2 with qualifying exam in Telugu. Similar exam in English will be held on November 3.  Then all the subject papers from I-V will be held on every alternate day from November 5. The exam will conclude on November 13. “Since UPSC prelims are scheduled in October and mains in January, we thought it is ideal to hold the Group-I mains in November,” said PSR Anjaneyulu. Several other examinations including for degree college lecturers, gazetted rank officer posts in mining, welfare departments, civil assistant surgeons, assistant director town and country planning, town planning assistants, non-gazetted posts in different departments would be held in September and October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/appsc-gr-i-mains-from-november-2/articleshow/76516772.cms||Samdani MN
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Panic in political circles, as Bharatsinh Solanki tests positive||Gandhinagar: Waves of panic spread across Gujarat’s political spectrum on Monday after senior Congress leader and two-time state Congress chief Bharatsinh Solanki tested positive for Covid-19. Solanki, who was one of the Rajya Sabha nominees of the Congress, met a host of political leaders including CM Vijay Rupani, senior BJP leaders and all Congress MLAs and leaders, on Friday last. Solanki was at his native place Borsad in Anand district, when he complained of fever and uneasiness. He was rushed to a private hospital in Vadodara on Sunday night. He was advised to stay hospitalized after his Covid-19 test was positive. Solanki lost the RS election on Friday. A medical bulletin issued by the hospital where Solanki is being treated, said, “His vital parameters are within normal limits. He is under strict observation for Covid-19 symptoms. His blood parameters are okay. He is being treated by specialised Covid care team. He is not on oxygen or ventilator as of now.” After news of Bharatsinh Solanki testing positive was flashed, Shaktisinh Gohil, newly elected Rajya Sabha MP, decided to self-quarantine at his Delhi residence. He had spent the whole day with Solanki on Friday. Gohil also cancelled his Bihar trip. It is believed that the 67-year-old former Union minister picked up the infection from someone at the Gujarat assembly. He was present at the assembly from 8:30am to 10pm on Friday, holding a number of closed-door meetings with several senior Congress leaders including Shaktisinh Gohil, GPCC chief Amit Chavda, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani and all the 65 Congress MLAs at the LOP’s office. He rode back to his home in Borsad directly from the assembly. During the day, Bharatsinh was also seen at the polling area for a fairly long time, and met several BJP leaders including CM Vijay Rupani, Dy CM Nitin Patel, state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and other ministers in the government. He even reportedly made a courtesy call to assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi. State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “Bharatsinh felt some fever symptoms so he approached doctors at Vadodara. He has tested Covid positive and although he is fine, today his report came positive. As a precaution, he has got himself admitted in hospital.’’ Chavda added that until now, none of the other MLAs have shown any Covid-like symptoms and if required, Congress MLAs will also follow quarantine and other medical protocols. Earlier, Congress MLA Imran Khedawala had tested positive for Covid-19. No social distancing The Times of India reported on Friday that social distancing norms and other safety measures were thrown to the wind during the Rajya Sabha election on Friday. Not only were leaders and MLAs seen without masks, there was far too much crowding with MLAs and supporters pushing and jostling in the polling area. The elevators and lobbies of the state assembly were also teeming with people. This mismanagement of crowds at the state assembly could throw-up more Covid-19 cases of high profile persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panic-in-political-circles-as-bharatsinh-solanki-tests-positive/articleshow/76519201.cms||Kapil Dave
June 23, 2020||Madurai||Private schools begin issuing textbooks for next academic year||Madurai: Many private schools in the city have gradually begun the distribution of textbooks for the next academic year.“Many private schools have already bought the textbooks for all classes from the government and kept them ready. Schools wanted to start issuing books proactively from this week but due to the lockdown, we have to rethink our plan,” said Senthilnathan M, president, Private Schools Correspondents Confederation (PSCC). Meanwhile, few of the schools have already started issuing the textbooks allocating a particular time for students and parents to collect them from the school premises. Some schools issued them via courier or through their staff. Students in containment areas were unable to collect the books.“There is a sense of normalcy after getting the textbooks as I can make my child learn from home as schools continue to remain shut,” said Sunitha K, a parent whose daughter studies Class VIII in a private school. Meanwhile, government schools are also set to receive the books by this week. Both government and private school principals said that though discussions were underway to reduce portions for Classes I to X, the books which were already printed can still be issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/private-schools-begin-issuing-textbooks-for-next-academic-year/articleshow/76519835.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||70-year-old first doctor fatality of Covid-19 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A general practitioner who ran clinics in Khairatabad and Jiyaguda areas of Hyderabad succumbed to Covid-19 in the state, the first doctor to die from the virus. Three days ago, the 70-year-old was admitted to a private hospital with severe symptoms of coronavirus and succumbed late on Sunday night. He is also a senior member of the Indian Medical Association’s Hyderabad city branch, and had hypertension, which made his condition worse, attending doctors said. “He was admitted with high fever and severe acute respiratory distress. He was put on a ventilator too, but despite our best efforts, he could not be saved,” said an official at the hospital, where he underwent treatment. The practitioner had gone to see one of his old patients admitted at a hospital in Kachiguda last week, following which he developed high fever and other symptoms. “On testing, he was found to be positive and was admitted at a private hospital. He was not seeing any patients at his clinics,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, state secretary, IMA Hyderabad. He is survived by his three children. “At the moment, almost all major hospitals in the city have 5 to 20 doctors testing positive, hinting at an ensuing crisis. This is the first case of a doctor succumbing to the virus,” added Dr Yadav. Health department officials said close to 100 doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff working in government hospitals have tested positive for the virus, but are stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-yr-old-1st-doc-fatality-of-covid-19/articleshow/76519210.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Conjunctivitis Covid symptom? Infection among some virus-hit||HYDERABAD: Though still not a very common symptom of Covid-19, city doctors say some local patients with conjunctivitis also tested positive for the virus lately. According to them, at least seven to 10 patients with severe Covid-19 infection were found to have the eye condition too, in the last three months. “It is not an absolute symptom but some patients with high viral load can have conjunctival congestion. It is not common but has been seen in a few severe cases,” said a doctor at the Covid-19 ward in Gandhi Hospital. With growing evidence that the covering of the tear film in the eyes can contain the Covid-19 virus and that it can enter the body through the eyes, experts are now stressing the importance of face shields and goggles. Several videos and social media messages by doctors are also doing the rounds educating people about this. “There are studies which say that the virus can be found in the tear film and it has been recommended that eyes be covered,” Dr Subhadra Jalali from LV Prasad Eye Institute adding. “Due to this possibility, you can see most of the doctors wearing glasses or face shields. It is suggested for all to protect their eyes with goggles which cover all sides or face shields.” In fact, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences is also conducting a study on the prevalence of conjunctivitis in patients. Hinting that conjunctivitis in severely-affected patients may go unnoticed, Dr Jalali said, “The first case of Covid-19 in China happened to an eye specialist. It has been found that conjunctivitis usually happens in advanced stages of the disease, when the patient is on ventilator. Hence, these cases are likely to be found in the intensive care unit set up but can be overlooked when the doctors are trying to save the life of the patient and attending to other complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/conjunctivitis-covid-symptom-infection-among-some-virus-hit/articleshow/76519199.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Two KGBV teachers booked for using same testimonials in UP||LUCKNOW: In yet another case of fake teachers working in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) on the testimonials of others, police lodged an FIR against two women for working as teachers with same credentials in Mau on Monday. Police said on the complaint of basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) OP Tripathi, a case of forgery and impersonation was lodged against two women, identified as Rambha Pandey and Mamta Rai. SHO, Haldharpur, Devendra Srivastava said during verification of all teachers at KGBVs in Mau, two were found to be suspicious after the BSA lodged an FIR. “Both the women were found to be working on educational documents of someone else,” he said. Srivastava said Mamta Rai joined as a teacher in KGBV at Mau in 1995 and was transferred to Maharajganj in 2000. “Another woman in the name of Mamta Rai joined KGBV again in 2002 in Mau. When the credentials of the teachers were checked, it was found that Rambha Pandey was residing at the address provided as that of Mamta Rai in Ratanpura block,” he said. During inquiry, it was found that no woman in the name of Mamta Rai was found in Ratanpura block. Mau cops have also contacted their Maharajganj counterparts to trace Mamta Rai who earlier used to teach in Mau. “A case of dishonesty, using a genuine document as forged, cheating by impersonation has been registered. A police team has also launched a manhunt to nab Rambha Pandey,” he said. On June 4, TOI had exposed a racket in which 25 women with the name and personal details of one Anamika Shukla were found working in various KGBVs and drawing Rs 1 crore as salary in 13 months. Later, UP special task force (UP STF) cracked the case and nabbed the kingpin along with two of his associates. The real Anamika Shukla, a housewife, was found in Gonda who lodged a complaint after finding out that her name was being used to execute the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-kgbv-teachers-booked-for-using-same-testimonials/articleshow/76519839.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, abduction has Afghan Sikhs in panic||Amritsar: The Sikh community in Afghanistan is in panic after the abduction of a Sehajdhari Sikh by a group of Pakistan-backed Taliban militants. The incident has come nearly three months after the Gurdwara Guru Har Rai Sahib shooting in Kabul by ISI-backed Talibans, in which 26 worshippers were killed on March 25. Sources said the victim has been identified as Nidan Singh, a resident of Chakmani, about 300 km from Kabul, in Paktika province of Afghanistan. They said Nidan owns land in Khost area of Afghanistan and was abducted from there while staying in a local gurdwara, where he also performs sewa, they said. Sources here did not rule out the possibility of Nidan being taken to Pakistan and handed over to the ISI. According to the Afghan media, Nidan was abducted from the gurdwara at night and the Afghanistan police was in touch with Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid, but was yet to trace his whereabouts. Despite repeated attempts, Afghanistan’s Sikh senator Dr Anarkali Kaur Honaryar did not comment on the incident. In reply to a text message, she said, “I will call you after one hour”, but she never did. Sources said the Afghan Sikh community had taken up the issue with Honaryar and Sikh member parliament Narinder Singh. The MP could not be contacted. Asamai mandir, Kabul, on its Facebook page posted, “Nadan Singh Sachdev, an Afghan Sikh, has been kidnapped from Chamkani in Paktika of Afghanistan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-abduction-has-afghan-sikhs-in-panic/articleshow/76519202.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||To avoid repeat of 2016-like situation, STPF deployed at Kheri village after tiger attacks three||Bareilly: Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) has been deployed at Chedipur village in Lakhimpur Kheri district after three of its villagers were attacked by a stray tiger on Sunday evening. This time, forest department wants to avoid a repeat of the 2016 events when a tiger, later named ‘Chedilal’, killed five residents of Chedipur before it was tranquilized and sent to Lucknow zoo. Chedipur village is a stone's throw from Mailani range, a buffer zone of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR). Dudhwa officials believe that on Sunday, they had managed to push the tiger back into the buffer area. But to ensure that the big cat does not return, a rescue team and the STPF have been deployed at the village. Two elephants have been brought for combing operation. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer, said, "The elephants will also help us in pushing back the tiger deep into the forest. Support of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) has also been sought but we are not planning to tranquilize the big cat as the attack seems to be accidental. The tiger was probably moving from one forest beat to another through the sugarcane field as the village has expanded its area and people have built huts around the old corridor.” The DFO said the rescue team and STPF would remain in the village for the next few days to ensure there is no repetition of attacks on humans. The department proposes to dig a trench on the edge of the forest to restrict people from entering the reserve forest and wild animals from straying out. The work is expected to start within 15 days. Patel added that of the three injured men, two were out of danger. The third man, Ram Niwas, was still critical. "The families of the victims will be awarded compensation by the department as per the guidelines,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/to-avoid-repeat-of-2016-like-situation-stpf-deployed-at-kheri-village-after-tiger-attacks-three/articleshow/76516835.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||2 of high commission return from Pakistan||Attari:Almost a week after they were taken into custody by Pakistan police in a false hit-and-run case and tortured, the two Indian high commission staffers — Selvadhas Paul and Dwimu Bhahms — returned home via Attari land border on Monday. Accompanied by group captain Manu Midha, second secretary S Shiv Kumar and staff member Pankaj, the duo arrived at the Attari integrated check post around noon. Soon after, they left for Delhi. On May 31, Indian security officials had held two Pakistan high commission staffers in New Delhi for spying. The two, Tahir Khan and Abid Hussain, were believed to have been trained by ISI on espionage. India expelled both of them after declaring them persona non grata (a person who is not welcome). Javed Hussain, a driver at Pakistan high commission was also caught on the same charges. As expected, in a retaliatory move on June 15, Pakistan government framed CISF personnel Bhahms and Selvadhas, posted as drivers in Islamabad, in a false case. Initially, it was reported that they had “gone missing”. However, a day later, Pakistan police claimed that they had arrested them in a hit and run case. They were also reportedly thrashed by police. Pakistan authorities had claimed that the duo were speeding and rammed their vehicle into a pedestrian, leaving him injured. It was also claimed that police recovered fake currency from their possession. According to the ministry of external affairs, the two were abducted and tortured for 10 hours in illegal custody. “They were released only after strong intervention by the high commission of India in Islamabad and the ministry of external affairs. The two were subjected to interrogation, torture and physical assault, resulting in grievous injuries to them,” said the spokesperson of IHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-of-high-commission-return-from-pakistan/articleshow/76519249.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Inquiry sought against former Baroda women’s coach||Vadodara: The trouble is not over for former India player Atul Bedade whose suspension was withdrawn by the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) earlier this month. Members of Mahila Suraksha Samiti (MSS) approached the BCA on Monday and urged it to conduct a proper inquiry against Bedade who had faced accusations of harassment from a Baroda woman cricketer. “He was suspended pending inquiry. However, Bedade’s suspension was revoked without the inquiry being completed. Why didn’t the BCA inquire properly into the matter and act? The woman cricketer must get justice and hence I have stepped in,” said MSS chairperson Shobha Raval. “We met BCA secretary Ajit Lele and urged him to initiate an inquiry into the allegations of the woman cricketer again. I have demanded that the inquiry should be over in 10 days and necessary action should be taken, else I will approach the courts,” Raval told TOI. Fifty-two-year-old Bedade, who was the coach of Baroda women’s cricket team, was suspended by the BCA in March this year after the association received complaints of harassment against him. The BCA, however, took a U-turn and cancelled his suspension earlier this month without conducting a proper inquiry. The association claimed that as the complainant had withdrawn her complaint, Bedade’s suspension was revoked. But the BCA did not continue with his services as the coach, considering the sensitivity of the matter and in the interest of the association. Lele had objected to the withdrawal of Bedade’s suspension and had demanded a detailed inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/inquiry-sought-against-former-baroda-womens-coach/articleshow/76518354.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Jose group backs rival Joseph’s candidate||Kottayam: Joseph group candidate won the election for the post of Kanjirappally block panchayat president with the backing of Jose group members on Monday. Mariamma Joseph of Kerala Congress (M) was elected the president after she defeated CPM’s P G Vasanthakumary. In the 15-member committee, Mariamma got 10 votes while Vasanthakumary got only five. The committee has seven Congress members, three KC(M), four CPM and one CPI member. Among the three KC(M) members two belong to Jose group. Mariamma is the fourth president of the panchayat during the tenure of the present committee. Both the Jose group members voted for the Joseph group candidate. Elections were necessitated after Sophy Joseph of Jose faction was asked to step down from the post based on an agreement within the UDF last November on giving a chance to Joseph group candidate. However, this was delayed due to dispute between Joseph and Jose factions. The decision of Jose group to support Joseph’s candidate comes at a time when both groups are at loggerheads regarding power sharing in Kottayam district panchayat. UDF convener had already asked Jose K Mani to implement power sharing agreement in Kottayam. Joseph had said he will move no-trust motion if the candidate of Jose doesn’t step down to give his candidate a chance to be the president. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jose-group-backs-rival-josephs-candidate/articleshow/76516840.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wrong figures added, say residents||Ahmedabad: The residents of Galaxy Apartments in Bodakdev, which is registered as New Ashwamegh Bodakdev Cooperative Housing Society, are up in arms against the municipal corporation for listing the society as a micro-containment zone. The society chairman, Ashok Gwalani, and several residents have sent emails to municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Gwalani said that there are only two active cases, in Block D, in the society for the last 4 days and the AMC has ordered them to be isolated. “There are four active cases in G Block, which is not part of New Ashwamegh Bodakdev Cooperative Housing Society,” he said. According to Gwalani, G Block is registered as Aalay Coop Housing Society Limited (Nebula) and is a separate society. He said, “Officials of the health department have wrongly taken Block G to be part our society and combined the cases in Block G with those in Block D of our society and the figure thus crossed 14 active cases, which according to us is not correct.” He said that there were no active cases in Blocks A, B, C, E and F of their society. He said only two members of a family are infected. He said that for just two cases the AMC should not declare the entire society a micro containment area. “According to the policy, the AMC should declared only the concerned floor as a micro containment zone and not the entire society.” He said that the society requested the AMC to see the G and D blocks as separate and not declare the complex a micro-containment zone as it is hampering the residents in doing their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wrong-figures-added-say-residents/articleshow/76519223.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Patna||One more death, 228 fresh Covid cases in Bihar||PATNA: One more Covid-19 death and 228 new positive cases were registered in Bihar on Monday. The Covid toll mounts to 52 while the positive cases in state stand at 7,893 so far. Patna reported the highest number of 36 cases. A BJP MLA from north Bihar has also tested positive for Covid-19. With 5767 recoveries, the active cases in state remained 2,073. The BJP MLA is the first legislator in Bihar to have tested positive for the virus. Earlier, two former MPs had been found infected. Sources said the MLA was admitted to AIIM-Patna. His driver has also tested positive. Officials of his district are tracing his contacts. In Patna district, 15 cases were reported from Paliganj, four from Dhanarua and one each from Dariyapur, Kankarbagh, BMP and Khajpura in city besides Pandarak and Athmalgola. The health department did not reveal the locations of 11 others. Patna civil surgeon Dr RK Choudhary said the one who died was from Masaurhi, taking the Covid toll in Patna district to 3. The 51-year-old was a diabetic and admitted to AIIMS-Patna on June 11. A health department bulletin said fresh cases were registered from 27 districts with maximum 36 from Patna, followed by 27 each from Madhubani and Siwan. Samastipur reported 18 cases and Darbhanga and Saharsa 17 each. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 206 new cases were registered in the past 24 hours and 136 people recovered during that period. So far, total 5,767 people have recovered from the virus infection. Lokesh said out of the total positive cases registered in Bihar, 5,010 are migrants who returned home after May 3. He further said total 1,63,476 samples had been tested so far, out of which 6,550 were tested on Sunday. He said the testing capacity was being enhanced regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-more-death-228-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/76518358.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 15 positive at TSPA, including IPS officer||HYDERABAD: Over a dozen people, including an IPS officer, tested positive for Covid-19 at RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) on Monday. After analysing the first batch of 100 samples collected from the staff, the results came out on Monday, indicating that 15 tested positive. Results of 100 more samples of the staff would be known on Tuesday, while samples of 100 other staff would be collected and sent for testing. The first Covid-19 case reported from the academy was of a woman administrative staff, who underwent surgery at a hospital in the city. Two days ago, the academy administration had decided to conduct test for all staff members as they go out of the academy frequently. On Monday, results of the first batch of 100 samples came and 15 of them tested positive. Among those who tested positive were an IPS officer and two Additional SPs. “All the staff who tested positive are asymptomatic. They are placed under home quarantine. Results of 100 more samples will come tomorrow,” academy director V K Singh said. There are 1,900 cadet sub-inspectors and woman constables undergoing training at the academy. However, tests have so far been conducted on the staff who move in and out of the academy frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-positive-at-tspa-including-ips-officer/articleshow/76519218.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 23, 2020||Goa||Opposition councillors of Mormugao civic body walk out of meeting||VASCO: Councillors of the opposition panel of the Mormugao Municipal Council walked out of a meeting held on Monday after the minutes of the February 14 budget meeting, which were required to be passed during a meeting held last month, were placed for approval. Councillor and former vice-chairperson Shashikant Parab, said the minutes of the budget meeting were supposed to be passed at a council meet held on May 19, but protocol for the same had not been followed. “The chairperson tried to pass the same minutes on Monday, which we objected to and walked out,” Parab said. The 10 opposition councillors, backed by urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik, have also complained to the direct rate of municipal administration of alleged illegalities by MMC chairperson, Nandadeep Raut. They have claimed that the council’s budget was sent to the DMA without approval from the council. When contacted, Raut said, “The minutes were not ready at the previous meeting as we are working with only 33% staff. The opposition has the habit of boycotting meetings and is absolutely not interested in discussing development.”  The ruling panel is backed by Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-councillors-of-mormugao-civic-body-walk-out-of-meeting/articleshow/76520229.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Mercy Angels assure dignity in death as most relatives stay away||BENGLAURU: The most poignant aspect of the pandemic is that death is a lonely one. Loved ones, family and friends do not even get to a glimpse of the departed, who is wrapped in three layers of protective material. Often, family cannot participate in the final journey or the last rites as they themselves are either in quarantine. Others stay away fearing an infection. However, Mercy Angles, a six-member team of volunteers including a doctor, is ensuring those who died of the virus in Bengaluru get a dignified funeral. Assigned the task by BBMP, Mercy Angels, a wing of NGO Mercy Mission, has ensured 65 of the 67 who died in the city till Sunday were given a dignified send-off — at no cost to the bereaved family. On the weekend, a TOI team witnessed the final journey of an elderly woman, from a mortuary of a Koramangala hospital to a crematorium. It’s about 1.10pm and Dr Mehdi Kaleem, at HBS Hospital in Shivajinagar, gets a call on his cellphone. It’s from the 108 ambulance service and Kaleem, a physician and head of Mercy Angels, is informed that a Covid patient has died. He quickly jots down the details and shouts out to his fellow volunteers — Dr Shariq Rafeeq, 43, Ayub Khan Jaffar, 43, Veeresh BS, 45, Sheikh Imran, 35, Shabeer 30, and Shah Imdad alias Chotu, 27 — all lounging around near an ambulance at the hospital. It’s Veeresh and Sheikh Imran’s turn so they grab PPE and set off. “I don’t know who she is and I won’t even see her face, but I’m happy to take her on her final journey,” says Veeresh, as he drives off in the ambulance with Imran in the passenger seat. The ambulance reaches the hospital in Koramangala around 2pm and drives through a canopy of trees to the forensic department where the mortuary is located. Veeresh calls the hospital authorities to get the corpse released and waits for their response. “I had come here a few days ago to transport another body for a burial,” he says, puffing away on a cigarette during the brief wait. Meanwhile, Imran is busy climbing into the PPE and dons double masks and gloves. “Initially it was scary, but now there is a sense of pride to know that we are the only ones in Bengaluru who are transporting the dead,” Imran, a father of a three-month-old girl, says. “I’m extremely cautious at work and sanitise myself properly before heading home to my little one,” he says with a smile. Within minutes, two BBMP officials arrive at the morgue and the paperwork is swiftly completed. The woman’s body, sealed in three layers of protective cover, is loaded onto the ambulance. The vehicle’s door slams shut, the siren blares and the last journey of another Covid-19 victim begins. They head towards Wilson Garden. Around 3.20pm the ambulance rolls into the portico of Wilson Garden Electric Crematorium on Hosur Main Road where less than a dozen people, all in PPE are waiting. A small crowd gapes into the compound from the road outside as Veeresh and Imran pull down the stretcher with the woman’s remains. Unlike most other cases, a few members of the woman’s family are present to pay their last respects. However, strict protocols are place — the body bag can’t be opened nor can those grieving touch the deceased. They stand a short distance away and watch as the two men lower the body on the trolley that wheels the body into the furnace. As the corpse disintegrates in the flames, Veeresh and Imran remove their PPE. They are soaked in sweat. They sanitise themselves on the spot as BBMP officials oversee proceedings and finalise paperwork. The men drive away in the ambulance to prepare for their next death for the day. Each final journey is heartbreaking for the six men from Mercy Angels. They admit they sometimes breakdown when transporting a body, often times with no family or friends of the deceased accompanying them. “An elderly man passed away last month and we were collecting the body for last rites,” says Mohammed Ismail, coordinator of Mercy Angels and former IT professional. “His son called us to ask if he really needed to be there during the final moments. We were stunned and angry and one of our staffers lashed out at him. Finally, he reluctantly arrived. There are people who just abandon the dead knowing that we and BBMP officials will do the needful.” Dr Taha Mateen, head of the Mission’s last rites operations, said it is fear of getting infected and of the stigma, that keeps people away, even close family members. “There is no risk of infection from the dead, as mouth, ears, nose etc of the deceased are sealed and the body is tightly wrapped in three layers of protective cover which no one is allowed to tamper with,” Mateen says. With Covid-19 deaths escalating in the city, the Mercy Angels team is on their toes. While cremations happen quickly, burials are long-drawn out affairs. An earthmover is used to dig a 10-foot grave. The ground is later covered with mud and sprayed with disinfectant, including bleaching powder, and the area is cordoned off by officials. The ambulance used for transportation of the body goes into a 16-hour sanitation process sponsored by the BBMP, before it is used again for the next last journey. Team members admitted they are struggling given the increasing deaths. They said they are looking for more volunteers to join their team. Watch Covid-19: Bengaluru’s Mercy Angels assure dignity in death as most relatives stay away||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mercy-angels-assure-dignity-in-death-as-most-relatives-stay-away/articleshow/76517922.cms||Petlee Peter
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Rakhra meets Dhindsas in Chandigarh||Patiala: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) vice-president Randhir Singh Rakhra on Monday joined rebel Akali leaders Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Parminder Singh Dhindsa at their residence in Chandigarh. In the aftermath of the dismissal of the Dhindsas from the party by president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Rakhra along with five other office-bearers of the SAD’s Patiala unit had put in their papers. Those who had resigned from party posts included national political advisor to Sukhbir Badal and party spokesperson Ajay Thapar, Sarabjit Singh, senior vice president of the SAD Patiala rural, general secretaries Major Singh and Joginder Singh, and Jasvir Singh Jassi, a former Akali sarpanch and general secretary of Malwa zone 2. At that time, Rakhra, a former chairman of Punjab Agro Foodgrain Corporation who thrice contested the assembly polls from Nabha, said the manner in which Dhindsa and his son were dismissed from the party, spoke of the dictatorial traits of the party president. He also accused party leadership of having drifted from the core ideologies of SAD. Perturbed over the resignations submitted by these leaders, Bikram Majithia and Dr Daljit Singh Cheema had met the six party office-bearers in Patiala and convinced them to stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rakhra-meets-dhindsas-in-chandigarh/articleshow/76519255.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||Power department begins shifting high-tension power line at Choupla flyover construction site||Bareilly: Power supply to areas around Choupla, including Malukpur, Biharipur Civil Lines, City Station road, Kunwarpur, Kishor Bazar among others, was disconnected for a couple of hours on Monday. This followed after the city’s power department on Sunday finally began work to relocate the 11 kV overhead high-tension (HT) transmission line that was coming in the way of the flyover being constructed at Choupla. According to information received from the UP State Bridge Corporation, the flyover’s alignment went just under the HT power line, obstructing work.After around two months, construction of the Choupla flyover was resumed after lockdown was relaxed in May. The project gained momentum after Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar directed officials to speed up work.Power department sources told TOI that relocating a HT line is a time consuming process, and it will take around two weeks to be completed. In the last two days, electric poles have been erected elsewhere, along with some work on the underground line. Among other works, the transformer is yet to be shifted, which will take another 15 days. Power supply will not be completely shut down at any time, said officials, adding they will ensure that supply is restored in nearby areas soon.So far, 15-20% of the construction work of the Choupla flyover has been completed by the bridge corporation. Being developed at a cost of Rs 59 crore, the project was started in 2019 with July 2021 set as deadline for its completion. The 793m flyover is being constructed to ease traffic burden between Choupla junction and the existing Badaun flyover. The new flyover will connect Ayub Khan, Police Lines, Quila crossing and Badaun flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/power-department-begins-shifting-high-tension-power-line-at-choupla-flyover-construction-site/articleshow/76516878.cms||Maria Khan
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Inauguration of Ayodhya’s bhajan centre postponed||LUCKNOW: The inauguration of a bhajan centre in Ayodhya has been postponed again. Constructed at a cost of Rs 210 crore, the centre was to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi next month. It was planned that it would be dedicated to public for organising ‘bhajan sandhyas’ when the CM will accompany the PM for the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram temple. But due to border tension the foundation laying ceremony was deferred and so was the inauguration. Additional chief secretary, religious affairs, Awanish Awasthi said that “no date is finalised yet for the inauguration.” This centre was one of several projects commissioned during the fag end of prvious SP government when the party was making experiment with soft Hindutva to shed its pro-Muslim image in the run-up to the 2017 state elections, says a political analyst. Therefore, a series of developmental works in religious cities, including Ayodhya, Varanasi and Mathura, were launched not only to beautify the pilgrimage centres visited by national and international tourists, but also to develop infrastructure at these religious sites. So, beautification along the Yamuna started in Vrindavan and ghats of Varanasi were to be beautified. Similarly, in Ayodhya, beautification of ghats at the Saryu had been started and a ‘bhajan’ centre for local saints and people was constructed. The project was completed within a year, but before it could be inaugurated the SP went out of power and the BJP formed the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/inauguration-of-ayodhyas-bhajan-centre-postponed/articleshow/76519855.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We were proactive and this delayed the peak in Covid cases’||Known for managing the Covid-19 scenario in Jalandhar efficiently during his tenure in that district, the new Ludhiana deputy commissioner, Varinder Sharma, faces a tough challenge to ensure that cases are checked in a big district like Ludhiana and mortality rate is minimum. He spoke to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to the challenges and strategy to effectively deal with the situation. How difficult it was to manage the situation in Jalandhar district and how you see the challenge to check the spurt in cases in Ludhiana district? There, we did more testing and after tracing the patients isolated them in the fastest manner. Protocols have changed and earlier there was no concept of home isolation at that time. As the number of cases is increasing, so this concept has been introduced. But we have decided that till our infrastructure allows, which as of now is permitting us as we have such facilities at Vardhman hospital, the civil hospital in Ludhiana and sub-divisional hospitals in Khanna and Jagraon, we will isolate the positive patients at such centres. The cases where we are fully sure that a person can isolate himself at home and has space for that, we are sending them for home isolation and that is decided on case to case basis. In those, where we feel that a person cannot manage at home, we are managing them at these isolation centres. What is the status of government infrastructure as of now? We have 200-bed facility operational at Meritorious School, 350 at the civil hospital, 50-bed facility at sub-divisional hospitals in Khanna and Jagraon. We have got directions to upgrade the facility at Meritorious School to 500-bedded facility. We have decided that the people who were interviewed to add to our staff strength, will be joining us immediately to upgrade it to 500 beds. It will be upgraded to level one facility. As of now cases are witnessing a spurt, till when cases are expected to peak? It can be matter of speculation. Experts can tell more about that. Every person has different opinion on it. In Punjab, J&K and HP, we got proactive and did act strictly at the start and because of that the peak got delayed. We have not reached there and in the meantime we got time for preparation. Among the people, there has been an increase is awareness due to IEC (Information, Education and Communication) activities, which is the only way. As there is no vaccine as of now, social distancing and washing of hands are simple ways of prevention for all people. I hope they are doing that. Apart from that, through the I-T penetration and mobile phones, people will hopefully follow the rules. Challans are also being issued. Does such action help? Challaning and punitive action is not the first priority but second one. First priority is persuasion, motivation and education. Because of these compliance is there and punitive action is there only to reiterate. Some people do feel that there is not much strictness in containment zones. It is related to livelihood. People should take precautions and should not let such a situation come. They should secure their area in case it has to be declared as containment zone. But sometimes such an action has social and economical ramification, and besides the issue of freedom is also there. What steps are being taken to ensure that deaths due to this disease are checked and mortality rate is kept low?. We are focusing on those with cormobid condition, elderly and less-aged patients. The sooner we trace them, the better it is. We have roped in anganwadi workers for house-to-house survey and Asha worker,s etc. are also part of it. The civil surgeon told me that if we can trace them early, especially those with comorbid conditions, they can be saved and mortality rate can be reduced. Industry and labour issues are there, how are you taking this challenge to ensure that industries work smoothly? Outflow was managed by the state but inflow is being taken care of by market forces. Workers are coming in trains, buses, etc. and I have heard farmers are also bringing them in special buses for paddy transplant work. These workers are being screened and kept under fourteen days in home quarantine. Apart from that, labour is coming and we shouldn’t see it in terms of numbers, but human angles. At the time of such crisis situation and keeping in view their feelings, our government policy was very clear about not to curtail their human rights. If they feel re-assured they will return. More so and when there was not much work, it would have been inhumane to keep them here by force. Slowly demand is picking up. There are no two opinions about it that nationally and internationally the demand was set to decrease, because of it some labour lay-off was also done. This time, when they will come they will come here with more stability that they have to stay here and work here. Do you think that there is community spread in Ludhiana? We have managed to trace cases till now. Most of the cases traced have been isolated. As of now it is not there. But at the same time, we are staggering it and delaying it and trying to flatten the curve. Do you see a rise in the recovery rate with the active cases decreasing in the district? It is very difficult to say since I am not a specialist. Given the size of Punjab, we are satisfied that cases are less. In Ludhiana district, as of now we have around 528 cases of which 321 have been cured and 223 are active ones. Cases already cured are more as compared to active cases. I am satisfied with our health infrastructure, which can cater to the present scenario, but this is not the reason to be complacent. There is need for people also to remain alert. Elderly persons and young people have to go for testing. Do you think that this can be avoided? If a team is working at a place, it can cater to more people then when it is mobile. It is not possible that they can go to every house with various teams of frontline workers. What is the most important thing residents need to keep in mind? I would request people to take care of three things. One is that they should wash their hands regularly and it is not necessary for everyone to use sanitiser. Second is wearing masks properly. Third is social distancing. Sometimes there are situations which are beyond one’s control, but since it is matter of survival, so it is important to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-were-proactive-and-this-delayed-the-peak-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76518378.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spurt in worrisome ‘pink clusters’ in city||Ahmedabad: The aversion of Amdavadis to wearing masks and maintaining social distancing has led to a dramatic rise in the number of potential Covid hotspots in the city, since the unlocking began on June 1. From a single housing cluster on May 25, the number of ‘pink clusters’ in the city, areas most likely to turn into a Covid hotspot in 15 days, has grown to 105. These include posh localities in areas like Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Anandnanagar, Thaltej, Manekbagh and Navrangpura among others.Pink clusters have concentrations of contacts of a recent Covid patient or suspected contacts. The ‘amber’ clusters in the city, where there have been a few stray cases, are just 33. “What is worrying is that people are still not understanding that social distancing at milk booths, provision stores and in offices is an absolute necessity or else the numbers will grow exponentially. Each Covid affected person can infect 2.76 other individuals and those with heavy viral load can spread it to more than 6.5 people,” says a senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official.He adds that even though the virus may not show symptoms in certain persons, that person may be putting the life of others with lower immunity at risk if they refuse to wear masks and do not maintain social distancing. “People have to be empathetic to others, like elders at home, or those with comorbidities,” says the AMC official.Officials add that the data is sourced from the Aarogya Setu app, ITIHAS and mobile phone location matrix. “This actually shows how people have moved in an area after having come in contact with a Covid patient or their suspected contacts over the past fortnight. Since the disease takes sometime to show symptoms we require that people respect our instructions,” says the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurt-in-worrisome-pink-clusters-in-city/articleshow/76519271.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘We are being branded as if we are criminals’||Ahmedabad: The decision to declare Sachin Towers in the Jodhpur ward of the city, containing 350 houses, a micro containment zone, has seen a series of protests with complaints lodged, including one with deputy municipal commissioner G H Solanki. Bhavin Khandhar, the housing society secretary of Sachin Towers, said the residents have no objections to obeying the rules and other guidelines, but the ‘wrong decision’ of the AMC has put the residents ‘in severe embarrassment’. “As news spread, the residents of nearby societies have have put messages on their message boards saying residents should not meet people of Sachin Towers. We are being branded as if we are criminals.” Khandhar said there were only three active cases when the society was declared a micro containment area. “In one case, the patient’s home quarantine was removed on the day the area was declared a micro-containment area. The remaining two were discharged on Monday.” Khandhar said, “There are a lot of rumours with false content on social media. The fact remains that there is not a single positive case in the Sachin Towers. There were four cases detected, but all recuperated and their families have also completed the quarantine requirements.” AMC deputy municipal commissioner G H Solanki said, “There are in 10 cases in Sachin Towers in all, of which five were older than 60 and one person 57 years old. To ensure that no more people get infected we declared the area a containment zone. The AMC even sent a Dhanvantri Rath to the towers but the residents did not cooperate.” He further said that the residents had demanded the details of the maids concerned for surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-are-being-branded-as-if-we-are-criminals/articleshow/76519261.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Story of Malabar Rebellion leader on big screen||Kozhikode: Actor-director Prithviraj Sukumaran has announced his new film project ‘Variamkunnan’ which is based on the life of Variyamkunnanth Kunjammad Haji, the leader of the Malabar Rebellion in 1921. The project was announced by Prithviraj himself through his Facebook post. Aashiq Abu is the director of the film. “He stood up against an empire that ruled a quarter of the world. Etched out his own country with an army that waged a never before war against the British. Though history was burned and buried, the legend lived on!,” said the post. “The legend of a leader, a soldier, a patriot. A film on the man who became the face of the 1921 Malabar revolution,” added Prithviraj. The shooting will begin in 2021, the 100th anniversary of the rebellion. “The film is the culmination of almost a decade-old study and research. Variamkunnan was the legendary revolutionary who established a parallel government in Malappuram challenging the mighty British,” said Muhammad Ramees O, co-writer of the film. Asked about the possible criticisms against the film, Ramees said the writers are well-prepared to answer all questions. “We can rebut all criticisms with the help of historical evidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/story-of-malabar-rebellion-leader-on-big-screen/articleshow/76516889.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Delhi||Calls, prayers unanswered: Finding bed in Delhi still a long haul||NEW DELHI: Even though the number of beds for Covid patients has been boosted significantly, finding one is still a worry for Delhiites. Two reality checks conducted by TOI in the past one month both exposed a wide gulf between the number of beds shown as available on the Delhi Corona app and actually accessible in hospitals. On Monday, calls to the medical facilities to check if the situation had improved went mostly unanswered. Some major Delhi and central government hospitals such as Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, AIIMS Jhajjar, Satyavadi Raja Harish Chandra and AIIMS Delhi offered no response to numerous calls on the contact numbers mentioned on the city’s pandemic app. These hospitals are marked green on the app, signifying that they all have more than 50 beds for Covid patients, respectively, 1,260; 1,254; 817; 121 and 73. There are 120 hospitals that are specified to manage Covid patients. On the app, 17 were marked pink (no beds) and 79 yellow (fewer than 50 beds). Lady Hardinge Medical College is the only central government hospital that shows zero beds on the app. The other 16 hospitals marked red are private institutions, among them Max Patparganj, Kalra Hospital and Primus Super Speciality Hospital. By Sunday, Delhi had recorded 23,830 active cases and 2,175 confirmed deaths. According to the Delhi Corona app, at 8.30pm on Monday, there were 13,377 Covid beds in the city, of which 7,120 were yet to be occupied. As a person seeking information about Covid hospitalisation would do, TOI dialled the contact numbers mentioned on the app. Some replied that different numbers would offer adequate information. Most of the enlisted phone numbers, however, remained unanswered. The board numbers listed on Google also were unresponsive. The responders at Safdarjung and Deep Chand Bandhu hospitals initially said they could give no information on the availability of beds and refused to divulge a number where one could get clarity on this. Upon repeated calling, the operator at Safdarjung finally claimed there were no available beds, adding that beds could be arranged only for ‘very sick’ patients and patients should, therefore, go to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital instead. At the time of this call, (3.30pm) the app showed beds were available at both Safdarjung and RML. At 8.30pm, 41 beds were shown as available at Deep Chand Bandhu, but the hospital’s admission section claimed much earlier, at 4pm, that the admission of six patients had left them without any vacant bed. Some private hospitals, where more beds had been added over the past two weeks, too claimed no vacancies, contradicting the information on the Delhi Corona app. Sir Ganga Ram, Action Balaji, Holy Family, Cygnus Orthocare and Batra did not answer the calls, though Sir Ganga Ram responded after a number of calls and passed on two numbers from where the information could be accessed. The responder there too had no clue about the availability of beds and asked the patient to first come to the hospital to be scanned. Hospitals like Indraprastha Apollo and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality said they currently did not have beds available, but looking at the discharge rate, could accommodate more patients shortly. Max hospitals at Saket and Shalimar Bagh and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital either did not take calls or diverted them to voice mails, with no response even after repeated calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/calls-prayers-unanswered-finding-bed-still-a-long-haul/articleshow/76519274.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 23, 2020||India||‘Relook import of bulletproof jacket raw material from China’||NEW DELHI: Government think tank Niti Aayog has suggested that manufacturers take a relook at the raw material imported from China for making bulletproof jackets for the Army and will suggest that state-owned telecom company BSNL use indigenous technology for its 4G technology, a top policy adviser said on Monday. “I have said manufacturers should look at the quality of raw material imported from China because of quality issues,” Niti Aayog member V K Saraswat told TOI. He said even last year, suggestions had been made to look at raw material from Europe and the US but the companies had said the costs were higher, adding that suggestions have been made to scout for indigenous raw material. Asked whether the two suggestions were linked to the border situation, Saraswat categorically said no. “The prime minister has given a call for Atmanirbahr Bharat and we see an opportunity for domestic companies. Atmanirbhar Bharat provides a big opportunity,” he added. The tense stand-off with China has triggered calls for a boycott of Chinese goods. Saraswat also said Niti Aayog will recommend use of indigenous technology for BSNL’s 4G rollout. “We are recommending indigenous technology. Why not use locally designed, developed and manufactured products, what is known as IDDM (indigenously designed, developed and manufactured),” Saraswat said. He said in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, supply chains were disrupted and the Atmanirbhar Bharat call had provided an opportunity to look at domestic companies and indigenous products. Saraswat said domestic companies had the capability to use the PM’s call as an opportunity to showcase their prowess. Niti Aayog’s recommendations could spell trouble for Chinese and European companies who were eyeing lucrative contracts for BSNL’s 4G rollout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/relook-import-of-bulletproof-jacket-raw-material-from-china/articleshow/76521000.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||CM transfers Rs 233 cr digitally to Panchayat Raj dept||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday transferred Rs 238 crore digitally to the three layers — block, zila, and gram — panchayat raj department. There are 7,791 gram panchayats, 95 blocks, and 13 district panchayats in the state. The total amount transferred included the first installment approved under 15th Finance Commission and the share of State Finance Commission. For further transactions, digital transactions have been recommended by the CM. An amount of Rs 143.5 crore was digitally transferred to the department of panchayat raj under the 15th Finance Commission and Rs 94.88 crore was transferred under the State Finance Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-transfers-rs-233-cr-digitally-to-panchayat-raj-dept/articleshow/76516909.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||HC slaps advocate with Rs 50k fine||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Monday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on an advocate-on-record who filed a bail petition twice on behalf of Afiruddin Sheikh, ignoring the instructions of the court and tried to obtain an order passing the application as a new petition, for which the court took exception. The court stated that the advocate tried to take the court for a ride. “Such brazen attempt would not only tarnish the image of the judiciary but would also percolate a wrong signal to the litigants as well.” The Rs 50,000 fine imposed on the advocate is to be deposited with the state legal services authorities within a month, the court directed. The bench of Justice Harish Tandon and Justice Tirthankar Ghosh expressed shock in the way the advocate had tried to take advantage of the Covid-19 situation and had applied through the virtual platform for a bail application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-slaps-advocate-with-rs-50k-fine/articleshow/76519282.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal-Ghuma reports 2 more cases||Ahmedabad: Bopal-Ghuma area, which has been recently merged with Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), reported two more cases on Monday. The Ahmedabad district recorded 26 fresh cases and one death, taking the total number of cases to 729 and deaths to 48. In Bopal, the two cases were reported from Godavi village and Manipur Elegance located on the outskirts of Bopal. Of the 26 fresh cases, the maximum 10 cases were reported from Dholka, eight from VIramgam, five from Sanand and three from Daskroi. Taluka-wise, the 728 cases in the district were reported from Dholka (216), Daskroi (165), Sanand (140), Viramgams (71), Bavla (74), Dhandhuka (25), Detroj (14), Mandal (14) and Dholera (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-ghuma-reports-2-more-cases/articleshow/76519265.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||22 students from containment zones couldn’t appear for UBSE exams in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: A total of 22 students of Classes X and XII in Uttarkashi district couldn’t appear for their UBSE board exams as they live in areas which have been earmarked as containment zones. Ramendra Khuswah, Chief Education Officer of Uttarkashi, told TOI, “As a precautionary measure, 22 students were not allowed to appear for their board examinations. They will be given the chance to appear for exams after UBSE declares fresh dates for them.” The official added, “Besides providing masks and sanitisers, we are conducting thermal screening of every student and teacher before allowing entry to the examination hall. To contain the spread of coronavirus, we are also sanitising the examination halls and campuses after each shift.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-students-from-containment-zones-couldnt-appear-for-ubse-exams-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/76516921.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir to Centre, Pb: Bring down fuel prices||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged the central government to roll back the recent hike in prices of petrol and diesel for relief to farmers, common man and industry. He also urged the Punjab government to take back the hike in state value added tax (VAT) on the two fuels. Sukhbir said the hike in fuel prices over the last 16 days was causing a lot of stress to the country’s economy, still reeling under the effects of the Covid-19 lockdown. He said the 16-day consecutive hikes in fuel prices had made petrol dearer by Rs 9.21 per litre and diesel costlier by Rs 8.55 per litre. Now, the taxes make up two-third of the retail price of both petrol and diesel, he added. The recent hike in fuel charges has hurt farmers and the common man the most, said Sukhbir, adding that farmers were already bearing a huge increase in labour charges for transplantation of paddy. Similarly, the common man had started feeling the cascading inflationary effect of the increase in fuel prices with rates of all essential commodities on the rise. “The hike in fuel prices is also affecting supply chain and putting a burden on those providing essential supplies during a time of pandemic,” said Sukbhbir. He added reduction in fuel prices was also justified keeping in view the unprecedented steep fall in international crude oil prices. Sukhbir urged the Union government to direct oil companies to pass on the benefit of sharp decrease in international oil prices to the common man. Asking the Congress government in Punjab to take back the hike in state VAT on fuel, SAD chief said the Punjab government had affected an increase of Rs 3.2 per litre in the price of petrol and Rs 2.53 per litre in the price of diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-to-centre-pb-bring-down-fuel-prices/articleshow/76519276.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||PappukkuttyBhagavathar dies at 107||Kochi: Actor and musician Pappukkutty Bhagavathar, popularly known as ‘Kerala Saigal’ passed away at Perumbadappu here on Monday. He was 107 and was suffering from age-related ailments. Born to Michael and Anna in Vypeen on March 29, 1913, Bhagavathar began his career as a child artist in ‘Vedamani’, a musical play. He also essayed the role of Magdalana Mariyam in the play ‘Misihacharitam’ directed by ‘artist’ P J Cherian. One of his co-actors in the play was Augustin Joseph, father of celebrated singer K J Yesudas. He also imparted first lessons in music to Yesudas. He has acted in more than 25 films, the latest being ‘Vice-chancellor’. His last song for a film was ‘entadukke vannadukkum’ for the film ‘Marykkundoru kunjadu’ which came out in 2010. He’s survived by four children. In a condolence message, CM Pinarayi Vijayan said contributions of Pappukkutty Bhagavathar would always be remembered by Kerala society. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pappukkuttybhagavathar-dies-at-107/articleshow/76516914.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: After three-month Covid break, teachers return to schools||KOLKATA: Many teachers started going to schools on Monday after a gap of almost three months following the Covid-induced lockdown. Around 35 teachers were back at South City International School. The authorities, after necessary sanitization drives, had asked teachers to come in, if possible, to use school infrastructure for online classes. Some other schools that have been sanitized and kept the option open for teachers are, Apeejay School, New Town School, St Xavier’s Institution Panihati and DPS Howrah and many teachers have started using these facilities for better teaching-learning experience. The teachers are travelling in private vehicles, either their own or provided by schools. While some schools have sent laboratory equipment to teachers’ homes to help them set up labs, others have sent their systems engineers armed with laptops and Wi-Fi routers to teachers’ homes so that they can graduate from phones to laptops. Some schools have also bought portable Wi-Fi equipment for teachers. “Kids immediately noticed the change in the background and recognised their classroom when we started teaching on Monday. It was a surprise and they were just as excited as we were. Not only connectivity, even teaching tools like flip charts come in handy if we are teaching from school and it was a relief to be back,” said Nabamita Biswas, teacher at the primary section of South City International School. Principal of Apeejay School, Rita Chatterjee, has resumed office along with the admin and support staff. She is taking English classes for the senior students of the school from the campus and teachers will be back this week to prepare and distribute report cards to parents. They are also free to start teaching from campus. “Though we did our best from home, but working from school always feels better. We are using the school laboratories all over again for practical demonstrations online for students. This breaks the monotony,” said Subhadeep Mitra, biology teacher of St Xavier’s Institution, Panihati. Physics lab equipment have sen to the residence of Shubhashree Chakraborty, head of the department of physics of Heritage School, so that she can set up a lab at home for online teaching. Similarly, head of the department of chemistry of the school, Shubhojit Majumdar, has set up a laboratory at home for practical demonstrations while teaching online. Though portable Wi-Fi has been given to 70 teachers at New Town School, principal Shatabdi Bhattacharya has resumed office and kept the option open for teachers who want to teach from campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-3-month-covid-break-teachers-return-to-schools/articleshow/76519280.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||245 fly back home on Vande flights from Dubai, Riyadh||KOLKATA: One-hundred-and-sixty-six Bengalis, who had been working in UAE and were away from home for several years, returned to the city, some after losing their jobs, on a Vande Bharat flight from Dubai on Monday. Later at night, another flight from the neighbouring Riyadh, too, landed in Kolkata with 79 passengers after dropping off around 100 others at Bhubaneswar. According to reports, over 1,50,000 Indians in the UAE had applied through online registration process to the Indian Missions to return home amidst the Covid 19 scare. Around 20% of the applicants had recently lost their jobs and around 40% were blue collared professionals. “I have been jobless for the last three months. Although the city is slowly opening, there is still very little work available especially for us. Hence, I chose to come back home. I will try to go back once the situation gets better,” said Md Faruk, a goldsmith and a resident of Belagram in Hooghly. The gold trade has been the worst hit by the virus outbreak, as most residents across the world has stopped spending on anything other than essentials. The absence of tourists too has hit several sectors in the country. “The restaurant where I work as a cashier has re-opened for business after the lockdown was lifted. But there are very few patrons to run the business properly. The situation is very tough,” said Ramen Das, a resident of Dinhata in Cooch Behar. There were also many who were happy to be back home after several months. “I am returning after 25 months. My leave was sanctioned for Eid but the lockdown and suspension of flights marred my plans. But now I am back and glad that I can spend Eid-al-Adha with my family next month,” said Nizanur Hussain, an AC mechanic, who returned home with 25 other colleagues on Monday. Hussain, like all others, will spend next seven days in quarantine at a city hotel before heading back to his Murshidabad home. Also waiting at airport was Chakdah resident Basudeb Majumdar, who had come to receive brother-in-law Biswajit Roy, who works as an engineer with a Dubai firm. “Biswajit’s father died six days ago,” said Majumdar.  (With inputs from Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/245-fly-back-home-on-vande-flights-from-dubai-riyadh/articleshow/76519318.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 23, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Panic in political circles as Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki tests Covid-19 positive||GANDHINAGAR/VADODARA: Panic spread across Gujarat’s political spectrum on Monday after senior Congress leader and two-time state Congress chief Bharatsinh Solanki tested positive for Covid-19. Solanki, who was one of the Rajya Sabha nominees of the Congress, had met a host of political leaders including chief minister Vijay Rupani, senior BJP leaders and all Congress MLAs and leaders, on Friday last. The former union minister was at his native Borsad in Anand district, when he complained of fever and uneasiness. He was admitted at Bankers Super Speciality Hospital at Manjalpur at around 1 pm on Monday. “He had fever for last two days. His Covid-19 test which was done at other hospital turned out to be positive. His vital parameters are within normal limits. He is being treated by specialized Covid care team,” stated the health bulletin released by the hospital which has been empanelled by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation as dedicated Covid hospital. “He is not on oxygen or ventilator as of now,” the bulletin stated. Sources said that as Solanki tested positive, six servants including three male and three female working at his bungalow located at Beverly Hills in Borsad taluka of Anand district were also asked to remain under home quarantine while the bungalow was sanitised. After news was flashed of Bharatsinh Solanki testing positive for Covid-19, Shaktisinh Gohil, newly elected Rajya Sabha MP, who spent the whole day with Solanki on Friday, decided to self-quarantine at his Delhi residence and canceled his Bihar trip. It is believed that the 67-year-old picked up the infection from someone at the Gujarat assembly. He was present at the assembly from 8:30 am to 10 pm on Friday, holding a number of closed door meetings with several senior Congress leaders including Gohil, GPCC chief Amit Chavda, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhaani and all the 65 Congress MLAs at the LOP’s office. He rode back to him home in Borsad directly from the assembly. During the day, Solanki was also seen at the polling area for a fairly long time, and met several BJP leaders including CM, dy CM Nitin Patel, state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and other ministers in the government. He even reportedly made a courtesy call to assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi. After being tested positive for Covid-19, there is a scare not just in the Congress camp, but among BJP leaders as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panic-in-political-circles-as-bharatsinh-solanki-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76521382.cms||Kapil Dave
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Archdiocese of Verapoly issues disaster preparedness circular||KOCHI: With the district facing the brunt of natural disasters in the past two years, Archdiocese of Verapoly (Varapuzha) has come out with a set of guidelines to prepare its members for a possible natural disaster in the coming months. The guidelines published as circular in the gazette of the archdiocese dated June 10 include formation of volunteer forums, creating helplines and making list of places that can be converted into relief camps and the maximum number of persons each camp can accommodate in the backdrop of Covid-19. “Now, we are going through the battle against Covid-19. We are anxious about the possibility of a flood. It is a fact that it would be difficult for our state to bear the brunt of another natural disaster. So, wWe can pray that there wouldn’t be another natural disaster this year. Still, it is good to take some precautions. For that I would like to inform you about the precautionary measures that we need to take, which would be coordinated by BCC (Basic Christian Communities) directorate and the Ernakulam Social Service Society,” Archbishop Joseph Kalathiparambil says in the circular. The main suggestions given out by the archdiocese include the formation of a central helpline and a forane-level helpline for coordinating relief efforts. The archdiocese also called for the formation of a Disaster Management Volunteers Forum in each parish. With the assistance of these forums, the archdiocese plans to find out the possible places where relief camps can be run. The circular also directs devotees to carefully wait for government directives and to take action to move affected citizens to camps only when it becomes necessary. In the circular, each parish has been asked to make arrangements to set up equipment to maintain cleanliness at relief camps. Archdiocese also aims to keep the records of people who need to be prioritized like differently-abled people, infants, bedridden patients, pregnant women, etc. Parishes have been asked to maintain a list of benefactors who made huge contributions to relief activities during the previous floods so that they can be approached again for help. Parishes would also collect details of all government officials associated with the area so as to contact them at the time of need. A contact list of all those in the archdiocese who are proficient in providing first aid would also be maintained by the archdiocese. WhatsApp groups in each parish would be formed to send emergency alerts and alerts relating to government announcements. BCCs, small family units in every parish, could be entrusted with finding a solution for safe keeping of documents and valuables. Archdiocese has also instructed its members to digitize their valuable documents as a precaution. The circular even pinpoints other general instructions like avoiding hesitation to move to camps, turning off power in case of water entering houses, promoting early shifting of families to houses of relatives in safe areas, donating food grains at homes to camps, etc. The archdiocese also asks its members to keep in their possession masks, sanitizers, emergency medicines, clothes, blankets, mats, etc. in case an urgent evacuation becomes imminent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/archdiocese-issues-disaster-preparedness-circular/articleshow/76516948.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Private health facilities in Punjab will go on strike today against state ordinance||CHANDIGARH: Private medical facilities across Punjab will remain closed on Tuesday on a call given by the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to press the state government to roll back the clinical establishment ordinance. IMA has locked horns with the state government over implementation of Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, which the government claims has been brought to regulate the private health facilities. The ordinance will come into force from July 1. The government and IMA are embroiled in a tussle at a time when the state is witnessing a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the situation demands that government and private health facilities must work together to control the spread of the virus. Irked by the enforcement of the new regulation, IMA asserts that it will lead to interference of the government in functioning of private hospitals and will also lead to increase in cost of treatment. The government, on the other hand, maintains that the regulation will help in ensuring that private health centres maintain minimum standards. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Terming the ordinance as ill-conceived, Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, said they were forced to resort to agitation as the government failed to redress their genuine demand. “Our struggle will continue till the government revokes controversial ordinance which will sound death knell for them, especially small and medium setups,” said Dr Mann. He, however, said that IMA stands in full support of the government in the fight against Covid-19 and there is no need for draconian law. The Punjab chapter of IMA is also at odds with the state government over its decision to increase medical education fee. Terming it as a blow to the healthcare sector, IMA asserted that fee hike will deprive meritorious students from middle class and poor families of their dream of becoming medical professionals. The body also demanded that stipend of interns, house surgeons and post-graduate residents be enhanced at par with Delhi and Haryana. It is also pressing for extension of last date for installing effluent treatment plant (ETP) in medical facilities by one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/private-health-facilities-in-punjab-will-go-on-strike-today-against-state-ordinance/articleshow/76519308.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Private health facilities in Punjab will go on strike today against state ordinance||CHANDIGARH: Private medical facilities across Punjab will remain closed on Tuesday on a call given by the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to press the state government to roll back the clinical establishment ordinance. IMA has locked horns with the state government over implementation of Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, which the government claims has been brought to regulate the private health facilities. The ordinance will come into force from July 1. The government and IMA are embroiled in a tussle at a time when the state is witnessing a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the situation demands that government and private health facilities must work together to control the spread of the virus. Irked by the enforcement of the new regulation, IMA asserts that it will lead to interference of the government in functioning of private hospitals and will also lead to increase in cost of treatment. The government, on the other hand, maintains that the regulation will help in ensuring that private health centres maintain minimum standards. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Terming the ordinance as ill-conceived, Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, said they were forced to resort to agitation as the government failed to redress their genuine demand. “Our struggle will continue till the government revokes controversial ordinance which will sound death knell for them, especially small and medium setups,” said Dr Mann. He, however, said that IMA stands in full support of the government in the fight against Covid-19 and there is no need for draconian law. The Punjab chapter of IMA is also at odds with the state government over its decision to increase medical education fee. Terming it as a blow to the healthcare sector, IMA asserted that fee hike will deprive meritorious students from middle class and poor families of their dream of becoming medical professionals. The body also demanded that stipend of interns, house surgeons and post-graduate residents be enhanced at par with Delhi and Haryana. It is also pressing for extension of last date for installing effluent treatment plant (ETP) in medical facilities by one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/private-health-facilities-in-punjab-will-go-on-strike-today-against-state-ordinance/articleshow/76528064.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Maya for govt, Oppn unity on China issue||Lucknow: Three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed an all-party meet on the China’s aggression along the border, BSP chief Mayawati has expressed complete confidence in the Centre’s ability to take appropriate action. Pushing for the government and Opposition parties to “show maturity” and work together for the world to see, she said: “In these challenging and difficult times, experts and people in general have various opinions on what India’s next step should be, but I think decisions regarding the country’s security should be left to the government.” BSP chief’s support for the BJP government comes at a time when many in the Opposition have raised questions about the Centre’s handling of the issue. In fact, last week when expressing her anguish over the incident, Mayawati had said that she was confident that the government will take the right step at the right time. In fact, she had even asked people to overlook the government’s shortcomings at this time and stand together in solidarity. Calling the killing of the 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, during the skirmish with China in Ladakh “extremely unfortunate”, Mayawati had said that the provocation came at a time when the “India government is making efforts to resolve the border dispute and tensions between both countries”. She has advised the Indian government to exercise extreme caution and meticulously plan its next step. “The country believes that the Indian government will take the right step at the right time to preserve India’s dignity and will not allow anyone to usurp even an inch of India’s land. It would be better that people forget about the government’s shortcomings and unite at this delicate time. This is the time for the government to prove itself to its people and meet their expectations,” she said. Mayawati’s support for the Centre comes even as she has largely endorsed the steps it has taken for the lockdown, even going so far as to blame Congress for the migrant crisis that led lakhs to leave the cities and return to their homes during the past two months. From a bitter battle against the ruling party in 2018 when it contested the Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party, Mayawati has come a long way, having said that she will not criticise the government for the sake of criticism and will provide issue based support to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-for-govt-oppn-unity-on-china-issue/articleshow/76519882.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Amritsar||Private health facilities in Punjab will go on strike today against state ordinance||CHANDIGARH: Private medical facilities across Punjab will remain closed on Tuesday on a call given by the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to press the state government to roll back the clinical establishment ordinance. IMA has locked horns with the state government over implementation of Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, which the government claims has been brought to regulate the private health facilities. The ordinance will come into force from July 1. The government and IMA are embroiled in a tussle at a time when the state is witnessing a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the situation demands that government and private health facilities must work together to control the spread of the virus. Irked by the enforcement of the new regulation, IMA asserts that it will lead to interference of the government in functioning of private hospitals and will also lead to increase in cost of treatment. The government, on the other hand, maintains that the regulation will help in ensuring that private health centres maintain minimum standards. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Terming the ordinance as ill-conceived, Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, said they were forced to resort to agitation as the government failed to redress their genuine demand. “Our struggle will continue till the government revokes controversial ordinance which will sound death knell for them, especially small and medium setups,” said Dr Mann. He, however, said that IMA stands in full support of the government in the fight against Covid-19 and there is no need for draconian law. The Punjab chapter of IMA is also at odds with the state government over its decision to increase medical education fee. Terming it as a blow to the healthcare sector, IMA asserted that fee hike will deprive meritorious students from middle class and poor families of their dream of becoming medical professionals. The body also demanded that stipend of interns, house surgeons and post-graduate residents be enhanced at par with Delhi and Haryana. It is also pressing for extension of last date for installing effluent treatment plant (ETP) in medical facilities by one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/private-health-facilities-in-punjab-will-go-on-strike-today-against-state-ordinance/articleshow/76528066.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Panic in political circles as Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki tests Covid-19 positive||GANDHINAGAR/VADODARA: Panic spread across Gujarat’s political spectrum on Monday after senior Congress leader and two-time state Congress chief Bharatsinh Solanki tested positive for Covid-19. Solanki, who was one of the Rajya Sabha nominees of the Congress, had met a host of political leaders including chief minister Vijay Rupani, senior BJP leaders and all Congress MLAs and leaders, on Friday last. The former union minister was at his native Borsad in Anand district, when he complained of fever and uneasiness. He was admitted at Bankers Super Speciality Hospital at Manjalpur at around 1 pm on Monday. “He had fever for last two days. His Covid-19 test which was done at other hospital turned out to be positive. His vital parameters are within normal limits. He is being treated by specialized Covid care team,” stated the health bulletin released by the hospital which has been empanelled by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation as dedicated Covid hospital. “He is not on oxygen or ventilator as of now,” the bulletin stated. Sources said that as Solanki tested positive, six servants including three male and three female working at his bungalow located at Beverly Hills in Borsad taluka of Anand district were also asked to remain under home quarantine while the bungalow was sanitised. After news was flashed of Bharatsinh Solanki testing positive for Covid-19, Shaktisinh Gohil, newly elected Rajya Sabha MP, who spent the whole day with Solanki on Friday, decided to self-quarantine at his Delhi residence and canceled his Bihar trip. It is believed that the 67-year-old picked up the infection from someone at the Gujarat assembly. He was present at the assembly from 8:30 am to 10 pm on Friday, holding a number of closed door meetings with several senior Congress leaders including Gohil, GPCC chief Amit Chavda, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhaani and all the 65 Congress MLAs at the LOP’s office. He rode back to him home in Borsad directly from the assembly. During the day, Solanki was also seen at the polling area for a fairly long time, and met several BJP leaders including CM, dy CM Nitin Patel, state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and other ministers in the government. He even reportedly made a courtesy call to assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi. After being tested positive for Covid-19, there is a scare not just in the Congress camp, but among BJP leaders as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panic-in-political-circles-as-bharatsinh-solanki-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76518436.cms||Kapil Dave
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||2 from Jalandhar drown in Canada||Jalandhar: Two students from Jalandhar who had gone to study in Canada have drowned separately within a week’s time. While a youth from Satkartar Nagar drowned on June 16, another from Waryam Nagar downed on Friday. Amarpreet Singh, resident of Waryam Nagar, had gone to Canada in December on a study visa and was enrolled in a college in Montreal. His family here received information that he had gone with his friends to a beach. While bathing, he went deep into the water and drowned even as he knew swimming. Sources close to his family said the youth’s cousin was also living there and it was he who informed the family. It is learnt the incident took place on Friday and his body was recovered a day later. The family received the information on Saturday night. Shivam Arora, who was Satkartar Nagar, drowned on June 16. His father, Sanjeev Arora, said the youth had gone to Canada in January last year to pursue a diploma course. He too had gone to the beach and could not swim out after entering deep waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-from-jalandhar-drown-in-canada/articleshow/76519340.cms||IP Singh
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||Elderly Covid-19 patient runs out of money, discharged from Gzb hosp||Bareilly: A 51-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private facility in Ghaziabad returned to his native town of Alapur in Budaun on Sunday after the hospital authorities discharged him after he “ran out of money”. The patient spent around Rs 2 lakh on his testing and treatment, but when all his money got exhausted, he was asked to leave the hospital, said his brother, adding: “Left with no option, my brother hired a private vehicle and then boarded a bus to reach Alapur.” After health department officials learnt about him, he was admitted to the government medical college in Budaun. “My brother first went to a government hospital in Delhi, where he was given medicines. But after his condition deteriorated, he went to a private hospital in Ghaziabad, where he tested positive for Covid-19,” the patient’s brother, a food vendor in Ghaziabad, told TOI. “He spent around Rs 2 lakh on the treatment. His two reports on June 13 and 19 tested positive. When he ran out of money, he was discharged from the hospital on June 20. He was given medicines for four days and advised to undergo 14-day home quarantine.” As my brother was alone in Ghaziabad, he would have faced difficulties in managing things, so he left Ghaziabad and reached Budaun around 2 am on Sunday by a private vehicle and then took a bus to Alapur, said the brother. “Although he stayed alone in a room at his house in the night, we alerted local officials on Sunday morning and even shared with them his test reports over WhatsApp. District officials later admitted him to a medical college in Budaun. We didn’t hide any information from anyone,” the brother told TOI. Chief medical officer Dr Yashpal Singh said, “As soon as local health workers active in the area informed us about the return of the Covid-19 patient, we shifted him to the medical college. He was tested positive in Ghaziabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-covid-19-patient-runs-out-of-money-discharged-from-gzb-hosp/articleshow/76516979.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1 lakh donors pooled in Rs 406.9cr for CM Covid fund||Lucknow: Joining hands with the government in fight against coronavirus, over 1 lakh donors have contributed Rs 406.9 crore for the CM’s Covid Care Fund which is being used for the purchase of equipment and machines to bolster medical facilities. According to additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, of the total funds collected, Rs 214.80 crore has been contributed through the CM’s Relief Fund while Rs 192.19 crore has come as donations from over 1 lakh individuals and outfits. The fund is being used to buy medical equipment like ventilators and TrueNat machines for early testing. Several legislators cutting across party lines and various government organisations have contributed to the fund.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has reiterated that one should not be scared of contracting coronavirus infection but should take precautions to prevent its spread. The government will also launch a massive awareness campaign in the coming week to inform people about ways to prevent the spread of the virus, steps being taken by the government to combat it and what should one do if one feels the symptoms. “At least 60-65% patients have recovered from infection in UP so one should not be scared of it. The CM has said that people should not be scared of coronavirus,” Awasthi said. As part of the campaign, hoardings and posters suggesting steps to prevent Covid-19 will be put up at primary and community health centres, police stations, blocks, tehsils, collectorate offices and ration shops “The government will make extensive use of television and radio to broadcast messages. All radio channels will be used for the purpose. The messages will not only tell people what they can do to prevent infection but also the steps that the government is taking. We will have messages for housewives, shopkeepers and those visiting vegetable markets. People will be informed about daily habits they should develop to prevent infection,” Awasthi said. He said Covid helpdesks would also be set up by next week. The information department has also been asked to take pictures of helpdesks and publicise them. All district magistrates have been asked to put up hoardings and banners to inform people about helpdesks. The chief minister has also asked all ministers to inspect helpdesks in areas assigned to them. The additional chief secretary (home) and senior police officials have been directed to inspect helpdesks set up in various offices of the police department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1-lakh-donors-pooled-in-rs-406-9cr-for-cm-covid-fund/articleshow/76519897.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Micro containment area residents say no to giving samples||Ludhiana: During a camp held for taking samples, when a health team visited the district’s first micro containment zone, New Model Town, on Monday, people said no to giving samples. 15 persons, including medical officers, ward councillor, other health team staff members and police officers visited the zone as five cases had been reported recently from there. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat had visited the areas last Wednesday, along with other health officials, and did an on-the-spot mapping, defined exact boundaries, along with the population in the zones, and declared it as the first micro containment zone. The department has taken immediate action in this connection, so that infection spread could be stopped. For the same, the department had sent a health team for sampling but people did not agree on giving them samples. Mansi, a resident of New Model Town, said, “No one was ready to give sample as the team came all of sudden without intimating us. We are not prepared and besides, in our area, we have already quarantined ourselves. We are taking care of ourselves on our own. We are not relying on the health department. We will get ourselves tested from the DMCH, but not by any health department team.” The micro zones are different from containment zones, as these zones department will not allow entry or exit, except for essential services. Pankaj Arora, another resident of the area, said, “ The team was there but I did not give sample. They have come back to take the sample but what is the use of giving sample as the patients have been discharged from the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/micro-containment-area-residents-say-no-to-giving-samples/articleshow/76518457.cms||Mehak Jain
June 23, 2020||Goa||Payment of vehicle tax, cess now on mobile app||PANAJI: Now, tax payments for various transport department services are just an app away. Minister for transport, Mauvin Godinho launched the android mobile app ‘Goa Transport’ on Monday. The app, developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), is currently available for downloading on the transport department’s website, https://www.goatransport.gov.in “The app is meant to reduce human interference during these tough times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, the world is marching ahead on the digital platform, and the transport department does not want to lag behind. Hence, I request people to download this app on their smartphones and make the best use of it,” Godinho said. While the app is meant to serve as a medium to pay transport taxes, the minister said they are also open to the possibility including other transport department services. “Later on, the app can be upgraded to include renewal of driver’s licence or have a feature to send reminders for insurance renewal and payment of pending dues,” he said. Right now, however, the features of the app will suffice for the user to pay taxes or cess without having to physically visit the regional transport offices (RTO) of their respective jurisdiction. The minister also launched a handbook based on the motor vehicles rules compiled by ND Agarwal. This handbook comprises laws under the Goa Motor Vehicles Act, 1991; Goa Daman and Diu (taxation of passengers and goods) Act, 1974 and rules; Goa Daman and Diu Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1974 and rules; and the Goa rural improvement and welfare cess Act 2000 and rules. “Our officers are often seen grappling to source information about transport laws from various sources. This compilation will serve as an easy reference for both transport officers and the public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/payment-of-vehicle-tax-cess-now-on-mobile-app/articleshow/76520312.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Wasim Jaffer appointed head coach of Uttarakhand cricket team||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) appointed former Indian cricketer Wasim Jaffer as the head coach of the Uttarakhand state cricket team on Monday. The appointment of the right-handed opening batsman was done through a telephonic interview conducted by CAU secretary Mahim Verma. This will be Jaffer’s first stint as the coach of a first-class side. He had announced his retirement from all forms of cricket in March this year. “Wasim Jaffer has helped Mumbai and Vidarbha in becoming domestic champions. Apart from the domestic success, he has played some excellent knocks in international cricket matches as well. I am quite sure that his experience will come in handy for our state,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wasim-jaffer-appointed-head-coach-of-uttarakhand-cricket-team/articleshow/76516964.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||HC to hear shrine board PIL next Monday||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court has listed BJP MP Subramanina Swamy’s PIL challenging the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act for final hearing next Monday. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe has been hearing the PIL since February. The petition argues that the Act goes against the freedom of religion and the right to manage the religious affairs under Article 25 and Article 26 of the constitution. The Devasthanam Act has brought control of 55 of the state’s temples with the state government including the Char Dham shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-to-hear-shrine-board-pil-next-monday/articleshow/76516975.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Jalandhar civic body fined Rs 25 lakh for flouting rules||JALANDHAR: After its failure to meet deadlines in implementing action plan to manage solid waste at Waryana waste dumping site and continuous violations of the solid waste management rules, Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman Prof Satwinder Singh Marwaha imposed “environmental compensation” of Rs 25 lakh on the Jalandhar municipal corporation. The compensation would be recovered by encashing bank guarantee of Rs 50 lakh, submitted earlier by the MC. The PPCB chairman has also asked the MC to get Environment Site Assessment (ESA) study prepared by a company of repute within one month to assess groundwater pollution as well as soil pollution caused by the Waryana dump site. As the decision was issued by the PPCB chairman after granting personal hearing to the MC, he also mentioned its repeated failure to adhere to timelines. The order also mentioned observations and recommendations by the National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed monitoring committee after a visit to the site, which were received by the PPCB on January 1, 2020. The order notes that when PPCB assistant environmental engineer visited the site on February 12 along with an MC official, he found that these recommendations had not been complied with by the MC. Observing that the Jalandhar MC was intentionally violating various provisions of solid waste management rules and had failed to comply with the decisions of earlier PPCB hearings, its chairman held that the MC and its officers were liable to face legal action under Rules 15 and 17 of the Environment Protection Act. Apart from levying the environment compensation, the PPCB also directed the Jalandhar MC to ensure that no solid waste would be dumped along the road leading to the dumping site; a proper boundary wall would be provided all around the dumping site within one month; a green belt would be developed around the dump site; a proper effluent treatment plant for leachate generating from dump site would be installed and commissioned within one month. The PPCB chairman also asked the MC to start work for the management of legacy waste by bio-mining technology by June 30 and to meet the target as per timelines of the action plan of the waste management submitted to the PPCB and to submit monthly progress report in seven days. The pollution watchdog also asked the regional office of PPCB Jalandhar to visit the dump site and submit a detailed report along with compliance in reference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-fines-jalandhar-mc-rs-25-lakh-for-violation-of-rules-linked-to-waryana-waste-dump-site/articleshow/76519329.cms||IP Singh
June 23, 2020||India||Pakistan shelling along LoC kills another soldier||JAMMU: An Army jawan was killed on Monday in Nowshera sector of Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district when Pakistan resorted to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) around 5.30am. A similar breach of truce took place along the LoC in Poonch and along the International Border in Kathua district. Havildar Dipak Karki was critically injured in the firing and later succumbed. This is the fourth soldier death on the Indian side during the current ceasefire violations by Pakistan. Pakistan has already violated the ceasefire more than 2,027 times till June 10 this year. The highest number of such violations by Pakistan in the previous 16 years was recorded in 2019 when it breached the truce 3,168 times. In 2018, there were 1,629 ceasefire violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-shelling-along-loc-kills-another-soldier/articleshow/76521028.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata doctors save Bhutan teen with rare heart disease caused by animal-transmitted parasite||KOLKATA: At a time, when the entire world had just started getting worried about how to tackle the novel coronavirus, an 18-year-old girl from Bhutan quietly won a battle against another lethal parasite, reportedly transmitted from sheep and dogs, in a Kolkata hospital. There have been only 10 known cases as hers across the globe. Luckily, she was cured and could fly back to her country just before international flights were stopped before lockdown. Ugyen Tshomo was suffering from a condition called hydatid disease of the heart, a parasitic infection. The parasite mainly affects lungs and liver. In her case, it had affected the heart, making it a rare case. “What makes this case extremely rare is the fact that it affected the heart of the patient. There has been only about 10 such cases reported in the world till date, in which the parasitic cystic disease affected the heart chamber,” said cardiothoracic surgeon K M Mandana, who conducted a cardiopulmonary bypass surgery to remove all the cysts, at Fortis Hospital Anandapur. Hydatid disease is considered endemic in livestock-rearing countries, like Turkey. But in those nations, the parasite mostly affects the liver and lungs. Of the 10 reported cases of cardiac hydatid cysts, a few have been from Turkey. The teenager from Bhutan had been suffering from chest pain and palpitations for about three years. She had cleared her Class-XII tests in 2019. But as her symptoms grew more aggressive, she had to discontinue her studies. “Her condition became so fragile that we had to admit her to Jigme Dorji Wangchuk National Referral Hospital, Paro, in December last year,” said Tshomo’s elder sister Tshering Zangmo. The Paro hospital that has a tie-up with Fortis, referred the girl to the Kolkata facility. An echo and later a CT scan revealed a large cyst with multiple daughter cysts inside Tshomo’s left ventricle. The cyst got formed on the inter-ventricular septum, the wall separating the ventricles, doctors said. The cyst had not only grown in size but also produced numerous smaller cysts. It had become like a balloon, which increased in size over time and was filled with fluid and daughter cysts. The cyst had filled 70% of the left ventricle. Doctors estimate that the parasite has been there for a few years. “The cyst had obstructed the flow of blood because of which she become unconscious a couple of times,” said Mandana. Doctors said that the cysts could have ruptured and caused anaphylactic shock, leading to death. But timely intervention by them saved Tshomo. “Now, I am looking forward to continue with my studies,” said the 18-year-old. Back in Bhutan, the girl is doing well. “We recently had a chat on skpye and we are happy that she is doing absolutely fine,” said Mandana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-doctors-save-bhutan-teen-with-rare-heart-disease-caused-by-animal-transmitted-parasite/articleshow/76519349.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tagged bird caught by BSF in Baju||JAIPUR: A tagged houbara bustard from Pakistan has been caught by the Border Security Force (BSF) in Baju near the international border in Bikaner district. The internationally protected bird species was handed over to the forest department on Monday. A forest staff member at Baju said, “A tag is attached to the bird. However, no transmitter has been found on it. It being contemplated that bird should be sent to the Jaipur or Bikaner zoo.” Experts claimed, the population of Houbara bird is rapidly declining and it is being bred under captive breeding in many Arabian countries including Abu Dhabi. To increase its population, the birds are tagged and released in Pakistan, Kazakhstan and other countries. This might be one of those birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tagged-bird-caught-by-bsf/articleshow/76519474.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||62-year-old marginal farmer killed over dispute||Pilibhit: A 62-year-old marginal farmer who was assaulted by four members of a family – including a father and his three sons – with sticks in Barua Kuthara village under Madhotanda police station on Sunday evening, succumbed to his injuries on Monday at the district government hospital in Pilibhit while undergoing treatment. A FIR in the matter was registered by the police on Sunday night against the four assailants. The deceased’s son Harish Chandra (35), who had filed the written complaint to the police, said that on Sunday evening his father Ram Bharose was collecting mangoes from his orchard when the accused persons barged in and tried to pluck mangoes from his trees. “When my father tried to restrain them from damaging the crop, he was brutally beaten by long sticks by the intruders. His younger brother Om Prakash, who rushed to rescue him, was also assaulted,” he said. “The two injured were shifted to Madotanda community health center where my father was referred to district government hospital in view of his critical condition. He breathed his last around 3am on Monday,” Chandra added. Station house officer (SHO) Shahroz Anwar said that the assailants were identified as Shankar Lal and his three sons – Vinod, Pappu and Harnam. They have been booked under sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent of provoking the breach of peace) of the IPC. Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was later added to the FIR. “The accused are absconding but they will be arrested soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/62-year-old-marginal-farmer-killed-over-dispute/articleshow/76517003.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath Sanctuary to collect security deposit from tourists carrying plastic items, and charge heavy fine if any items left behind||Dehradun: In an attempt to reduce usage of plastic items inside the forest, the Kedarnath forest division has decided to take a security deposit of Rs 100 per plastic item, like packets of instant noodles and biscuits, mineral water bottles etc from visitors going to Rudranath, an important Shiva shrine whose access is through the sanctuary. At the time of their return, the visitors need to show the plastic wrapper to retrieve the deposit, failing which they will be levied a penalty of Rs 5,000 for causing plastic pollution in the hills. Rudranath is located at 11,800 ft in the Garhwal Himalayas, a natural rock temple inside a dense forest of rhododendrons and alpine pastures. The forest houses a lot of wildlife that comes down from higher altitudes to the sanctuary in search of food. Forest officials said that presence of plastic waste could pose a threat to their lives. Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary DFO Amit Kanwar told TOI, “The presence of plastic in the environment is detrimental to both humans and wildlife. We want to reduce its presence from the periphery of Kedarnath, hence we took this step.” A similar measure was previously taken for Tungnath shrine, where visitors were supposed to submit Rs 500 for carrying plastic items. This shrine is also accessible through the Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary. The temple attracts a number of tourists as just 3 km before the temple is a famous tourist destination,Chopta, which is also known as 'mini Switzerland'. As per forest staff, considering the popularity of Chopta as a tourist destination, a higher security deposit has been set for Tungnath, as compared to Rudranath. Data accessed by TOI of waste collected at Chopta and Tungnath by the officials of the Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary at the sanctuary's exit point, indicates that 140 kg of plastic waste, including 7,400 plastic bottles, was collected by the sanctuary staff between April 2019 and May 2020. It is pertitent to note that though Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat had been claiming that the state will start imposing green tax on tourists, pilgrims and visitors to the state, so that the forest department can use the money for the upkeep of forests, nothing has fructified so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-sanctuary-to-collect-security-deposit-from-tourists-carrying-plastic-items-and-charge-heavy-fine-if-any-items-left-behind/articleshow/76516984.cms||Shivani Azad
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||Boy, 10, sodomized by two youths in a Bareilly village||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old boy was sodomized allegedly by two youths in a village in Aonla area of Bareilly on Sunday. Police have registered a case and arrested both the accused. According to the complaint, the boy was playing with his friends when the two local youths—Vishal, 19 and Vikas, 21 offered him sweets and took him along to a deserted place outside the village where they sodomized him. The accused also shot a video of the assault and threatened the boy to remain quiet about it. When the boy reached home, he told his father about the assault and the family lodged a complaint at Aonla police station on Sunday. The accused were taken into custody and Monday. Station house officer (SHO) of Aonla, Suneel Singh, said, “We have booked the accused under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and under POCSO Act. The victim was sent for medical examination and his statement was recorded in the presence of his father under section 161 of CrPC. The accused have been arrested and we are questioning them. They will be sent to jail soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-10-sodomized-by-two-youths-in-a-bareilly-village/articleshow/76516994.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Corona in Haryana: 11k & counting||Chandigarh: Death toll due to Covid-19 reached 169 in Haryana on Monday, after nine more persons succumbed to the infection, while 390 fresh cases took the total tally to 11,025. New cases have pushed the Covid positive rate and death rate to 5.07% and 1.53%, respectively. In Haryana, NCR districts continue to dominate in terms of new cases and Covid deaths. Of the nine fatalities, seven were reported in Faridabad (5) and Gurgaon (2). One death each was in Jhajjar and Rewari districts. Meanwhile, 359 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals. So far, 5,916 people have been cured of the infection. Now, Haryana has 4,940 active cases in the state, which include 73 critical patients. While 60 critical patients are on oxygen support, the remaining 13 are on ventilators. Of the fresh cases, 176 were in Faridabad, 85 in Gurugram, 31 in Rohtak, 22 in Rewari, 19 in Bhiwani, 10 in Karnal, nine in Panchkula, seven each in Mahendergarh and Jhajjar, four in Jind and three each in Sirsa and Kurukshetra. So far, 55,506 people have completed theor quarantine while 41,961 are still in institutional or home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corona-in-haryana-11k-counting/articleshow/76519902.cms||Manvir Saini
June 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Heat on private hospitals as staff quarantined||BENGALURU: With staff, including doctors in many private hospitals going into quarantine, day-to-day operations in many private hospitals are badly hit. A War Room bulletin issued on Sunday evening stated 18 healthcare workers in the city are infected, but sources in the private healthcare sector say at least 20 doctors have tested positive in Bengaluru alone. Doctors TOI spoke with said Bengaluru is fast going the Mumbai way. In Maharashtra, healthcare staffers catching the infection had disrupted management of the pandemic. Given the risks, PPE has been made mandatory for everyone — from security guards to directors — in hospitals where staff are in quarantine. At a leading private hospital in Indiranagar for instance, a doctor tested positive and about five key staffers had to go into quarantine. Two patients at Rangadore Memorial hospital tested positive, the latest on Sunday. “Staff besides two doctors, who treated the patients, are now in quarantine. This is likely to become a routine phenomenon with community spread in place and asymptomatic carriers becoming silent spreaders,” said Dr Rajkumar R, medical director, Rangadore Memorial hospital. Forty-nine staff at St Martha’s hospital were quarantined earlier, but all tested negative. “Our staff were quarantined long ago and they are back to work now,” said Dr Shashikanth R, medical officer, St Martha’s hospital. “We have three Covid-19 cases patients in the hospital and their condition is stable. We have set up a 16-bed ward each for suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19. All patients are screened first in the flu clinic as a safety measure.” A well-known rheumatologist is down with Covid-19 and in the ICU in a private hospital. The only possible exposure the doctor could have had to the virus was his patients, none of who showed any Covid-19 symptoms, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-hospitals-face-covid-19-heat-as-key-staff-go-into-quarantine/articleshow/76517985.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Lokayukta: Plug holes in micro-irrigation scheme in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Finding huge flaws and corruption in the pricing policy for implementation of micro-irrigation scheme of the Haryana horticulture department, the Lokayukta has asked the state government to evolve a procedure, so that the farmers get full benefit of the plan. The Haryana Lokayukta also directed the state government to complete the penal proceedings as per the two inquiry reports submitted by the state vigilance bureau (SVB) or by any other inquiry officer forthwith with regard to irregularities in the scheme. The Lokayukta also made recommendations to form a committee for strict supervision of such schemes to eradicate corruption. Besides, the state has also been told to submit an action taken report (ATR) regarding compliance of these recommendations. “After going through the entire records, it is clear as crystal that pricing policy prevailing in the State of Haryana in the year 2012- 2013 and 2013-2014 was not in strict adherence to the National Mission on Micro Irrigation (NMMI) guidelines. Registering a limited number of firms, who had quoted exorbitant rates, is on the face not only defective but dubious in nature… A pick and choose policy is being adopted by the horticulture department regarding the guidelines laid out in various schemes being implemented in the state,” the Lokayukta observed. Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal, the Haryana Lokayukta, passed these orders while hearing a complaint filed by Ram Kumar, a resident of Dulina village of district Jhajjar against the director general, deputy director (micro-irrigation) and the plasticulture specialist of the state’s horticulture department. According to the complainant, the respondents are responsible for loss/ misappropriation of around Rs 90 crore to the state exchequer, as they approved much higher rates of micro irrigation components as compared to the rates prevailing in the state of Gujarat. It was also alleged that the said micro-irrigation scheme was also not properly and effectively supervised and implemented with an oblique motive to grab the subsidy, in which the field and other officers of the headquarters had indulged and subsidy was issued in the fake names of farmers. It was also alleged that his complaint, dated November 6, 2012, in this regard to the then chief minister went unheard. During the hearing of the case, the superintendent of police (SP), Lokayukta, conducted a detailed investigation in the matter and pointed to flaws in the scheme. During the investigation, the department could not point out even a single instance in which the farmers negotiated the rates, and subsequently lower rates were charged by any of the firms, the SP has submitted in his report. While hearing the matter, the Lokayukta also found that at least in two inquiries conducted by the vigilance, the allegations were proved against some of the public servants, against whom no appropriate action has been taken to date by the department and there is no proper supervising system to eradicate such chances of corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lokayukta-plug-holes-in-micro-irrigation-scheme/articleshow/76519189.cms||Ajay Sura
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Ramp up Covid-19 testing across UP: CM to officials||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ramp up screening for Covid-19 across the state, moving out of containment areas to get a sense of how much the virus has spread. Asking officials to prepare a screening schedule based on geographical areas, Yogi has said that one lakh screening teams should be formed who should visit designated areas each week. “The CM has said that the entire area of the state should be covered comprehensively through the screening. In rural areas, for instance, all houses in every block and village should be covered, while in urban areas, screening should take place in every single ward,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. The screening should be effective, he said, with temperature and blood oxygen levels to be monitored using infrared thermometers and pulse oxymeters. For this, the CM added, all the necessary equipment, including sanitizers, should be made available to the teams. The screening should take place outside containment areas to assess whether the virus has spread to other areas as well. If someone is found displaying symptoms for Covid-19, immediate medical help should be sought. Meanwhile, Yogi has pushed for increasing testing to 25,000 tests per day while the Corona bed capacity should be increased to 1.5 lakh by the end of June. The state is average about 16,000 tests per day currently. While reviewing the status of the unlock, Yogi on Monday said that a special secretary level officer should be appointed to each district who will coordinate with the chief medical officers to strengthen the health services in the district, carry out ambulance service surveillance and ensure that all health facilities are in order. He has also asked for a report from the nodal officers who were sent to 11 sensitive districts. Special directions have been issued for PAC personnel who are not with their battalion at present. After cases among PAC personnel were reported, directions have been issued to keep all those personnel, who are not with their battalions currently, in safe places like schools. Meanwhile, Awasthi added that if there are any more workers, daily wagers or labourers in UP who belong to other states and want to return home, the state government will provide free passage to them and they should immediately contact the district administration for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ramp-up-covid-19-testing-across-up-cm-to-officials/articleshow/76519908.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Three test positive for novel coronavirus in Kodagu, two discharged in Madikeri||Madikeri: Three Covid 19 positive cases have been reported from Shanivarsanthe, Aluru Siddapur and Aiyangeri on Monday, taking the toal cases in Kodagu to five. A 26-year-old native of Aiyangeri, near Bhagamandala, who came from Mumbai via Mangaluru in buses on June 19, has tested positive He is being treated at the Covid hospital here. His contacts have to be traced and quarantined. A 40-year-old fruit merchant and a resident of Shirangala village near Shanivarsanthe, had travelled to Bengaluru and Gadag in a car returned to Kodagu on June 18. On Sunday, he went voluntarily for a checkup at the Covid hospital and tested positive. He has been admitted. Shirangala, with a population of 120, is being sealed down and the patient’s kin have been home quarantined. Authorities are trying to trace his contacts in Bengaluru and Gadag. Meanwhile, a woman who returned to Aluru Siddapur from Mumbai and was under home quarantine tested positive 14 days after her return on Sunday. She will be shortly shifted to the Covid hospital. An army soldier who came from Pune after taking leave was sent to the Covid hospital on Sunday when he reached Bhagamandala. However, he tested negative on Monday. He has requested health officials to allow him to stay in institutional quarantine at a hotel of his choice. Health department sources said a 26-year-old man and a 45-year-old woman who had tested positive in May and were in the Covid hospital since mid-May have tested negative. While the man was discharged on Monday, the woman will be discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-test-positive-for-novel-coronavirus-in-kodagu-two-discharged-in-madikeri/articleshow/76518072.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Govt gives districts funds for Covid relief works||Mysuru: Amid growing Covid 19 scare and skyrocketing expenses to take up relief works, the state government released Rs 7 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to Mysuru district to take up containment measures and relief works. Funds have been allocated to all 29 districts in the state, based on the requirements put forth by district authorities. According to a government circular dated June 20, Mysuru will get Rs 2 crore for relief measures including provision of temporary accommodation, food, clothing etc, while Rs 5 crore has been released for quarantine, sample collection, screening and other activities. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the district administration will use it to provide for nutritious food, clean hygienic facilities for quarantine centres and for providing essentials for screening, testing and other works. It can be recalled that in Mysuru district till June 20, 151 people tested positive for the Covid 19. Among them 112 are discharged. A total of 15,667 samples tested. Chamarajanagar which has reported just two cases, got Rs 60 lakh towards relief measures while Chikkamagalur got only Rs 30 lakh. Among other districts, Mandya got Rs 50 lakh, Hassan Rs 2 crore and Shivamogga Rs 3.2 crore. Kodagi has not been allocated any funds. According to revenue department authorities, Rs.79.6 crore has been released to 29 districts now. Belagavi received the highest amount Rs. 9.2 crores. As per the government order, all deputy commissioners are asked to ensure the money is spent on the specified purposes. Didn’t ask for money: DC We had money and had not asked for it. Rs 4.6 crore was given earlier. Apart from that we had more than Rs.12 crores with us. Now we got Rs 7 crore. Abhiram G Sankar, deputy commissioner, Mysuru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-gives-districts-funds-for-covid-relief-works/articleshow/76519611.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Six more KSRP personnel test positive||BENGALURU: Six constables attached to the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. All are tattached to the battalion stationed at the Koramangala centre. In all, 125 KSRP constables and head constables, identified as their primary and secondary contacts, have been quarantined. Earlier last week, five of their colleagues tested positive. “These 11 constables had worked in different containment zones, including Padarayanapura. They were deployed at Palace Grounds and Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre where thousands of migrant workers had gathered last month,” a senior police officer said. In all, 73 police personnel in Bengaluru city have tested positive. While seven were discharged, three died and the rest are under treatment. Meanwhile, a police constable attached to the District Crime Record Bureau in Tumakuru and his family were quarantined after their milk vendor tested positive on Sunday. “The milk vendor’s daughter and son-in-law had come from Bengaluru to visit her. Test reports on Sunday confirmed that the milk vendor was Covid positive,” a senior police officer said. Four positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from Tumakuru on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/six-more-ksrp-personnel-test-positive/articleshow/76518038.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Candlelight march for Sushant, CBI probe sought into his death||Ludhiana: Members of a social organisation held a candlelight march to pray for Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and demanded a CBI inquiry into his death. The group members said they would be handing over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, on Tuesday to be forwarded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Convener of Ludhiana for Justice Front (LJF), Vineet Pal Singh Monga said death of the actor doesn’t appear to be a suicide case and seems to be murder. He added that there was nepotism in Bollywood, wherein families of stars who are established they were being promoted and those coming from small towns and cities are not allowed to rise. LJF convener said it has come to fore that during the last some time, seven movie projects were taken away from the actor and as per a tweet he was ‘asked’ to work in serials only. “We wonder how an actor who about a year ago would say that no one should commit suicide, would allegedly do it. We suspect that he was strangulated to death by forcibly holding him and then his body was hung from a ceiling fan. He was talented and was rising so they didn’t tolerate that,” said Vineet Pal Singh Monga. “We are going to give a memorandum to DC for Prime Minister and home minister, requesting for a CBI probe into the matter.” Member of the group Jandeep Singh Toor said he had worked in Bollywood and he knew the ‘reality’ there. He alleged that nepotism that runs in Bollywood should be ended so that talented actors can rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/candlelight-march-for-sushant-cbi-probe-sought-into-his-death/articleshow/76518503.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||‘Record work opportunities’ under MGNREGA in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Around 1.15 lakh people received work opportunities under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) setting a new record this financial year, according to the development department of Pilibhit district in Uttar Pradesh on Monday.The benefits of the Central government scheme went mainly to the migrant labourers. Prior to this, the district had never crossed the "31,000 limit of providing work to labourers". The labourers were assigned work such as excavation of new ponds in gram panchayats and renovation of the existing reservoirs on government land.District development officer (DDO) Yogendra Singh said the administration has issued job cards to three lakh villagers under the MGNREGA in a total of 1,293 revenue villages under the district's 721 village panchayats. Of these, 1.81 lakh have been identified as active card holders. In addition, of the 45,000 migrant labourers who returned home during the Covid-19 lockdown period, 9,000 were issued new job cards, Singh claimed."During the financial year of 2020-21, the target of work under MGNREGA has been fixed for an initiation of 639 village ponds of which 59 ponds are new. Of these, work on 565 ponds is in progress while work has completed in 74 ponds," the DDO said.This project was set to generate 233,920 working days. In addition, the village panchayats created employment opportunities for the job card holders providing more than 150 types of construction and maintenance works.With regard to the key factors behind the record work opportunities this current financial year, the DDO said, "The huge inflow of migrants and of course the upcoming panchayat elections in UP played a major role."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/record-work-opportunities-under-mgnrega-in-pilibhit/articleshow/76517012.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 26 fresh cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada; returning migrants account for bulk of infections||MANGALURU/UDUPI: It was yet another grim day for the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, with 12 and 14 Covid-19 cases being reported respectively on Monday. In Udupi, of the 14 individuals who were confirmed infected on Monday, eight were people who had returned from Maharashtra, while in Dakshina Kannada, 11 of the dozen cases were traced to those who had returned home from the Middle East. The only other case reported in Dakshina Kannada district was of a 27-year-old resident of Mangaluru, who had a history of influenza like illness (ILI). The 14 fresh cases reported on Monday has pushed Udupi’s overall Covid tally to 1,077, placing it in the third spot on the district-wise list of the number of cases, with Bengaluru Urban (1,398) and Kalaburagi (1,226) occupying the top two slots. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that four individuals who tested positive in the district on Monday were primary contacts of a previously infected patient, while the health department personnel were tracing the source of the infection in the two other patients. As many as 969 patients have been discharged after recovering from the infection in Udupi, which currently has 108 active Covid cases. Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh, meanwhile, said that people who had returned from Qatar, Kuwait, Sharjah, Saudi Arabia and Muscat between June 15 and 19, and were in quarantine, accounted for 11 of the cases that the coastal district reported on Monday. Coincidentally, 12 patients were discharged from Wenlock Hospital on Monday, bringing the tally of the active Covid cases down to 187. The overall Covid count in Dakshina Kannada as on Monday stands at 435. Last Shramik special train leaves B’luru tomorrow Sindhu, meanwhile, said that the last Shramik special train would leave from Bengaluru, travelling to various states, on Wednesday. “We have made arrangements for migrant labourers wishing to return to their home states by the train to be taken to Bengaluru by KSRTC buses. They will not be charged for the journey to Bengaluru. Migrants keen on utilising this opportunity to return home must contact the officials concerned in the labour department,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/26-fresh-cases-in-udupi-dk-returning-migrants-account-for-bulk-of-infections/articleshow/76519816.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Reporter dies by suicide in Barmer, no note found||JAISALMER: A local reporter, Jog Singh Rajpurohit (25), of a Hindi daily committed suicide on Monday by hanging himself at home in Siwana area of Barmer district. The reason of suicide is not known. In last three days 10 people, including the reporter, have committed suicide in Barmer. Police are investigating the case. Siwana SHO Dawood Khan said that Rajpurohit, local correspondent of a Hindi daily, committed suicide by hanging at his room upstairs while his three children and wife were downstairs. Police reached the spot on getting information. Khan said that there was no suicide note near the deceased. Rajpurohit was preparing for a government job and had even attended coaching classes recently. There was no matter of dispute at home. Police are investigating the case. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reporter-dies-by-suicide-in-barmer-no-note-found/articleshow/76519379.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kolkata||New-normal Ratha Yatra: Rituals behind closed doors, no mela, jatra or khuti puja in West Bengal||KOLKATA: On Tuesday, the usual Ratha Yatra-related festivities will be missing in the city. The festival is not just about pulling the chariots of Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra, but also about beginning of the jatra (traditional open-stage theatre) season, the ‘khuti puja’ or ‘kathamo puja’ that marks the beginning of preparations for Durga Puja and small- and medium-sized fairs. The Chitpore Jatra Para looked desolate with most units shut and those that were open said that no booking has come because of the Covid situation. Most Puja organisers have deferred ‘khuti puja’ waiting for a better time to roll in, if at all this year. Iskcon had earlier cancelled the pulling of the chariots in both Kolkata and Mayapur. The yatras at Mahesh and Guptipara, both in Hooghly that go back 600 years and 300 years, respectively, were also cancelled. However, Iskcon and the temple committees of Mahesh and Guptipara have said that puja and bhog offerings to the deities will happen behind closed temple doors without public participation. The Albert Road Temple of Iskcon has been cordoned off so that devotees don’t crowd the area and a unique celebration has been organised that will be broadcast live on YouTube and Iskcon’s own TV channel. The ground floor of the temple, which houses the Govinda’s restaurant, has been converted into Gundicha Temple and the three deities — Lord Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra — will be physically carried from the first floor by monks and brahmacharis following all social-distancing protocols. They will reside in this ground floor arrangement till Ulta Ratha, which takes place after eight days. Bhajan, kirtan, offering of the chappan bhog will happen here. Three small model rathas have also been kept and the deities will be invoked to enter them, though not physically, explained spokesperson Radharaman Das. At Mayapur, pathways have been created and the three chariots will be symbolically pulled by monks and pujaris only. The usual prayers and offerings will be made and the entire programme will be telecast live on Mayapur TV. However, gates of the Mayapur temple complex will remain shut. The special initiative of digital Ratha Yatra, Mercy on Wheels, where the Lord arrives virtually at devotees’ homes, has seen 7,000 registrations from 90 countries. Pujas will happen inside the Jagannath temples of Mahesh and Guptipara keeping with traditional norms. “We will follow all rituals behind closed doors. No one, apart from the pujari and select helpers, will be allowed to participate this time,” said Gora Chand Adhikari, spokesperson of the Mahesh temple. (With inputs from Falguni Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-normal-ratha-yatra-rituals-behind-closed-doors-no-mela-jatra-or-khuti-puja/articleshow/76519383.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Can’t stay shut all day, say Bengaluru traders||BENGALURU: The government’s decision to lockdown some parts of Bengaluru to in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19, has elicited mixed reactions in market areas. Some traders have urged the government to permit them to run their businesses for a few hours every day. The state government on Monday announced a lockdown in pockets of KR Market, Siddapura, VV Puram and Kalasipalya. However, Wholesale trade associations in City Market and areas around are divided over the government’s decision. Even before the government took the call on Monday, some trade associations declared a self-lockdown blocking roads in and around Chickpet. Not all supported the measure though. Sajjan Raj Mehta, trade activist, said they will extend all support to the government. “However, they must ensure businesses are protected. They need to allow us to operate for a few hours with prescribed norms.” Asked how other trade associations had extended support, he said the government needs to understand that the lockdown would affect thousands of lives. A meeting was convened by Gandhinagar MLA Dinesh Gundurao of the Congress where trade associations agreed to follow lockdown norms for seven days, provided they are allowed some time to do business every day. However, Gautam Lunkad, secretary, Electrical Merchants Association, who had announced the self-imposed lockdown, said, “As cases in Bengaluru are increasing sharply by the day, we took a call to shut operations for seven days. We received overwhelming response from electrical traders. We are not going to operate for the next seven days.” Many shops in the area stayed shut on Monday, while barricades were erected at major junctions to prevent people from entering the area freely. About 1.5 lakh people visit the area every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cant-stay-shut-all-day-say-bengaluru-traders/articleshow/76517787.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||4.78L calls on helpline in 60 days||Chandigarh: A state-level control room set up by various departments of Haryana government to exchange information related to Covid pandemic during the nationwide lockdown received 4,78,369 calls, of which 4,54,000 calls were answered, over the 60 days from March 24 to June 21. Going by this data, the control room answered at least five calls every minute. An official said 1,40,096 calls were related to health and 3,06,684 calls were general. He said 95% calls were successfully answered with an average waiting time of less than 10 seconds. Similarly, tele-counseling was also made available to 31,592 persons. In a meeting of chief ministers, chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah, the health secretary had appreciated Haryana’s state-level control room for helping citizens. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-78l-calls-on-helpline-in-60-days/articleshow/76519911.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, Covid casualties cross 100, tally reaches 4,251||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 outbreak showed no signs of slowing down in Punjab on Monday as 177 new cases were reported and two people died of the virus, taking the tally to 4,251 and the death count to 101. This is the eighth consecutive day when Punjab has gotten more than 100 cases in a day. The state was able to maintain its recovery rate as 125 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. Of those who tested positive, eight are police personnel, one is a teacher and three are BSF jawans. Source of infection of 17 patients is outside Punjab. Jalandhar got the highest cases during the day, 46. While 13 patients are contacts of people who had tested positive, source of infection is yet to be traced in 23 cases. Ludhiana got 34 new patients, of which 23 are contacts of positive cases and source of infection in five cases could not be traced. In worst-hit district Amritsar, 28 new cases were reported. Also, 15 cases were reported in Sangrur, 13 in Fazilka, seven each in Pathankot and Ferozepur, five in Patiala, four in Bathinda, three each in Muktsar and Faridkot, two each in Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, Tarn Taran, Gurdapur and Nawanshahr, and one each in Moga and Kapurthala. Both deaths took place in Ludhiana. Among the cops who tested positive, three are posted in Ludhiana, and one each in Sangrur, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Bathinda and Fazilka. The BSF personnel are posted in Fazilka. While state authorities said 28 cases were reported in Amritsar, distrcit authorities reported 35 fresh cases, including two policemen. According to an official, 28 persons with influenza-like infection tested positive and remaining seven were contacts of Covid-19 patients. They have been isolated in the civil hospital, while other employees of the branches have been quarantined. “Four patients hail from Mallanwala, a rural town in Ferozepur district, two from Ferozepur city and one from Khere Ke Uttar village,” said Ferozepur sub-divisional magistrate Amit Gupta. Earlier, Ferozepur ADC (development) Ravinder Pal Singh had caught coronavirus infection and 23 staff members at the local zila parishad were home quarantined. (With inputs from Bathinda, Amritsar and Ferozepur) otal Summary till Date otal suspected cases | 246760 Total samples sent | 246760 otal patien s tested positive | 4,251 Total deaths | 101 Cured | 2,825 Active Cases | 1,325||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-punjab-covid-casualties-cross-100-tally-reaches-4251/articleshow/76519920.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ajmer||Bisalpur dam’s June water level highest in 25 years||AJMER: The Bisalpur dam is holding highest level of water in the month of June since the last 25 years. With Monsoon approaching, first spell of showers are likely to lead to the dam overflowing. The officials are optimistic that even if monsoon fails this year, there will still be water for uninterrupted supply to Jaipur, Ajmer and Tonk till September 2021. On Monday, water level in Bisalpur dam was 312.92 metre, against its maximum height of 315.50 metre. The first supply from the Bisalpur dam was started in 1995 to Ajmer and ever since then, the water level of the dam in the month of June has never remained this high. AEN Bisalpur dam Ramniwas Khati said that the dam has sufficient water to supply to Jaipur, Ajmer and Tonk for the next one year. He said that one good rain in catchment area of Bisalpur dam will certainly lead to the dam overflowing. It is estimated that only 300 MM of rain in the dam’s catchment area is required for it to overflow. At present the water production from the dam is about 2cm to all the three districts of Jaipur, Ajmer and Tonk, which is around 900 MLD. From this, a daily average of 580 MLD water is supplied to Jaipur, 310 MLD to Ajmer and 40 MLD to Tonk. With its height being 315.50 metre, the gates of the dam are usually opened when the water level touches 314 metre. Last year, all the gates of the dam remained open for 63 consecutive days and the water level of the dam remained over 315.50 metre for 85 days. Officials said that rainwater from Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh and Tonk runs towards the catchment area of Bisalpur dam and the main sources of water for the dam are Banas, Khari and Dai rivers. These three seasonal rivers meet at Triveni and the water starts flowing towards Bisalpur. The Bisalpur dam overflowed for the first time in 2004, and then in 2006, 2014, 2016 and 2019. In 2009, the water level in Bisalpur dam had plunged to just 300 metre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bisalpur-dams-june-water-level-highest-in-25-years/articleshow/76519386.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: First year college admissions to commence from July 15||PANAJI: Though results of the Class XII state board exams will be declared this week, general stream colleges will begin their admissions to the first year of the degree programmes only from July 15. Goa University (GU) has already sent a circular to colleges telling them that the entire admission process to the first year for the academic year 2020-21 will be held online this year. Sources said that the directorate of higher education is in the process of testing an online integrated management system for all general stream colleges in the state and is set to bring all general stream colleges in the state under this system. The admissions to first year BA, BSc, BCom, BBA and other general streams programmes will be held online through this software. “The directorate of higher education has already floated the tender and appointed an agency, and presently testing of the system is on. Many colleges had already started carrying out admissions online during the previous years. But this was done through the institutes’ own systems. Now, the directorate will bring all colleges under one system, which will bring uniformity in the admission process,” said a source. This will mean that 100% admissions to general stream programmes will be carried out online this year. This has also has become a necessity as colleges have to ensure that no crowding takes place during the admission process due to the pandemic. As colleges wait for the directorate to make the integrated management system operational from July 15, institutes have decided to use the time between when the Class XII results are announced this week till the second week of July to create awareness among students about the subject combinations available for degree programmes. Most colleges will make their prospectus available free of cost online by next week. “We have made three career guidance videos and are circulating them among students to raise awareness about the career options available to them. Besides the general information on career options, the videos also speak about the different subject combinations available to students at our college. We will also make our prospectus available online for students to access free of cost. We will make some copies of the prospectus available at the college too, just in case some students would prefer the hard copy,” said Manoj Kamat, principal of Shree Mallikarjun College of Arts and Commerce, Canacona. GU in a circular issued last week has said that the modalities for online admissions will be communicated separately to colleges. “The principals of affiliated colleges offering general education programmes are hereby informed that the process of admissions to the first year for the academic year 2020-21 shall commence from July 15, 2020 and shall be conducted online. Principals are requested not to start the admission process for the aided as well as self-financed programmes before July 15,” GU has said in a circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-yr-college-admissions-to-commence-from-july-15/articleshow/76519921.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 23, 2020||Goa||Sun shines as monsoon activity slows down||PANAJI: After days of heavy showers, the south west monsoon was weak over Goa on Monday with only light to moderate rainfall occurring at most places over the state. Most rainfall (in cm) was experienced in Quepem and Ela, Old Goa, at 3cm each. Canacona, Margao and Pernem received 2cm each, while Panaji, Sanquelim, Valpoi, Dabolim and Mormugao received 1cm each. The India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, has attributed the reason for the reduced monsoon activity to the weakening or diminishing of circulation that was over the North Konkan region. Also, monsoon currents are governed by different atmospheric features in northern and southern hemispheres. “As a result, monsoon is expected to have dry spells in between. It’s usual that sometimes due to position and strength of these features cause monsoon winds to strengthen and weaken. When conditions become favourable the next spell of wet days start,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. He said that currently, there is an upper air circulation over Odisha which will enhance wind speed at about 1.5km over Goa owing to which some rain is expected. Rain, however, may not be as heavy and continuous as the showers seen on June 16, 17 and 18, he said. In its weekly forecast, the IMD has said that light to moderate rainfall is very likely at most places over the state for next five days starting from June 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sun-shines-as-monsoon-activity-slows-down/articleshow/76520352.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Cop injured after attack by husband in Kota||KOTA: A 35-year-old woman constable posted at police lines sustained injuries after her husband attacked her with a knife, near Saraswati Colony under Borekheda police station of the city on Monday. Police arrested the husband and initiated investigation in the matter. The police constable, identified as Yasmeen Bano (35), who currently lives in a government quarter in the city police lines, sustained injuries on her hand, after her husband, identified as Mohammad Rais, a resident of Borekheda area, attacked her when she was coming out of the Kota city SP office, said SHO at Borekheda police station Mahendra Meena. The woman constable was accompanied by her ex-husband whom she had divorced, the SHO added. Initial investigation revealed that a dispute was underway between the constable’s husband Mohammad Rais and her ex-husband and that she was currently living with her ex-husband, whom she had divorced. There are also a couple of cases between the husband and ex-husband of the constable, lying pending in various police stations of the city, the SHO said. The woman constable was reportedly coming out of city SP office after submitting a complaint against her current husband to the SP on Monday noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-injured-after-attack-by-husband-in-kota/articleshow/76519389.cms||Rajendra sharma
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Spurt in HP, 54 new cases take tally to 727||Shimla: Fifty-four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 727. The highest number of new cases was reported from Hamirpur district, 16. It was followed by Una (13), Kangra (10), Bilaspur (5), Solan (4), Shimla (3), Sirmaur (2) and Mandi (1). All those who tested positive have come from other states. Twelve patients were discharged too — seven from Sirmaur, two each from Una and Kangra and one from Mandi. With this, the number of people who have recovered is 429. Among other cases, 279 are active, 11 are of patients who have migrated out of state, six have died, and two have died due to reasons other than Covid. In Kangra, deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the patients included three men and a 16-year-old girl who returned from Delhi, three members of a family who had returned from Mumbai, a 15-year-old boy from Rakh whose father had tested positive, and a 42-year-old man and his 11-year-old daughter from Panjlehar village in Nagrota Bagwan who had returned Faridabad. As on Monday, Bilaspur district has 37 positive cases, of which 14 are active and 23 of recovery, Chamba has 44 positive cases (8 active and 35 recovery), Hamirpur has 182 positive cases (70 active, 111 recovery and one casualty), Kangra has 191 positive cases (70 active,120 recovery and one dead), Kinnaur has three positive cases (two active and one recovery), Kullu has five positive cases (two active and three recover), Mandi has 24 positive cases (two active, 20 recovery and two dead).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spurt-in-hp-54-new-cases-take-tally-to-727/articleshow/76519925.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Locust attacks in Jaipur’s rural areas||JAIPUR: The district saw another spell of locust attack in 4 villages - Harnathapura, Sanga ka Bas, Kanarpura and Ghinoi - on Sunday. This was the 24th attack in the district since May 20. The operations continued from 2am to 8am on Monday morning. District’s agriculture department and locust warning organization (LWO) carried out operations to eliminate the swarms on early Monday morning. The teams started the operations during the intervening night of June 21-22 when they got information about the locust attacks in these villages. “The four localtions include Harnathapura, which is in Jhotwara; Sanga ka bas (Hingonia), Kanarpura and Ghinoi in Chomu. We controlled the locusts using over 150 litres of pesticides - lemda silthrin (5%) and chloropyriphos,” said B R Karwa, deputy director, agriculture zila parishad (extension). In a bid to control locust attack and combat the crisis in Jaipur, the administration is conducting training sessions for the block-level officers by experts in the field (entomologists) from June 15. The training programmes started from Jothwara, Sanganer and Shahpura on June 15 and will continue till June 24. On June 23, training session will be held in Amber and Paota and on June 24 in Dudu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-attacks-in-jaipurs-rural-areas/articleshow/76519394.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Migration leaves schools guessing over student numbers||PANAJI: Over the last few months, thousands of migrant families have left Goa for their home states. And when schools reopen for the new academic year 2020-21, if these families do not return, the impact will be felt the most on government school enrollment numbers. Education officials informed that the directorate of education has asked all schools to provide their enrollment numbers of the new academic year 2020-21 by this week. For many schools it is already proving to be a challenge to gauge the enrollment for the new academic session. Many migrant families are not responding to calls from schools or their phone numbers are now not contactable. In some cases, schools have asked teachers to visit the students’ homes, in cases where they were residing closer to the institute. But teachers are finding the rented accommodations vacant. “Teachers have been told to use contact numbers of migrant families to call them and find out if they are still in Goa or have left the state. Teachers have also been told to ask the families if they are likely to return and, if they are, then by which date they are expected back. This information will help us plan for the new academic year,” said an official. Already hundreds of government primary schools in Goa are on the brink of closure having an enrollment of 20 or less students from Class I to IV. Two to eight such schools shut each year for want of students. In case of government primary schools in urban areas, many a time, migrant students form the major chunk of the enrollment. Some schools said they have decided to take the free raincoats, uniforms and notebooks meant for primary school students from the taluka office only after they confirm how many students are expected to join school when it reopens. They worry that otherwise the procurement may go unutilised. In areas where the schools are located inside containment zones, the process of assessing student numbers will be delayed further. “In Mormugao area itself, at least three government primary schools are located inside containment zones. Police patrolling the area are not allowing teachers to move around and teachers are also afraid for their safety. It will be very difficult to assess the enrollment in schools in these areas for some time now,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migration-leaves-schools-guessing-over-student-nos/articleshow/76519924.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||4 Quepem families on pins as nurse tests Covid-19 positive||QUEPEM: Anxiety is rife among four families at Igramoll, Quepem, as a nurse from Gonvoll, Cotombi, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday night, had visited them and stayed overnight with one family after her first test on Saturday. The health worker had visited the primary health centre (PHC) at Quepem on Saturday morning after getting a mild fever. She was admitted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda on Sunday night after test reports indicated that she was infected by Covid-19. Upset residents of Gonvoll and Igramoll said the nurse should have self-quarantined till she obtained her test reports. “She visited her relatives and stayed overnight at Igramoll on Saturday night, and also visited three other houses on Sunday morning,” Avedem sarpanch Alleluia Afonso, said. Gonvoll falls under the jurisdiction of the Avedem-Cotombi-Chaifi panchayat. Medical officer at the Quepem PHC, Dr Rashmi Dessai, told TOI that swabs of 28 contacts have been collected. “The remaining tests of the families at Igramoll will be conducted on Tuesday morning,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-quepem-families-on-pins-as-nurse-tests-ve-for-virus/articleshow/76519928.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, varsities conduct doctoral defences online||KOCHI: After relying on online classes and examination amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the universities in the state are now conducting PhD open defences too online. The move is in the background of widespread disruption in the conduct of doctoral viva due to the Covid-19 crisis and uncertainty over resuming normal functioning of educational institutions prevails. While Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), MG University, Central University of Kerala, etc. have started it, many other varsities like Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, plans to start it soon. Besides doctoral defences, MPhil viva-voce examination too are now conducted online by universities. The decision will be beneficial for students who have been waiting for more than three months after submission of the thesis due to the lockdown as they will not have to miss the opportunities of applying for jobs and higher studies. “One of the main reasons for opting the online medium is the difficulty in travelling for examiners, mostly senior professors from universities in other states, during the lockdown. Though students prefer offline defences due to the benefits like direct interaction and contact with the examiner, satisfaction in presenting the thesis before a live audience, etc, universities do not entertain postponement of presentation date considering the rising Covid-19 cases. Network connectivity issue, continuous exposure to computer screens during the presentation, virtual audience, etc. were concerns initially but the defences went well as scheduled,” said Aswathy Nair, associate professor, Central University of Kerala, who was the guide for a PhD scholar who completed her presentation last week. Controller of examinations at Cusat Benjamin Varghese said that the online conduct of the defences gives the advantage of getting renowned professors and scientists as examiners, which is very difficult to happen in normal times. “It is true that online presentation will not be as satisfactory as offline presentation . But it went well as expected and audiences’ response too was good,” said Princy Peter, a PhD scholar of NIT Calicut. KTU conducts PhD interviews onlineAPJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has published the list for PhD admission after conducting the interviews online for the first time. The university has selected 209 applicants for PhD registration for the 2019-20 academic year. The online interviews were conducted by a panel of over 30 external experts from premier institutes like IITs and NITs. Students can find the list of the selected candidates on the official website of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-varsities-conduct-doctoral-defences-online/articleshow/76517089.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||May resort to NSA, extern gangsters: IGP||PANAJI: In the aftermath of the Santa Cruz shootout that sent shockwaves across the state, Goa police said that the force has a zero tolerance approach to guns and gang culture. Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh on Monday asked police personnel to comtemplate preventive action against habitual offenders and “budding criminals”. “Action might include externment, and if required, invoking of stringent provisions of the National Security Act (NSA),” said Singh. “District SPs have been asked to prepare a list of 10 habitual and budding criminals in their jurisdiction and initiate action against them.” The SP (crime) has also been directed to launch a drive against organised crime like matka.” After the shootout on Saturday morning, police recovered one country-made pistol, two country-made revolvers, four swords and two choppers from the accused persons. Singh said that the force has come down heavily on the perpetrators of the crime, in which one Sonu Yadav, 25, died of a gunshot in the chest. The IGP said that in addition to the arrest of seven persons, three more were arrested on Sunday — Yasin, 23, resident of Taleigao, Sahil, 18, resident of Caranzalem, and Jayesh, 23, resident of Santa Cruz. Prasoon said that four more were arrested on Monday. Yadav, Singh said, was seriously injured when the armed mob reached the house of Imran Bepari and damaged his vehicles. Some shots were fired in the air too, and in this melee, Yadav was mistakenly killed by his own associates, Singh said. Old Goa police registered two cases in the matter — a case of rioting and attempt to murder, and a case of murder. Provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, were also invoked against the accused for their illegal possession and misuse of firearms. Sections pertaining to criminal conspiracy have also been added, and North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said that police are on the lookout for other conspirators. Multiple teams are working on the case. During the course of investigation, it was discovered that a few of those arrested have previous criminal records. One of the accused persons, Marcelino Dias, was earlier not traceable and had recently returned from Thane, Maharashtra. He was involved in a case of assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/may-resort-to-nsa-extern-gangsters-igp/articleshow/76520349.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Loans without collateral: Haryana starts website||CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched a web portal — https://atmanirbhar.haryana.gov.in — of ‘Haryana Interest Waiver Scheme’. He said this portal would help the people of the state take loans without any collateral and that the state government would bear 2% interest. He said three types of loans can be availed through this portal — Differential Rate of Interest Scheme (DRI) Loan, Shishu Loan (Mudra Scheme) and Education Loan. Under DRI scheme, people from rural areas with family income of Rs 18,000 per month and people in urban areas with a family income of Rs 24,000 per month will be given loans without any collateral. The requirement of a family income certificate has been simplified by linking Aadhaar with Parivar Pehchan Patra, he said. If a person wants to start a new business or wishes to expand his business, he can get a loan of up to Rs 50,000 without any collateral under Shishu Loan (Mudra Yojana) through this portal, the spokesperson said. Watch Loans without collateral: Haryana CM launches web portal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/loans-without-collateral-hry-starts-website/articleshow/76519929.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Soon, online classes in tribal dialects||KOZHIKODE: To help tribal children overcome the language barrier, education department will soon start imparting online lessons in their own dialects. Lessons of Class I broadcast on KITE Victers Channels have been translated into six tribal dialects in Wayanad as a first step. Students from tribal communities, who are accustomed to their distinct dialects, have been finding the medium of instruction (Malayalam) difficult. They find it hard to comprehend lessons and communicate. Experts say the language barrier for tribal students becomes all the more accentuated during online education due to the limited face-to-face interaction. The language barrier has been one of the main reasons for the high dropout rates among tribal students in Wayanad, which has the highest tribal population in state. Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) state project director Kuttikrishnan A P said that online classroom lessons for lower-primary classes will be imparted in seven tribal dialects across platforms. He said that though education department had already drawn up many initiatives to bridge the language divide for tribal students by printing bridge materials in tribal dialects, it couldn’t be put to use in the new academic year in the absence of regular classes. “Imparting online lessons in tribal dialects would help them a lot. As the existing schedule in Victers Channel is packed, we plan to impart classes in tribal dialects through YouTube channel of SSK and other platforms. Tribal volunteers and mentor teachers can show it to students,” he said adding that content in tribal dialects is also being prepared in Idukki and Malappuram. In the past, Wayanad had appointed 241 tribal mentor teachers in Palakkad and 26 in Palakkad. District project coordinator in Wayanad, Abdul Azees M said that SSK has completed preparation of online lessons modelled on the classes aired by Victers Channel for Class-1 in Paniya, Adiya, Kattunayikka, Kurichiya, Oorali and Kuruma dialects. “For tribal student, their distinctive tribal dialect is their mother tongue. It is to overcome language barrier that bridging materials were prepared in tribal dialects. Now as we have to depend on online classes, we have decided to impart online classes in tribal dialects,” said DDK programme officer in Wayanad O Pramod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soon-online-classes-in-tribal-dialects/articleshow/76517096.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Cuncolim citizens told to avoid travel||PANAJI: The chief officer of Cuncolim Municipal Council on Monday requested people from Cuncolim to avoid travelling to neighbouring Ambaulim and Ambelim after positive cases were detected in the area. Vendors from infected areas have also been requested not to carry out any trade in the jurisdiction of Cuncolim. till the situation improves. People in Cuncolim were advised to avoid travelling to neighbouring areas which have Covid positive cases in order to stay safe. Ambelim has 15 positive cases as of Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cuncolim-citizens-told-to-avoid-travel/articleshow/76519935.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: BBAU to promote students after evaluating performance||LUCKNOW: In a relief to around 4,000 students, Dr Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) has decided to promote all its students on the basis of their performance in internal examinations of the current semester and total marks scored in previous semester. Following the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC), BBAU has directed its faculty members to evaluate all students on the basis of internal assessment (50%) and performance in previous semester (50%). BBAU spokesperson Rachna Gangwar said, “Those students who were absent or have failed in examinations will be evaluated on the basis of assignments or other academic work given to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bbau-to-promote-students-after-evaluating-performance/articleshow/76519932.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Record 2,710 cases in a day, Tamil Nadu Covid-19 tally crosses 62,000||CHENNAI: No district was left untouched as Tamil Nadu recorded its highest-ever daily count of 2,710 cases on Monday. The total number of cases in the state soared to 62,087 and the toll reached 794 after 37 deaths. While Chennai continued to remain the worst-hit district with 1,487 fresh cases, Madurai, which will go into lockdown from Wednesday, recorded 157 cases. In the north, Tiruvannamalai logged 139 fresh cases followed by Chengalpet (126), Tiruvallur (120), Kancheepuram (56) and Cuddalore (63). Three other districts that recorded more than 50 cases were Tuticorin (63), Ranipet (52) and Trichy (51). The doubling time – period taken for the total number of cases to double – has been pushed to 16 days (with a seven-day average) in Tamil Nadu and 18 days in Chennai, as per calculations by epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. The doubling rate for TN was two weeks and a day less for Chennai on June 14.While this indicates a slight slowdown in the infection rate, districts such as Madurai, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore have seen more than 2% growth in the number of cases since June 15. These three districts have seen the highest growth in fresh cases, besides Chennai and its three neighbours. While district administrations said people from Chennai and adjoining areas were bringing the infection into their region, health minister C Vijayabaskar maintained that cases were high because of the aggressive testing strategy. The 87 authorised testing labs, including 46 government labs, run to full capacity in three shifts, he said. The state, he said, follows a aggressive and focussed testing policy. “We even put CM to RT-PCR tests and his results returned negative,” he said. The state has tested more than 9.1lakh samples compared to7.7 lakh in Maharashtra, he said. On Monday, the state had tested 25,234 people compared to 29,963 on Sunday. Fever camps were being conducted across containment zones for early diagnosis, testing, isolation and treatment of positive cases. Of the 37 casualties, 10 died with 24 hours of admission. While 23 of them were above 60 years of age, there were two people in their 30s, six each in their 40s and 50s. The total death toll, however, did not include more than 200 Covid deaths in Chennai registered by the civic body, but not recorded in the state count. On Monday, 1,358 people were declared fit for discharge by doctors. “So far 34,112 people have recovered from the illness. Our recovery rate is above 55% due to effective treatment given by doctors and staff,” he said. Many doctors including Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi have tested positive for the infection, but most of them return to work after the mandatory period, the health minister said. While the state and medical teams have been doing their bit, the incidence can be brought down only if people stay indoors, wear masks when they step out, follow hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/record-2710-cases-in-a-day-tn-covid-tally-crosses-62000/articleshow/76528776.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA board approves Rs 290 cr budget for 2020-21||Dehradun: The board members of Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority approved a budget of Rs 290.67 crore for financial year 2020-21. The budget will be used for development projects. The board also agreed to donate Rs 2.51 crore to the Covid-19 fund of Uttarakhand government. The decisions were taken during the 99th board meeting of the development authority on Monday. In yet another significant decision, land was allotted (at market rate) for setting up the Directorate of Census Department, Uttarakhand, in Mauja Dehrakhas. It was also informed that the expenses incurred by MDDA during financial year 2019-20 were Rs 136.46 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-board-approves-rs-290-cr-budget-for-2020-21/articleshow/76517104.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odia youth volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trial||Bhubaneswar: Odia youth Ankan Naik, 39, an IT company employee staying in the UK, volunteered for trial of a Covid-19 vaccine on him along with thousands others. The Oxford University has started human trial of potential vaccine called AZD1222. Ankan, a native of Majhipali near Sambalpur city, has been staying in Oxfordshire with his wife and five-year-old son for last five years. He along with his wife had registered their names with Oxford Vaccine group to take part in the human trial of the potential vaccine. “Many people in our city were helping others in different ways during lockdown. We were also planning to contribute to the cause of Covid fight. During that time, I found a news about need of volunteers for the human trial of Covid vaccine and I along with my wife registered for the trial,” said Ankan. He got an e-mail from the Oxford University to take part in the phase II/III trial of the vaccine at Jenner Institute of the university. “I went there on June 9 after getting the mail. They thoroughly checked my medical history and conducted my health screening. They also took my sample and tested it for Covid-19. Normally Covid-19 positive people cannot participate in the trial. After all required tests, I got selected for the human trial, but my wife was not selected,” he added. He went there on June 13 and took part in the trial process along with more than 10,000 volunteers. “The experts discussed with me about the possible side effects of the trial. They showed me video of the process and made me understand about other complications before starting the trial,” he added. Ankan said he was feeling confident before the the process started. “As the potential vaccine has completed the first human trial before a successful animal trial, I was very sure that I will not face any problem. The experts injected the vaccine in me and I returned home without having any immediate side effects,” he added. He said the authorities provided him an e-diary to write down his side effects and body temperature every day. “I fill up the online diary and send it to the experts handling the vaccine development every night. But I did not experience any side effects or rise in body temperature so far. I am absolutely fine and feeling healthy. I will visit the institute on 28th day, 90th day and 182nd day from the vaccine trial day,” he added. Ankan’s father Binod Naik, a doctor, is the former chief district medical officer (CDMO) of Jharsuguda district. “My family including my doctor father, mother (a retired science teacher) and wife supported me in my decision to be a volunteer for the trial,” he added. He said they follow all government guidelines and social distancing norms in the UK. “We don’t crowd market places unnecessarily and place online orders for most of the things. I hope people in my state should follow government rules and prevent spread of this coronavirus,” he added. Sources said the result of the first human trial of the potential vaccine will come soon. Result of other phases of human trial will be out by August-September. If these trials get positive results, vaccine production will be started then. AstraZeneca, a biopharmaceutical company, will manufacture the vaccine. AstraZeneca and Serum Institute of India (SII) have reached a licensing agreement to supply one billion doses of the vaccine to middle and low income countries, including India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odia-youth-volunteers-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial/articleshow/76518552.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Rs 300 crore railway line connecting mines remains unused||JAISALMER: Railway tracks laid between the limestone mines at Sonu and Hamira in Jaisalmer district is still lying unused even six months after the Rs 300-crore project was completed. The Rajasthan State Mines and Minerals (RSMM), which owns the limestone mines, is yet to sign an agreement with the Indian Railways and has sought additional discount in freight. The matter is pending with the railway board. From Sonu mines, limestone is sent to different parts of the country. The newly built 58.5km long railway line was to start in December last year when trial runs took place and railway safety officers gave the clearance. Presently, limestone is transported by around 550 trucks to the Jaisalmer railway station from where it is sent by 2-3 goods trains to different places in the country making Jaisalmer station the highest earning station in NWR. NWR GM Anand Prakash said the delay in running trains on the new track is an internal issue of RSMM. It had demanded additional rebate on freight from the railway board, which was dismissed. RSMM has now taken up this issue once again with the railway board. He said along with the railways, RSMM has also made a big investment and the delay is causing huge economic loss. Jodhpur DRM Aashutosh Pant said RSMM has not signed the agreement with railways for loading limestone in goods trains on this track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rs-300-cr-rly-line-connecting-mines-remains-unused/articleshow/76519397.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Record 2,710 cases in a day, Tamil Nadu Covid-19 tally crosses 62,000||CHENNAI: No district was left untouched as Tamil Nadu recorded its highest-ever daily count of 2,710 cases on Monday. The total number of cases in the state soared to 62,087 and the toll reached 794 after 37 deaths. While Chennai continued to remain the worst-hit district with 1,487 fresh cases, Madurai, which will go into lockdown from Wednesday, recorded 157 cases. In the north, Tiruvannamalai logged 139 fresh cases followed by Chengalpet (126), Tiruvallur (120), Kancheepuram (56) and Cuddalore (63). Three other districts that recorded more than 50 cases were Tuticorin (63), Ranipet (52) and Trichy (51). The doubling time – period taken for the total number of cases to double – has been pushed to 16 days (with a seven-day average) in Tamil Nadu and 18 days in Chennai, as per calculations by epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. The doubling rate for TN was two weeks and a day less for Chennai on June 14.While this indicates a slight slowdown in the infection rate, districts such as Madurai, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore have seen more than 2% growth in the number of cases since June 15. These three districts have seen the highest growth in fresh cases, besides Chennai and its three neighbours. While district administrations said people from Chennai and adjoining areas were bringing the infection into their region, health minister C Vijayabaskar maintained that cases were high because of the aggressive testing strategy. The 87 authorised testing labs, including 46 government labs, run to full capacity in three shifts, he said. The state, he said, follows a aggressive and focussed testing policy. “We even put CM to RT-PCR tests and his results returned negative,” he said. The state has tested more than 9.1lakh samples compared to7.7 lakh in Maharashtra, he said. On Monday, the state had tested 25,234 people compared to 29,963 on Sunday. Fever camps were being conducted across containment zones for early diagnosis, testing, isolation and treatment of positive cases. Of the 37 casualties, 10 died with 24 hours of admission. While 23 of them were above 60 years of age, there were two people in their 30s, six each in their 40s and 50s. The total death toll, however, did not include more than 200 Covid deaths in Chennai registered by the civic body, but not recorded in the state count. On Monday, 1,358 people were declared fit for discharge by doctors. “So far 34,112 people have recovered from the illness. Our recovery rate is above 55% due to effective treatment given by doctors and staff,” he said. Many doctors including Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi have tested positive for the infection, but most of them return to work after the mandatory period, the health minister said. While the state and medical teams have been doing their bit, the incidence can be brought down only if people stay indoors, wear masks when they step out, follow hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/record-2710-cases-in-a-day-tn-covid-tally-crosses-62000/articleshow/76519396.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Puducherry||Record 2,710 cases in a day, Tamil Nadu Covid-19 tally crosses 62,000||CHENNAI: No district was left untouched as Tamil Nadu recorded its highest-ever daily count of 2,710 cases on Monday. The total number of cases in the state soared to 62,087 and the toll reached 794 after 37 deaths. While Chennai continued to remain the worst-hit district with 1,487 fresh cases, Madurai, which will go into lockdown from Wednesday, recorded 157 cases. In the north, Tiruvannamalai logged 139 fresh cases followed by Chengalpet (126), Tiruvallur (120), Kancheepuram (56) and Cuddalore (63). Three other districts that recorded more than 50 cases were Tuticorin (63), Ranipet (52) and Trichy (51). The doubling time – period taken for the total number of cases to double – has been pushed to 16 days (with a seven-day average) in Tamil Nadu and 18 days in Chennai, as per calculations by epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. The doubling rate for TN was two weeks and a day less for Chennai on June 14.While this indicates a slight slowdown in the infection rate, districts such as Madurai, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore have seen more than 2% growth in the number of cases since June 15. These three districts have seen the highest growth in fresh cases, besides Chennai and its three neighbours. While district administrations said people from Chennai and adjoining areas were bringing the infection into their region, health minister C Vijayabaskar maintained that cases were high because of the aggressive testing strategy. The 87 authorised testing labs, including 46 government labs, run to full capacity in three shifts, he said. The state, he said, follows a aggressive and focussed testing policy. “We even put CM to RT-PCR tests and his results returned negative,” he said. The state has tested more than 9.1lakh samples compared to7.7 lakh in Maharashtra, he said. On Monday, the state had tested 25,234 people compared to 29,963 on Sunday. Fever camps were being conducted across containment zones for early diagnosis, testing, isolation and treatment of positive cases. Of the 37 casualties, 10 died with 24 hours of admission. While 23 of them were above 60 years of age, there were two people in their 30s, six each in their 40s and 50s. The total death toll, however, did not include more than 200 Covid deaths in Chennai registered by the civic body, but not recorded in the state count. On Monday, 1,358 people were declared fit for discharge by doctors. “So far 34,112 people have recovered from the illness. Our recovery rate is above 55% due to effective treatment given by doctors and staff,” he said. Many doctors including Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi have tested positive for the infection, but most of them return to work after the mandatory period, the health minister said. While the state and medical teams have been doing their bit, the incidence can be brought down only if people stay indoors, wear masks when they step out, follow hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/record-2710-cases-in-a-day-tn-covid-tally-crosses-62000/articleshow/76528774.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||Government to curb pharma imports from China||NEW DELHI: The government plans to tighten the regulatory noose around pharmaceuticals imports from China through stricter scrutiny of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), key starting materials (KSMs) for medicines and medical equipments. Higher duties on Chinese products may also be on the cards, official sources said. These moves gathered pace in the wake of the military face-off between India and China in east Ladakh and the continuing diplomatic tension since then, prompting the government to explore all options to reduce import dependence on China. India imports more than 53 critical pharma APIs, including those used in tuberculosis medicines, steroids and vitamins from China.  It also imports raw material for medical devices, pharma packaging material like plastic, polymers and small components for medical equipments and devices from China. “Firms have told us that they have adequate stocks in the inventory and so far, trade relations are running smooth. But this is not so much an immediate issue. The aim right now is to reduce import dependence on China — not just in pharma but all sectors — most importantly in pharma because this is crucial and India is dependent on China for API,” an official in the department of pharmaceuticals said. He said government is working towards reducing import dependence so that in case of tensions between the two countries, India’s drug supply is secured.  The domestic API manufacturing industry, mostly based out of Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, currently accounts for 8-10% of India’s over Rs 1.33 lakh crore pharmaceutical market. The rest comprises formulations. Now, Indian drug makers are also exploring options in EU markets to source APIs and other raw materials. India is likely to source more APIs from Germany, Sweden and Italy, even as it also ramps up local production. At present, 3035% of API imports are from these countries, while China caters to the rest. However, India may have to deal with cost pressures as China supplies products at 25-30% cheaper than other markets. “Supplies from China are crucial not only because of the price factor but because these are routine products used in huge quantities. India produces complex API molecules on its own but their use in formulations is limited,” an industry executive said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-pharmaceutical-imports-to-face-curbs/articleshow/76521034.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid hospital has 2nd baby girl delivery||Panaji: A little over a week after the state saw its first baby girl born to a Covid positive mother, another was born at the Covid hospital on Monday evening. A team of doctors from Goa Medical College and Hpspital (GMC) delivered the baby girl via C-section at 7.13pm in the Covid hospital in Margao. This is the Covid positive mother’s first delivery. “Both the baby girl and the mother are doing well. The baby has been shifted to GMC and will be under the care of the paediatric ward,” deputy director health services Dr Ira Almeida told TOI. The baby will be tested after 48 hours. If positive she will be reunited with the mother in the hospital.This is the second baby girl born to a positive mother from the containment zone of Mangor Hill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hosp-has-2nd-baby-girl-delivery/articleshow/76519939.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hubballi||Private hospitals to treat Covid cases||Dharwad: The state government on Sunday passed an order involving private hospitals across the state to treat the Covid-19 patients. In Hubballi-Dharwad 22 private hospitals have been enlisted for providing treatment to infected persons. Karnatak Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi was the only designated hospital in twin cities to offer treatment to the Covid-19 patients. A 250-bed special ward was transformed into Covid-19 unit and positive patients not only from the district but also from Haveri, Davangere, Bagalkot and Gadag are being treated at KIMS. Following sudden influx of positive patients the government has decided to convert some of the noted private hospital in twin cities as Covid-19 hospitals. However, these hospitals can continue serving non-Covid patients as only one portion of the hospital would be reserved for Covid positive persons. However, these 22 private hospitals have to strictly follow the state government’s protocol on treatment of Covid-19 patients. Only the deputy commissioner can refer the infected patients to these hospitals and on referral, the hospitals should immediately admit the patient and notify the patient’s details on SAST website before starting the treatment. Senior pediatrician Dr Rajan Deshpande of Vithal Institute of Child Care and Super Specialty Hospital said that reserving a portion of hospital for Covid-19 patients will deliver injustice to non-Covid patients. As the hospital has only one entrance and one exit, allowing both non-Covid and Covid-19 patients inside the hospital in one entrance will become a big risk. Moreover, the parents fear bringing their children to the hospital for vaccination and general medicine when Covid patients are there, he said. BOX Private hospitals selected for Covid-19 treatment * Karnataka Cancer Therapy and Research Institute, Navanagar *HCG NMR Curie Centre of Oncology, Hubballi *SDM Narayan Hrudalaya, Sattur *Shakuntala Memorial Hospital and Research Centre, Hosur, Hubballi *Fortis Suchiraya Hospital, Hubballi * Ashoka Hospital, Hubballi *Jayapriya Hospital, Hubballi *Vivekanand General Hospital, Hubballi *Shivakrupa Hospital and ICU, Hubballi *Shri Balaji Institute of Neuro Sciences and Trauma, Hubballi *Vithal Institute of Child Health & Speciality Centre, Dharwad *M M Joshi Eye Institute, Hubballi *Hubballi Super -Speciality Hospital, Hubballi *Sanjivini Speciality Hospital, Hubballi *Nalwad Multi-Seociality Hospital & Research Centre, Hubballi *SDM College of Medical Sciences & Hospital, Sattur *Tatwadarsha Hospital, Hubballi *Vatsalya Healthcare Solutions Pvt Ltd, Hubballi *Vithoba Memorial Hospital, Dharwad *Disha Super Spoeciality Eye Hospital, Hubballi *Secure Hospital, Hubballi *Vihaan Heartcare Pvt Ltd, Hubballi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-cases/articleshow/76519862.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Four Bangladeshi flee Alwar detention centre||ALWAR: Four Bangladeshi nationals lodged at the Central Jail-situated detention centre here escaped around 4pm on Monday triggering panic among police and jail administration. Soon after the jail break, police barricaded several areas and an intensive search operation was launched across the district especially in Bala Qila forest and the hilly areas near the city. The CCTV camera footage of all the areas close to the railway station and all the exit and entry points in the city are being checked by police. In 2003, the detention centre was built in Alwar jail complex on the orders of the then government led by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Around 180 foreign nationals were kept in this detention centre, out of which 159 have been sent back to their countries. “The centre currently has 21 foreign nationals whose deportation process was in progress,” said an officer. SP Paresh Deshmukh and ASP headquarters Shivlal Bairwa reached the spot and took stock of the situation. “Four Bangladeshis escaped by jumping the wall around 4pm. We will find them,” said Deshmukh. The Bangladeshis who escaped were awaiting their return after their recent conviction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-bdeshis-flee-alwar-detention-centre/articleshow/76519411.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Homemakers to disinfect Covid care centres in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: Thannermukkom panchayat in Alappuzha has constituted a team of trained women homemakers to clean and disinfect Covid care and quarantine centres in its limits. Two Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the panchayat so far. The team, Kudumbashree Rapid Action team Against Covid (KRAAC), began its activities on Monday. Thannermukkom panchayat president P S Jyothis said the local body has two Covid care centre that can accommodate a total of 50 people. “Apart from it, many people are observing home quarantine within our panchayat limits. As two Covid positive cases were reported from the panchayat, we are taking an extra vigil to keep our people safe from the virus. Initially, we had faced staff shortage to clean the Covid care centres. Grama panchayat members had cleaned such places. When we shared the issue with the Kudumbashree team of the panchayat, they came forward to do this job,” said the president. “As many as 10 home makers came forward for being the part of KRAAC. They were trained by doctors and health officials. They were also given counselling and had undergone medical check-ups to ensure that they are fit for this duty. The panchayat has also ensured insurance for them and gave them protective gear,” added Jyothis. Chandra Lakshmi, a home maker and a member of this team, said she is confident and happy to do this job. “It is our duty to join our hands in the fight against the Covid-19,” she said. Over 50,000 people of 15,000 families reside in the 23 wards of this panchayat located on the banks of Vembanad Lake on the north-east border of Alappuzha. “Over 400 people have already arrived in the panchayat from abroad and 1,400 people are expected to arrive in the coming days from foreign countries to the panchayat. Plans are on to constitute more cleaning staff. Our local body has 550 neighbourhood groups of Kudumbashree,” said a panchayat official. “Currently, 70 people are under home quarantine and 20 people are residing in the two Covid care centres,” the president said. This panchayat had caught international attention in April after they introduced ‘Break the Chain Umbrella’ project as a bid to maintain social distancing to prevent the spreading of the Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/homemakers-to-disinfect-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76517111.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State pulls off Rath preparations in hours instead of months earlier||Puri: The preparations for the Rath Yatra in Puri, which used to take at least two months earlier, was completed within a few hours on the eve of the festival on Monday. Minutes after the Supreme Court reviewed its June 18 order and allowed Rath Yatra without the congregation of devotees, the government machinery swung into action. The temple administration said around 800 servitors, who had already undergone the Covid-19 test and whose results returned negative, would participate in the solemnization of rituals. The chariots would be pulled by the servitors and the police personnel. “Since social distancing is difficult to comply with during the Pahandi procession and the pulling of the chariots, we had recently made the servitors undergo the Covid-19 test. Those who had tested negative had performed Debasnan Purnima in the temple on June 5,” a senior temple official said. While the non-participation of millions of devotees for the first time has eased the pressure on the government, officials said they have left nothing to chance. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik immediately asked chief secretary Asit Tripathy and DGP Abhay to rush to Puri and himself convened a video-conference from Bhubaneswar to take stock of the arrangements in Puri. “All the related departments of the government are fully prepared. The Ratha Yatra will be free of devotees and visitors on Grand Road in Puri. We will fully comply with the directions of the Supreme Court. Police will seal the entry points of Puri to prevent the congregation of people,” chief secretary Asit Tripathy said. The administration has imposed a curfew on Puri from 9pm on Monday till 2pm on Wednesday to prevent people from gathering during the festival. The government said devotees will watch the festival live on TV. The temple administration held a meeting with servitors and sought their cooperation for the timely conduct of rituals. Mangala Aarti, the first ritual of Rath Yatra will start at 3am in the temple on Tuesday. After a set of other rituals inside the shrine, the sibling deities of Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra will be taken from the sanctum sanctorum onto the chariots outside the temple at 7am, marking the Pahandi procession. Puri king Dibyasingha Deb is scheduled to perform his hereditary role, Chhera Pahanra (sweeping of the decks of chariots with a golden broom) at around 11.30am. The pulling of the chariots, the festival’s main attraction, is scheduled to start at 12pm. Once atop the iconic chariots, the deities will be taken to the Gundicha Temple, their birthplace, by covering a 3km distance on Grand Road. The deities are scheduled to return from Gundicha Temple in Bahuda Yatra (Ulta Rath Yatra ) on July 1. According to the itinerary, the sibling deities will be taken back into the Jagannath Temple from the chariots during Niladri Bije on July 4. Amid the chants of Jai Jagannath, servitors on Monday pulled the bedecked chariots from Ratha Khala (workplace of the chariots near the temple) area to Singha Dwar in front of the Jagannath Temple for the state’s biggest festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-pulls-off-rath-preparations-in-hours-instead-of-months-earlier/articleshow/76518577.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||No salary paid to KU employees||Ambala: Already in a poor financial health, Kurukshetra University has failed to release May salaries to its employees and pensioners, many of whom are struggling to manage their expenses amid the Covid-19 crisis. The employees said the delay had become a regular affair in KU, which had been grappling with financial crisis for long. KU Teachers’ Union president Sanjeev Kumar said, “For April, the employees received salaries on May 13, and for May, the waiting period is getting longer. Normally, we used to get salaries on the first of every month, but things have not been normal for long.” Sources said there are 1,850 retirees who get pension, 400 regular teachers, 300 contractual teachers, 1,400 non-teaching staff and 500 people employed through outsourcing. An official, requesting anonymity, said, “ Only the government can improve the condition of KU, which is the largest university of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-salary-paid-to-ku-employees/articleshow/76519941.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Hubballi||28 violate quarantine norms, booked||Kalaburagi: FIRs have been filed against 28 people who violated home quarantine guidelines and eight of them have been institutionally quarantined, said Kalaburagi deputy commissioner B Sharath here on Monday. Many secondary contacts of Covid 19 positive patients have been home quarantined and they are being monitored by health officials. The 28 people were found wandering in public places and officials had warned them not to do so. Despite that, they continued to violate norms. The district administration then decided to file FIRs against them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/28-violate-quarantine-norms-booked/articleshow/76519840.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Fake arms licence issued from Alwar collector office||ALWAR: Panic prevailed at the Alwar district collectorate after it was found that forged signature of the district collector and his official rubber stamp had been used to issue weapon licence. On Monday district collector Inderjit Singh suspended assistant administrative officer Durgesh Chalea after a network of issuing fake arms licence was busted. Also, a computer operator working on contractual basis at the district collector was removed. According to the police, the ADM (City), Alwar, Uttam Singh Shekhawat had lodged a case on June 19 at the Kotwali police station when the collectorate officer got an application seeking information of a man who got arms licence on April, 18, 2019. “A man sought information on his licence, however, no records were found. However, he got the licence issued. That’s how the district collectorate officials came to know about forged signature and seal of the district collector, an FIR was lodged,” said Adhyatma Gautam, incharge of Kotwali police station. The matter came to light when one Santosh Meena, resident of Vivekananda Nagar, Alwar on June 19, sought information about the veracity of his arms licence by giving an application at the district collector’s office. To investigate the matter in detail, the district collector has constituted a committee under ADM to examine all the issued license documents. “Investigation till now suggests that three arms licences were fake,” said an officer. As the district collector came to know about the case, officer Durgesh Chalea was suspended while a commuter operator working on contract was removed. Durgesh Chalea, assistant administrative officer was found guilty in preliminary investigation. Also, the branch related with making arms licence in the district magistrate office has been sealed. Apart from police case, the district collector has also asked a 3-member committee to probe the irregularities. ADM city, Uttam Singh Shekhawat said that a case has been registered against two employees at Kotwali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-arms-licence-issued-from-alwar-collector-office/articleshow/76519407.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD: Pay farmers who didn’t burn stubble||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has accused the Congress government in Punjab of betraying marginal farmers, who did not burn paddy stubble last year. Former minister and SAD kisan wing president Sikander Singh Maluka on Monday said that it was unfortunate that the Punjab government had not paid a compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre to marginal farmers with less than five acres of land for not burning their paddy straw last year. Farmers had teamed up to even purchase paddy straw management machines and spent on diesel in the hope of being compensated for this costly exercise, he added. Maluka said the initiative taken by the Supreme Court to put an end to paddy stubble burning was likely to hit a roadblock this year due to the state government’s inaction. “With marginal farmers being cheated and not paid for their sacrifice last year, they are not likely to spend more money on managing straw again in November this year,” he added. This would result in progressive farmers not going for purchase of more stubble management machines to augment this exercise further. The SAD leader urged chief minister Amarinder Singh to intervene immediately and ensure all farmers who had not burnt paddy stubble last year were given due compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-pay-farmers-who-didnt-burn-stubble/articleshow/76519957.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body mulls allowing part payment of development fees||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) may allow developers and builders to pay development charges and premium fees in instalments to ease fund crunch in the sector. A proposal to this effect has been tabled before the standing committee and is expected to be discussed on Tuesday. As per the proposal, developers and builders will be allowed to pay the charges in three or four instalments for projects with more than Rs 50 lakh fees. The buildings with 70 metres or more height can pay the fees in three instalments of 33%, 33% and 34%. Developers of smaller buildings can pay the charges in four instalments of 25% each. The payments can be done over a period of two and three years, respectively. The instalments will be allowed with 8.5% interest. If the payment of installation is delayed, 18% interest will be charged in fine. “The proposal aims at reviving construction activity. It has seen a lull in the last couple of months due to the lockdown. The PMC has allowed construction as per the norms of the Union and state governments for Unlock 1 phase,” a senior PMC official said. On an average, around 4,500 building permissions are given annually, for which PMC earns around Rs 700 crore. Manish Jain, vice-president, Credai Pune Metro, said, “Basically premiums are a large part of developers’ cost. Due to Covid-19, banks and customers are not releasing funds, due to which there are cash flow constraints. The deferment of payment will help ease the situation. Also, the corporation will get committed cash flow.” Development premiums range between Rs150 to 350 per sqft on saleable area. Shravan Hardikar, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, said they had allowed a similar concession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-mulls-allowing-part-payment-of-development-fees/articleshow/76518592.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For Puri, SC order nothing less than divine intervention||Puri: The Supreme Court’s decision to allow the Rath Yatra, albeit in an attenuated form, did not come as a surprise to many in this pilgrim town by the sea. They knew, deep in their hearts, that Lord Jagannath would keep his date with his devotees. On Monday, Puri — which had fallen silent after the Supreme Court’s earlier order cancelling the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath and his siblings Subhadra and Balabhadra following weeks of speculation — came back to life in the space of the few hours that it took for the apex court to modify its previous order. After agonizing moments of ‘will-it, won’t-it’, the Supreme Court’s nod to a devotee-less Rath brought relief and happiness to residents here, and indeed, across the state. As the news broke, Puri’s Grand Road — down which the deities will undertake their annual trip to their aunt’s home in the Gundicha Temple, around 3km away from the Jagannath Temple — erupted in joy. “Lord Jagannath himself performed a miracle. How could anyone imagine stopping the Yatra and the pulling of the chariots?” asked Bijayini Tripathy, an elderly devotee who still seemed to be recovering from the disappointment caused by the June 18 order. Tears of joy rolled down the faces of the servitors as well. “Ever since the apex court stalled the Rath Yatra, we made all possible effort to pursue the issue with the state and the Centre. We had not lost hope. We had faith in Lord Jagannath and he paved the way for the Rath,” said senior servitor, Durga Dasmohapatra. Earlier in the day, a number of devotees and organisations lit earthern lamps at different places and conducted puja with the hope of getting a positive order from the Supreme Court. “Our prayers did not go in vain. We are pained that we cannot cheer, chant and dance along with the Raths but we are happy that the Rath Yatra will take place. We are ready to watch the festival on television,” Debasis Das, convener of Srikhetra Swabhiman Mancha, a social organisation, said. The around 100-odd carpenters who were engaged in the construction of the chariots also heaved a sigh of relief. “Our happiness will know no bounds as Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra board the iconic chariots and visit the Gundicha temple,” said Bijay Mahapatra, chief carpenter of Jagannath’s chariot Nandighosh. Such is the devotion to the Lord here and so all-pervasive is the cult of the Jagannath in the social and cultural life of Odisha that news of the cancellation of the Yatra, while not unexpected, had sent shockwaves through the state, from Balasore in the north to Koraput in the south. On Monday, devotees, who will be barred from watching the magnificent chariots roll down the Grand Road for the first time in recent history, said they would follow all rules as long as the Yatra itself went on as it has for centuries. “Bhakta (devotee) and Jagannath are an inseparable part of the Rath Yatra. Covid-19 has triggered a split between the two. But we would have been shattered had the Rath Yatra not happened at all,” said Deepali Mahapatra, a local devotee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-puri-sc-order-nothing-less-than-divine-intervention/articleshow/76518595.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 23, 2020||Goa||Drop casual attitude to Covid-19, opposition tells Goa CM||PANAJI: The irresponsible and lethargic approach of the state government has led to the rampant spread of coronavirus in the state and to the first Covid-19 death in Sattari, the opposition said on Monday as they reacted to the death of an 85-year-old man from Morlem Congress, GFP and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte urged the government to drop its casual attitude towards the pandemic.“I hope this unfortunate death will send an alarm to the chief minister who is continuously reciting the mantra of ‘bhivpachi garaj na’ and will give him wisdom to take realistic preventive measures to ensure that this trend does not continue,” Congress state president Girish Chodankar said. The same sentiment was echoed by GFP. “In Goa, community transmission has started and now all of us need to take care for ourselves. The government may keep telling us that this is like a common flu but it is not,” former deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai said in a video message to his constituency. Sardesai met south Goa district collector Ajit Roy and discussed the possibility of starting a 65-bed Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients at the Fatorda indoor stadium. “We need to take precautions. We cannot depend on this government,” he said. Former MLA and Congress spokesperson Agnel Fernandes slammed the government for focusing on virtual political rallies and celebrations instead of dedicating all efforts to combat the virus. “With the Covid death, the worst fears of Goans are coming true. Will the CM drop his ‘nothing to worry about Corona’ attitude and take emergent actions towards total containment of hotspots and sealing of borders,” said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-casual-attitude-to-covid-oppn-tells-cm/articleshow/76519955.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||PMC, PCMC restrict entry of outsiders||PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations have imposed restrictions on entry to the municipal headquarters after some people, including elected members and civic officials, were detected with Covid-19 after their visit the buildings. Over 100 PMC employees and four corporators have tested positive for the contagion so far. PMC officials said only those who needed to visit the PMC building urgently for essential work would be allowed entry. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, via a June 20 circular, has banned entry of citizens and contractors in the main building in Pimpri. “On-duty employees and the elected members have contracted the infection, following which we have decided to ban the entry, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-pcmc-restrict-entry-of-outsiders/articleshow/76518604.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus will peak in Chennai by October and taper: Research||CHENNAI: The coronovirus pandemic will peak in Chennai some time in October and three weeks to a month later in the rest of the state. The pandemic will start to decline in Chennai two weeks after the peak. These are the latest projections by researchers from The Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. But the flattening of the curve depends on the people, as there may be a second rise in cases if measures such as mask wearing, social distancing and hand hygiene are not followed. The ongoing 12-day lockdown in Chennai and neighbouring districts may slow down the spread and further delay the peak by two to three weeks, to late-October or early November, the researchers said. In the coming weeks, experts said several districts will begin reporting more cases as projections indicate Tamil Nadu is likely to record 2.7 lakh cases by mid-July with around 60% in Chennai. According to a forecast by Dr Srinivas and Dr Sudha Seshayyan, Chennai is expected to record around 71,000 cases by June-end and the numbers are likely to more than double to 1.5 lakh cases by July 15. With the city accounting for nearly 55% to 60% of the cases, Tamil Nadu is likely to see 1.2 lakh cases by June end and 2.76 lakh by mid-July. The projections also indicate that deaths will nearly double in Chennai to 1,654 by July 15 , while the state will have around four times the present number at 3,072 by mid-July. “As of now in Chennai, it appears like it will start downslope or may flatten as a plateau after the peak. As for the rest of the state, different places will have different peaks depending on the level of exposure of the population to the virus, the population density and other factors,” said Dr Sudha Seshayyan, vice-chancellor, The Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. Dr G Srinivas, head of department of epidemiology, said at least 60% of the state population has to get exposed either to the live virus or the vaccine virus before we could expect a decline in cases. However, he said, world over many countries have recorded the falling of the curve after five to 10% of the population got exposed to the virus. “Once the cases reach their peak, they will start falling in a few weeks and flatten. But if people do not follow the measures to protect themselves, then there will again be a transmission. The unexposed population will get exposed to the virus and that will accelerate the spread,” he said. “Community role is very important. They have to be accountable and responsible. They must avoid pre-pandemic behaviour and wear masks, follow hand hygiene and maintain physical distance,” he added. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said the disease will spread and more cases will be reported in the districts, including small towns and rural pockets, in the coming weeks. The spread will be as fast as in the urban areas. But measures such as wearing masks, educating people on behaviour modification and teaching medical practitioners on clinical diagnosis of Covid-19 before confirming it through lab tests could slow down the spread, while protecting senior citizens and people with co-morbidity could reduce mortality. “It is mainly because people are out in the streets and mingle more in the rural areas,” he said. “Making social interaction safe by wearing a mask is the sensible way moving forward especially in rural areas. But somebody has to teach them that,” he added. Epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said the peak is inevitable and lockdown measures could only slow down and delay the peak. He said the effects of lockdown will be seen in a week or 10 days. “Whether the curve is going to be steep or flatten, in my view herd immunity level will be reached either way. One will take a long time and the other short. A very sharp increase in cases also will be difficult because hospitals will get crowded,” he said. “The epidemic will stop at a particular threshold of herd immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virus-will-peak-in-chennai-by-oct-and-taper-research/articleshow/76519433.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT arrests excise inspector in liquor theft scam||Chandigarh: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has arrested an excise and taxation inspector for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore liquor theft scam of Kharkhoda in Sonipat. Dhirender Kumar is the first official of the excise and taxation department of Haryana who has been arrested in this case. He is currently lodged in SIT custody. SIT head and Rohtak SP Rahul Kumar said Dhirender has confessed about his involvement and endorsed links between main accused Bhupender Singh and sacked inspector Jasbir Singh and other cops and officials of the excise department. “Dhirender was the one who had finalised the place which would serve as a godown for seized liquor and this godown was under his custody. He was in complete knowhow of the state of affairs, especially about Bhupender and Jasbir’s activities. He is in our custody for two days and we are hopeful of getting important information related to smuggling of liquor,” the SIT head said. According to police, Dhirender had also facilitated inspector Jasbir Singh for keeping unaccounted liquor in the godown along with seized liquor. He also helped in storage of liquor which was meant for smuggling from Rajpura in Punjab, sources said. Besides, Dhirender was also allegedly involved in arranging free movement of trucks ferrying smuggled liquor in Haryana, sources added. The incident dates back to last week of April when Sonipat police had registered an FIR as over 9,000 cases of liquor worth several lakhs of rupees had gone missing from the godown of excise department in Kharkhoda. ADGP Rohtak range Sandeep Khirwar constituted the SIT headed by Rohtak SP Rahul Kumar to probe the case. Bhupender Singh, a liquor smuggler, was first to be arrested in the case. He has also been arrested by Gujarat police for his involvement. Interrogation of Bhupender revealed involvement of the former SHO of Kharkhoda police station Jasbir Singh. Singh has bene sacked and he is on the run. After Bhupender, the SIT arrested his associate Satish Bhainsru and ASI Jaipal Singh. While a few cops and officials of excise department are among those booked by police. Box: Dhirender Kumar had been transferred to Fatehabad just ahead of the lockdown and his involvement was alleged into the missing stocks from liquor godown during the lockdown. The issue of missing stock is already under the scanner of Special Enquiry Committee (SET) headed by bureaucrat T C Gupta on the orders of home minister Anil Vij.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-arrests-excise-inspector-in-liquor-theft-scam/articleshow/76519426.cms||Manvir Saini
June 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Customs foils gold smuggling bid||KOZHIKODE: Gold smugglers seem to have started exploiting the chartered repatriation flights meant to bring home stranded expats from the Gulf to sneak in gold. Customs officials at Karipur Airport foiled separate attempts by four passengers to smuggle 2.2kg of gold compound in two flights early Monday morning. In all the four attempts, the passengers had tried to sneak in the contraband in the form of gold compound, pointing to the involvement of organized smuggling rackets. Customs seized 1.05kg gold compound from three passengers hailing from Kannur Nafeesudheen (23), Fahdil (24) and Basheer who arrived in Fly Dubai flight from Dubai on Monday morning and 1.1kg from Malappuram native Jithu who arrived in Air Arabia flight from Sharjah. The total value of the seized gold is estimated to be Rs 81 lakh. Customs officials said that the smuggling gangs could be trying to use repatriation flights under the notion that customs checks would not be stringent at the airports in view of the Covid-19 concerns. However, following gold seizure from a passenger of a repatriation flight at Kannur airport on Saturday, the customs officials at Karipur airport too had intensified screening of passengers with customs officials profiling passengers and frisking them wearing PPE suits, considering the Covid-19 risks. “In all the four seizures made at the airport, the passengers had concealed the gold compound in their innerwear which had a special pocket for concealing it. We suspect involvement of a racket as the gold was being smuggled in the form of compound, which can be done by organized rackets,” a customs official said. He added that three of the four people nabbed have told that they had come home after losing their jobs while the fourth passenger was on short visit. The seizure was made by a team headed by deputy commissioner Kiran T A, superintendents, K P Manoj, Sudheer K and Asha S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/customs-foils-gold-smuggling-bid/articleshow/76525279.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Kochi||Customs foils gold smuggling bid||KOZHIKODE: Gold smugglers seem to have started exploiting the chartered repatriation flights meant to bring home stranded expats from the Gulf to sneak in gold. Customs officials at Karipur Airport foiled separate attempts by four passengers to smuggle 2.2kg of gold compound in two flights early Monday morning. In all the four attempts, the passengers had tried to sneak in the contraband in the form of gold compound, pointing to the involvement of organized smuggling rackets. Customs seized 1.05kg gold compound from three passengers hailing from Kannur Nafeesudheen (23), Fahdil (24) and Basheer who arrived in Fly Dubai flight from Dubai on Monday morning and 1.1kg from Malappuram native Jithu who arrived in Air Arabia flight from Sharjah. The total value of the seized gold is estimated to be Rs 81 lakh. Customs officials said that the smuggling gangs could be trying to use repatriation flights under the notion that customs checks would not be stringent at the airports in view of the Covid-19 concerns. However, following gold seizure from a passenger of a repatriation flight at Kannur airport on Saturday, the customs officials at Karipur airport too had intensified screening of passengers with customs officials profiling passengers and frisking them wearing PPE suits, considering the Covid-19 risks. “In all the four seizures made at the airport, the passengers had concealed the gold compound in their innerwear which had a special pocket for concealing it. We suspect involvement of a racket as the gold was being smuggled in the form of compound, which can be done by organized rackets,” a customs official said. He added that three of the four people nabbed have told that they had come home after losing their jobs while the fourth passenger was on short visit. The seizure was made by a team headed by deputy commissioner Kiran T A, superintendents, K P Manoj, Sudheer K and Asha S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-foils-gold-smuggling-bid/articleshow/76517139.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||As cases rise, Curtorim imposes partial lockdown||Panaji: With Covid-19 cases in Curtorim and Raia on the rise, local MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has asked the local market and shops to close down in order to curtail the spread of the virus. Covid-19 cases in Curtorim have touched 21, Lourenco said, as he sought a partial lockdown in Curtorim village.“We have decided not to wait for the government and have asked shops, markets and other places to be closed, and I have told people to slow down,” he said. He had asked the government to ramp up testing and screening in his constituency to allay the fears of people who were afraid that they had already contracted the disease. The MLA said that the villagers and shopkeepers have cooperated and are keeping shops closed. He said the partial lockdown has been imposed in coordination with the local panchayat. “I am sure the spread will be curtailed,” said the Congress MLA. When asked if he was happy with the measures being taken by the state government to trace and test all the contacts of those who tested positive for the virus, Lourenco said, “beggars can’t be choosers.” Local youth from Curtorim and Raia are also keeping a check on those entering the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-rise-curtorim-imposes-partial-lockdown/articleshow/76519945.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Divisional commissioner seeks proposal from FTAP to shift wholesale markets||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Monday sought a detailed proposal, including the space requirement, from the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) for shifting the wholesale and semi-wholesale markets from the city’s Peth areas. Fatehchand Ranka, the president of FTAP, said, “Congestion and problems in movement of heavy vehicles have increased over the years. We had met NCP chief Sharad Pawar with our demands recently, which led to this meeting.” Ranka said, “We have estimated that close to 800-900 acres would be required to move the 13 wholesale or semi-wholesale markets from their current location. Mhaisekar said once the proposal was drafted, a meeting would be held with all authorities concerned, including the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority, to find solutions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/divisional-commissioner-seeks-proposal-from-ftap-to-shift-wholesale-markets/articleshow/76518621.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchayat polls to be held after completion of term: Dushyant Chautala||FATEHABAD: Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the panchayat elections would be held after the completion of term that will end in July. The government has given instructions to make preparations at its level, he said while interacting with the mediapersons in Fatehabad. Accompanied by JJP state president Nishan Singh and Tohana MLA Devendra Singh Babli, Dushyant said the government is ready to hold elections. And if the spread of coronavirus increases further, then it could be decided according to the situation at that point of time. In a response to a question on how the rate of construction material for development works in panchayats varies in different blocks, the deputy CM said that the commissioners have been instructed in the state to determine the rate of construction material according to the district. The deputy chief minister said food grains were damaged in three mandis — Narnaund, Bas and Nagura — of the state. To redress the complaints, a special team has been formed which will visit the mandis and check the problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchayat-polls-to-be-held-after-completion-of-term-dushyant/articleshow/76519436.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||‘Time to use technology for global presence’||PANAJI: It’s about time we adopt technology to conduct classes during the pandemic, said minister for art and culture, Govind Gaude. He was speaking at the inaugural session of Kala Academy Goa’s College of Theatre Arts masterclass webinar series that commenced from Monday. “The institute will be in connectivity to ensure that the webinars are streamed smoothly online. However, in remote areas, there is a problem of clear network. In such areas, there is a need for fast internet,” he said. TOI had earlier reported that the College of Theatre Arts had invited proposals from theatre personalities to speak at webinars organised by the institute. This was initiated in the wake of lockdown restrictions owing to which the institute has not been able to resume its lectures. Officials from the institute said that they have received about 15 proposals from theatre personalities and experts from Goa and other parts of the country as well. “We want the experts to share their experience in theatre with a focus on teaching youngsters about the scope of performing arts in this day and age,” Gaude said. About two to three webinars will be held in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/time-to-use-technology-for-global-presence/articleshow/76519960.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||HC lens on Haryana move to make Hindi must in courts||Chandigarh: The decision of the Haryana government to make use of Hindi compulsory in all civil and criminal subordinate courts of the state has come under scanner of the Punjab and Haryana high court. HC’s division bench comprising Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh on Monday issued a notice to the state government while hearing a petition filed by Sameer Jain and others. The state government has been told to submit a reply by June 29 on the contentions raised by the petitioners. The petitioners have challenged the amendment to the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 2020, which makes use of Hindi mandatory in all civil and criminal courts subordinate to HC, all revenue courts, rent tribunals and any other court constituted by the state government. They have contended that the objective of promulgating such notification is not clear and it has no rational nexus to object, if any, sought to be achieved. According to them, the notification is discriminatory in nature and violates Section 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. They have also referred to Section 30 of the Advocates Act, 1961, to contend that it is the right of every advocate to practice all over India. However, due to language constraint, some lawyers may not be able to do so as all law colleges teach in English medium and Hindi version of the legal terminologies is not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-lens-on-haryana-move-to-make-hindi-must-in-courts/articleshow/76519439.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Business||68% of APIs comes from China: Govt data||NEW DELHI:As India counters Chinese military aggression in Galwan Valley by reducing China’s participation in various sectors like railways and telecom, the pharma sector presents a tougher challenge as 68% of India’s bulk drugs and drug intermediates are imported from China, according to government data presented to Parliament. Details given by chemicals and fertilisers minister DV Sadananda Gowda showed India imported around 68% Active Pharmaceuticals Ingredients for drug manufacturing from China in the last three years. In 2018-19, API worth $2.4 billion was imported from China, which accounted for 67.56% of India’s total imports of $3.5 billion. The lopsided situation, even before the flare-up in Galwan Valley, saw the government initiate several plans to spur domestic manufacture, offering a Rs 10,000 crore production linked incentive scheme. The guidelines for the Make in India initiative are to be announced in the first week of July. The Covid-19 pandemic also saw a major drive to manufacture protective equipment and testing kits which were being sourced from China. The government will also provide Rs 10 crore under a scheme for setting up plants for supply to domestic markets. In 2017-18, imports from China stood at $2 billion or 68.36% of the total API that India imported, and in 201617, it was $1.8 billion, or 66.69%. While replying to questions by TMC member Mala Roy in Lok Sabha, Gowda provided figures for the last three years on API imports and said the “imports from China are due to economic considerations”. Asked about its “contingency plan in case of dip in supply from China”, he said API could be sourced from US, Italy and Hong Kong among other nations but sourcing it from China was the most cost-effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/68-of-apis-comes-from-china-govt-data/articleshow/76521046.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Meham RLA staff help gang register stolen SUVs, now in jail||Chandigarh: The special task force (STF) of Haryana Police on Monday claimed to have unearthed an interstate racket in which stolen SUVs were being sold by getting them registered at the office of registering and licensing authority (RLA) of Meham sub-division in Rohtak district. Three RLA staffers — Anil Kumar, main dealing hand of SDM office; and computer operators Sombir and Krishan Kumar — and Dadri resident Parveen Kumar, who was involved in sale and purchase of stolen luxury cars, have been arrested. STF has recovered 14 cars from their possession. According to STF chief B Satheesh Balan, the gang would sell the SUVs between Rs 10 and Rs 15 lakh. Some vehicles had even been sold outside the country. “This is a big catch and we are hopeful of recovering a good number of stolen SUVs and arresting more people,” said Balan The four accused are in STF’s custody and the team is on the lookout for other accused as well . Some accused are in the custody of police parties of other states as well. Parveen is the main accused and has links in all parts of the country. He was largely involved in providing luxury cars in Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. He would procure stolen SUVs and would get them registered in Mehem SDM’s office in connivance with officials. It is alleged that the gang had gotten over 500 vehicles registered in Mehem. Preliminary investigation revealed that soon after getting the tip-off, the STF first took up the issue with Meham SDM. After a preliminary probe, the SDM on Sunday got a case registered at Meham police station and the STF took on the investigation. Sources said Parveen had a good understanding about the functioning of SDM’s registration office. He along with Amit, Krishnan and Sombir would look for unallotted registration numbers of registering authority. Accordingly, they would forge documents, change serial numbers and chassis numbers of the vehicles in papers, and get them registered. The gang would also look for vehicles registered in other districts and whose registration had expired. They would get the number reallotted on the basis of forged documents, During scrutiny, it was found that the vehicles which were registered in other districts and whose numbers had been allegedly used were scooters, mopeds, motorcycles, tractors and earth movers. In all, 56 such vehicles were found to have been belonging to Sonipat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/meham-rla-staff-help-gang-register-stolen-suvs-now-in-jail/articleshow/76519443.cms||Manvir Saini
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu man on death row for Dalit son-in-law’s murder acquitted||CHENNAI: Four years and a quarter after the caste killing of dalit youth Shankar in Udumalpet, TN, the first-accused Chinnaswamy escaped the noose when the Madras high court acquitted him of all charges on Monday. He was among six men facing death penalty for the murder and the near-fatal injuries suffered by his own 19-year-old daughter Kaushalya. In its 311-page judgment, the court also refused to overturn the trial court’s order acquitting Chinnaswamy’s wife Annalakshmi and brother-in-law Pandithurai. With this, all three main suspects — Kaushalya’s parents and maternal uncle — are free now. The division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar also commuted the death penalty of five others into life imprisonment, but made it clear that they have to serve a minimum of 25 years of imprisonment without any benefit of early release. A dissatisfied Kaushalya has said she would take the case to the Supreme Court on appeal, and that she would not rest till her parents – Chinnaswamy and Annalakshmi – were punished. “If they were not party to the murder, Shankar would not have died at all,” she told reporters, minutes after the verdict. Shankar and Kausalya got to know each other while they were studying in a private engineering college in Pollachi, and married against the wishes of her parents. On March 13, 2016, a gang hacked the couple in broad daylight at Udumalpet in Tirupur district. While Shankar suffered 32 cuts and died, Kausalya survived the attack. On December 12, 2017, the Tirupur district sessions court sentenced six people, including Chinnaswamy, to death, and acquitted Annalakshmi and Pandithurai among others. The high court heard appeals from both sides. The court said the prosecution had failed to provide the chain of circumstances linking Chinnaswamy’s connection to the actual assailants, and pointed out that the prosecution theories like he had made arrangements for their stay, that he withdrew money from an ATM to pay the assailants and that he met some of them at a party to discuss the murder plan were not proved beyond reasonable doubt. The court pointed out police had failed to secure even CCTV footage of the ATM from where Chinnaswamy allegedly withdrew money that was paid to the assailants. Since criminal conspiracy was not proved, he was also acquitted from charges of murder as well. This apart, the court upheld the acquittal of Kaushalya’s mother Annalakshmi and maternal uncle Pandithurai as well, saying it did not find any error in the trial court finding that there was nothing to connect Annalakshmi to the murder, and that Kaushalya’s statement with regard to Pandithurai was not believable. There was no evidence to prove that he did a recce by visiting the neighbourhood where the young couple lived post-wedding. In respect of the five actual assailants, the court had enough scientific and electronic evidence, besides clinching eyewitness accounts. Also, Kaushalya’s deposition too swung the case the prosecution way. The judges pointed out that she was an injured witness, and added: “There is no rhyme or reason to discredit the testimony of Kaushalya, an injured witness, who also survived the fatal attack in the form of sustainment of grievous injuries…The death of her life partner as well as the near-death experience by her, would be remembered by her for a long time and as such, her testimony cannot be brushed aside though there are some discrepancies in her evidence.” However, citing the young age and absence of criminal antecedents of the five condemned people —Jagathesan, Manikandan, Selvakumar, Kalaitamilvanan alias Tamil alias Kalai, and Madan alias Michael — to spare them the noose, the bench said: “The accused are all of young age and none of them have any serious bad antecedents except Jagatheesan and Madan, who faced prosecution for a non-cognizable and bailable offence. This court is of the considered view that there is every possibility that they would reform themselves and, on their release, would contribute something useful to the society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-man-on-death-row-for-dalit-son-in-laws-murder-acquitted/articleshow/76519447.cms||Suresh Kumar
June 23, 2020||Pune||NGT seeks noise pollution report at building site||PUNE: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a joint panel of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to submit a factual and action taken report within four weeks on an application alleging noise pollution caused by high-capacity machines used by a developer at a construction site in front of Karishma Society in Kothrud. "We deem it just, proper and reasonable to direct PMC and MPCB to visit the site and submit factual and action taken report within four weeks," the NGT bench of judicial member Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Siddhanta Das in Delhi said in an order on June 18 following a hearing through video conferencing. Lawyer Saurabh Kulkarni, representing Karishma Society resident and applicant Ashok Kamlakar Gupte (67), told TOI, "The bench has posted the matter for next hearing on August 14." Kulkarni said, "The realty firm, Kotibhaskar Infrastructure and Developers Private Limited, is carrying out construction work at the site in front of Karishma society by using high-capacity machines that generate tremendous noise, thereby causing noise pollution. Our client, who is himself a senior lawyer, lodged a complaint with the police, who took cognisance but let off the builder with a warning. Finally, we decided to move the green tribunal." Gupte pointed out in his plea that his society has 350 flats with 1,700 residents, many of whom are senior citizens and children for whom the noise generated by the high-capacity machines becomes simply unbearable. Among other things, he has prayed for prohibition on use of such machines till the tribunal decides his plea, a stay on the construction activity and restraint on any activity that may generate noise pollution at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngt-seeks-noise-pollution-report-at-building-site/articleshow/76518625.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 23, 2020||Goa||Chicalim panchayat to remain closed for 8 days as precaution||VASCO: The Chicalim panchayat will remain closed for the public for eight days to curb the spread of Covid--19. Members met on Monday in the panchayat office and passed the resolution which was sent to the chief minister, panchayat minister and the block development officer. On Monday, the sarpanch, ward panches and the secretary held a meet. It was brought to their notice that about 13 positive cases have been reported in the village in last few days. Of the 13, only one ward reported 7 cases. This ward houses few staff of the panchayat office. In view of this they took a resolution for the panchayat ghar to remain closed for public for eight days. The panchayat will work with few staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-panchayat-to-remain-closed-for-8-days-as-precaution/articleshow/76519970.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Goa||Private bus owners meet minister over fuel subsidy||PANAJI: Nearly 900 private bus owners on Monday met transport minister Mauvin Godinho reiterating their demand for release of dues towards fuel subsidy, subsidy on insurance premium and subsidy for replacement of old buses. “He assured us that the fuel subsidy will continue for private bus operators and that he will issue a circular releasing the subsidy,” a bus operator said. They also highlighted one stringent clause in the scheme due to which many are being denied the fuel subsidy. The clause stipulates that routes on which private buses don’t run as a parallel competition to KTC buses are not entitled to the subsidy. As a result, private buses on uncommon routes are left out. “We appealed to the minister to scrap that clause so that the everyone is eligible,” the association’s secretary, Mahesh Raikar, said. The operators said that Godinho also issued directions extending validity of all documents that expired in February 2020 to September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-bus-owners-meet-min-over-fuel-subsidy/articleshow/76519966.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||News brings joy, disbelief for devotees planning to watch live TV telecast||Bhubaneswar: On Monday afternoon, Ashoka Manjari Nayak, a homemaker from Bargarh, was jumping with joy and disbelief as TV channels played out the news of the Supreme Court allowing Rath Yatra in Puri with restrictions. “I was very anxious and was praying fervently since the morning. The Lord has granted my prayers,” Ashoka, who goes to Puri every year during Rath Yatra as the town is also her maternal home, said. Unable to control her emotions, Ashoka can’t wait to watch the Rath Yatra being telecast live on television. “I will offer puja to the Lord first thing in the morning and place mangoes and bananas as bhog. I will also cook rice and dalma before the programme starts on television so that I am not disturbed during the telecast,” Ashoka, who will be missing out on the festivities in Puri for the first time this year, said. The Rath Yatra fervour has also caught on with Jagannath devotees living abroad. Jayashree Nanda, a co-tutor at Dr Challoners High School, Amersham, England has already plucked flowers from her garden and made garlands for the Rath celebration. “This year, I will offer ‘darasijha khechudi’, a dessert made with sprouts, grated coconut and sugar, and ‘poda pitha’ to the Lord as bhog,” an elated Jayashree, who will watch the festival online, said. “Last year, I had moved into my new house on Rath Yatra and my friends had shown me the Yatra over a WhatsApp video call,” Jayashree, who is from Bhubaneswar, said. Like Jayashree and Ashoka, writer Sakuntala Baliarsingh will also be celebrating at home by lighting an earthern lamp that will glow throughout the day. She also plans to offer ‘khichdi’, ‘khiri’ and fruits as bhog besides decking up Lord Jagannath and his siblings in new clothes. Similarly, Aarti Nayak, a teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya in Puri, will offer ‘chuda ghasa’ to Lord Jagannath when his chariot will pass in front of her house on the Grand Road on Tuesday. “I offer the bhog on Rath Yatra every year. I hurried to the market to get a coconut, a key ingredient in ‘chuda ghasa’, after I came to know of the apex court’s decision,” Nayak said. While those at home and abroad prepare for the celebrations, senior DGM (finance), ECoR, R K Panda is in constant touch with colleagues in Kharagpur for Rath Yatra celebrations at the Sri Jagannath Mandira there. “This year, I can’t go to Kharagpur to supervise the preparations because of the pandemic. The West Bengal government has given us permission for the festival. The chariots won’t be pulled, but other rituals will be performed by maintaining social distancing,” Panda of Rail Vihar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/news-brings-joy-disbelief-for-devotees-planning-to-watch-live-tv-telecast/articleshow/76518637.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
June 23, 2020||Pune||Cops identify woman who jumped to her death||Pune: The Warje Malwadi police on Monday ascertained the identity of the 35-year-old woman, who had jumped to her death from the edge of a hillock at Dukkar Khind on Sunday. The probe revealed that Asha Somnath Ransing of Balewadi was under depression following her husband’s suicide on June 8. Her husband had hanged himself from a tree near their house, said senior inspector Amrut Marathe. The police only had the letters ‘S’ and ‘A’ tattooed on her hand by which to identify her. They shared the photo of the letters on social media. “Late in the night, the woman’s father approached the Kothrud police and identified her,” Marathe said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-identify-woman-who-jumped-to-her-death/articleshow/76518642.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Shimla||Central relief package not working, say HP hoteliers||MANALI: The Covid-19 crisis-battered tourism sector of Himachal Pradesh has failed to benefit from the emergency loan facility under the special credit line announced by the central government, mostly due to “tough conditions” set by the banks. Although the moratorium on EMI till August has brought respite to those in the tourism trade, especially the hoteliers, the interest on loan interest even during the period is giving them sleepless nights. So, some of them decided to go for immediate loans to survive for some time, until the business is back on track, but the loan facility under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package seems beyond their reach. “I visited my bank to discuss the Centre’s scheme on emergency relief package, but I returned disappointed as their conditions are hard to meet. They told me that borrower should have an old term loan to avail the facility. Moreover, they said they would not give a single rupee in my hand, instead pay my unpaid bills,” hotelier Pritam Singh said. Many hoteliers in tourist resorts of Himachal are planning to sell their properties, but nobody is showing interest under the crisis-like situation. Over 50% of the hotels in state and over 75% in Manali are running on contract basis. Most of the contractors from Himachal and other states had left for homes in March and many of them have no contact with the owners. Many contractors also left behind unpaid bills and salaries. The hoteliers are worried how they would pay off all of this and their EMIs after August. Budhi Parkash, the state convener of Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association (Fohra), said they had earlier written to the RBI for financial aid to hoteliers and other tourism-based businesses, and now that the Centre’s relief package is not working for them, they have also written to the officials of state tourism department to intervene. “The formalities and the condition of this loan scheme are almost impossible to meet. Since tourism is one of the major industries of Himachal, we have requested the government to help us with similar schemes that could suit us better. The state government may take our message to the Centre,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/central-relief-package-not-working-say-hp-hoteliers/articleshow/76519969.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chartered accountant loses Rs 43,000 to KYC update fraud||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police recently booked a fraudster for duping a chartered accountant (CA) of over Rs43,000 on the pretext of the KYC of his e-wallet on February 18. Police said the CA received a call on February 18 from the fraudster who told him that the KYC of his e-wallet had to be renewed as it had expired. To do so, the 51-year-old accountant was told that download a application on his cellphone. “After the accountant downloaded the application, the fraudster gained access to his bank account number and transferred Rs43,998 through four transactions on February 18. We are trying to trace the fraudster and find out how the money was transferred,” inspector Murlidhar Khokale from Bibvewadi police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chartered-accountant-loses-rs-43k-to-kyc-update-fraud/articleshow/76518636.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: 4 held for killing teen, burning his body three months ago||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday claimed to have cracked a more than three-month-old murder case following the arrest of four persons based on a tip-off. Police investigation revealed that the victim, Jasbir Singh alias Billu Virdi (19), and his brother, Sunny, had assaulted Neeraj Jhangyani (26) — one of the arrested suspects — on March 7. Later, the siblings patched up with him. However, Jhangyani continued to nurse a grudge and murdered Billu with the help of his aides — Lalit Thakur (21), Yogesh Panjwani (32) and Harjotsingh Lohit (22), all residents of Pimpri — following a marijuana session on March 8. The police said Billu, along with Jhangyani and the latter’s three aides, visited a cattle shed on Dairy Farm Road in Pimpri in the early hours of March 8 to smoke marijuana (ganja). Jhangyani and the three others throttled Billu following the session and later burned his body using dry grass and diesel. The next day, the four youths returned to the spot and found Billu’s partly burned remains. They tried to burn the remains again, police said. Later, they collected the remains and threw them into Pavana river. The four suspects rode their luck for almost three months as the police could neither trace Billu nor detect his murder. On Sunday, however, an informer tipped off inspector Rajendra Nilkalje of the Pimpri police that one “Billu Shaikh”, missing for the past few months, had been murdered. He also gave the officer the names of the suspects. “We knew about the missing case of Billu Singh and after some verification, it was confirmed that the tip-off was about Billu Singh and not Billu Shaikh,” Nikalje told TOI. He said the police questioned Billu’s parents again and they, too, suspected the involvement of the four suspects. “We immediately took them into custody and during their questioning, they admitted to their involvement in the murder,” Nikalje added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-held-for-teenagers-murder-three-months-ago/articleshow/76518651.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt’s change of mind adds weight to pro-Rath appeal||BHUBANESWAR: Growing public anger and a proactive Centre may have led the Naveen Patnaik government to change its mind about holding the Rath Yatra. Four days after deciding, in an emergency cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister, that it would not seek a review of the apex court order cancelling the festival, the Odisha government added its weight to appeals before the apex court seeking a modification of its earlier order and permission for a devotee-less but public Rath Yatra. In an affidavit before the apex court, Sanjeeb Mishra, Odisha’s principal resident commissioner in New Delhi, said the state government would make the necessary arrangements if the Rath Yatra was confined to Puri, and celebrated without public attendance, as proposed by the Gajapati (titular king) of Puri. The state’s counsel Harish Salve and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also argued in favour of conduct of the Rath rituals. The state government’s changed stance and the Centre’s backing led to the Supreme Court paving the way for the annual festival. The moment marked a remarkable turnaround for the state government, which had earlier asked the Puri temple administration to work out modalities to hold the Rath rituals inside the shrine itself. The government’s change came about after Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, who is also the chairman of the Jagannath Temple administration, wrote to Naveen on Saturday, requesting him to approach the apex court for modification of its earlier order amid a public outcry. Moreover, Puri Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati on Sunday spoke about a premeditated attempt to stall the mega event, without naming anyone. The state government’s changed stance also coincided with the Centre deciding to take up a more proactive role in pressing for a low-key Rath Yatra in Puri. Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to the Gajapati, as well as the Puri Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati, and discussed the matter with solicitor general Mehta on the instruction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It makes me, as well as crores of devotees across India happy that PM @narendramodi not only understood the sentiment of the devotees but also initiated consultations which ensured that the great traditions of our land are observed,” Shah tweeted. “Considering the urgency and importance of the matter, it was placed in front of a vacation bench of the Supreme Court and the hearing took place this afternoon, which paved the way for the important decision by the SC. Congratulations to the people of Odisha,” Shah added. In a video message, chief minster Naveen Patnaik also thanked the Supreme Court for giving permission for the Yatra and the Centre for lending its cooperation. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan welcomed the “momentous decision” of the Supreme Court to allow the Rath Yatra and said, “When it comes to matters of faith, traditions and sentiments of crores of people, PM @narendramodi’s govt. has always led from the front to uphold them.” Congress president Niranjan Patnaik criticised the last-minute nature of the negotiations, and said the Centre and the state were merely forced to give into public opinion. “This is something they should have done long ago. From the very beginning, the Centre and the state should have taken the stance for the conduct of the Rath Yatra with precautions for Covid. But both tried to stall it,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-govts-change-of-mind-adds-weight-to-pro-rath-appeal/articleshow/76518656.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents fume as power supply remains erratic||Ludhiana: The city residents, including several members of trade associations, have raised their voice against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for its failure to provide the interrupted power supply to local consumers during hot weather conditions. The consumers have also questioned the usefulness of the helpline service of power corporation, as they could not get through to 1912 to get their complaint registered in their respective areas. Anmol Singh, a local resident, said, “I live in BRS Nagar. We have not been getting proper power supply in our area. The helpline number 1912 is also not working properly, so we are not even able to lodge a complaint.” A resident of Orient cinema road, Rajwinder Singh said, “Every year, PSPCL has been raising the tariffs, but it has failed to provide regular supply to the consumers. And during summer days when requirement is too high, the service has been disappointing.” Meanwhile, the members of different trade associations were complaining against the state Congress government, as they failed to fulfil their long-pending promise of providing electricity at cheaper rates to local consumers. There has been complaints of frequent and long power disruptions on Monday from the residents of BRS Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Tibba road, Shakti Nagar, Tajpur road, Subhash Nagar, Sector 32 Chandigarh road, Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Shingar Cinema road and Shivaji Nagar and adjoining areas of Sunet village. Speaking against the poor management of PSPCL in providing uninterrupted power supply to local consumers, chief of Business Bachao Morcha, Gurdeep Gosha said long unscheduled power cuts have been causing problems to the residents, including traders. “The state government has promised to provide electricity at Rs 5 per unit to industrialists but for the last two-and-half years, the promise has not been fulfilled. Moreover, the electricity prices in Punjab are too high in comparison with other states. But even after this, PSPCL failed to provide uninterrupted power supply to local consumers.” He added that the state government and PSCPCL should put their best efforts for slashing down the rates and providing uninterrupted power supply to every consumer without any excuse. When contacted, chief engineer of central zone, Virinder Singh Saini said, “Due to heavy storm on late Sunday night, power supply got affected in several parts of the district. But PSPCL has done all mandatory arrangements for ensuring proper power supply in the areas.” Singh also said the helpline number could have been busy due to many calls at the same time. He suggested that the consumers can also avail other platforms like Twitter and Facebook to place a complaint. Box Don’t just depend on 1912 Besides helpline 1912, residents can contact PSPCL by logging onto Facebook page Fb.com/pspclpb and write down their complaint or issues along with their address and house number. Similarly, they can also make a complaint on Twitter.com/pspclpb or at Instagram.com/pspcl while providing their particulars. There is also a toll free number 18001801512 for complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-fume-as-power-supply-remains-erratic/articleshow/76519458.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb okays 300 posts to handle patients||Chandigarh: Amid escalating Covid cases in the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday sanctioned 300 ad hoc posts in the medical education department, 100 in each in the three government run medical colleges in the state, to handle critical patients. He also directed expeditious recruitment of medical and technical staff against all vacant and sanctioned posts. The move follows Dr K K Talwar, state’s health adviser and former PGI director, highlighting the need for 100 staff members, mainly senior resident doctors and assistant professors, to remain on-board in each medical college on urgent basis to handle the critical Covid patients. For the 300 posts, the department will make ad hoc appointments by hiring graduating students as senior residents. These appointments could be subject to their clearing the exams later. For assistant professors, walk-in selections could be considered to overcome the immediate shortfall. Amarinder issued the directions during a video conference meeting to review the Covid situation in the state. As approval had already been given to the health department to fill up 6,000 vacancies at various positions, Captain Amarinder asked the department to expedite the recruitment process at all levels. Earlier, in detailed presentation, Dr Talwar said government medical colleges and district hospitals with Level III facility needed to be quickly filled up with senior residents, junior faculty in anaesthesia, medicine and any required discipline for Covid. He also suggested short exposure of all junior faculty in Covid ICU in PGI or AIIMS for hands-on experience. Amarinder also accepted the suggestion that one faculty member from anaesthesia, critical care should be on round-the-clock duty to give best possible care to sick patients in ICU. ‘Take samples on priority’ With the pandemic peaking in the state and projections grim for the coming weeks, Amarinder directed the health department to ensure that samples of symptomatic cases are taken on priority and all Covid tests reports submitted within 12 hours. Pointing out that delay could prove costly in positive cases, he also urged people to dial 104 at the first sign of symptoms or concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-okays-300-posts-to-handle-patients/articleshow/76519972.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Man found hanging, kin suspect foul play||Mysuru: Family members of Ravi, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Nanjangud, are suspecting foul play in his death and demanding police probe. Ravi, 36, was found hanging at his residence in Kempegowda Layout in Nanjangud on Monday. He had left home a decade ago and had been living with a woman with whom he had a relationship, police said. Nanjangud town police are awaiting a post-mortem report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-found-hanging-kin-suspect-foul-play/articleshow/76519948.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Woman dies of SARI in C’nagar; it’s not Covid, DC tells worried locals||Mysuru: The death of a 29-year-old woman, who had been suffering from a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in Chamarajanagar on Monday has ignited fear among the locals, who are worried if she succumbed to Covid-19. A native of Byadamudlu village in Chamarajanagar taluk, the woman died at the designated Covid hospital in the district on Monday morning. She was admitted to the hospital after she went to a private nursing home on Sunday night complaining of difficulties in breathing difficulties and was immediately referred to the government institution. Following her demise at the Covid hospital, the private nursing home that she visited first was sanitised and closed down in accordance with the protocol prescribed by the state health department. Chamarajanagar district witnessed a Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) death on Monday leading to fear among the locals. The road leading to the private nursing home was also sealed down on Monday. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi clarified that the woman had tested negative for the novel coronavirus. “She was a resident of Kalastuvadi in Mysuru, and had come to Byadamuldu, which is her native village. She had complained of pain in her chest on June 19 and had been treated at a local clinic in Mysuru, and come here on June 20. She subsequently had trouble breathing on Sunday evening and was taken to a private hospital, from where she was referred to the district hospital. Her oxygen level was very low, and she had to be kept on ventilator. We collected two swabs from her, and both of them have tested negative for Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-dies-of-sari-in-cnagar-its-not-covid-dc-tells-worried-locals/articleshow/76519918.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Pvt clinics open up, Covid-like cases sent to fever clinics||Bhopal: Around 10% to 20% of the patients reaching out to a doctor in the private sector are being referred to fever clinics. Even as private practice returns to a semblance of normalcy, patients are sceptical and doctors are taking never-before-seen measures to keep all safe from the Covid-19 infection. “Walk-in patients are being avoided. Meeting by appointment is being practised. It also helps in maintaining social distancing,” said Dr Sudeep Pathak, general secretary of the Indian Medical Association’s Bhopal division. As per government guidelines, patients with high fever, accompanied by influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory syndrome are being referred to a fever clinics. “At first, we try and assess the patient’s medical condition. If there is any indication that the person has symptoms of Covid-19, we refer them to the fever clinic. In some cases, the patient’s symptoms related to the infection are found on medical examination. These are about 20% of the cases,” said Dr Pathak. Once the patient is cleared from the fever clinic, he or she is seen by the private doctor, as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pvt-clinics-open-up-covid-like-cases-sent-to-fever-clinics/articleshow/76518663.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||Four rob Rs 23.85 lakh from Jaipur SBI ATM||JAIPUR: Four armed robbers barged into an ATM booth of State Bank of India (SBI) at Dholai in Vidhayak Nagar area under Mohana police station and decamped with Rs 23.85 lakh in cash after cutting open the cash box of the machine. Though there was a guard inside the booth, he was overpowered. The alarm at the ATM booth was not working. According to police, the incident took place at 3am at Vidhayak Nagar on Monday when four robbers, equipped with hammers, gas cutters and other gadgets, entered the ATM. “The guard Ramswaroop Saini, who was in the booth, said they thrashed and threatened him. He was also shown a gun. Then they cut the ATM cash box open with a gas cutter. Usually, a siren gets activated when the cash box is tampered with. However, the siren was not activated here,” said circle inspector Hira Lal, Mohana police station. He added that the CCTV camera too was not in a working condition. “We have got some grabs from nearby CCTV cameras. However, the picture of the robbers is not very clear. We are working on some technical surveillance to get a better idea of robbers,” he added. ‘They did a recce before entering the ATM booth’Police said the gang appears to be organised. “It seems that they have done a recce before entering the ATM booth. Though a guard was present inside the booth, the robbers threatened him and kept him quiet," said an officer. After the robbers left with cash, the guard informed the bank authorities. “As per the bank authorities and their calculation, the robbers decamped with Rs 23.85 lakh,” he added. Police said they have minor clues and are working on them. “It's not a local gang, but a well organised one which could be from outside the state,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-rob-23-85lfrom-city-sbi-atm/articleshow/76519974.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||PPCB forfeits bank guarantee of A2Z||Ludhiana: Acting against the carelessness of A2Z waste management in handling the garbage dump of Tajpur road, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has forfeited the bank guarantee taken from the company. Earlier, the PPCB had asked the company to deposit bank guarantee worth Rs 10 lakh in PPCB account but when company did not remove the shortcomings, PPCB officials took this action. Senior enviornment engineer of PPCB Sandeep Behl said, “We have forfeited the amount and it has been deposited in the account of department. The action has been taken because company did not fulfill the promises it had made when bank guarantee was demanded.” He said some more penalties are underway and will be imposed when decision will be taken. The company was served a notice by the civic body as well because it had closed down the plant at dump for disposing off the solid waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ppcb-forfeits-bank-guarantee-of-a2z/articleshow/76519461.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop appointed ration distributor turns out to be extortionist||Ludhiana: On Monday, Shimlapuri police have arrested a leader of labour organisation, who was also appointed as nodal officer by Ludhiana police for ration distribution, for extorting money. According to the police, the accused used to extort money from people involved in illegal trades like lottery and sand mining, claiming that he had links with the senior cops in Ludhiana. The accused has been identified as Akshwar Nath Mishra alias A N Mishra of Urban Estate of Jamalpur. A recording of accused had also gone viral, in which he name dropped police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal to impress others. Additional deputy commissioner of police-2, Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, said an advocate Surinderpal Sharma made a complaint to the police that the accused had extorted Rs 50,000 in cash from his client Suresh Kumar in the name of police officers. Suresh’s sister Pooja had lodged an FIR against her in-laws for aborting her pregnancy on April 7, 2019 at Police station Shimlapuri. The accused A N Mishra had contacted Suresh and promised that he will make the police arrest the accused and file chargesheet in the court at the earliest. The accused allegedly extorted Rs 50,000 from him for this. After receiving complaint the police started investigation in the matter. ADCP added that during investigation it came out that the accused had taken Rs 2 lakh from Jatinder Kumar for sand mining permission. The accused had also allegedly extorted Rs 70,000 from a lottery seller. The accused told him that the police would not take action against him. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer at Shimlapuri police station stated that a case under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (punishment for cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 506 of IPC has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-appointed-ration-distributor-turns-out-to-be-extortionist/articleshow/76519464.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar municipal corporation trains sanitation workers to remain safe||BHUBANESWAR: With frontline health and emergency workers testing positive for Covid-19, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday started imparting training to its 2,800 sanitation workforce as they are vulnerable given their nature work. The BMC wants that in a week, all the sanitary workers are trained on safety aspect of Covid-19. The sanitary workers include sweepers, supervisers, ward officers, sanitary inspectors, drivers and helpers of garbage transporting vehicles. On Monday, 157 of them were given training at Patia. The training module included how to maintain social distancing, personal hygiene, hand hygiene and how to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) Excluding holidays and shutdown days, the training will continue in different wards on all days. The Unicef is supporting the training programme and resource persons engaged by it are imparting the training. For the city, 10 such resource persons have been roped in, said an officer of BMC. The officer added that the sanitary workers are exposed to outside since they are collecting waste. The city so far has not reported any sanitation worker contracting the virus. But the workers need to understand how to wear a mask and how to remove it safely. Since there are various kinds of waste they are handling, they should not be callous, the officer added. So far in the state more than 200 health workers, including doctors, nurses, housekeeping and cleaning staff of hospitals, panchayat representatives in different villages, including sarpanches, Ashas and others have been infected by coronavirus. In capital city alone, 30 health workers have tested positive for Covid-19. A BMC source said besides massive awareness at community levels, which is being carried out by Sachetak teams and Resident Welfare Associations, they are targeting vulnerable groups. The Sachetak teams are simultaneously covering different wards to educate common people, especially the elderly on how to remain safe. On Monday, the city added 11 new positive cases taking the total infected to 196. This time all the positive cases were reported from home quarantined and there were no local (not quarantined) cases. While six are from UP and they are working in Mancheswar industrial estate, two have travel history to West Bengal. Three infected persons are railway employees. They have travel history to Delhi. The city now has 100 active cases with the death toll at three while 93 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-trains-sanitation-workers-to-remain-safe/articleshow/76518695.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Mysuru||Seven supari killers arrested in Mysuru||MYSURU: Vijayanagar police arrested seven persons in connection with the murder of the owner of a hair transplant clinic in the city. The supari killers were hired by another clinic owner over business rivalry. Gautham, a resident of Vijayanagar 4th stage, and his friend Ashrith, were working at Hair and Skin Factory, a hair transplant clinic, owned by Rajaram and his wife Shelly. In February, both resigned from the job and started their own clinic. This had not gone down well with Rajaram and Shelly. In his complaint at Vijayanagar police station, Gautham had stated that Rajaram and Shelly had threatened them that they would hire 30 supari killers to eliminate them. On June 17, Ashrith was found lying in a pool of blood on the road in front of his house. While being shifted to the hospital, Ashrith told Gautham that four persons who came on bikes attacked him with weapons. Ashrith succumbed to injuries. Based on the complaint by Gautham, Vijayanagar and Hebbal police jointly took up the operation and arrested Naveen, 30, Ashok alias Bharat, 32, Prashant S alias Raki, 25, Jaani R alias Jaan, 32, Dinesh S, 29, Mahesh, 30, and Mubharak alias Rateeq,19, all from Bengaluru, on Sunday, and seized two bikes, a car and a knife from them. According to police, the arrested, during interrogation, revealed that Rajaram had hired them to eliminate Ashrith due to business rivalry. Police are searching for Rajaram and others who are involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/7-supari-killers-arrested-in-mysuru/articleshow/76519927.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man murders pregnant wife for ‘serving tea with less sugar’||BAREILLY: A 40-year-old man brutally killed his pregnant wife, also a mother of three, following a tiff over a "cup of tea" in Barbar area of Lakhimpur Kheri district. The man was enraged after the morning tea served to him at 5.30am had a little less sugar. Renu Devi, 35, was married to the accused Bablu Kumar around 12 years ago. On Monday, in a fit of rage, the man slit Renu’s throat and left the house. The children woke up after hearing their father shout at their mother but they entered the kitchen much later only to find their mother lying covered in blood, gasping for breath. An FIR has been registered under IPC section 302 (murder) against Bablu on the complaint of Renu’s father Badri Prasad. Police are conducting raids to arrest him. "There was no issue between Renu and Bablu. They were married for 12 years. He was quite a sensible man and I am shocked that he killed my daughter over such a petty issue," Badri Prasad told TOI. SHO of Pasgawa police station Rakesh Kumar said, "The couple fought because there was less sugar in the morning tea and the husband killed his wife with a sharp knife. We have recovered the murder weapon and the accused will be arrested soon. The children are witness to the murder and we have taken their statement." Watch UP: Man murders pregnant wife for 'serving tea with less sugar'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-murders-pregnant-wife-for-serving-tea-with-less-sugar/articleshow/76517297.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Rewa cop suspended after his ‘youth-thrashing’ video goes viral||Bhopal: A cop was suspended after a video where he was seen thrashing a youngster in Rewa district, went viral. In the video that created a furore on social media, constable Hirendra Singh, posted at Civil Lines police station, was seen brutally thrashing a youth. The incident took place at old bus stand area of the city, and was filmed by some residents on their cell phones. The video was then shared on social media and it went viral. The victim had also lodged a complaint at the Civil Lines police station. When the matter came to the notice of Rewa SP Abid Khan, the cop was immediately suspended.SP Khan said, “The constable was suspended as he was seen beating a youth in video. No matter what the cause, beating anyone is not as per law. A probe has been ordered”. Sources said that the suspended constable had gone to the old bus stand area and he had a scuffle with a shopkeeper. Soon, a crowd gathered there and the victim youth was also among the crowd. The accused constable allegedly started thrashing the youth, asking him why he was standing there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rewa-cop-suspended-after-his-youth-thrashing-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76518701.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Sagar man tests +ve in city, admits self in hometown||Nagpur: With lockdown norms eased to a great extent, a number of patients with symptoms related to Covid-19 are reportedly travelling from within Vidarbha and neighbouring states to the city even for routine check-ups, increasing the chances of virus spread. So far 49 people from other districts of Vidarbha, and Madhya Pradesh and Chhatisgarh, have tested positive in the city. On Monday, three people from Wani in Yavatmal district and one from Badnera in Amravati district tested positive. A 59-year-old employee of a cooperative bank from Rehli, near Sagar in MP, along with his son and son-in-law reached the city in a private vehicle driven by another person at around 6am on Saturday. He went to a private hospital for diabetes treatment. As he had mild fever, the doctor asked him to test for Covid-19. All the four passengers were in the city till evening. The report, which was positive, was received from a private laboratory around 7pm. On learning about it, the man returned to Sagar. After officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) persistently called him, the man got himself admitted to Government Medical College at Sagar. He is the first patient to get admitted outside Nagpur after testing positive here. This means he had been infected in his hometown, and travelled over 350km back and forth. A large number of people have begun to visit private hospitals from distant places after the government said that no one travelling for medical purposes should be stopped. NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that patients with mild symptoms should test for Covid-19 before leaving for Nagpur. “People should also realize their responsibility towards society,” he added. Dr Gantawar said the private laboratory should have informed NMC first, so that the man could have been admitted in the isolation ward. “Private hospitals should also ensure patients do not move around till reports are received,” he said. The patient from Sagar told TOI that he travelled to Nagpur as doctors at Rehli were unable to control his diabetes. “I received three calls to get admitted at Nagpur but I preferred Sagar as I was not carrying clothes and other items. It would have been inconvenient for my family too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sagar-man-tests-ve-in-city-admits-self-in-hometown/articleshow/76526493.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Can be briefs or mergedWoman tests positive, escapes with newborn||Bathinda: A 27-year-old woman of Sehna village in Barnala district escaped with her newborn baby from her home on Sunday evening after she was told that she had tested positive for Covid-19. She had returned from Delhi on June 17, her test was conducted on June 18 and report released on Sunday evening. Tapa civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Jasbir Aulakh said, “An ambulance was sent to her home in Sehna to get the woman shifted to isolation, it was found the home was locked. There was no information about here whereabouts till Monday evening, even though her family members were trying to prevail her upon to shift into isolation.” SMO said that the district administration and police had been informed about the incident and efforts were on to trace her at the earliest so that others do not catch the viral infection from her. 3 BSF men, one cop catch infection In Fazilka, 13 positive cases were reported, including three personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) and a policeman. With this, count of active cases in Fazilka district has gone up to 24, and all have been sent in the isolation ward of Jalalabad civil hospital, said Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria. In Bathinda, six persons were detected positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/can-be-briefs-or-mergedwoman-tests-positive-escapes-with-newborn/articleshow/76519980.cms||---
June 23, 2020||India||Bridge near China border collapses||PITHORAGARH: A bridge on the Munsyari-Milam road collapsed after a truck carrying an earthmover tried to cross it on Monday. The incident took place in Dhapa, Munsyari tehsil, around 50km from the China border. The combined weight of the two heavy vehicles was more than what the bridge could bear and it collapsed on the gorge underneath, injuring driver Godhan Singh and machine operator Lakhwinder Singh. Both have been admitted at a hospital in Munsyari. Milam is the last village on China’s border. With the bridge gone, more than a dozen villages in Munsyari tehsil, with a total population of around 7,000, have been cut off. The truck and the earthmover were among the machines being used for the construction of the 64-km Munsyari-Milam road. Munsyari station house officer Asif Khan said that, “Machines for road construction have crossed the bridge before, but the combined weight of the two vehicles overloaded it. The guard at the bridge had warned the driver not to take both the vehicles at the same time, but he simply refused to listen. Prima facie, it is a case of negligence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bridge-near-china-border-collapses/articleshow/76521048.cms||Prem Punetha
June 23, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Rath to roll today in Puri after SC removes shackles||PURI: The Supreme Court on Monday revisited its earlier order and granted permission to hold the Rath Yatra without the congregation of devotees, bringing to an end four days of protests, hectic lobbying and political slugfest and spreading joy among Odias worldwide as well as servitors of Jagannath Temple. The bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna, which had earlier stalled the Rath Yatra owing to rising Covid-19 cases, gave the nod for Tuesday’s chariot festival while hearing a raft of petitions filed by individuals and organisations seeking a review of its ban order. While allowing the festival to go ahead, the Supreme Court also set forth 11 conditions, including curfew in Puri and sealing of entry points to prevent devotees from reaching the spot. It also made it clear that not more than 500 people (police personnel), who must test negative for Covid-19, should be allowed to pull each of the three chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra. But while the Rath Yatra has been allowed in Puri, elsewhere in the state the festival stands cancelled. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik expressed his gratitude to the Supreme Court for allowing Rath Yatra to be held in Puri. “I also thank the Centre for their support in the Supreme Court. State government and Jagannath temple administration have completed all arrangements for smooth conduct of the festival,” Naveen said in a video message. The chief minister, however, admitted it would be a big challenge for the administration to host Rath Yatra amid Covid-19 pandemic. “The whole world is watching us. Amid the challenge, I am hopeful that we can do it. I am hopeful that the Rath Yatra rituals can be performed amid precautions. Social distancing and other guidelines should be followed during the festival,” Naveen said. The chief minister asked chief secretary Asit Tripathy and director general of police (DGP) Abhay to go to Puri and oversee preparations for the Rath Yatra. Naveen also asked law minister Pratap Jena, school and mass education minister Samir Dash and deputy chairman of state planning board, Sanjay Das Burma, to camp in Puri and supervise the Rath Yatra proceedings till Niladri Bije on July 4. Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb said he is indebted to the Supreme Court, Centre and state government for making Rath Yatra happen. Home minister Amit Shah also spoke to the Puri king and Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati and took stock of the situation. The fresh order from the Supreme Court followed week-long speculations and moments of intense anxiety among devotees about the fate of the Rath Yatra amid the pandemic. The apex court’s order on Thursday had sparked state-wide outcry and political slugfest with many targeting the state government for having failed to convince the Supreme Court to hold Rath Yatra without the congregation of devotees. Under pressure, the state government changed its stand and assured to support the petitioners demanding that Rath Yatra be held with restrictions. This is the first time the world famous Rath Yatra will be observed without the participation of devotees in Puri. The administration imposed curfew from 9 pm on Monday till 2 pm on Wednesday. “We will deploy around 50 platoons of police force to prevent congregation and help in the smooth conduct of the festival,” DGP Abhay said. Temple administration said the rituals will start from 3 am. At least 19 rituals are scheduled to be performed inside the temple and outside on the chariots on Tuesday. Pulling of the chariots is scheduled to start at 12 pm. Temple administration said the chariots would be pulled by police personnel. It must be mentioned that the Orissa high court had recently asked the administration to consider deployment of heavy machineries or elephants to pull the chariots instead of manpower to avoid congregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/rath-to-roll-today-in-puri-after-sc-removes-shackles/articleshow/76528550.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 23, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL issues bills for three months, breaks up readings||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), which has started taking meter readings in non-containment zones from June 1, has issued bills to consumers from April to June. To clarify any confusion or concern about higher bills, the company said it had broken the readings into three parts to ensure customers get charged in the 0-100 unit slab, as opposed to higher tariff slabs. An official from the power company explained that since MSEDCL stopped taking meter readings from March 23 due to the lockdown, the difference between the reading taken in March before the lockdown and the fresh reading in June was used to arrive at the number of units consumed between April and now. “Consumers had the option of providing their actual meter reading on the MSEDCL app to get the accurate bills. However, of the 2.30 crore consumers in the state, only 3.65 lakh used this facility. The rest were given bills calculated on an average, that too on the basis of the consumption during the winter months, when usage of power is low as compared to summer months,” the official explained. On the reading arrived at in the current bill, the official added, “That number is equally divided into three months. The consumers have paid some money as average bill amount, which is adjusted against the actual bill amount after deducting the fixed charges and electricity duty charges,” the official added. Consumers who are concerned about higher electricity bills have been provided a link to the MSEDCL website (see box) where they can verify how their bills have been calculated — they have to enter the 12-digit consumer number in the link to get the details. The official further said after the lockdown, household consumption of electricity increased significantly because of the high temperatures, the use of air-conditioners, fans, other electrical appliances and the work-from-home regime. “The new power tariff that came into effect from April 1 may create a misunderstanding that the bill is inflated. However the equal distribution of the units consumed in three months ensured that consumers got the advantage of the lower tariff slab,” he said. Giving an example, he said, “If a consumer got a bill for 612 units for three months, we have not calculated it as per the Rs11.71 per unit tariff, applicable to the 500 units-and-above slab, which would have come to Rs7,166.52. We have divided 612 units by three to arrive at the monthly consumption of 204 units. Out of the 204, the first 100 units are charged Rs346 (Rs3.46 per unit) and the remaining 104 units are charged Rs772.72 (Rs7.43 per unit). Thus, the monthly bill comes to Rs1,118.72. On that basis, the three months’ bill will be Rs3,356.16.” The official said that consumers in the containment zones will continue to get bills on average as long as they remain sealed. “We will resume meter reading once they are declared non-containment zones. The monthly billing for non-containment zones will be normalized from July onwards. Consumers in containment zones have the option of getting actual bills, if they upload their meter reading on the MSEDCL app,” the official reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-issues-bills-for-three-months-breaks-up-readings/articleshow/76518716.cms||Manjiri Damle
June 23, 2020||Bhopal||Posing as corona surveyors, cops catch wanted criminal in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: While the coronavirus pandemic may have forced several migrant workers to return home, several criminals have made use of the crisis to take shelter in their native villages. However, one such criminal, with a cash reward of Rs 5,000 on his head, was caught on Sunday in Chhatarpur’s Luvkushnagar by police who pretended to be coronavirus surveyors. The police had received a tip-off that accused Jagdish alias Bunder — allegedly nicknamed so for his ability to move like a monkey — was hiding at home. On several occasions in the past, he had dodged the police and run away committing crimes which led to him receiving the nickname. However, on Sunday, officers sub inspector Nandkishore Solanki and constable Ravindra Patel reached his house in plainclothes. Posing as coronavirus surveyors, they knocked at the door of his house and sought information about the health condition of the residents. Later they asked for the signature of the family head. “Wife of Jagdish first claimed he was not present at home. But when the cops insisted on having the signature of the family head, she called him. As soon as he emerged out, they pounced at him,” said KB Arya, SHO of Luvkushnagar police station. When the two cops pretended to be coronavirus surveyors, Arya and another constable were hiding at a nearby place. Bunder was wanted in 16 cases of crime including two cases of SC/SC act. He was absconding for the past five years. Father of three children, he had escaped from police 18 months ago and had taken his family to Delhi. The SHO said that Bunder was reportedly pulling a rickshaw in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/posing-as-corona-surveyors-cops-catch-wanted-criminal/articleshow/76518715.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Man lies dead on pavement, cops come after four hours in Chennai||CHENNAI: At the heart of the city, near Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, an elderly man lay dead unattended for nearly four hours on the platform of EVR Periyar Salai on Monday. After ambulances remained unavailable, police moved his body in a tricycle to RGGGH. The man in his mid-60s, who is yet to be identified, died around 9am. There was no clarity on whether it was due to illness or starvation. But none of the public who crossed the stretch volunteered to check on him fearing he could have Covid-19 infection. Besides commoners, hundreds of civic officials crossed the stretch to reach Greater Chennai Corporation headquarters Ripon Building in the morning and police were also patrolling the stretch to book those violating lockdown norms. People who were in the vicinity said they noticed him mumbling in the morning in hunger but thought he was drunk. Given the intense lockdown was in place, volunteers who distribute food to the homeless across the city, are unable to move around the city freely. There was only one Amma canteen, which serves food for free, in the surrounding and the facility was shut early on Sunday and Monday, said a group of metrorail workers. The workers alerted police about the body around 12 noon. Soon, a team from the Periamet police station arrived at the spot and called for a mortuary van or ambulance to shift the body to RGGGH. But all vehicles were engaged in moving around Covid-19 patients. After waiting for an hour, police hired a tricycle from a fisherman by paying from their own pockets. The body was cleared around 1pm and taken for postmortem. The Periamet police have a filed a case under section 174 of the CrPC (investigation of unnatural deaths) and will put a notice in newspapers on Tuesday after publishing a notice through Crime Records Bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-lies-dead-on-pavement-cops-come-after-4-hours/articleshow/76519485.cms||B A Raju
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Stakeholders, people’s representatives, NGOs oppose Bander mine||Chandrapur: Stepping up the agitation against the auctioning of Bander coal block in the northern corridor of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve, NGO Eco-Pro on Monday took out a bike rally to create awareness among villages in the buffer zone about the ill effects of mining on forest, wildlife and forest dwellers. The NGO and people’s representatives of Chimur tehsil came together at the coal block site to flay the Union government’s move, which they said would destroy tiger habitat and pristine forest. “We will fight tooth and nail against any attempt of mining in Bander coal block. It will destroy the key northern corridor of Tadoba. Man-animal conflict is already at its peak in Chimur tehsil, and it will further flare up due to mining,” said president of NGO Tarun Paryawarn Mandal Amod Ghaurkar. President of Eco-Pro Bandu Dhotre claimed their objective was to highlight the threat to stakeholders, people’s representatives and wildlife NGOs in the area. “They all have now come together to oppose the auctioning. We all have resolved to oppose every move in sanctioning process, if mining is allowed here,” he told TOI. Panchayat Samiti member Azhar Sheikh and some village heads from the area also took part in the protest. Sheikh claimed the coal block had been twice rejected for being detrimental to Tadoba and its tigers, and there is no sense in taking it up for auctioning again. “Stakeholder will gain nothing from the mine. Locals will lose precious agricultural land and at least six villages will have to be rehabilitated,” he pointed out. He claimed there was no prospect of locals gaining employment from proposed mine. WCL had started Murpar coal mine just 2.5 kilometre from Bander and just 2% stakeholders had gained employment from it, he said. President of Chimur-based Paryawarn Sanwardhan Sanghatna Kavadu Lohakare claimed both local stakeholders and wildlife activists are irked by the auction. “If the mine comes up, northern tiger corridor of Tadoba will be lost along with 1,200 hectares of dense forest. At least three tigers living in Bander forest will lose their habitat and water level in all surrounding villages will go down,” he warned. Earlier in the morning, Dhotre led a large bike-rally of wildlife activists from Chandrapur. The rally reached Moharli gate of Tadoba and then took a circuit through buffer area passing through Sitarampeth, Ashta, Khadsangi villages and reached Bander, where a protest was held with locals and NGOs. Later, the bike rally returned to Chandrapur in evening making a full circle around TATR core through buffer villages of Palasgaon, Shivni and Mul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stakeholders-peoples-representatives-ngos-oppose-bander-mine/articleshow/76519484.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 23, 2020||Chandigarh||MC likely to register pets from today||Ludhiana: The civic body is likely to begin pet registration from Tuesday, according to a link at official website of MC. The official announcement is pending. For registration Rs 400 fee will be charged and pet owner will have to upload his and his pet’s pictures. Once the owner paid the fees, he or she will be issued a token which they have to submit at room number 37 of veterinary health department of MC in zone A. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said, “I am yet to receive confirmation from the commissioner, but we have put everything online. As soon as we will get the nod, the registration will start.” Meanwhile a helpline number 8437535700 has also been issued on the website and in case pet owners need assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-likely-to-register-pets-from-today/articleshow/76519475.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Rath to roll today in Puri after SC removes shackles||PURI: The Supreme Court on Monday revisited its earlier order and granted permission to hold the Rath Yatra without the congregation of devotees, bringing to an end four days of protests, hectic lobbying and political slugfest and spreading joy among Odias worldwide as well as servitors of Jagannath Temple. The bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna, which had earlier stalled the Rath Yatra owing to rising Covid-19 cases, gave the nod for Tuesday’s chariot festival while hearing a raft of petitions filed by individuals and organisations seeking a review of its ban order. While allowing the festival to go ahead, the Supreme Court also set forth 11 conditions, including curfew in Puri and sealing of entry points to prevent devotees from reaching the spot. It also made it clear that not more than 500 people (police personnel), who must test negative for Covid-19, should be allowed to pull each of the three chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra. But while the Rath Yatra has been allowed in Puri, elsewhere in the state the festival stands cancelled. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik expressed his gratitude to the Supreme Court for allowing Rath Yatra to be held in Puri. “I also thank the Centre for their support in the Supreme Court. State government and Jagannath temple administration have completed all arrangements for smooth conduct of the festival,” Naveen said in a video message. The chief minister, however, admitted it would be a big challenge for the administration to host Rath Yatra amid Covid-19 pandemic. “The whole world is watching us. Amid the challenge, I am hopeful that we can do it. I am hopeful that the Rath Yatra rituals can be performed amid precautions. Social distancing and other guidelines should be followed during the festival,” Naveen said. The chief minister asked chief secretary Asit Tripathy and director general of police (DGP) Abhay to go to Puri and oversee preparations for the Rath Yatra. Naveen also asked law minister Pratap Jena, school and mass education minister Samir Dash and deputy chairman of state planning board, Sanjay Das Burma, to camp in Puri and supervise the Rath Yatra proceedings till Niladri Bije on July 4. Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb said he is indebted to the Supreme Court, Centre and state government for making Rath Yatra happen. Home minister Amit Shah also spoke to the Puri king and Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati and took stock of the situation. The fresh order from the Supreme Court followed week-long speculations and moments of intense anxiety among devotees about the fate of the Rath Yatra amid the pandemic. The apex court’s order on Thursday had sparked state-wide outcry and political slugfest with many targeting the state government for having failed to convince the Supreme Court to hold Rath Yatra without the congregation of devotees. Under pressure, the state government changed its stand and assured to support the petitioners demanding that Rath Yatra be held with restrictions. This is the first time the world famous Rath Yatra will be observed without the participation of devotees in Puri. The administration imposed curfew from 9 pm on Monday till 2 pm on Wednesday. “We will deploy around 50 platoons of police force to prevent congregation and help in the smooth conduct of the festival,” DGP Abhay said. Temple administration said the rituals will start from 3 am. At least 19 rituals are scheduled to be performed inside the temple and outside on the chariots on Tuesday. Pulling of the chariots is scheduled to start at 12 pm. Temple administration said the chariots would be pulled by police personnel. It must be mentioned that the Orissa high court had recently asked the administration to consider deployment of heavy machineries or elephants to pull the chariots instead of manpower to avoid congregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rath-to-roll-today-in-puri-after-sc-removes-shackles/articleshow/76518713.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Businessman gets ‘erroneous’ Rs 80 crore electricity bill||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A Bhosari-based small-scale businessman got the shock of his life when he received a Rs 80 crore electricity bill for last week. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) stated that it was an inadvertent error and that a revised, corrected bill for Rs 85,000 has been issued to the consumer. The issue was raised by the Pimpri Chinchwad Small Scale Industries Association on Sunday, following which the MSEDCL clarified that the error was only on the printed bill and that they had already corrected the error and uploaded the revised bill online. The erroneous bill was sent already, which resulted in the confusion. The bill was first flagged by MSEDCL’s computerized billing software and the correction was made. However the copy of the wrong bill was printed and then sent to the businessman. Sandip Belsare, president of Pimpri Chinchwad Small Scale Industries Association, said that this was not the first time MSEDCL has made errors in the bill. “There are around 4,200 members associated with us and every month, we get around 10 complaints regarding electricity bills. We have been told that if the average bill amount is higher, it will be adjusted in the coming billing cycles. We will keep an eye on it,” he said. Nishikant Raut, MSEDCL public relations officer, for Pune circle, clarified that the bill of Rs80 crore was the result of a technical glitch and has been resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-gets-erroneous-rs-80-crore-statement/articleshow/76518734.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Hirakud dam to release its first floodwaters on June 25||SAMBALPUR: As the water level at the Hirakud dam reservoir is increasing due to good rainfall in the catchment area of the reservoir, the Hirakud dam authorities have taken a decision to release the first floodwaters from the dam on June 25. The water level of Hirakud dam stood at 614. 79 ft against the full reservoir level of 630 ft at 3pm on Monday. Similarly, the inflow of water into the reservoir was 63,951 cusec and outflow from the dam was 15,263 cusec, including 12,816 cusec to Power Channel, 405 cusec to canals and 170 cusec water for industries on Monday. On June 22 in 2019, the water level of the dam stood at 600.54 ft against the full reservoir level of 630 ft. Similarly, the water level of the dam was 602.89 ft on June 22 in 2018 and the it was 599.15 ft on the same day in 2017. Chief engineer, Hirakud dam project, Sunil Nayak, said, the intermittent rain in the catchment areas of the Hirakud dam reservoir during the non-monsoon period increased the inflow of water into the reservoir resulting in the rise in the water level at the dam this year. And since the water level of the dam is increasing, a decision has been taken to release the first floodwaters from the dam after 10am on June 25, he said. An official source said the dam authorities had released the first floodwaters from the dam on August 14 in 2019. Similarly, in 2018 the dam authorities had released the season’s first floodwaters on July 24 and in 2017, the dam released first floodwaters on July 23. There are 98 gates to release the floodwaters from the Hirakud dam. Of the total, 64 are sluice gates and 34 are crest gates. Each sluice gate has the capacity to discharge 16,440 cusec of water when reservoir level is 630 feet, also termed as danger level. Similarly, each crest gate has the potential to discharge 16,238 cusec of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hirakud-to-release-its-1st-floodwaters-on-june-25/articleshow/76518735.cms||Subrat Mohanty
June 23, 2020||India||Maharana Pratap lacked control, says Raj e-textbook||JAIPUR: The erstwhile royal family of Mewar, direct descendant of Maharana Pratap, has objected to changes made in a revised Class X social science e-textbook by the Rajasthan government that called him “impatient, lacked in moderation and control” while listing out reasons for his failure in the Battle of Haldighati. It has also objected to content on the 16th century king being reduced. The family has asked the state education department to either provide evidence for the claims made in the chapter or remove the controversial contents from the book immediately. The revision of textbooks was carried out by the Congress government soon after they came to power in 2018. Reports say that the content of Maharana Pratap has been reduced by 40% from the previous book written during the former BJP government. The downsizing has been done in the class X printed and e-book version of ‘Sangharshkalin Bharat: 1206 AD-1757 AD’ while the objectionable comments were added in the e-book which sparked the controversy. The e-book says that “Senanayak me pratikul paristhitiyon me jis dhairya, sanyam aur yojana ki avashyakta honi chahiye, Pratap me uska abhav tha. (Pratap lacked the sense of moderation and patience under unfavourable circumstances).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharana-pratap-lacked-control-says-raj-e-textbook/articleshow/76521049.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Nagpur||Govt allows weddings in non-AC halls & lawns with riders||Nagpur: In some respite to soon-to-be married and businesses dependent on such events, Maharashtra government on Monday allowed weddings to be held in non-AC hall / lawn with riders — maximum number of guests up to 50 and Covid distancing a must. A circular by state relief and rehabilitation department to all divisional and municipal commissioners, collectors mentioned that hall/lawn owners should be granted permission to host marriages after accepting proper application from them. The circular issued by department secretary Kishorraje Nimbalkar stated that with monsoon arriving, marriages should be permitted in non-air conditioned halls and lawns apart from homes with the presence of up to 50 guests. The circular also makes it clear that they will have to follow all directives issued by the government from time-to-time regarding Covid-19 pandemic. The government had received several representations from various quarters urging it to allow marriages to be held at halls/lawns and other places citing difficulties in arranging marriages at home with 50 persons and also ensuring Covid distancing. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar had told TOI that the government would allow marriages on lawns and non-AC halls after receiving many applications in this regard from citizens. Even hall/lawn owners under the banner of Nagpur Mangal Karyalay and Lawns Association had approached the authorities seeking permission to host marriage functions. According to association members, only a few auspicious dates (muhurat) for marriages are there till June 30. Thereafter, only a few days in November-December. “In such a situation, if we weren’t allowed to host weddings, those in the business would go bankrupt as there have been no events for the last three months because of the lockdown. Many of us have taken loans to operate halls/lawns and also employed many to whom regular salaries have to be paid,” they had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-allows-weddings-in-non-ac-halls-lawns-with-riders/articleshow/76519505.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 8 sailors at INS Shivaji test positive for Covid-19||PUNE: Eight sailors, who came for training at Indian Navy’s premier marine engineering institute INS Shivaji at Lonavla, about 60 km from here, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days. These sailors had come to INS Shivaji last week from Uttar Pradesh (UP), Delhi and southern states for attending various courses. “The sailors are being treated at the Military Hospital Cardio Thoracic Centre (MH-CTC) at Wanowrie which is a designated Covid Care Centre for the armed forces personnel,” Pune district health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI on Monday. A written media query sent by the TOI to the INS Shivaji through the Defence PRO remained unanswered at the time of going to the press. Commander Sudhir Warrior, the public relations officer (PRO) for the Kochi-headquartered Southern Naval Command which controls the institute, also did not respond to the query. Wadgaon Maval tehsildar Madhusudan Barge, who, along with the district health officials, met senior INS Shivaji officers on Monday, said, “We have been told that the sailors have been isolated at a designated facilities. On June 16, one of the sailors from Uttar Pradesh developed throat itching and fever. Upon conducting preliminary medical examination, he was referred to the MH-CTC where his throat swab was taken. He added, “The test results came positive. Subsequently, the sailors who were in contact with him were referred to the same hospital and seven more tested positive. They are now being treated.” Barge said, “The naval institute has eight designated isolation centres on the campus for officers rank and sailors. A team of doctors carries out medical check on a daily basis. Social distancing protocol and other necessary measures such as wearing of masks are being followed strictly. They have ventilator facility and a well equipped ambulance for shifting patients, if needed.” He said, “The institute has a sizeable number of civil employees and we have told them to carry out their tests. If required, these civilian employees can be referred to our facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-sailors-at-ins-shivaji-test-positive-for-ncov/articleshow/76518744.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jaipur||No pay for Jaipur transport staff for three months||JAIPUR: The Jaipur City Transport Service Limited (JCTSL) employees have not received their salaries for last three months. Around 1,000 employees are demanding their pending salaries. According to JCTSL employees, the total pending salary is around Rs 2.5 crore, however, they alleged that the officials are not speeding up the process. Babulal Nangli, secretary JCTSL Employees Union said, “We are in dire need of money as this lockdown has made us bankrupt. In March, we received only 70% salaries and since then there has been no payment. We have written to the administration but nothing has been done. JCTSL has recently received Rs 10 crore funds from the state government but officials said that is not meant for salaries. It is difficult to survive in this situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-pay-for-city-transport-staff-for-three-months/articleshow/76519487.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai Corporation deploys 3,500 more warriors for final assault||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation is readying for the final assault to contain the raging Covid-19 pandemic, having roped in another 3,500 warriors. Armed with a register and a friendly smile, volunteers grouped under FOCUS (Friend of Covid person under Surveillance) are mostly college students and people in the neighbourhood concerned. Appointed by the corporation on a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 under the home quarantine and isolation management system (HQIMS), they will visit all containment streets to ensure 1,17,000 people – virus positive patients, their contacts, returnees from foreign countries, flight passengers, train passengers from hotspot states and inter-state road travellers, those who await test results, cured and discharged patients and those with influenza like symptoms spotted at fever clinics – follow the 14-day isolation procedure. Each volunteer will be provided with ID card, cap, mask and fanny bags. Hired on a monthly contract that could be extended even after the lockdown ends, they would also be part of WhatsApp groups and help others in the neighbourhood they have been allotted. Assistant revenue officers at the zonal level will collect details of homes under various categories of isolation and segregate them division wise among volunteers for daily surveillance. The volunteers will visit homes of every quarantined person thrice a day, buy them medicines, essentials, check on their health and report to the corporation. There will be a mandatory roll call at 7.30am everyday when volunteers will be allotted homes, each of them visiting at least five streets and 20-30 people daily. In a week, they will get apps in which data about the quarantined people would be entered to be checked in real time. Currently, there are 4,000 people in home isolation and 55,000 of their contacts in home quarantine. The rest – both domestic and international travellers – are also in home quarantine. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said anyone could get themselves tested now. “Earlier, only symptomatic and close contacts were being tested. Now, we have asked labs to test anyone who approaches them,” he said. Deputy Commissioner (revenue) Meghanatha Reddy, in-charge of implementing the system, said two teachers would be added to a four-member team to act as counsellors for the patients. “The data on the patients and people in quarantine will be collected at the headquarters and sent to the zones. It will then be forwarded to divisions where the houses will be allotted. The volunteers will greet the patients, be their friend, ensure they don’t step out, buy them their essentials, medicines and counsel them as well.” Rajendra R, a covid positive patient, said this initiative would really help those who live alone. “We have to call our friends and endanger their lives too.” An official said many may not have anyone to help them and would have no choice but to step out. In crowded slum tenements, the volunteers would provide the families concerned food prepared in Amma Canteens and by NGOs three times a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-deploys-3500-more-warriors-for-final-assault/articleshow/76519479.cms||Komal Gautham
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum administration sets up 12 checkpoints to screen migrants||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district administration on Monday made 12 checkpoints operational and started registration along with medical check-up of those entering the district from other states or districts of Jharkhand. The move was taken up to check the rising Covid-19 cases in the district. Earlier, people entering the district were sent for check-ups at the Loyola School camp in the city. The medical officials there collected swab samples and gave instructions on whether the new entrants need home quarantine, institutional quarantine or paid quarantine. The camp, which was set up on May 13, was closed from Sunday. DC Ravi Shankar Shukla instructed that check-ups and decisions for sending people to different types of quarantine will be taken at the checkpoints, which are located at various places and will operate round-the-clock. District administration sources said travel history will be collected at these points to prevent unauthorised entry. The sources further said government teachers have been roped in to help medical and police teams at the checkpoints. Each checkpoint will have a special magistrate, who will oversee that there is no loophole in execution of the new system, they added. Meanwhile, Kumar urged people with viral infection symptoms to seek help from the district medical team through the helpline numbers. He advised those coming from outside the state to provide their details honestly to help the fight against the disease. “People who can afford paid quarantine should do so and for those who could not, they can always take shelter in centres set up by the government at various places. But they can only go back home after their Covid-19 test reports come,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-admin-sets-up-12-checkpoints-to-screen-migrants/articleshow/76518089.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Ajsu to take a call later on contesting bye-election with BJP||Ranchi: Ajsu Party chief Sudesh Mahto on Monday said the youth of the state must realise that they will have to fulfil the aspirations of the state. Mahto was addressing his party workers on the 34th Foundation Day of Ajsu-P. The address was broadcast online from the party’s headquarters in Ranchi. Mahto said: “Jharkhand was formed on the back of a students’ movement. So, I would urge today’s youngsters and students to take a vow to work towards realising the aspirations of the state.” Attacking the incumbent Mahagathbandhan government, Mahto said the state government is headed by the working president of a party that was formed on the basis of Jharkhandi ideology, but that principle is not being reflected in the decisions of the administration. “JMM had promised in their poll manifesto to regularise para-teachers, anganwadi workers and all other contractual staff, but now they have forgotten their promises. We expect the government to fulfil its promises or else Ajsu-P will start a campaign,” Mahto said. General secretary of Ajsu-P and Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto, who also addressed the event, said, “I pay my obeisance to the two bravehearts from the state who laid down their lives protecting the motherland at the LAC recently. The government must provide immediate assistance to the kin of the deceased. But I doubt the intention of the current government, as a party which was vehemently opposed to the formation of Jharkhand is now in the ruling coalition.” On being quizzed about Ajsu-P’s strategy in the upcoming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo, Sudesh said: “Right now we aren’t thinking about elections as the state is fighting a global pandemic. The party will take a call on the issue at the right time.” On the state government approaching the Supreme court over the coal-block auction issue, Sudesh said that the state has a right to approach the court over differences but it should first try to sort out the differences with the coal ministry. “We are one of the largest producers of coal in the country and Jharkhand’s concerns must be addressed,” Sudesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ajsu-to-take-a-call-later-on-contesting-bye-election-with-bjp/articleshow/76519468.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 70% dip in road accidents during lockdown: Transport department||RANCHI: Jharkhand witnessed a 70% reduction in road accidents during the lockdown period between March and May this year, the data compiled by the road safety wing of the state transport department has revealed. Between March 24, when the nationwide lockdown came into force, and May 31, a total of 304 accidents were recorded in which 211 persons died and 227 others sustained injuries. During the same corresponding period in 2019, a total of 970 accidents were reported and 701 persons died while 683 others suffered injuries of different degrees. The road safety wing has recently sent these quarterly figures to the Supreme Court-appointed road safety committee, which maintains a nationwide database, provides advisories and prescribes action plans for corrective measures. As per the last assessment by the transport department, 90 black spots exist across the state. A departmental source said, “Majority of the accidents recorded during the lockdown period are around those black spots be it in Ramgarh’s Chuttpalu valley or in Bundu on the Ranchi-Tata stretch of NH-33.” R S Vidhyarthi, joint secretary of the state transport department (road safety), however, said detailed analysis of all the accidents during the lockdown period is underway, but conceded that many may have occurred around the notified black spots. He said, “We can’t completely rule out the role of notified black spots in accidents during the lockdown period.” According to Vidhyarthi, one of the biggest reasons behind the drastic fall in road accidents is because the vehicles are off the roads during the lockdown. “But as the essential services were out of the ambit, heavy vehicles carrying essential goods ply and suffered accidents due to carelessness, lack of know-how about a particular area’s topography, over-speeding because of the empty roads and so on,” he said, adding that the department is currently in the process of re-notifying the black spots afresh. He said, “A stretch is usually notified as black spot based on its accident history of the past three consecutive years. Thereafter, corrective measures are taken in that stretch to minimise mishaps. In 2017, there were 146 black spots, which came down to 90 in 2018. For 2019, we are expecting to notify them in a week to 10 days from now. We are hoping that the black spots will be reduced as the department through different stakeholders has been working for the last three years to create awareness and take corrective steps like putting up signage and improving the condition of roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-records-70-dip-in-road-accidents-during-lockdown-transport-dept/articleshow/76519456.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||BJP slams Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for ‘opposing’ coal block auction||RANCHI: BJP on Monday said the Hemant Soren government is posing “unnecessary” hurdles in the Centre’s move to initiate commercial coal mining by challenging the matter in the Supreme Court. BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi and its newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, who is also the state party president, said Soren should devise stringent laws to balance mining, livelihood and environment protection instead of challenging the Centre. Alleging that the state government is failing in its responsibilities, they said the party will support the government if it makes such policies. Last week, the Soren government moved a writ petition in the apex court, demanding a halt in the auctioning of coal blocks for commercial mining. Of the 41 blocks to go under the hammer, 20 are in Jharkhand. Speaking at the party office, Marandi said, “We fail to understand the logic behind the state government’s move to challenge the auctioning of coal blocks. He (Hemant Soren) does not have the vision (for developlment) and knowledge. If coal blocks get auctioned, Jharkhand will get a major share of royalties, which will benefit the people of the state.” He added, “Despite having the fourth largest coal reserve in the world, India has to import coal to generate energy. Only commercial mining can help the country save its foreign exchange reserves and improve the economy.” Notably, before approaching the Supreme Court, Soren had hailed the privatisation move but wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking deferment in the auctioning process for six to nine months in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He had said during the lockdown, many firms of global repute may not be able to take part in the process and sought time for deliberations with all stakeholders of the state. The coal ministry, however, went ahead with the auctioning process. Soon after, the state government knocked on SC’s door to challenge the decision. After filing the petition, Soren questioned why the Centre wanted to rush things at a time when Jharkhand has had a bad experience in mining on issues like displacement of people without proper rehabilitation and poor inflow of royalties among others. Marandi countered Soren saying settling issues of displacement, creating jobs and rehabilitation are state subjects. He said, “The CM had raised issues of unresolved concerns of displacement and rehabilitation due to mining activities since the state was formed. Who is stopping him to solve them? Bring a law mandating that 85% locals should be employed, give land for acquiring a person’s land for mining purposes, increase compensation, fix incentives for farmers from the royalties which the state would get. BJP will support it in the assembly. But blocking the auction is not in the national interest.” In an indirect criticism of JMM chief and Soren’s father, Shibu Soren, and Congress, an alliance partner in the state government, Marandi said, “The world knows the kind of coal scams which happened under UPA’s tenure from 2004 to 2014. During UPA-1’s rule, we know who was the coal minister (read Shibu Soren).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-slams-jharkhand-cm-for-opposing-coal-block-auction/articleshow/76518142.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid test in pvt labs in Jharkhand to get cheaper||RANCHI: Following the recommendation of an expert committee of the Union government, the state government is contemplating to reduce the price of Covid-19 tests at private laboratories in Jharkhand. The governments of Maharashtra, New Delhi and Haryana have already capped the cost of the test. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have received the recommendations of an expert committee of the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with regard to fixing a mutually agreeable price for Covid-19 tests at private labs. We are talking to stakeholders and will soon announce the revised rate.” At the moment, one has to shell out Rs 4,500 for a Covid-19 test at any of the four laboratory chains authorised to conduct the test in Jharkhand. Earlier, the private labs in Jharkhand had expressed their inability to conduct the tests below the maximum price set by the ICMR. “During the lockdown, we had to send samples to either Gurgaon or Kolkata for testing, which increased the cost. We also had to procure viral transport media (VTMs) from foreign countries between March and May at an inflated price,” a franchise owner of a private testing lab said on the condition of anonymity. VTMs are kits in which swab samples are transported. Asked if they can conduct the tests now at a lower rate, the franchise owner answered in the affirmative. He said as most equipment are being manufactured locally, there is a scope of reducing the price of the test. ICMR in its letter dated March 17 had capped the maximum price for Covid test in a private lab at Rs 4,500. But on May 25, it again wrote to chief secretaries of all states and Union territories asking them to fix new rates, as the prices of testing kits have dropped over the last few months. Meanwhile, the head of the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) cell, Dr Praveen Karn, said: “Till now, around 9,000 people have got themselves tested in private labs. The numbers are expected to rise if the prices fall.” Many Ranchiites criticised the delay in reducing the rate. “I wanted to get my grandparents tested as both are diabetic and have age-related ailments. If the cost of testing comes down, I will surely get them tested. If New Delhi, Maharashtra and other states can reduce the price, why is Jharkhand taking so long? Utkarsh Kumar, a resident of Ratu Road area, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-test-in-pvt-labs-in-jharkhand-to-get-cheaper/articleshow/76527950.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Monsoon worry: Kolhan faces shortage of anti-snake venom drug||Jamshedpur: Health centres in Kolhan division are facing a shortage of snake venom drugs as the region is reporting a large number of snake bite cases with the onset monsoon. In the last fortnight, seven cases of snake bites were reported from Kolhan — four from West Singhbhum and three from East Singhbhum. Two people have also died in Kolhan recently after being bitten by snakes. West Singhbhum civil surgeon O P Gupta said. “At present, anti-snake venom drug is not available at the community health centres (CHCs) in the district, but we are in the process of procuring it.” East Singhbhum civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said they are expecting a consignment of the drug from Ranchi at any moment. “For the time being, we have procured 20 files of the drug and distributed them among CHCs,” Prasad said. Seraikela-Kharsawan civil surgeon Himanshu Barwar told TOI that the district has a limited stock of the anti-venom and they are trying to buy new stocks. “As of now, two to three files are available with the CHCs here,” Barwar said. He added that no cases of snake bites have been reported from the district in the recent past. Sanjay Kumar, superintendent of government-run MGM hospital in Jamshedpur, said there are adequate stocks of anti-venom drug at the institute. Notably, MGM had faced a shortage of the drug last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/monsoon-worry-kolhan-faces-shortage-of-anti-snake-venom-drug/articleshow/76519273.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant appeals to MEA for repatriation of Bokaro man’s body from Dubai||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren requested Union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar on Monday to help bring back the body of Mohammad Zahid Akthar, a Bokaro native who passed away in Dubai. Akthar, who hailed from the Makhdumpur area in Bokaro, worked as a labourer in the Gulf and was killed in an accident a few weeks ago. Akthar’s family had appealed to the chief minister on Twitter to help them get his mortal remains. Soren tweeted and sought the help of Jaishankar in the matter. He also directed Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar to approach the foreign ministry and provide the family members of the deceased all necessary support. In another development, Soren directed health minister Banna Gupta and the Bokaro administration to make medical arrangements for a woman, Shaira Biwi, a Bokaro resident who was struggling to get proper treatment for lack of funds. Soren had come across a video highlighting Biwi’s condition. Soon after, the Bokaro DC tweeted that arrangements have been made at Rims in Ranchi for Biwi’s treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-appeals-to-mea-for-repatriation-of-bokaro-mans-body-from-dubai/articleshow/76519385.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||3 PLFI activists nabbed from Ranchi, H’bag||Hazaribag: Three dreaded PLFI activists were arrested from Ranchi and Hazaribag districts during raids, police said on Monday. Addressing a press conference here, ASP (operations) Ramesh Kumar said, “A joint team of Barkagaon and Keredari police of Hazaribag raided the two districts on Monday and nabbed the trio. First, we arrested Nitin Kumar alias Sonu from Gonda police station area in Ranchi and seized Rs 67,000 cash from him. The money was extorted from coal companies based in Barkagaon and Keredari. After his interrogation, we conducted further raids in Barkagaon and arrested Vikendra Kumar alias Vicky and Raju Prasad.” Police said the trio made extortion calls to the firms through WhatsApp and phones. Kumar said a representative of a firm had paid Rs 2.50 lakh as the first instalment of the Rs 10 lakh demanded by the trio and police are still conducting raids to recover the remaining portion of the amount. He added, “We have also filed an FIR at the Barkagaon police station after ONGC made a complaint against the three PLFI activists led by their leader Mahtoji. We are verifying whether they are real PLFI activists or threatening the companies in the name of PLFI to extort money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-plfi-activists-nabbed-from-ranchi-hbag/articleshow/76519203.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jagannathpur temple out of bounds for devotees||Ranchi: Ranchi police and civil administration put up barricades in the Jagannathpur temple area on Monday after a few devotees tried to worship the wooden chariot on which Lord Jagannath, Balbhadra and Subhadra set out every year during the Rath Yatra. The chariot has not been spruced up this time around and is lying some distance away from the temple. The cops also had to prevent a few vendors from setting up stalls near the temple. The district administration had earlier issued an order cancelling the annual Rath Yatra, a customary practice here since 1691. The chief priest of the temple, Braj Bhushan Nath Mishra, said that following the directive of the district administration, the ‘netra daan’ ritual was carried out on Monday in the presence of around 50 people, mostly priests and members of the temple committee. “For the first time in my life, the rituals were conducted sans the presence of any devotee. Moreover, no rath will move from the Jagannath temple to the Mausi Bari temple this year,” he said. Mishra added that the cancellation of the event and the associated mela (fair) will adversely affect many people. A local resident, Ambuj Nath, who is a regular at the Jagannathpur fair, said people from neighbouring Bengal and Bihar also visit the mela. “The fair provides a platform to farmers and rural artisans to make some money. The artisans usually invest the money they earn here in other business activities for the rest of the year,” Nath said. The nine-day Rath Yatra festival in Ranchi witnesses a footfall of around 2.5 lakh to three lakh every year. The chief priest said they are going to carry out the rituals all inside the main temple. “This time, the yatra will take place from the Garbha Griha to the Dol Mandap,” he said. Mishra urged the devotees to offer prayers from their homes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Lord Jagannath would bless his devotees even if they cannot participate in the rituals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagannathpur-temple-out-of-bounds-for-devotees/articleshow/76518170.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Four-year-girl is Bokaro’s youngest Covid patient||Bokaro: A four-year-old girl, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday night, is the youngest patient in the district so far, officials said on Monday. The girl, both her parents and four other patients, all of whom hail from Gomia block, have been moved to the Covid ward of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and they are asymptomatic. The district has recorded 36 cases, including a seven-year-old girl from Telo village, so far. The girl was discharged after recovering on April 25. Two persons have also succumbed to the viral infection. Bokaro became Covid-free on June 19 after the last three patients were cured and released. However, the virus returned on Sunday night with the seven persons testing positive. BGH director of medical services, A K Singh, said, “The four-year-old girl has been allotted a separate bed close to her mother in the female ward. Since she is fond of milk, Bournvita and biscuits, we are feeding her with those apart from fruits and nutritious diet. She is stable.” Dr Rakesh Gautam, the nodal officer of BGH, added, “The girl is being administered multivitamins and vitamin-C to improve her immunity. Nurses and doctors are closely watching her.” They are residents of Badki Sidhwara panchayat and arrived from Jammu on June 17. After their arrival, they were put in institutional quarantine, Gautam added. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “Contact tracing and assessment of travel history related to the patients have started.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/four-year-girl-is-bokaros-youngest-covid-patient/articleshow/76518227.cms||Divy Khare
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||e-Tests by CBSE school draw flak from parents||Ranchi: A well-known CBSE school’s decision to conduct online examination from Wednesday with minimum supervision by the guardians has come in for a lot of flak from parents, especially from those with kids in the primary section. Delhi Public School (DPS), Ranchi, recently announced that it will conduct the tests through the Zoom app and issued a host of instructions to the students regarding the entire examination process. As per the directives, a student has to log in on the Zoom app five minutes before the examination starts. The directives further stated that no parent should be around the student when he/she is taking the exam and the latter’s audio and video should be in active mode throughout the test. The entire examination process involves several operations, including logging into various links. DPS has asked its students to consult the teachers in case of any problem. Ajay Rai, the president of All School Parents Association, Jharkhand, claimed that these measures are aimed at charging higher fees from the parents. “Online classes are ineffective and to conduct e-tests in such a situation in order to move forward with the syllabus will prove to be difficult, especially for the primary students,” Rai said. He added, “I will raise this issue with the secretary of the state human resource department soon.” DPS, Ranchi, principal Dr Ram Singh said he is aware that primary students will face difficulties in taking the test and he has allowed the parents to help such pupils with the technology part, without using any unfair means during the exam. He added, “Some of the parents were panic-stricken but I have assured them that the results of these online tests will have no impact on the promotion of students. It is a system we all are trying to perfect to meet the challenges that lie ahead of us in view of the pandemic.” A school official on condition of anonymity said that several mock tests are being conducted by the school to ensure that the examination is held without any glitches on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-tests-by-cbse-school-draw-flak-from-parents/articleshow/76518389.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Coronavirus spreads in Deoghar, state gets 42 new cases||Ranchi: With no active Covid cases and just four patient diagnosed until Saturday, Deoghar continued to register a spike in number of positive coronavirus cases as it detected 11 fresh cases for thse second consecutive day on Monday. Meanwhile, Jharkhand on Monday reported 42 new patients taking the total past the 2,100-mark. Along with nine cases reported from East Singhbhum on Sunday night, the total number of cases in Jharkhand now stands at 2,140, of which 1,469 have recovered (including 63 on Monday), 660 are active and 11 have succumbed to the infection. In Deoghar, which hosts the famous month-long Shravani Mela in July every year, the number of active cases rose to 22 in two days. The temple town on Sunday recorded new cases after a gap of 13 and the previous five patients had been discharged on June 12. There was some hope, though very little, that the Shravani festival would be observed at the iconic Babadhan temple in Deoghar, but this spread could be the last nail in the coffin for the much awaited festival. Meanwhile, Simdega and Giridih reported seven cases each, East Singhbhum six, Hazaribag and Ranchi three each, Chatra two and Palamu, Lohardaga and Dhanbad one each. In Ranchi, a woman from Karbala Chowk tracked during a contact tracing exercise area tested positive. The second patient is a Simdega resident admitted to a hospital for treatment. “The details of the third patient is not available yet as the person has not been brought to the hospital until late on Monday,” a Rims official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/coronavirus-spreads-in-deoghar-state-gets-42-new-cases/articleshow/76519432.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Rains damage nat’l highway connecting Gumla with Odisha||Gumla: The recent spell of rains has led to the creation of potholes in the 70-km-stretch between Kolebira and Bansjor on National Highway-143, which connects Gumla with Odisha and is one of the key lifelines in Simdega district. Taking cognisance of the matter, Simdega MLA Bhushan Bara has asked National Highways Authority of India and the state road department to repair the damage on a priority basis. “The damaged road is posing problems for vehicular movement and is leading to accidents. I had raised the poor upkeep of the road during the last assembly session also. But nothing had happened. However, I am pursuing the matter afresh.” Simdega deputy commissioner Mritunjay Kumar Barnawal said the district authorities had initiated the repair work on NH-143 before the pandemic but it got stalled due to some technical glitches. “The engineers concerned had informed me that a tender to repair NH-143 got cancelled due to some technical reasons and with the lockdown coming into force, the highway couldn’t be repaired before the monsoon season set in,” Barnawal added. He, however, said, “The district administration will try to cover up the potholes in order to make it at least motorable for the time being.” Social activist Pradeep Keshri said that rains have wrecked havoc in the district. He added, “Not just NH-143, even many roads in the rural areas of Kolebira block have been damaged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rains-damage-natl-highway-connecting-gumla-with-odisha/articleshow/76519486.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand records 70% dip in road accidents during lockdown: Transport department||RANCHI: Jharkhand witnessed a 70% reduction in road accidents during the lockdown period between March and May this year, the data compiled by the road safety wing of the state transport department has revealed. Between March 24, when the nationwide lockdown came into force, and May 31, a total of 304 accidents were recorded in which 211 persons died and 227 others sustained injuries. During the same corresponding period in 2019, a total of 970 accidents were reported and 701 persons died while 683 others suffered injuries of different degrees. The road safety wing has recently sent these quarterly figures to the Supreme Court-appointed road safety committee, which maintains a nationwide database, provides advisories and prescribes action plans for corrective measures. As per the last assessment by the transport department, 90 black spots exist across the state. A departmental source said, “Majority of the accidents recorded during the lockdown period are around those black spots be it in Ramgarh’s Chuttpalu valley or in Bundu on the Ranchi-Tata stretch of NH-33.” R S Vidhyarthi, joint secretary of the state transport department (road safety), however, said detailed analysis of all the accidents during the lockdown period is underway, but conceded that many may have occurred around the notified black spots. He said, “We can’t completely rule out the role of notified black spots in accidents during the lockdown period.” According to Vidhyarthi, one of the biggest reasons behind the drastic fall in road accidents is because the vehicles are off the roads during the lockdown. “But as the essential services were out of the ambit, heavy vehicles carrying essential goods ply and suffered accidents due to carelessness, lack of know-how about a particular area’s topography, over-speeding because of the empty roads and so on,” he said, adding that the department is currently in the process of re-notifying the black spots afresh. He said, “A stretch is usually notified as black spot based on its accident history of the past three consecutive years. Thereafter, corrective measures are taken in that stretch to minimise mishaps. In 2017, there were 146 black spots, which came down to 90 in 2018. For 2019, we are expecting to notify them in a week to 10 days from now. We are hoping that the black spots will be reduced as the department through different stakeholders has been working for the last three years to create awareness and take corrective steps like putting up signage and improving the condition of roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jkhand-records-70-dip-in-road-accidents-during-lockdown-transport-dept/articleshow/76526225.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad rail division to employ migrants in its development projects||DHANBAD: The Dhanbad division of East Central Railway has initiated steps to help the migrant returnees by employing them in the ongoing developmental projects of the railways. The divisional railway manager of Dhanbad, Anil Kumar Mishra, has requested the contractors of these projects to engage the migrant workers here instead of hiring people from other states. “We are following a two-pronged strategy to help the migrant workers arriving here. As the first measure, we have requested the agencies engaged in our projects to employ the migrant workers here. These agencies usually bring workers from different states but now, going by the initial feedback received from them, we are are happy to know that they are now engaging migrants from Jharkhand,” Mishra said on Monday. Echoing similar views, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, said, “Letters have been written to all the engineers, requesting them to engage the migrant workers in projects that involve manual work.” In addition to this, the Dhanbad division has written to the deputy commissioners of those districts that fall within its jurisdiction, asking them to carry out railway projects through the MNREGS scheme in order to engage the migrant workers. “We have identified some railway projects and written to the DCs to complete such projects through the MNREGS scheme,” Mishra said, adding, “We will figure out ways to engage the migrant workers, including the unskilled ones, in such projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-rail-division-to-employ-migrants-in-its-devpt-projects/articleshow/76519392.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Centre has to take a call on boycott Chinese goods: Hemant Soren||RANCHI: Amid the growing chorus for boycotting Chinese goods, chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday said that state governments cannot do much unless the Centre takes a stand on the issue. Of the 20 soldiers killed in clashes with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley, two hailed from Jharkhand. Soren said, “As far as the boycott of Chinese goods is concerned, the state government cannot do anything. The Centre has to take a unified decision as the responsibility of guiding the nation’s economy is their jurisdiction. Moreover, after the imposition of Goods and Services Tax (GST), the role of states role has been reduced further.” Raising questions on the Modi government’s foreign policies, Soren asked which other countries and commodities could India afford to boycott. He said, “We are suddenly talking about China because of the tension on the borders, but is our relationship poor with only one country? We are running into problems with Nepal and with others as well,” he said. Soren said the Centre should be more open about the ongoing problems in the interest of the country and not resort to selective leaks by few a party workers. He said, “The government must explain to the people about the situation at the borders. A few party workers and some pro-government groups are doing this. Why are you (Centre) not talking to the people directly to explain the situation and blaming the previous governments. How long will you continue to pass the blame despite the high rate of joblessness, derailed economy, industries getting shut and so on?” Soren also reiterated his government’s stand on the coal block auction for commercial mining. He said, “My view is simple: let us first discuss the interest and concerns threadbare, only after that we will be on board.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-has-to-take-a-call-on-boycott-chinese-goods-cm/articleshow/76519180.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 23, 2020||Ranchi||Covid test in pvt labs in Jharkhand to get cheaper||RANCHI: Following the recommendation of an expert committee of the Union government, the state government is contemplating to reduce the price of Covid-19 tests at private laboratories in Jharkhand. The governments of Maharashtra, New Delhi and Haryana have already capped the cost of the test. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have received the recommendations of an expert committee of the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with regard to fixing a mutually agreeable price for Covid-19 tests at private labs. We are talking to stakeholders and will soon announce the revised rate.” At the moment, one has to shell out Rs 4,500 for a Covid-19 test at any of the four laboratory chains authorised to conduct the test in Jharkhand. Earlier, the private labs in Jharkhand had expressed their inability to conduct the tests below the maximum price set by the ICMR. “During the lockdown, we had to send samples to either Gurgaon or Kolkata for testing, which increased the cost. We also had to procure viral transport media (VTMs) from foreign countries between March and May at an inflated price,” a franchise owner of a private testing lab said on the condition of anonymity. VTMs are kits in which swab samples are transported. Asked if they can conduct the tests now at a lower rate, the franchise owner answered in the affirmative. He said as most equipment are being manufactured locally, there is a scope of reducing the price of the test. ICMR in its letter dated March 17 had capped the maximum price for Covid test in a private lab at Rs 4,500. But on May 25, it again wrote to chief secretaries of all states and Union territories asking them to fix new rates, as the prices of testing kits have dropped over the last few months. Meanwhile, the head of the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) cell, Dr Praveen Karn, said: “Till now, around 9,000 people have got themselves tested in private labs. The numbers are expected to rise if the prices fall.” Many Ranchiites criticised the delay in reducing the rate. “I wanted to get my grandparents tested as both are diabetic and have age-related ailments. If the cost of testing comes down, I will surely get them tested. If New Delhi, Maharashtra and other states can reduce the price, why is Jharkhand taking so long? Utkarsh Kumar, a resident of Ratu Road area, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-test-in-pvt-labs-in-jharkhand-to-get-cheaper/articleshow/76518028.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 23, 2020||India||Kerala priest found dead in well||A missi ng 51-year-old Catholic priest was found dead in a well in the premises of his church in Kottayam, Kerala, on Monday as the Archdiocese he belonged to described it as an ‘unnatural death. While police said they suspected it to be a case of suicide, the Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church said the priest had hypertension and was under stress after some people were injured in a fire in the church compound a few days ago. The body of Fr George Ettuparayil, who was reported missing since Sunday, was fished out from the well by fire service personnel and divers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-priest-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/76521057.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Biggest day spike in Noida: 108 test positive||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 108 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday, the district’s highest single-day jump. The total number of cases now stands at 1,516 — of which 603 are active. The district has also reported a total of 19 deaths till now. The information was shared by the state health department on Monday, while the district health department did not release any data for Gautam Budh Nagar. The report also mentioned that 71 people were discharged. Meanwhile, in Ghaziabad, 19 new cases and three deaths were added to Ghaziabad’s tally on Monday. The bulletin issued by the health department also reflected the 21 cross-notified patients in its tally, which now stands at 958. Officials said that one death was reported at MMG District Hospital two days ago, while one person had died at LLRM Medical College. No information was shared about the third deceased. So far, 49 Covid-related deaths have been reported in the district. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/biggest-day-spike-in-noida-108-test-positive/articleshow/76521188.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Noida||Biggest day spike in Noida: 108 test positive||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 108 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday, the district’s highest single-day jump. The total number of cases now stands at 1,516 — of which 603 are active. The district has also reported a total of 19 deaths till now. The information was shared by the state health department on Monday, while the district health department did not release any data for Gautam Budh Nagar. The report also mentioned that 71 people were discharged. Meanwhile, in Ghaziabad, 19 new cases and three deaths were added to Ghaziabad’s tally on Monday. The bulletin issued by the health department also reflected the 21 cross-notified patients in its tally, which now stands at 958. Officials said that one death was reported at MMG District Hospital two days ago, while one person had died at LLRM Medical College. No information was shared about the third deceased. So far, 49 Covid-related deaths have been reported in the district. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/biggest-day-spike-in-noida-108-test-positive/articleshow/76519455.cms||---
June 23, 2020||Amaravati||8.5% of AP’s Covid-19 cases from Maharashtra||VISAKHAPATNAM: Returnees from Maharashtra, the top Covid-19 hotbed of the country with nearly 1.3 lakh cases, account for about 8.5% of the caseload of Andhra Pradesh. As many as 793 people, who arrived in Andhra Pradesh from the second-most populous state of the country in the last two months, tested positive for Covid-19. Returnees from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, which has been witnessing an unabated rise in Covid-19 cases, contributed 334 cases to the state’s Covid-19 tally, followed by 232 infections from Telangana and 123 cases from Delhi and Gujarat. On the other hand, about 230 cases were found to have links with Chennai’s Koyambedu market. Migrants and stranded people started arriving in the state since the first week of May — the beginning of the third phase of lockdown with eased restrictions. According to official statistics, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat together contributed nearly 65% infections to the national caseload. The returnees from these four Covid hotbeds accounted for 13% of Andhra Pradesh’s caseload, as of Monday. Considering the large-scale outbreak in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu, the state government has started sending those returning from these areas to seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine. They will be tested twice, once upon arrival and later upon completion of the institutional quarantine period. Meanwhile, passengers coming from other states will be allowed to be quarantined at home after their swab samples are collected. However, a few categories, like the elderly and children, have been exempted form institutional quarantine. Even though the initial Covid-19 cases from other countries like the USA, UK and others were taken together in the state’s tally, but the recent cases among foreign returnees are being shown as a different category. As many as 337 foreign returnees have tested positive for the virus in the recent weeks. The returnees from Kuwait alone contributed 299 cases, followed by Saudi Arabia 10, Qatar seven and Indonesia five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/8-5-of-aps-covid-19-cases-from-maha/articleshow/76522333.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||8.5% of AP’s Covid-19 cases from Maharashtra||VISAKHAPATNAM: Returnees from Maharashtra, the top Covid-19 hotbed of the country with nearly 1.3 lakh cases, account for about 8.5% of the caseload of Andhra Pradesh. As many as 793 people, who arrived in Andhra Pradesh from the second-most populous state of the country in the last two months, tested positive for Covid-19. Returnees from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, which has been witnessing an unabated rise in Covid-19 cases, contributed 334 cases to the state’s Covid-19 tally, followed by 232 infections from Telangana and 123 cases from Delhi and Gujarat. On the other hand, about 230 cases were found to have links with Chennai’s Koyambedu market. Migrants and stranded people started arriving in the state since the first week of May — the beginning of the third phase of lockdown with eased restrictions. According to official statistics, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat together contributed nearly 65% infections to the national caseload. The returnees from these four Covid hotbeds accounted for 13% of Andhra Pradesh’s caseload, as of Monday. Considering the large-scale outbreak in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu, the state government has started sending those returning from these areas to seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine. They will be tested twice, once upon arrival and later upon completion of the institutional quarantine period. Meanwhile, passengers coming from other states will be allowed to be quarantined at home after their swab samples are collected. However, a few categories, like the elderly and children, have been exempted form institutional quarantine. Even though the initial Covid-19 cases from other countries like the USA, UK and others were taken together in the state’s tally, but the recent cases among foreign returnees are being shown as a different category. As many as 337 foreign returnees have tested positive for the virus in the recent weeks. The returnees from Kuwait alone contributed 299 cases, followed by Saudi Arabia 10, Qatar seven and Indonesia five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/8-5-of-aps-covid-19-cases-from-maha/articleshow/76517665.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
