June 24, 2020||Chennai||No sport routine adds to the void of lockdown||CHENNAI: Before the Covid-19 pandemic began taking its toll on India, Rajeev Raman – a resident of Anna Nagar in Chennai– would seldom miss an opportunity to play table tennis on the weekends to escape from the hustle and bustle of his corporate job. The 35-year-old, who is a senior business analyst at HCL, used to make his way to the MAK table tennis academy near his house and play with fellow working professionals to unwind after a hectic week at work. In this post-Covid world where lockdowns and social distancing have become common parlance, however, he has not able to indulge in his weekend pastime. Instead, he is having to make do with exercises at home and walking on his apartment terrace. While athletes who play sport for a living have obviously been affected by the shutting down of stadiums during the lockdown, there are also those like Rajeev who play sports to maintain their fitness and break away from the monotony of their daily routines. They, too, are finding a gaping void in their lives as a result. “Unless there was an emergency, I wouldn’t miss the opportunity to play TT on the weekends. I am badly missing it. TT is a very good physical activity. It requires a lot of footwork. It was helping in improvement of my health,” says Rajeev. While most people are managing by either walking or cycling inside their apartments, there is no substitute to playing sport, feels Sekar Narayana. A resident of East Mogappair, the 54-year-old had been playing both TT and badminton regularly before the lockdown was imposed. “I would normally utilize the weekends to play TT and badminton. There is no substitute for it. My body feels very sluggish right now. I am trying to cope by doing exercises at home, but it can never be a complete substitute for the game and the relaxation I used to derive from playing sports. We are mostly confined to our workspace for the entire week. It was a very good stress buster,” he says. According to many, cycling, in particular, has picked up massively among the young and elderly as a result of the current situation. Squash coach Cyrus Poncha, who lives in Alwarpet, says his two children and others residing in his apartment have started cycling a lot more than they used to. “Sporting activity has come to a grinding halt. What I have noticed is that a lot more people – children as well as adults – are cycling now. People have even spent around Rs 20,000 to buy a new cycle so that there is some physical activity. Of course, the kids are going crazy. They used to go out and play football. That is what most kids play. That has completely stopped now. Unfortunately, they are spending a little bit more time with the gadgets. That is for sure,” he observes. Coaches and trainers, too, concede that there is not much that they can do till the government regulations ease on resumption of sporting activity. V Suresh, coach of the Future Stars Cricket Academy (FSCA) in Kodambakkam, says he is making the children who visit his academy do some exercises at home as an alternative. “We have told the kids that come to our cricket academy to do some exercises to stay fit and ensure that they stay in touch with physical activities in some form. But it’s difficult to do more than that at this point,” he points out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-sport-routine-adds-to-the-void-of-lockdown/articleshow/76538978.cms||Vivek Krishnan
June 24, 2020||Raipur||When stray puppies got stable and happy homes||With Covid-19 had many treating the pooches badly, in Raipur, many of them got adopted by good Samaritans. The drive was organised to sensitise people about giving a stray pup a safe and happy home. Here is the glimpse from the event…  The Most loving Dog breed in the world is called ADOPTED! These breeds are tough, smart and super fun to be with! On 27th Jan, #MorRaipur citizens adopted their best friends for life!! @MagnetoTheMall #Adoption #Missionzero @PFA_Raipur pic.twitter.com/1MYPoin3c2— Raipur Smart City (@RaipurSmartCity) February 5, 2019  Picture and information courtesy: Raipur Smart City Twitter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/when-stray-puppies-got-stable-and-happy-homes/articleshow/67941774.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Amaravati||Villagers abandon 503 country-made rifles as Chittoor police's counselling pays off||TIRUPATI: The counselling sessions as part of proactive policing by Chittoor district police wing has paid off as villagers have abandoned 503 country-made rifles spread across four police sub-divisions in the last one week. Following the instructions of Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar, Chittoor district police wing has been carrying out back to back counselling sessions for villagers to deposit unlicensed weapons, country made weapons etc which are normally used for hunting related activities in various parts of Chittoor district. Most of the farmers and villagers living close to the AP-Tamil Nadu and AP-Karnataka borders use country-made weapons to protect themselves from wild animals which are always on the prowl in the thick reserve forests bordering the three states. Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar appreciated the efforts put in by the policemen for successfully persuading locals to abandon country made rifles in such large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/villagers-abandon-503-country-made-rifles-as-chittoor-polices-counselling-pays-off/articleshow/76539248.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 24, 2020||Chennai||​​Lockdown forces people to wash down their non-veg craving||Craving mutton biryani? If you are in Chennai, you might have to wait till the end of the month to tuck into succulent mutton pieces. After the government order — which came on the eve of the intense lockdown from June 19 — to shut meat and fish stalls in the city till the end of the month, non-vegetarians are left with little choice. They either have to make do with whatever’s left in their refrigerators or order delivery from restaurants, which have now been forced to use frozen meat instead of fresh meat. Otherwise, abstinence seems to be the only way out. Joshy Alex, a resident of Anna Nagar, says how he missed non-veg lunch this Sunday. “Had there been a small piece of fried chicken or a ladle or two of fish curry with a plate of hot white rice, I would have been happy about my Sunday lunch. But now, it looks like I’ll have to be a total vegetarian till the lockdown ends,” he says, “By the time I went to the supermarkets to stock up, they were also out of stock!” Food critic Shabnam feels people should have been allowed enough time to stock up at home as “at many homes, it’s a tradition to have non-vegetarian meal on Sundays. Many also consume meat as part of their diet. At least if they had known earlier, they could have stocked up.” Senthil Kumaran, a seasoned bodybuilder, says meat is part of his fitness regimen and the non-availability of fresh meat makes it difficult for him. “I always prefer dishes cooked with fresh meat. Now, I am getting used to eating frozen meat because no one knows when the shops are open and when they are not. The stock at my home got over yesterday and now, I have to rely only on egg whites and protein supplements till the end of this lockdown,” he rues. Non-availability of dishes prepared with fresh meat may also lead to dip in deliveries during the lockdown, says Shabnam. “When people order food from a restaurant, they would prefer dishes prepared with fresh meat,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-forces-people-to-wash-down-their-non-veg-craving/articleshow/76539255.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
June 24, 2020||Raipur||I never thought I had a voice until today: Vidya Rajput||Filmmaker Mira Nair once said, “If you don’t tell your stories, no one else will.” And that’s exactly what Raipur’s LGBTQ+ community and specially-abled people did at this gathering – they told their stories. And they were surprised and touched by the way the audience responded to them. Vidya Rajput, a transgender rights activist, says, “I talked about the defining moments of my life, that I had told very few people about before. For example, the moment when I first realised that I am a woman trapped inside a man’s body. The struggles – internal and societal. The bullies, the taunts and the hateful gaze I encountered while growing up. And I spoke about how these things never stopped me from dressing like a woman, and wearing a bindi and saree with pride. How I felt liberated and like a complete woman once I switched off the external voices and followed my truth.” She continues, “It was a freeing experience, to narrate my story in front of absolute strangers who were listening without judgement.” The storytelling session – Log Kya Kahenge – organised by The Local and curated by Katha Kaar, saw several others like Vidya narrate their tales and engage in a meaningful dialogue about their struggles and experiences. 'Talking about your struggles and failures is empowering'These sessions are a platform for people from the marginalised communities to share their stories. And Vidya elaborates on why such events are necessary: “I never thought I had a voice until today. For years we were ostracised, and our opinion did not matter. With such storytelling platforms coming up in Raipur, people from all walks of life are getting a chance to narrate their struggles, failures and successes, which is empowering.” She adds how her story touched many people - “It made me feel that though our stories might be different, we can all feel the same emotions in their true and rawest form.” Explaining the concept further, Parul Khurana, from The Local, says, “We asked individuals from diverse backgrounds to share their inspiring stories. The lineup included people from social enterprises, the LGBTQ+ community and the Chollywood industry, besides college students. There were also some truly special performances, including one by a child with visual disabilities, who is a musician and part of a band. He trained for three months to perform here.” The two-day event also saw around five interactive storytelling sessions, including one by Ravindra Shastri, founder of the NGO Sumit Foundation Jivandeep, who talked about poverty in the remote corners of the state and another by filmmaker Anuj Sharma, who spoke about the Chhattisgarh film industry. “The central belief behind our initiative is to provide a platform to the people of the city and state. This ensures that talent and creativity, that would otherwise go unnoticed, gets the perfect platform,” says Parul. Why we need to talk?“As far as I know, storytelling has been a part of our culture since ages. Look at the culture of Chhattisgarh, for example. In the tribal community, stories were told either through music or narration. Today, we don’t talk and interact with each other as much, simply because we fear that people might judge us for who we are. Hence, such platforms are a necessity today, since we can all come forward and tell our stories of struggle and empowerment,” says Shrishti Trivedi, one of the organisers of the Katha Kaar. Exchange of thoughts and ideas are important, as they help society evolve. “I really feel that people do not talk anymore today. We interact through social media exchanges, but there are no evolved conversations. Such platforms are at least giving people a chance to take to the stage and narrate their side of the story. It can be about something as simple as their upbringing or struggles, which could help inspire others,” says Rohit Shukla, one of the attendees. Picture credit: Parul Khurana, The Local||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/i-never-thought-i-had-a-voice-until-today/articleshow/66486344.cms||Rishabh Deb
June 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Help people and curtail press meets, BJP tells Congress||PANAJI: Reacting to Congress criticism that the government failed to handle effectively Covid-19 pandemic, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday hit back at opposition saying the former should not hold press conferences and instead motivate the party workers. It stated that the opposition only issues press notes and doesn’t help people exposed to crisis situation. BJP said the chief minister Pramod Sawant always secured funds for the state from the Centre. Speaking to media persons, vice-president Anil Hoble said the former chief minister Digambar Kamat should tell the people how much fund did he arrange for the state from the Centre during his tenure as the CM instead of asking the BJP government to give the details. BJP said that it was their karyakartas who actually catered to the people by making available essential commodities. BJP spokesperson Subhash Phal Dessai said that GPCC president Girish Chodankar should not hold press conferences instead that he should strengthen party organization to fight against BJP. Dessai said the revival of economy will begin soon, but it will take some time to stabilize the parameters. He said the government is taking care of all sections of society. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is working for the benefit of the people and that is the reason why BJP came to power at the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-help-people-and-curtail-press-meets-bjp-tells-congress/articleshow/76539281.cms||Murari Shetye
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: STF and CID roped in to crack PNB loot case||PATNA: Even after 24 hours of the Rs52.33 lakh loot from the Anisabad branch of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Patna on Monday, police failed to make any breakthrough in the case on Tuesday. Special Task Force (STF) and Criminal Investigation department (CID) have been roped in to help the Patna police and its special investigation team to crack the case. “The district police in tandem with STF, which looks after organized crime, and CID are working together to arrest the criminals and recover the money,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said on Tuesday. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the criminals involved in the loot were yet to be identified. “Investigation is going on,” he added. Sources said two additional policemen were deployed at the branch on Tuesday and the footfall of customers remained less than on normal days probably due to fear. A senior police officer, privy to the investigation, said police got the CCTV footage of four criminals. “Attempts would be made to create sketch of the criminals for tracing their identity and getting a clue,” he said. At least ten armed criminals had entered the branch located alongside the highway near Beur Mor under Beur police station and decamped with the booty after holding customers, bank employees and two home guards hostage at gunpoint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stf-and-cid-roped-in-to-crack-pnb-loot-case/articleshow/76537937.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 24, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 48 new Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: With 48 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 reported on Tuesday`, including 23 from Hamirpur district, 17 from Kangra, three each from Shimla and Una and two from Chamba district. Majority of those being tested positive have returned from other states especially from Delhi and Maharashtra. The state government has taken the decision to issue e-passes to only those people of state who are on medical ground and in case of death. With Tuesday’s count, state's Covid-19 tally has increased to 775 of which 324 cases are active while 432 positive patients have recovered, 11 have migrated out of state, six have died while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district have occurred due to non Covid reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-48-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76539388.cms||Anand Bodh
June 24, 2020||World||Twitter puts warning notice on Trump tweet for 'abusive behavior'||Twitter Inc said on Tuesday it had placed a warning notice on a tweet from U.S. President Donald Trump for violating its policy against abusive behavior. "There will never be an "Autonomous Zone" in Washington, D.C., as long as I’m your President. If they try they will be met with serious force!" the president's tweet read. In a tweet, the company said it had hidden Trump's tweet behind its "public interest" notice because there was a threat of harm against an identifiable group. Anti-racism protesters on Monday declared a Black House Autonomous Zone - referencing a Seattle area known as the Capitol Hill Organized Protest (CHOP) zone or the Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone - near the White House in front of St. John's Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/twitter-puts-warning-notice-on-trump-tweet-for-abusive-behavior/articleshow/76539749.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Couples throw caution to the wind, reunite sans masks, social distancing||Till lockdown do us part – this seems to be the latest vow for Kolkata’s lovebirds, who have started thronging old haunts and new in their quest to spend some lone time after months of separation. Days into Unlock1.0, couples have started reuniting at public places. As most traditional lovers’ joints -- Rabindra Sarobar Lake, Central Park and Victoria Memorial – remain closed, they are reclaiming their spots at Princep Ghat and Outram Ghat besides malls and Academy of Fine Arts. Setting an example of brazen violation of lockdown and safety guidelines, several young men and women are roaming hand in hand without masks, flouting social distancing norms and staying undeterred by the pandemic scare, much like they were right before the lockdown. Open spaces preferred over malls When Sonarpur’s Sumit Das and Dum Dum’s Piyali Roy decided to meet up on Monday after almost three months, they chose Princep Ghat. "Since theatres and parks are closed, we were left with just two options -- the ghats or the malls. We thought Hooghly would be a great view for our much-awaited meeting," said Sumit. For Piyali, meeting in an open area is the safest possible option. "There is no reason for us to visit a mall apart from eating or shopping" she said. Most couples who were seeing each other for the first time after March said it was difficult to stay apart and virtual meetings lack intimacy. “Now that public transport is back, we couldn’t wait to be physically close. So many plans have to be discussed before our special day," said Reshmi Chakraborty, who is getting married to beau Pritam Das next March. ‘It’s risky but exceptions can be made’ About 90% of the couples we spotted were not wearing masks. When asked, they said it’s extremely difficult for them to talk with masks on. Those who had especially decked up for their date didn’t wish to keep their faces covered. "I know it is risky, but exceptions can be made for a few hours," said Priyanka Ghosh, a student of Presidency University, who was at the Princep Ghat with her partner on Monday. Besides the ghats by the Hooghly, some couples are also choosing the open stage area in front of Academy of Fine Arts and malls for meetings. Though many of them are avoiding malls because of centralised air conditioning, they go there just to grab a quick bite or for urgent shopping needs. Street food vendors rejoice Though the footfall remains close to half of what it used to be in pre-lockdown days, street food vendors at Outram Ghat are happy to be back in business from noon to 8 pm every day. "This place has always been a lovers’ paradise. We are happy that the crowd is gradually increasing here," said Mihir Shah, who sells pav bhaji. Though many food stalls are still shut and boating services suspended, the central location of the ghats attracts couples looking for a midpoint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/couples-throw-caution-to-the-wind-reunite-sans-masks-social-distancing/articleshow/76540041.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
June 24, 2020||India||India downgrades Pakistan ties, halves mission staff||NEW DELHI: The already stuttering India-Pakistan ties took another hit with India on Tuesday asking Pakistan to reduce its staff at the high commission by 50%, following expulsion of Pakistani officials for espionage and the subsequent intimidation of Indian diplomatic-consular officials at the hands of the ISI in Islamabad. The last time India asked for a similar reduction of staff was on December 27, 2001, exactly two weeks after the Jaish-e-Mohammad staged an attack on the Indian Parliament. As was the case in 2001, the government said in a statement that Pakistani officials here maintained contacts with terrorist organisations. The downgrade decision may be read as a signal that India does not see much point in maintaining diplomatic pretences in the face of what it sees as hostile activities by Pakistani officials on Indian soil and physical abuse of its staff in Pakistan. Official sources here said following the government’s decision, India and Pakistan will both reduce the strength of their respective missions to 55 in the next 7 days. The mutually agreed strength until now has been 110. The government summoned Pakistan charge d’affaires Syed Haider Shah and told him that Pakistani officials had been engaged in acts of espionage and “maintained dealings” with terrorist organisations despite India's repeated concerns about their activities. The government recalled activities of the two officials “caught red-handed” and expelled on May 31 as one example in that regard. The attack on the Indian Parliament had led to a nine-month-long military mobilisation on the border with Pakistan. The Pakistan foreign office said it “rejects and strongly condemns the baseless allegations made by the ministry of external affairs as a pretext to seek 50% reduction in staff strength of the high commission for Pakistan in New Delhi”. “Pakistan also rejects the insinuations of intimidation of Indian high commission officials in Islamabad. The Indian government’s smear campaign against Pakistan cannot obfuscate the illegal activities in which the Indian high commission officials were found involved in. The MEA’s statement is another effort to distort facts and deny the culpability of these Indian high commission officials in criminal offences,” it said. Bilateral ties were already downgraded with Pakistan having asked Indian high commissioner Ajay Bisaria to return after India’s decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said the situation had become untenable after the way in which Islamabad responded, as reported by TOI on June 15, by harassing and intimidating Indian officials. The situation came to a head the same day with the ISI abducting two Indian officials at gunpoint. “While their officials indulged in actions that are not in conformity with their privileged status in the high commission, Pakistan has in parallel engaged in a sustained campaign to intimidate the officials of the Indian high commission in Islamabad from carrying on their legitimate diplomatic functions,” said the government in a statement. The recent abduction at gunpoint of two Indian officials and their severe ill-treatment, it said, underlined the extent to which Pakistan had gone in that direction. The two officials returned to India on Monday (June 22) and have provided graphic details of the barbaric treatment they experienced at the hands of Pakistani agencies, said the statement. India said the behaviour of Pakistan and its officials was not in conformity with the Vienna Convention and bilateral agreements on the treatment of diplomatic and consular officials. On the contrary, said the government, it was an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism. While announcing the decision for reduction of staff in respective missions in 2001, then external affairs minister Jaswant Singh had said that Pakistani officials had been involved in activities related to espionage and also in “direct dealings with terrorist organisations”. The government had then given only 48 hours for the officials to return. Days earlier, it had also recalled its high commissioner from Islamabad. The situation then was a lot more tense though with the government simultaneously announcing that Pakistan would not be allowed to use Indian airspace. In his announcement, Singh had further said Pakistan had failed to fully appreciate India's concerns over Islamabad's continued sponsorship of cross-border terrorism and its use of terror as an instrument of state policy. Sources said the reduction in staff made sense otherwise too as there was not much diplomatic or consular work in any case, except for facilitating religious tourism. “Also, unlike Pakistani staff here, our officials there are faced with serious security threat,” said an official. While Islamabad remains a family station in that Indian officials are allowed to live there with their spouses, they are not allowed by India to send their children to school. This decision was taken after the Peshawar school massacre of December 16, 2014. In these circumstances, most Indian officials posted there have chosen to not take their families along. Watch India asks Pak high commission to reduce staff strength by 50%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-downgrades-pakistan-ties-halves-mission-staff/articleshow/76540509.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 24, 2020||Business||For the first time, diesel costlier than petrol in Delhi||NEW DELHI: By the time you read this, diesel will cost Rs 79.88 per litre and petrol Rs 79.76 per litre in Delhi on Wednesday, the first time former has overtaken the latter anywhere in the country as state-run oil companies raised prices for the 17th day in a row. In other states, the prices will also rise but diesel will still continue to be cheaper due to lower taxes levied by other states, though the gap between the prices will shrink further. Government data shows the gap at its widest at Rs 30.25, or nearly74%, on June 18, 2012 when petrol cost Rs 71.16 a litre and diesel Rs 40.91 in Delhi. In Mumbai, the gap was widest at Rs 31.17 on June 28 the same year when petrol sold at Rs 76.45 a litre and diesel Rs 45.28. Diesel prices traditionally trailed petrol by a wide margin because of the way it used to be taxed by the Centre and states. Both kept tax on diesel low as it is mainly consumed by transporters and farmers. But since fuel pricing was deregulated in October 2014, the difference in the Central taxes has narrowed but states still keep it on the lower side. In Delhi, for example, taxes account for 64% of petrol price and 63% of diesel price. But taxes on diesel in other states are lower. This is why the price gap in other states is still wider. For example, fuel taxes in Delhi were among the lowest in the country till April, while state levies in Mumbai were among the steepest. This reversed after the Delhi government jacked up VAT on diesel to 30% from 16.75% May 4, which keeps diesel prices higher than Mumbai. VAT on petrol was also raised to 30% from 27% but it is still lower than Mumbai. As a result, petrol price rose by Rs 1.67 a litre but diesel spiked by Rs 7.10. Diesel has been catching up slowly ever since the daily price revision was introduced in June 2017. The consecutive price hikes and the rebound in global diesel prices outpacing petrol, as economic activities resume globally, have hastened the process. The retailers have cumulatively raised petrol prices by Rs 9.21 and diesel by Rs 9.03 a litre in 17 days. This marks an increase of 14% in petrol and over 26% in diesel prices since they resumed daily price revision on June 7 after a gap of 82 days. According to industry figures, global rates of petrol, or ‘motor spirit’ in trade parlance, have risen about 4% and diesel, or ‘HSD’, by about 7-8%, during this period. Clearly, the retailers are trying to regain margins they lost by absorbing the two excise duty hikes and inventory losses during the Coronavirus lockdown, when oil prices crashed to 21-year lows and products became cheaper than crude. Watch Fuel price hike: Diesel costlier than petrol in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/for-the-first-time-diesel-costlier-than-petrol-in-delhi/articleshow/76540577.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 24, 2020||Business||Jobs returning, unemployment rate back at pre-lockdown levels||NEW DELHI: The unemployment rate fell to its pre-lockdown level of 8.5% in the week ended June 21, led by big gains in the rural areas, economic think tank Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said. The rate had gone up from 8.75% in March to 23.5% in April and May. It had peaked at 27.1% in the week ended May 3. The CMIE survey showed the gains in rural areas may even be bigger in the months ahead. The latest data on the jobs front provides huge relief to the government which has been grappling with job losses due to the coronavirus pandemic. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesIn the first three weeks of June, the unemployment rate dropped dramatically to 17.5%, then 11.6% and now 8.5%, according to the CMIE survey, as more towns and cities emerge from the lockdown and economic activity starts gathering pace. The heartening story is that rural India is witnessing an increase in jobs thanks to the rural job guarantee programme. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage “The big gain in employment is happening in rural India. And, it may see bigger gains in the months to come or at least sustain the current gains,” Mahesh Vyas, managing director and CEO of CMIE, said. He said the unemployment rate dropped to 7.26% in rural India in the week ended June 21. This is lower than it was in the pre-lockdown week ended March 22 when the rate was 8.3%. It is lower than the average unemployment rate in February and March which was 7.34% and 8.4%, respectively. It is much lower than the average 13-week lockdown period average of 20.3% but still a little higher than the 13-week average pre-lockdown rate of 6.8%. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  “While relaxation of the lockdown has helped in alleviating the unemployment stress in general, rural India has apparently gained by the massive sudden increase in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme activities and also by a sharp increase in kharif sowing this year,” Vyas said. He added that person-days of jobs created in May shot up to 565 million. This is way higher than any time in the recent past. It was 53% higher than the 370 million person-days of jobs created under the scheme in May 2019. It was 2.55 times the average monthly person-days of jobs created in 2019-20. The survey said 33 million households benefitted from the scheme in May. This again is 55% higher than the number of households that benefitted a year ago, according to Vyas. Partial data for June suggests that the scheme continues to power its employment relief measures aggressively. The number of person-days of jobs was 65% of the year-ago figure while the number of household beneficiaries was 95% of the year-ago beneficiary households, according to CMIE. “Aggressive use of the MGNREGA scheme by the government, timely rains and enhanced sowing activities seem to have helped engage rural India and bring the unemployment rate down,” Vyas said. According to Vyas, the overlap of Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana with MGNREGA is unclear. “Nevertheless, rural unemployment can be expected to remain low till October at least. These efforts can also be expected to raise consumption demand from rural India,” he said, pointing to measures unveiled by the government to ease the stress in rural areas through programmes such as the Rs 50,000 crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana launched across six states. Watch Unemployment rate back at pre-lockdown levels||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cmie-unemployment-rate-back-to-pre-lockdown-level-of-8-5/articleshow/76540727.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Colour codes likely for desi, foreign products||NEW DELHI: With an eye on Chinese products, the government is looking to mandate separate colour codes for all domestic and foreign-made goods, on the lines of green and red dots for vegetarian and non-vegetarian food items, while separately summoning e-commerce players to insist on immediate disclosure of the source of products sold on these platforms, along with the local value-addition details. The colour code could be orange or saffron for made-in-India goods. As a first step, Government e-Marketplace (GeM), the public procurement platform, has made the disclosure mandatory. "GeM has taken a significant step towards ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and has made it mandatory for sellers to enter the country of origin while registering all new products on GeM. Further, sellers who had already uploaded their products before the introduction of this new feature on GeM are being reminded regularly to update the country of origin, with a warning that their products shall be removed from GeM if they fail to update the same," it said in a statement. Read AlsoSellers need to mention 'country of origin' on products for GeM platformThe govt procurement portal GeM has made it mandatory for sellers to mention 'country of origin' on products they wish to sell through the platform, a move aimed at promoting Aatma Nirbhar Bharat, sources said on Tuesday. Government e-Marketplace (GEM) has also enabled a provision for indication ofIn the coming weeks, e-tailers such as Amazon, Flipkart and Paytm Mall will have to follow the same disclosure norms, which were to be earlier implemented as part of the proposed e-commerce policy. An official said that in their bid to sell cheaper products, these sites were hawking China-made goods, prompting the department for promotion of industry and internal trade to step in. Executives at some of the online marketplaces, however, said it will not be possible for them to implement the plan immediately as the list of products runs into crores. Besides, there is no requirement to disclose the extent of value addition. "You may have a TV set or a phone where components are imported from other countries, but since it is assembled here, there is a made-in-India sticker. How do we get the value addition?" an executive said. Separately, the idea of a colour code is being discussed in the government as many consumers may not be able to read the source of the product. The move will require changes to the guidelines, a government source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/colour-codes-likely-for-desi-foreign-products/articleshow/76540771.cms||Sidhartha
June 24, 2020||India||India records 1L Covid cases in a week; new high of 15.6k on Tuesday||NEW DELHI: India recorded more than 1 lakh new Covid-19 cases in the past seven days, as the daily count of fresh infections touched another record high of over 15,600 on Tuesday while the day’s death toll too rose to a high of 466. India’s Covid-19 caseload surged from 3.53 lakh a week ago (June 16) to over 4.55 lakh on Tuesday, adding more than 1.02 lakh cases in this period at a daily average of over 14,600 cases. In these seven days, 2,541 deaths were reported, nearly 18% of all fatalities from the virus, which stand at 14,455. Delhi reported 3,947 new cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day count in any state so far. This was the first time since the end of March that any state had recorded a higher number of infections in a day than Maharashtra, which reported 3,214 cases on Tuesday. Cumulatively, 15,689 fresh coronavirus cases were reported on Tuesday — the sixth time that the single-day count had touched a new peak in the past seven days. Continuing with its daily addition of a significant number of Covid-19 deaths, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 248 deaths, its highest so far in a day, taking the overall toll to 6,531 in the state. Of the deaths, 75 occurred in the last 48 hours, the state update said, while 173 were from data reconciliation from the previous days. The previous highest toll in a day was 186 on June 21. With the massive numbers from Maharashtra, deaths reported from across the country on Tuesday jumped to 466, the highest single-day toll apart from June 16’s figure of 2,003, when past deaths were reconciled in Maharashtra and Delhi. On June 16, Maharashtra alone had added as many as 1,328 deaths in a day following a two-week long data cleaning exercise. On Tuesday, Mumbai added 107 deaths, taking its toll to 3,844. Of the deaths, only 42 were from the last 24 hours and the remaining 65 were from previous dates not disclosed by the BMC. In Delhi, data shared by the state health department showed that 69% of all cases were reported in the last 23 days, from June 1 to June 23. “The disease is spreading very fast. The government agencies are doing everything possible to limit it. But if people do not act more responsibly in following the social distancing norms and wearing masks while going out, things cannot improve anytime soon,” said a senior health official, who did not want to be quoted. Tamil Nadu logged 2,516 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, but the number of people tested for the viral infection dropped by at least 6,000 compared to Sunday. The case tally rose to 64,603, and the official toll in the state reached 833 with 39 more deaths registered. While Chennai added 1,380 positive cases, Chengalpet reported 146 cases, Tiruvallur 156 and Kancheepuram 59 cases. The sharp surge in cases continued in Telangana, which reported its highest 879 fresh infections on Tuesday. Private hospitals in Hyderabad urged asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms to stay at home, citing shortage of beds. Kerala too recorded its single-day high of 141 cases. With this, the state has added 657 new Covid-19 cases in the last five days. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the increase in the number of cases is a matter of concern. There was also an increase in the number of cases for which the sources are yet to be traced. Such cases are increasingly being reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram and Thrissur. Watch India records 1 lakh Covid cases in a week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-records-1l-covid-cases-in-a-week-new-high-of-15-6k-on-tuesday/articleshow/76540846.cms||---
June 24, 2020||India||LAC face-off: India gives China terse message at trilateral meet||NEW DELHI: India emphasised the importance of "recognising the legitimate interests of partners", an oblique reference to China’s actions against India, during a special meeting of the RIC (Russia-India-China) trilateral grouping on Tuesday. Even though bilateral references were not allowed, foreign minister S Jaishankar, in his terse remarks, said, "The challenge today is not just one of concepts and norms, but equally of their practice. The leading voices of the world must be exemplars in every way. Respecting international law, recognising the legitimate interests of partners, supporting multilateralism and promoting the common good are the only way of building a durable world order." Read AlsoIndia, China agree on gradual, ‘verifiable disengagement’India and China have agreed on a gradual and verifiable disengagement from their over 50-day troop confrontation in different areas of eastern Ladakh, which will eventually lead to the two sides also thinning out their massive military build-ups along the 3,488-km LAC. The breakthrough overGiven that the virtual meeting was happening in the backdrop of unprecedented tensions between India and China, it was clear that India’s heart was not in it. There was no joint statement nor a press release at the end of the meeting, which was unusual, but in the circumstances, India’s reluctance to associate with any joint approach with China was made clear. Jaishankar’s remarks centred around the injustice to India in 75 years of the existing world order beginning from the end of World War II. "This historical injustice has stood uncorrected for the last 75 years, even as the world has changed… it is important for the world to realise both the contribution that India made and the need to rectify the past," he said, putting out India’s new mantra of "reformed multilateralism". India China standoff live updatesInterestingly, Jaishankar also referred to the fact that during World War II, India (then British India) had kept the supply lines open to both Russia and China. In 2020, China weaponised its own supply lines during the Covid-19 outbreak, leaving most countries scrambling when they shut down supplies. "We helped keep key supply lines open to both your countries, one through the Persian corridor and the other over the Himalayan hump," he said. In his remarks, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow would support the Indian initiative, the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, in the UNSC. He said, "We are united by our rejection of unilateral methods in international relations, especially when these methods are applied by force." Watch India gives China terse message at trilateral with Russia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-gives-china-terse-message-at-trilateral/articleshow/76541021.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Devotees’ juggernaut rolls on despite coronavirus scare, but Kolkata misses its melas and jatras||KOLKATA: Rath er mela bosechhe Rath talay…the famous song by Sanat Singha seemed from another world on Tuesday as Ratha Yatra was observed in the city and districts without familiar sights and smells. Be it the chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings that stood still, the missing hullabaloo at the jatra para of Chitpore and around khuti/kathamo puja by community Durga Puja organisers or the lack of makeshift shacks selling fried papads and jilipi, this year’s Ratha Yatra was shorn of everything. These are Covid times and keeping within the frame of the new normal, temples invoked the three deities while traditional pujas were held following norms, but without public participation. Children were not seen on the streets or even inside housing complexes pulling the wooden tiny rathas with earthen idols sitting on their decks. Only the jewellery stores in the city sounded slightly happy at the end of the day as they saw encouraging footfalls throughout the day because of Ratha Yatra offers. Chitpore wore a deserted look with most jatra pala companies keeping their doors shut. Monks and sevaks at Iskcon Kolkata cradled the deities from the first floor and carried them to the ground floor where a makeshift Gundicha temple had been made for the deities. “Chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who is always present at the Ratha Yatra inauguration, sent sweets and uttariya for the deities. We kept the door locked and could not distribute mahaprasad this time,” rued the spokesperson Radharaman Das. At Mayapur too, gates were locked and monks with priests pulled the rathas inside the campus without public participation. The 600-year-old Mahesh and 300-year-old Guptipara rathas also stood still, though pujas happened behind closed doors without distribution of prasad. (Inputs from Kamalendu Bhadra, Suman Chakraborty and Falguni Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/devotees-juggernaut-rolls-on-despite-virus-scare-but-kol-misses-its-melas-and-jatras/articleshow/76538969.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 24, 2020||Patna||Over Rs 1 crore looted from banks in Bihar since January||PATNA: The broad daylight dacoity of Rs 52.33 lakh from the Anisabad branch of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in the city on Monday has left a serious question mark over security at banks across the state. This was the seventh bank loot incident in the state since February this year. Earlier, bank robberies had taken place at Motipur, Paro, Gai Ghat, Bhagwanpur Chowk in Muzaffarpur, Kartaha in Vaishali and Maheshi in East Champaran. A bank loot attempt was foiled by an alert clerk at PNB’s Hanuman Nagar branch in Patna on March 9 this year. In these seven incidents, the criminals looted altogether Rs 1.09 crore from banks. Criminal had also looted Rs 15 lakh from Utkarsh Small Finance Bank’s Saraiyya branch under the Saraiyya police station area in Muzaffarpur district on February 9 this year. A lone criminal had looted Rs 9.12 lakh from United Bank of India’s branch near Patna Junction on December 31 and the case still remains unsolved. Awdhesh Anand, lead district manager (LDM) for all bank branches in Patna, said police as well as bank employees need to remain more vigilant. Anand said even on Monday, the police team visited Anisabad branch at around 12.05pm as per routine procedure. “Such incidents mostly take place in morning hours or after customer dealing ends. There should be at least two visits of police patrolling party at banks per days,” he said. “Overall, only 30-40% bank branches have guards. SBI takes service of private agencies for security at banks, but others hardly hire such agencies,” Anand said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said such a daring crime in the state capital is a big matter and a challenge for police. “We will sensitize all district SPs and field officers,” he said. The ADG said police stations would be asked to stay in frequent touch with officers in branches where high value transactions take place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-rs-1-crore-looted-from-banks-in-bihar-since-january/articleshow/76537907.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Ex-ADGP Saiyed succumbs to Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: A I Saiyed, former ADGP in Gujarat Police, and former chairman of Wakf Board, passed away at a private hospital near Ahmedabad on Tuesday evening. Saiyed, who was hospitalized for past few days, had got Covid-19 infection along with other health issues, said the hospital. He is survived by his wife and three children. Sources said his wife was also admitted with him, but she had recently got a discharge after improvement in her health. His son is based in Vadodara whereas his two daughters are based in the US and Ahmedabad, they added. A 1978 batch IPS officer, Saiyed retired in 2009 as ADGP and soon joined BJP. He was fielded as a candidate in Sarkhej ward by the party in AMC elections in 2011 but Saiyed lost the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-adgp-saiyed-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76540292.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||In Covid times, masks turn into gifts||Vadodara: Lajuli Sarkar, a city-based professional, was always confident when it came to choosing a gift. Be it birthday, bridal or a baby shower — her gift was perfect. But, the pandemic and the new normal induced by the threat of the contagion threw her a new challenge — what to gift a new bride? Many a permutation, combination apart she hit upon the best idea — colourful designer face masks! “Masks are here to stay as a safety measure for many months to come. I also wanted my gift to express my concern for her as well as something that she would use and remember thereby. So, I ordered for six designer masks with colours that match her bridal trousseau,” Sarkar told TOI. The pandemic times have changed many traditional idea and way of thinking. In such a new order, Gujaratis, like Sarkar, are rethinking on gifting ideas too. The obvious choices are either face masks or sanitizers — gifts that clearly define “care”. Apart from it being a tool for medical safety, masks are slowly becoming a fashion accessory too. “In the pandemic times, what better way to beat the despondency than to gift our loved ones masks, especially with a customized itsy-bitsy ‘facegear’ that will lighten their mood as well as keep them safe? I have, therefore, sent face masks in gift bags to my friends and even relatives staying in other states who were really moved by my gesture,” said Jigisha Savani, an Ahmedabad-based teacher. “Some customers want special masks to be couriered to relatives in other cities or even outside Gujarat. So, I have added proper gift bags to make it more exciting,” said Anusha Sarkar, lifestyle and accessories designer. Kashyap Shah, a city-based designer, acknowledged that the trend of gifting masks has picked up in the recent times and people want customized masks for various occasions.  Shailini Amin, founder of Moral Fibre in Ahmedabad said that demand for masks has remained throughout lockdown. “We came up with different designs in masks and the demand has so far been good, mostly for gifting purposes,” she said. Fashion designer, Anuraag K, said that people also come with specific requirements. “Recently, a client wanted nearly 40 masks for attendees at a ring ceremony. It was clearly a fashion statement, safety apart,” he said. Some designers are putting textile waste generated at their studios to use masks. Purvi Doshi, an Ahmedabad-based fashion designer, said that their firm hasn’t been aggressively promoting masks as an accessory. “We started by making masks using Khadi and other organic fabrics for our staff members which they found very comfortable. It thus led us to manufacture more,” she added. (With inputs from Ahmedabad, Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-covid-times-masks-turn-into-gifts/articleshow/76536281.cms||Tushar Tere
June 24, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh resigns as RJD national vice-president||PATNA: Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned as RJD’s national vice-president on Tuesday, giving another jolt to the party led by incarcerated Lalu Prasad. He sent his resignation letter to the party’s top leadership from the AIIMS, Patna, where he is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. It happened the same day when five of the RJD MLCs joined the ruling JD(U) led by Nitish Kumar and a day after former LJP MP from Vaishali Ram Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh met Lalu’s son and leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Rama, who is known for his muscle power, is likely to join the RJD on June 29. When asked about Raghuvansh’s resignation, Tejashwi told reporters: “Raghuvansh ji has nourished the party from the very beginning. He has been our guardian. I am in constant touch with his doctors at AIIMS-Patna and taking updates about his health. We are hopeful that he will recover at the earliest, following which we will talk to him.” But confidante of the senior RJD leader said: “Raghuvansh Babu was not happy with the way the party is functioning of late. He felt hurt from within as the people with chequered history were being inducted into the party. He decided to quit the post of party’s national vice-president today.” It was Rama who had defeated Raghuvansh in the 2014 Lok Sabha election from the Vaishali constituency, which the RJD leader had represented five times. Rama had tried his luck in the general election for the first time on the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ticket and won. Raghuvansh, considered very close to Lalu, had earlier criticized the party’s state president Jagadanand Singh for his style of functioning. “People are fascinated with the simplicity and outspokenness of Raghuvansh Babu. Even Lalu ji often talked about his rustic style of living,” a senior RJD leader said, preferring anonymity. He admitted that Raghuvansh’s move would not auger well for RJD. “This is not a good sign as the state assembly election is to be held in October-November. This will certainly give a message to the people that all is not well in RJD, which is the major constituent of the opposition’s grand alliance,” the RJD leader said. The speculation was rife about Rama joining a big political party ever since he had been denied ticket by the LJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Instead of Rama, the LJP had fielded another Rajput leader and former MLA Veena Singh from Vaishali Lok Sabha seat. She also defeated Raghuvansh by a huge margin. Reliable sources said Rama had earlier met Lalu in Ranchi jail where the RJD chief is serving sentence in the multicrore fodder scam cases. “Rama met Tejashwi after getting a green signal from Lalu,” said a close associate of the former MP. Raghuvansh had also expressed his unhappiness over party affairs during his meeting with Lalu in February this year. Lalu had then managed to persuade Raghuvansh, who happened to be one of the founding members of the party. “Lalu ki baat ko Raghuvansh Babu taal nahi sake (he couldn’t ignore Lalu’s suggestion),” recalled a confidante of Raghuvansh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-resigns-as-rjd-national-vice-president/articleshow/76538154.cms||Ramashankar
June 24, 2020||Business||Finmin calls meet for Jan Dhan a/cs||TNN Mumbai: The finance ministry has called for a meeting of lenders to improve availability of banking services to Jan Dhan accountholders through alternate channels. The basic bank accounts have gained significance amid the Covid-19 crisis as they are the main channel for direct transfer of welfare benefits. The meeting is being chaired by department of financial services joint secretary Sachindra Mishra. The ministry has written to bank chiefs asking them to depute senior executives heading financial inclusion and IT for the meeting. The agenda for the video conference includes monitoring of transaction in the Jan Dhan accounts following transfers of benefits under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. The ministry will look into the issues in use of mobile ATMs using Aadhaar biometric. There have been cases where the mobile ATM deployed were not interoperable, i.e. not available for use by customers of other banks. The ministry is also looking into authenticating the operation of accounts belonging to self-help groups at business correspondent points. According to bankers, there is an issue of dark spots in availability of banking channels. In many centres, banks opened Jan Dhan accounts by setting up camp offices. However, given that there were not many transactions, there were no business correspondent outlets opened there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finmin-calls-meet-for-jan-dhan-a/cs/articleshow/76538770.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||IT stocks shrug off H-1B jitters||TNN Mumbai: Investors on Dalal Street mostly discounted the US government’s decision on H-1B visas from October 1, resulting in a higher close for stocks of leading software exporters in Tuesday’s strong market. At end of trading on the BSE, Infosys was up 2.4%, while TCS gained 0.4% and Wipro was 1.2% higher. A note from a domestic broking house pointed out that in an election year, visas were always an issue of high priority in the US, mainly to get political mileage. This had been happening for some time and this year was no different, it said. This will have more of a “sentimental impact” than any “actual business impact”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-stocks-shrug-off-h-1b-jitters/articleshow/76538717.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Hierarchies are slow, don’t deliver results in modern cos||By Pankaj BansalOne would assume that in a country like India where our forefathers (and mothers) have fought hard to gain independence and set up a democratic nation, the principles of democracy would extend to workplaces as well. While in principle, as business leaders, we all would like to believe that we have created democratic workplaces where every individual has a voice and is given freedom to operate and perform, the reality unfortunately is different. As they say, ‘Every father is a potential dynast,’ and so is every manager and business leader. Data says merely 30% of employees believe that they have the right channels and means to reach out to their leaders. Hardly 40% would accept their workplace to be truly diverse, and even fewer vouch for fairness and equality. Even if we discount these numbers as mere opinions, it still establishes the fact that a lot more needs to be done for creating democratic workplaces. George Mason in 1775 said, “We came equals into this world, and equals shall we go out of it.” Equality, therefore, is an important pillar of democracy, which unfortunately is not reflecting at our workplaces. But what does a democratic workplace mean? Does it mean widespread equity and freedom, or does it mean that every decision is taken by the permission of the employees? Would it not reduce the speed and agility with which businesses operate, and what about quality? Won’t democracy mean that employees might do away with lesser quality deliverables, just because the power of decisions lies with them? The larger question that we face was asked by John Gardner in his 1961 publication, ‘Can we be equal and excellent too?’ Let me use his principles and some key insights from my entrepreneurial journey at PeopleStrong of working with leading enterprises of Asia to answer how we can create ‘democratic workplaces’. The word democracy comes from two Greek words: demos = people and kratos = rule, meaning ‘rule by the people’. Experts say democracy is made up of few principles — while their views might differ in some places, the most widely accepted principles are: Pluralism (acceptance of diversity of thoughts), equality in existence, right to petition. And all of this governed by elements of a civil society. Now when we apply these principles at work, we create workplaces where voices are heard, and equity is generated for all the employees alike, while maintaining agility and quality of work. Almost sounds surreal, but achievable if we take Robert Winthrop’s advice, “Nothing is owed to parentage or patronage.” But how do organisations create such an ecosystem? Here’s what we have learnt from our customers, which include organisations like Aditya Birla Capital, SingLife (Singapore), V Mart, True Corporation (Thailand), Compass, and many more: * Pluralism — encouraging diversity in thoughts and actions: While over the past few years, diversity and inclusion have come up as an organisation’s agenda, it is still restricted to large enterprises who have budgets and time to spare. Even in most of the large enterprises, the definition of diversity at work is limited to bringing more women. We need to change that. Accepting pluralism at work means having people with different mindsets in the organisation and creating systems and processes where all of them are equally empowered to contribute towards the growth of the organisation. It is about creating a safe and conducive workplace where everyone can disagree, but still work together without feeling unsafe. As we adopt the “new code of work, the scientists and artists would need to collaborate for creating organisation’s success and democratic workplaces”. * Equality — enable productivity without hierarchy: Remember the game of ‘Chinese Whispers’ we all played as children? Something completely different was communicated than what was originally intended. Hierarchies are similar in that way — they are slow, stall innovation and creativity, and are not made to deliver results in today’s world. Many HR principles and systems originated from military operations in world wars: It’s time to drop them. Especially while managing a workforce that is young, unapologetic and respects logic more than legacy hierarchical structures. So, the problem to solve is what Gardner eluded to, that equalitarianism and competitive performance are often in conflict, but doesn’t diminish our fondness for both. Therefore, the new code of work calls for three key elements to address the equality and performance paradigm: 1) A collaborative environment where teams or squads can come together on a short notice and deliver results. 2) It calls for easy access of information across all levels of hierarchy and it calls upon the ‘do-ers’ to take data-driven decisions and own their performance. For instance, in hiring, tests are not popular, but these assessments don’t see social status or belief systems, rather only intellectual gifts. Every year, the India Skills Report reiterates this notion of fairness that assessments bring in the world of fresher’s hiring. 3) In addition to this, the need for two-way communication is paramount. If as business leaders we are not able to provide channels for people to express freely, the chances of an engaged workforce get reduced significantly. * Ecosystem that delivers in an organisation (Microcosm of civil society): 1) Measure what matters, outcomes — Derived from the title of a beautiful book by John Doerr, it offers an intelligent insight into the world of performance management at work. If there was ever a time in the history of businesses when performance management was crucial, it is now. And if as business leaders, we still believe that annual appraisal cycles are relevant, we need a wake-up pill. The evolving market demands businesses to translate their long-term & short-terms goals into actionables. A unique way to set high-performing goals is OKRs (objectives & key results). First coined & implemented by Andy Grove and popularised by John Doerr, OKRs officially became famous after their successful implementation at Google and many marquee organisations. This brings me to a very relevant quote from Gardner, “The society which scorns excellence in plumbing as a humble activity and tolerates shoddiness in philosophy because it is an exalted activity will have neither good plumbing nor good philosophy: neither its pipes nor its theories will hold water.” 2) Enable achievement without boundaries: Not only work but workplaces too — anybody can be somebody. Work-from-home, freelancing, part-time jobs, gigs and more — People are demanding greater flexibility from workplaces. Traditional boundaries and time limits are no longer the yardsticks for measuring performance. With the concept of shared workplaces coming in (WeWork, myHQ, Skootr, etc), people are collaborating on ideas and working in newer ways than before. More so, in current times when the Covid-19 pandemic has pushed organisations to trust their people and bring in more democracy by enabling them to work remotely. The world witnessing an upsurge in use of video-conferencing and collaboration tools for better productivity. The meaning of a workplace is now extending to any conceivable place a person can work from. Jose Marter famously said, “Mountains culminate in peaks and nations in men”. The same is true for workplaces too. It is up to us whether we would like to disrupt or be disrupted as the new world of work, also known as the new code of work, hits us. (The writer is co-founder & CEO, PeopleStrong)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hierarchies-are-slow-dont-deliver-results-in-modern-cos/articleshow/76539772.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Union Bank reports Rs 2,503cr loss due to merger provisions||Mumbai: Union Bank of India has reported a loss of Rs 2,503 crore for Q4FY20 as against a profit of Rs 574 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. An exceptional item of Rs 2,509 crore as ‘harmonisation provision’ towards loans of Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank, which merged with Union Bank with effect from April 1, 2020, resulted in the loss. For the full-year, the loss worked out to Rs 2,898 crore, as compared to Rs 2,947 crore in FY19. The bank made Rs 2,974 crore of provisions for non-performing assets, which were lower than the provision of Rs 5,783 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Net interest income rose 10% to Rs 2,878 crore from Rs 2,601 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Other income also rose 58% to Rs 2,017 crore from Rs 1,271 crore last year. The bank’s net NPA ratio shrunk to 5.49% as on March 31, 2020 compared to 6.85% as on March 31, 2019. Its global deposits rose 8.4% to Rs 4.51 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020, while global gross advances grew by 6.6% to Rs 3.5 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-reports-rs-2503cr-loss-due-to-merger-provisions/articleshow/76539686.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Set up helpdesks, bolster testing to stem coronavirus: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to set up helpdesks at hospitals, healthcare centres, police stations, government offices and public places across the state within two days to stem the rising number of Covid-19 cases. At these helpdesks, people will not only get information about the disease but can also have their temperature and oxygen levels checked. The government will also launch a massive programme to create awareness about preventive measures to ward off coronavirus infection. The CM asked officials to set up helpdesks at places which see high movement of people. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said each helpdesk would be manned by minimum two persons and operate from 7am to 7pm. “The CM has said that people managing helpdesks should be provided proper training so that they can guide people about the dos and don’ts regarding Covid-19. Helpdesks will also be provided infrared thermometers, pulse oxymeters and sanitizers so that temperature and oxygen levels can be checked on the spot,” Awasthi said. He said helpdesks would help people get information about Covid-19 and on the basis of basic tests, they could be referred to hospital for follow-up. Helpdesks have already been set up in several parts of the state. At least 144 helpdesks have been set up in Agra, 44 in Firozabad, 50 in Mathura and 20 in Mainpuri. The CM has also directed special secretary level officials, who have been appointed nodal officers to all districts, to immediately leave for their assigned areas. They will monitor the situation on the ground and coordinate with the chief medical officers to ensure seamless medical facility to people. “The CM’s office is calling up patients randomly to take their feedback on how hospitals are functioning and whether doctors are taking rounds regularly. Nodal officers will also have to keep a watch on how things are functioning,” Awasthi said. Meanwhile, laying stress on increasing the number of Covid-19 tests being carried out each day, the CM said when the state had the capacity to carry out 20,000 tests a day, it should start collecting samples accordingly and scale up testing to 20,000 by the end of the month. Currently, about 17,000 tests are being carried out daily. Efforts are also being made to identify more hospitals which can be taken up if there is a need for more Covid-19 beds. In west UP, where the number of infections is higher, directions have been issued for identification of hospitals and institutions which can be taken up when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/set-up-helpdesks-bolster-testing-to-stem-corona-yogi/articleshow/76540296.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Turmoil in RJD puts question mark over Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s leadership||PATNA: The turmoil in RJD on Tuesday with the exit of five of its MLCs and resignation of veteran leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh as national vice-president of the party couldn’t have come at a more inopportune moment for the principal opposition party in Bihar ahead of the scheduled assembly elections. According to political observers, the day’s developments have raised a question on the leadership of party chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. To top that, the shift of a Muslim and a Yadav MLC to JD (U) may send out the message that even the Muslim-Yadav core base of RJD could be shifting away. The fissures within the party was mentioned by MLC Radha Charan Sah, who was among the five RJD MLCs who joined JD(U) on Tuesday. “One can understand the condition of RJD by the fact that even a senior leader like Raghuvansh Babu has resigned owing to discontentment with decisions being taken in the party,” Sah told reporters after meeting JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Tuesday. Party insiders say nobody had any hint that something “so big” was brewing. “It was a very big operation carried out by JD (U) silently. When RJD was finalizing candidates for the legislative council, JD (U) succeeded in taking away five of its MLCs. This entire operation was carried out silently while senior party leaders were initially calling it as rumours since most of these MLCs were RJD old-timers. Now we are apprehensive that party may lose some MLAs as well,” a senior functionary of RJD said, wishing anonymity. Questions are also being raised from within the party’s position ahead of the assembly election. “Such back-to-back blows, especially in the run up polls, will definitely demoralize party workers and supporters. There is already discontentment among a section of the party about Tejashwi’s attitude as many functionaries think that he has an arrogant attitude and already believes that he is the CM,” a national-level RJD functionary told TOI on Tuesday evening, wishing anonymity. He added, “But Tuesday’s developments also pose a question on Lalu Prasad’s hold on the party as all important decisions are still taken by him despite the fact that he is serving a prison term.” Tejashwi accused Nitish of repeatedly disrespecting mandate by resorting to such actions. “Nitish Ji is trying to create a psychological pressure but we are not going to be affected by it. Moreover, people of Bihar will give a befitting reply to him,” Tejashwi told reporters. RJD’s Bihar unit president Jagdanand Singh alleged use of money and muscle power. “Nitish is taking our people as he does not have good leaders in his own party. Let him take five people, but this battle is of 12 crore people and they are ready to dethrone him. It is only a matter of four months and his money and power won’t be of much use for him,” Jagdanand told reporters. But JD(U) went ahead with the claim that several MLAs of RJD too are in touch with the party. “Entire RJD is of the view that the party has become a sinking ship owing to lack of leadership skills in Tejashwi. Many RJD MLAs are doubtful that they will not be able to return to the assembly after the elections. Thus, there is all possibility that RJD may split in the coming weeks and its MLAs will not even think about anti- defection law as the tenure of the existing legislators is already going to end,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/turmoil-in-rjd-puts-question-mark-over-tejashwis-leadership/articleshow/76538064.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 24, 2020||Patna||Home isolation for doctors, health workers in Bihar||PATNA: Doctors and other health workers of the state, who are tested asymptomatic Covid-19 positive, can now avail the facility of home isolation provided their houses have proper arrangements for it. Principal secretary of health department Uday Singh Kumawat has written to all district magistrates, civil surgeons as well as principals and superintendents of medical colleges Tuesday in this regard on Tuesday. The home isolation will be for a period of 14 days during which the health status of the person concerned will be regularly monitored. Those taking home isolation will also have to ensure that their houses have proper arrangements for qurantining their family members. In case of developing symptoms, the doctor or health worker will have to contact the nearest health centre for proper treatment, Kumawat said. However, before going for home isolation, one will have to present a signed undertaking of maintaining strict self-isolation at all time. Following the health department’s direction, the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), which found seven of its doctors infected with Covid-19 on Sunday and shifted all of them to the cottage ward, initiated the move to allow them home isolation.  “Since the affected doctors included five women, we are contacting their parents or nearest family members. We want to get assured that there are proper facilities, as directed by the health department, for their home isolation,” PMCH principal Dr VP Choudhary said. So far, no doctor or health worker has tested positive for Covid-19 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, the dedicated corona hospital, its superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said. Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Choudhary said no doctor or health worker was tested positive in any government or private hospitals on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-isolation-for-doctors-health-workers-in-bihar/articleshow/76537652.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Coordinate with Nepal officials for flood control works: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked the state officials to conduct anti-erosion and flood control works, as well as strengthening of embankments and bunds and maintenance of barrages on the rivers originating in Nepal, in proper coordination with their counterparts concerned in Nepal. The CM made his observations during the high-level meeting held to review of the flood control, anti-erosion, embankment and bund strengthening and barrage maintenance works being done by the state water resources department (WRD). The Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages across rivers Gandak and Kosi, respectively, fall in the Nepal territory, while the barrage maintenance, anti-erosion, flood protection and flood fighting works have to be conducted by the Bihar WRD, including on their afflux embankments and marginal bunds that lie in Nepal. The work being done on Lalbakeya and Kamla Balan river embankments also requires movement and operations in the Nepal territory. “Maintain proper coordination with the Nepal government officials while working in the areas of Gandak, Kosi, Kamla and other river basins,” the CM said. His directive is significant as the Nepal government officials last week had stopped state WRD engineers from executing work in their territory. It, in turn, involved mediation at the ministry of external affairs (MEA) level with Nepal counterparts. While 15 of the 22 schemes and projects in the Kosi basin had already been completed, Nitish instructed the WRD officials to also complete the remaining seven works before the floods hit the state. The CM also stressed on proper coordination with the local Nepal government officials with regard to the steel piling work on the embankment of Kamla Balan, which was the first of its kind in the state. A similar instruction was also given with regard to the breach closure work and strengthening of the right and left embankments of the Kamla weir. He asked the WRD officials and engineers to make advance storage of the flood control materials to meet any eventuality in the Lalbakeya and Kamla basins. The works on the right Lalbakeya marginal bund, as well as on the right and left marginal embankments of Kamla weir, are in progress. Nitish also stressed on the timely completion of the anti-flood work regarding Belwa dhaar (rivulet), besides insisting on the maintenance of communication network and constant monitoring of the work at nodal and vulnerable points by the engineers concerned. In the flood situation, all relief work has to be conducted as per the standard operating procedure (SOP), he added. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, WRD secretary Sanjeev Hans, Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary to CM, along with secretaries Manish Verma and Anupam Kumar attended the meeting. Hans made a presentation on the works being done by the WRD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coordinate-with-nepal-officials-for-flood-control-works-nitish/articleshow/76537862.cms||Abhay Singh
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Officials prevent minor’s marriage in Kishanganj district||PATNA: A joint team of the district administration and the Child Line on Tuesday prevented a 13-year-old girl from being married off in violation of the Child Marriage Act in Kishanganj district. Acting on a tip-off, Kishanganj subdivisional officer (SDO) Shahnawaz Neyazi, along with representatives of the Child Line and other block officials, reached a village under Chakla panchayat in the district and persuaded the parents not to marry the minor girl. Initially, the parents denied that their daughter was being married, but later conceded the truth during interrogation. Subsequently, the parents furnished a bond pledging that the girl would be married only after attaining the age of 18 years. District coordinator of Child Line Pankaj Kumar Jha said the swift action of the administrative officials saved the life of a minor girl. “Had they not acted on time, the child marriage couldn’t have been prevented,” he said. Neyazi, along with BDO Minhaz Ahmad and mukhiya of Chakla panchayat Tanvir Alam, appealed to people not to allow marriage of their wards — girls below the age of 18 and boys below 21 years. The state government has set up teams at district level to check child marriage, a social evil. Last week, the Bihar State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (BSCPCR) received a complaint from Bhagalpur district. BSCPCR chairperson Pramila Kumari said a probe had already been ordered into the marriage of a 16-year-old girl from Mujahidpur police station in Bhagalpur district. On the other hand, the state police received six complaints of child marriage across the state during the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/officials-prevent-minors-marriage/articleshow/76537825.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rules tweaked to allow Covid-hit people to vote||PATNA: The electorate, even if infected or affected with coronavirus, will exercise their franchise in the forthcoming state assembly elections, authoritative sources in the state chief electoral officer (CEO) office said on Tuesday. News agency PTI has also quoted a top functionary in Union law ministry saying that changes have been made in the Conduct of Election Rules to allow those suffering from Covid-19 to use postal ballot. Sources said the Election Commission (EC) had approached the ministry to allow Covid-19 positive voters to use postal ballot to exercise their franchise. “We have agreed to change the rules ... Recently we had allowed those above 80 years of age and people with disabilities to use postal ballot. In the same list, we have included Covid positive or those having symptoms,” PTI quoted the law ministry official as saying. Meanwhile, sources said the EC has sought opinion from Bihar CEO H R Srinivasa on the proposal to include a new category of voters ‘Covid-19 suspects or affected persons’ in the state assembly polls. “The reply will be sent to the EC at the earliest,” a senior officer said. The assembly elections in the state are due in October-November. The officer on condition of anonymity revealed that only those voters, who have been tested positive either in a government healthcare facility or one designated by the government as Covid-19 hospital, will avail the benefits of the new provision. In addition, voters under ‘home quarantine’ or ‘institutional quarantine’ will also avail the new option. “The motive is that the voter turnout in the election is not affected by Covid-19 pandemic,” the officer posted in the CEO office added. The EC is likely to issue a SOP on the use of ballot papers for Covid-19 positive patients for the state assembly polls. As per the new proposal, once the application is accepted, the voters will not be allowed to vote at his/her polling booth. The EC is also considering alternative arrangements for voters in the containment zones due to Covid-19. “There is a strong possibility of advance voting in the containment zones,” the officer said, adding the number of polling booths would also be enhanced in order to maintain social distancing at polling booths. The EC, sources said, has decided to increase the number of polling booths to ensure that social distancing is maintained during polling. CEO Srinivasa couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts. Meanwhile, EC’s proposal evoked sharp reaction from political parties. While JD(U) hailed the decision, the opposition RJD said the EC should initiate the process of election in the state only after Covid-19 pandemic is checked. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “We welcome the EC move as those affected with the novel coronavirus will also be eligible to exercise their franchise.” But Shami Iqbal of RJD said the EC’s decision to hold election in Bihar was not in the larger interest of the people till the pandemic was fully under control. “Whatever the alternative arrangement made, saving the lives of people is more important than holding elections,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rules-tweaked-to-allow-covid-hit-people-to-vote/articleshow/76538269.cms||Ramashankar
June 24, 2020||Business||Fund-raise rules eased for stressed companies||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has allowed listed companies facing financial stress to make preferential allotment to non-promoters to raise funds through an easier pricing mechanism, provided these companies meet certain parameters to qualify as a stressed entity. Sebi also exempted such acquirers from making any open offer, if such allotments exceed the open offer limits. The relaxations come as a much-needed boost for companies struggling in the current situation. The rule tweaks have been necessitated by the suspension of the insolvency and bankruptcy code (IBC) proceedings amid the Covid-19 pandemic, industry experts said. These rules were enacted through gazette notifications too. “Eligible listed companies having stressed assets will be able to determine pricing of their preferential allotments at not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the volume-weighted average prices of the related equity shares during the two weeks preceding the relevant date,” Sebi said in a statement. In regular course, the pricing is determined by taking into account the weekly high and low of the preceding 26 weeks. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also tweeted to inform that the rule changes by Sebi will help stressed firms to raise capital and, at the same time, protect shareholders’ interests. To be eligible under these rules, the stressed company has to disclose all the defaults relating to the payment of interest, repayment of principal amount on loans from banks or financial institutions. Additionally, such defaults should have continued for at least 90 days from the date of first default. The company should also have a ‘D’, that is default, credit rating. The shares allotted under relaxed rules should come with a three-year lock-in, the statement said, among other requirements. According to MMJC & Associates partner Makarand Joshi, since the IBC has been suspended for six months due to the pandemic crisis, “the leveraged companies in distress seeking equity funds via preferential route from a non-promoter investor will be able to do so without triggering the mandatory open offer for the remaining shareholders”. He added, “These preferential shares will carry a three-year lock in period to be fair to the minority public shareholders, and the relaxation in share-pricing norms would also prevent possible value erosion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fund-raise-rules-eased-for-stressed-cos/articleshow/76538838.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Companies go all out to get back migrant workers||MUMBAI: After the exodus, it’s now the return of the migrant workers. They made a difficult trek back home during the lockdown as factories downed shutters without any warning. But organizations are now rolling out the red carpet to get them back to work. Companies are using a combination of measures — right from convincing village heads and the workers themselves of their safety, to arranging for their transportation — to bring them back from various states. Hiring agencies TOI spoke to said that with limited sources of income back home, a number of workers had themselves evinced an interest to return to the workplace. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesFaced with labour shortages over the last three months, a Mumbai-based pharma company with plants in the Western belt organized buses to get its employees back. Many of these are working in key functions of research and development. Since pharmaceuticals fall under essential services, drug manufacturing plants were operational during the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19. Units located at Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), and western belt of Vapi (Gujarat) and Daman were particularly hit by labour woes. Coupled with shortage of raw materials, packaging materials and logistics, average capacity utilization at pharma manufacturing plants across the country was affected by 40-50%. Now, it has limped back to near-normal levels, and is around 80% in most units, with the labour issue getting sorted. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageRPG group company KEC International, where half of its migrant workers had left for their hometowns, has seen a significant number returning to the project sites. KEC International MD & CEO Vimal Kejriwal said, “Pre-lockdown, we had 30,000 people at various sites. This had come down to 15,000 during the lockdown. Now, we have crossed 20,000. In a way, two-thirds of our workers are back with the company. While we can’t say whether we will return to 30,000 workers in a couple of months, we are definitely receiving feelers from a lot who want to come back.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news KEC International tapped into its employee database, engaged with supervisors who handled workers and the sarpanch at villages to reiterate that the workers and their safety will be taken care of on their return. “We are making arrangements to bring them back, whether it’s buses or arranging for their trains tickets. For some locations, we are even considering getting them by flights,” said Kejriwal. In addition, the company has also hired locally to ensure operations are not hampered. Kejriwal said 95% of the company’s sites are now operational. JSW Cement also arranged for transportation in mid-May to get a few groups of employees for some of its plants after getting the relevant permissions from local administration. Its plants are located in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Orissa, Maharashtra and West Bengal. However, as part of its risk-mitigation strategy, JSW Cement has now decided to employ a greater portion of local labour for its packing operations. At present, migrant workers account for 80% of loading and packing operations in a cement plant, while the rest is local labour. “We want to change the proportion to 80% local labour at our loading and packing facilities,” JSW Cement CEO Nilesh Narwekar said. “With 70-80% labour at the packing operations, we can run the plant without any hiccups in any crisis, going forward,” he added. Typically, 90-130 people are employed in each plant for packing operations. Most of them, employed as contract labour, left for their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and Rajasthan. On the other hand, to ensure that essential commodities reach consumers across the country during this pandemic, ITC went through an extensive process of mobilizing the entire supply chain. “There were instances where we had to convince villagers that our facilities adhere to the highest levels of safety norms. We created awareness through videos, demonstrated our safety precautions by bringing people to our facilities and gave them the confidence required to repose faith in our operations,” said an ITC spokesperson. Today, the whole supply chain of ITC is running end-to-end. “Inter-district movement was a challenge. We had to relocate people to a district, help them stay there, find accommodation within that district so that we could manage workforce requirements,” said the spokesperson. Dabur India, too, has recruited workers from villages and towns in the areas near its manufacturing units. Executive director Biplab Baksi said, “Wherever we are facing a shortage, we have sought and received permissions from state authorities to hire workers from other states. We have gone to states like Jharkhand to hire workers and have arranged transportation for them to reach our manufacturing units. All safety protocols mandated by each state, like social distancing, etc, are being followed during the transportation, and once they reach our manufacturing units.” Watch Companies taking steps to bring back migrant workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-go-all-out-to-get-back-migrant-workers/articleshow/76538895.cms||Namrata Singh
June 24, 2020||Patna||PPU colleges gear up for NAAC assessment||PATNA: After the prolonged lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Patliputra University (PPU) is gearing up to get its colleges National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation as per recent the advisory issued by Raj Bhavan. PPU vice-chancellor Prof Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal said out of 25 constituent colleges, 12 are already NAAC accredited. While A N College and College of Commerce, Science and Arts in Patna have been awarded grade ‘A’, a few others have started preparing either for the first or second cycle of the NAAC this year. He said the university has decided to assist colleges preparing for NAAC accreditation with Rs2 lakh each to improve science labs. Faculty crunch is no longer an issue now as PPU has got 90 new teachers recruited by Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) in all streams. Besides, the guest faculty teachers are likely to be posted in the colleges soon, he said. “Faculty crunch was the main issue for colleges preparing for NAAC accreditation as self study reports (SSRs) of several colleges were earlier rejected by the NAAC for that reason and poor infrastructure,” he said. The university has set up a NAAC committee to take stock of each college on NAAC preparation and motivate teachers to participate in the NAAC preparation work. “The university has focused on improving condition of general library, e-library, labs, smart classrooms and language lab in colleges,” the VC said. PPU media incharge and NAAC nodal officer Prof B K Manglam said the university has sought details from each constituent college about their NAAC status as well as preparedness for accreditation. “Since NAAC accreditation has been made mandatory for each college to avail financial assistance from the Centre and state to build the required infrastructure, the PPU has decided to provide assistance and guidance to the colleges due for NAAC assessment this year,” he said. PPU colleges held 6,000 interactive online classes and about 100 webinars on various topics during the lockdown in light of the HRD and UGC advisories, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-colleges-gear-up-for-naac-assessment/articleshow/76538017.cms||Kumod Verma
June 24, 2020||Patna||Council polls: JD(U) announces names of its three candidates||PATNA: Amid the political hullabaloo in the state on Tuesday, JD(U) announced names of Ghulam Gaus, Bhishm Sahni and Kumud Verma as its candidates for biennial elections to Bihar legislative council. JD(U) general secretary and parliamentarian R C P Singh, who announced the names of the three candidates, said party core committee had authorized JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar to take a call on the matter. While Gaus, a former RJD leader, who had also been the MLC of Lalu’s party in 2014, switched sides and joined JD(U), Sahni is JD(U)’s known face from Bagaha and Verma is from Jehanabad. Sources said building construction minister Ashok Choudhary would also be sent to the council though governor’s quota. He was among the nine members whose tenure expired on May 6. Gaus told media persons that he was waiting for an official information about his candidature. “If I am given an opportunity, I will work for the party and betterment of our state,” Gaus said, appreciating the initiatives taken by Nitish for development of minorities. Even Sahni thanked Nitish for giving respect to party workers. Biennial election to the nine seats of legislative council through Vidhan Sabha quota will be held on July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-polls-jdu-announces-names-of-its-three-candidates/articleshow/76538033.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: Devotees worship Lord Jaganath at ISKCON temple||PATNA: It was after 20 years that the famous Jagannath Rath Yatra procession was not taken out in the state capital by the International Society of Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) on Tuesday due to Covid-19 pandemic. The devotees offered worship to Lod Jagannath inside the temple premises. Around 200 devotees participated in all the rituals held on the temple premises while maintaining social distancing norms. The 10 feet tall chariot with idols of deities Jagannath (a form of Lord Vishnu), Baldev and Subhadra, was beautifully decorated with flowers and garlands. ISKCON Patna chairperson LN Poddar symbolically flagged off the procession inside the premises only. During the event, Poddar said the devotees who pulled the chariot would be blessed with good fortune. The event started at 12 noon and continued till 5pm with all the traditional rituals, prayer service, panth, maha shringar of deities and storytelling. A special ‘maha-arti’ was held to make the world free from coronavirus. ISKCON (Patna) president Krishna Kripa Das said Lord Jagannath created the world. He asked the devotees to seek blessings of the Lord and pray, so that the world could get rid of this pandemic. Around 56 kinds of dishes were offered to Lord Jagannath and other deities on the occasion. Prominent personalities who were present on the occasion included Bihar legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and former DGP KS Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-worship-lord-jaganath-at-iskcon-temple/articleshow/76537986.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Kids of migrants to be enrolled in government schools||PATNA: The state education department is planning to enrol the children of migrant workers, who have returned to Bihar from other states due to Covid-19 pandemic, in government schools. Additional chief secretary (education department) R K Mahajan has asked all the district education officers (DEOs) and district programme officers (DPOs) to identify such children and enrol them in government primary and upper primary schools depending on their age, learning skills and academic proficiency. According to state government estimates, around 30 lakh migrants have returned to the state, many with their families, from different parts of the country. Mahajan said children will be enrolled in classes according to their age. “Those in the age group of 5-6 years will be enrolled in Class I and seven-year-old children in Class II. If the parents of kids are unable to provide the birth certificate of their kids, the teachers will check the abilities and leaning skills of the children to enrol them in schools,” Mahajan added. He said for enrolment in government schools, it is not necessary for a child to get transfer certificate or mark sheet from previous school. “The initiative is aimed at discouraging children from leaving education as their parents have decided to stay in Bihar due to lockdown. The survey to identify such kids will be done by June-end so that,” Mahajan said. The newly enrolled kids will be entitled to get the benefits of all central and state government schemes. The DEOs have already engaged government school principals, teachers and tola sevaks in identifying the kids and enrolling them in schools accordingly. “We will submit the survey report to the education department by July 15,” Patna DEO Jyoti Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kids-of-migrants-to-be-enrolled-in-govt-schools/articleshow/76537859.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 24, 2020||Patna||‘Confusion’ sorted, Nepal allows flood work on its side||BETTIAH/BAGAHA: Work on strengthening of the afflux bund and maintenance of the Valmiki Nagar barrage across river Gandak, as well as Lalbakeya river bund, on the Nepal side resumed on Tuesday with “confusions” removed at a meeting between Nepal and Indian (Bihar) officials and engineers at the barrage site. “All is well,” West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar said, adding, “The confusion is over. Our engineers and workmen have resumed their routine monitoring patrols on the embankment on the Nepal side. We have stacked sufficient materials to plug any breaches that may occur.” The “confusion”, as a result of which access was denied to Bihar flood-control engineers by officials from Nepal, had arisen due to the lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic that both countries imposed in March. While the Bihar side is in unlock-1 mode, Nepal continues to be in lockdown. Last Saturday, the Nepal government officials had also stopped strengthening work that was being done on the Lalbakeya bund in the ‘no man’s land’ near the area falling in the Dhaka block jurisdiction on the Indian side in East Champaran district. Earlier, on Monday, Bihar water resources department (WRD) minister Sanjay Kumar Jha wrote two letters, one each to the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the ministry of Jal Shakti. He sought urgent intervention of the Indian government with Nepal to seek passage of engineers and workmen to monitor and repair the afflux embankments of the Valmikinagar barrage on the Nepal side and other related flood-fighting work. The barrage was built on the Gandak at Valmikinagar in the early 1960s following an agreement between the two countries, providing irrigation facility to the areas lying in Nepal as well as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on the Indian side, while the Bihar WRD was given the responsibility to maintain and oversee the barrage and embankments on both sides. On Tuesday, after the breaking of the deadlock at the government level talks between the officials of the two countries on Sunday and Monday, local representatives from the Nepal side — Tara Singh, liaison-cum-land acquisition officer, custom chief Vikas Kumar and Armed Police Force inspector Tejbahadur Thakurayee – held discussions with Indian officials — Gandak barrage executive engineer Zamil Ahmad, Bagaha SDM Vishal Raj, Bagaha SP Rajiv Ranjan and inspector rank official from Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). They met at the Gandak barrage gate number 36 in Nepal. “Nepalese officials at the border had been insisting on the Covid-19 negative certificates for workmen,” Jamil Ahmad told media persons. Consequently, he wrote to the local primary health centre at Valmikinagar to screen and issue certificates to the Indian workmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/confusion-sorted-nepal-allows-flood-work-on-its-side/articleshow/76537763.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
June 24, 2020||Patna||PU to hold online PhD viva voce||PATNA: In a first, Patna University (PU) will conduct viva voce examination online for its PhD scholars. A notification to this effect was issued on Tuesday. Scholars whose theses have already been evaluated and the reports of all the examiners have been found satisfactory may appear for their PhD viva voce examination through videoconferencing, PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said. Candidates who have written their PhD theses may also submit the same to PU online, the notification adds. PU examination controller R K Mandal said about a dozen PhD scholars are waiting for their viva voce examination for quite some time past. Meanwhile, PU has already decided to conduct the pending examination of one paper of Degree Part III honours on July 21, maintaining social distancing norms. More than 2,000 boys and girls would take the examination at Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College, B N College, Patna College and Patna Science College centres. All the examinees have been informed and asked to reach their examination centre at least one and a half hours before the commencement of examination so that proper norms of sanitization and social distancing may be adhered to, the controller said. When asked about the other pending undergraduate and postgraduate examinations, Mandal said the university is awaiting necessary instructions from the Raj Bhavan. The latest UGC circular states that only final semester and final year examinations should be held and the remaining students may be promoted on the basis of internal examinations. But, holding examinations as per UGC circular would require amendments to examination regulations of the university and that could materialize only through the chancellor’s intervention, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-to-hold-online-phd-viva-voce/articleshow/76537961.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||Parents should stay calm if kids get irritated at home: Experts||PATNA: It has been three months since kids went out of home. With no school and social interaction with friends, many of them are getting irritated of leading a monotonous life and showing rude behaviour. Psychologists and counsellors advise parents to remain calm and involve kids in physical activities. Even though markets, parks and shopping complexes have opened in this Unlock 1.0, children below ten years are not allowed in any public place. Even parents avoid taking kids out of home because of the coronavirus fear. The mother of two daughters aged ten and three, Shazi Hussain said she used to take her children out to park, zoo or any relative’s place during weekends. In the evening, they used to go down and play in the parking area of the apartment. “But now, it will be three months since my kids went out of their home. Not only their school is closed, I am not even allowing them to go to their neighbourhood friends. I actually feel sad for them,” she said. Even Sunita Singh, the mother of a three-year-old Vihaan, said since her son is at home all the time, he has become irritated and spends more time on mobile phone. “I really feel helpless and sometimes become harsh on him,” said Sunita. However, mental health experts advise parents to remain calm and deal with children politely. They even advise parents to let children play indoor games, allow them to play on terrace, involve them in different activities like gardening, arranging their room, learning new art and reading storybooks. “Parents and elderly have to first take care of their own mental health. At present, everyone is under stress. But still elderly have to be very patient while dealing with children. If you are losing control, just leave the place, take deep breath and sip water,” said Nalanda Medical College and Hospital psychiatry department associate professor Dr Santosh Kumar. He said because of the lockdown and since schools are also closed, daily routine has changed in several families. However, Dr Santosh stressed on the need to follow a routine. “One should sleep and eat on time. Also screen time for kids should be reduced as it hampers their sleep cycle. Get kids involved in games and allow them to play on terrace or inside their society,” he said. Agreeing that cases of stress and psychological problems have gone up during this pandemic, Dr Santosh asked parents to examine their children carefully and take the help of mental health experts. He further said children should be taught hygiene and informed about the virus without creating panic about it. City-based child counsellor Mahwish Fatima asked elderly to be more friendly with kids. “Make them do things out of love and not out of fear. Reward them for good things. But if they are doing anything wrong, screaming or not obeying, parents have to deal with patience, instead of hitting them. One can punish a child by not allowing him to see his favourite cartoon show,” said Fatima.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parents-should-stay-calm-if-kids-get-irritated-at-home-experts/articleshow/76537581.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 24, 2020||Patna||Patna airport handles 1.65 lakh flyers in a month||PATNA: More than 1.65 lakh people have either boarded flights or landed at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport since resumption of domestic flight operations in the country. The airport has handled 550 aircraft (arrivals and departures) after introduction of Unlock 1.0. With 22 flights operating per day, the number of flyers landing at Patna airport was around 52% higher than those leaving the city for other destinations during this period. On Tuesday, around 7,000 passengers either landed or boarded flights at city airport. According to airport officials, the passenger footfall has gradually increased from the first phase of unlock (June 1). Santosh Kumar, assistant general manager (air traffic management) said the incoming flights remain mostly full while the departing ones record 70% occupancy. “We are hopeful that the passenger growth will increase in the days to come. The revised flight schedule of Patna airport, which came into effect from June 16, will continue till July-end,” he added. Flight operations had resumed at the airport on May 25 with 11 flights. The number of flights has now gone up to 22 – Delhi (12), Bengaluru (4), Mumbai (3) and Kolkata, Hyderabad and Amritsar (one each). A movable personal protective equipment kiosk was inaugurated at the airport on June 19. “A PPE sales kiosk commenced operations outside the terminal building. It is a movable kiosk and can be placed at any location for selling masks, sanitiser, gloves and face shields at affordable prices to passengers/visitors,” the Patna airport has tweeted. Meanwhile, the ongoing extension work at the airport is in full swing. The project is likely to be completed by August. After the extension of the terminal building, the airport can handle up to 2.5 lakh passengers per annum. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, AAI Patna, said the extended area of over 2,000sq metre would have security hold area, conveyor belt area, six more check-in counters, three x-ray machines for the registered baggage and two frisking booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-handles-1-65-lakh-flyers-in-a-month/articleshow/76537736.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Promising pill for co-morbid patients||AHMEDABAD: A clinical trial in Ahmedabad of the anti-viral drug Favipiravir has shown “promising results” in treating Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms. Researchers said on Tuesday that the drug is especially beneficial for high-risk patients with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, and obesity. Co-morbidities have been a major factor in the high Covid death rate in Gujarat. More than 80% of patients who have succumbed to Covid in the state had one or multiple co-morbidities. It is estimated that a similar percentage of patients in Ahmedabad district who died had co-morbidities. The district is one of the worst affected in Gujarat, having recorded 1,363 deaths and 19,386 cases so far. HCG Hospital, a designated private facility for Covid treatment, was the first to begin the Phase-3 clinical trial of Favipiravir. It began after the onset of the pandemic in the state, said regional director of HCG Dr Bharat Gadhvi. He said that Dr Urman Dhruv was the principal investigator in the trial. “The clinical trial is over and results are being collated from across centres,” said Dr Dhruv. “The drug proved very promising as all patients enrolled in the trial recovered. The drug, taken orally, reduces viral load significantly.” Dr Dhruv said that it is too early to term the drug a game changer in the battle against Covid. “However, it is an important weapon in our hands to treat patients with mild to moderate symptoms,” said Dr Dhruv. “It is especially promising for patients with co-morbidities. We found that they tested negative for the virus on day five or six of treatment.” On the basis of the clinical trial it can be said that the drug helps treat high-risk patients, Dr Dhruv said. “They include those above 60, those with one or more co-morbidities, or those with high viral loads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/favipiravir-promising-pill-for-co-morbid-patients/articleshow/76540300.cms||Radha Sharma
June 24, 2020||Mysuru||5 cops test Covid-19 positive in old Mysuru region, 2 police stations sealed||MYSURU: Close on heels of the Nanjangud Rural police station being sealed, two police stations in the neighbouring districts of Hassan and Chamarajanagar were sealed on Tuesday. Five police personnel have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mysuru, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts of the Old Mysuru region. After a 29-year-old policeman attached to Chamarajanagar East police station posted at the inter-state border near Punajanur tested positive, the police station has been sealed, while Hassan’s extension police station too has been sealed, after a police personnel was found to be infected. He had visited Bengaluru to attend a housewarming ceremony recently. Meanwhile, three KSRP personnel who had returned from Bengaluru, tested positive in Mysuru. Three teams, each comprising 25 personnel, have returned, and of them 16, so far, have been infected. The rest are under institutional quarantine. 21 test positive in MysuruA total 21 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Mysuru on Tuesday, and of them 10 were quarantined in homes. They have been shifted to the Covid hospital. A total 12 of them had returned from Tamil Nadu, two from Rajasthan, three are primary contacts of a patient, while four, including three KSRP personnel, have come from Bengaluru. This has taken the tally of Covid-19 cases to 191 in Mysuru. About 112 patients have been cured and discharged, while 79 active cases remain in Mysuru. This comes on a day when the Mysuru police cracked the whip and booked 15 cases for violation of social distancing norms and for not wearing masks in public places in Mysuru. In Hassan, 7 fresh cases were reported, taking the total count to 299. Of them, 215 have been discharged and 83 are active cases. Two of them are in the ICU. Hassan has reported one death. Chamarajanagar, that remained a green district until recently ,is witnessing a rise in the number of cases, with four fresh cases on Tuesday. The total positive cases in the district are 6, and one person has been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/5-cops-test-ve-in-old-mysuru-region-2-police-stations-sealed/articleshow/76537654.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 24, 2020||Patna||Varsities yet to study impact of coronavirus on lives in rural areas||PATNA: Even as the UGC had directed the universities and colleges to facilitate studies on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on rural lives and also the role played by the agrarian communities in its containment more than 10 days back, no institution in the state has so far come forward to take up this initiative. The institutions are supposed to submit their study report to the UGC latest by the end of the current month. In its directive issued on June 12, the UGC pointed out that the main objective of this study is to protect the village community from this pandemic. The vice-chancellors of universities and colleges were dasked to facilitate the study of five to six villages adjoining their institutions. The universities were asked to constitute a dedicated research team for carrying out the studies. Patna University registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra said no such study has yet been undertaken by the scholars. Some other universities also pleaded their ignorance about any such initiative. Sometime back, Patna Law College, a constituent unit of PU, had undertaken a study project on ‘A new face of Bihar Police during Covid-19 pandemic: Role and challenges so far’ and surveyed more than 150 police stations across the state. The study report is being finalised and the same would be submitted to PU and other authorities concerned soon, said college principal Md Sharif. Meanwhile, the Bihar State Health Society will organise an orientation programme on ‘Psycho-social support and prevention of stigma and discrimination against the Covid-19 pandemic’ for National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers of all the institutions of higher education, including universities, IIT, NIT and BIT, on June 26. Altogether 1,000 volunteers, including 60 from PU, will participate in this online orientation programme, said PU NSS programme coordinator Atul Aditya Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/varsities-yet-to-study-impact-of-coronavirus-on-lives-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76537770.cms||B K Mishra
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur postal officer tests Covid-19 positive||BHAGALPUR: The head post office (HPO) at Bhagalpur was closed on Tuesday after one of its senior officers tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday. The officer had inspected the HPO and scrutinized its papers along with other officers and staff last week. His residence is at Postal Colony. He was admitted to AIIMS-Patna. Bhagalpur postal superintendent Ram Parikhsa Prasad said the HPO and its premises were being sanitized. “I and other officers and workers would undergo Covid-19 test as a precautionary measure,” he said. “We will resume work on rotation after satisfactory sanitization work in the office and on the premises. We are also making inquiry about the situation at the Postal Colony,” he added. People in large numbers had been visiting the HPO for more than a month to open PM Jan Dhan Yojana, Sukanya Samridhi Yojana and India Post Payments Bank accounts in view of taking benefits of the government welfare schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-postal-officer-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76537944.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||New FDI rules may cloud Ant’s investment in Zomato||BENGALURU: Zomato’s existing investor Info Edge has said that the online food delivery and restaurant discovery platform is yet to receive $100 million from the $150 million it raised from existing backer — China’s Ant Financial — in January this year. Additionally, it is being “evaluated” if this capital needs government approval amid curbs on investments from the neighbouring country. Zomato has been in talks to raise about $500 million since late last year. It has also got interest from both new and existing investors for the fresh round, emphasised Info Edge in an analyst call on Tuesday, as losses have come down. “The balance amount is yet to come,” said Sanjeev Bikhchandani, executive vice-chairman at Info Edge, when asked if the remaining $100 million has come in and if it will need government approval. “We are still evaluating, but the company has got inbound investor interest from other investors also who don’t need permission.” An affiliate of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, Ant Financial is the largest investor in Zomato with over 25% stake. The latest development comes at a time when the Indian government said in April that investments from bordering countries will need approval, targeted at blocking potential takeovers from China. With the recent clash at the border between the armed forces, the sentiment against investments from China has become much stronger. Info Edge had said in a filing earlier that Zomato has raised $150 million from Ant Financial, and filings with the corporate affairs ministry show that $50 million of that amount has been invested. The investment was delayed as the additional capital was expected to come from a ‘unicorn fund’ being set up Ant Financial, said one of the sources briefed on the matter. By the time the fund had been finalised, the government had issued a policy requiring approvals, the details of which are yet to be released. An emailed query to Zomato spokespersons did not elicit an response till the time of going to the press. Zomato, which acquired Uber’s food delivery business earlier this year, counts firms like Singapore’s state investment firm Temasek as another major investor. Bikhchandani added that Zomato will focus on food delivery as other investors also see an acceleration in consumer habit of ordering food home with the Covid-19 pandemic, even though business might get hit in the short term. “There was immediately a substantial hit...As restaurants come back, there has been a bit of a bounce-back, but still below what it was in February. Having said that, burn (losses) is substantially down,” he said. The source mentioned earlier said that Zomato’s monthly losses have now come to $1.5 million and business has now come back to 50-60% of the pre-Covid levels. Info Edge, which also owns classifieds platforms like job portal Naukri and real estate-focused 99acres, also said that it has got board approval to raise $250 million through a qualified institutional placement. The money from the issue will be used for acquisitions of tech companies in its core focus areas — jobs, real estate, matrimonials and education. “The funding environment has changed with Chinese investments being constrained. I do believe we will get enough inorganic opportunities to expand, and if we get a good one, we would like to be ready and prepared for it,” said Bikhchandani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-fdi-rules-may-cloud-ants-investment-in-zomato/articleshow/76538963.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Patanjali claims to have found Covid cure, Ayush ministry asks for proof, tells it to stop advertising drug||Haridwar: Yoga guru Ramdev’s herbal medicine company Patanjali Ayurved on Tuesday claimed to have discovered the cure for novel coronavirus. In a press conference held in Haridwar, Ramdev claimed the drug, ‘Coronil and Swasari’, could cure the contagious disease within seven days. No medical authority, however, could vouch for his claim. Soon after this, the Ministry of Ayush in New Delhi asked Patanjali to provide at the earliest details like the composition of the medicines, the results of its research, the hospitals where the research was conducted, whether the company had a clearance from the Institutional Ethics Committee and whether it had registered for the clinical trials. The ministry also asked Patanjali to “stop advertising/publicising such claims till the issue is duly examined”. Notably, a government notification bars companies from advertising a cure without government approval. In Haridwar, the firm claimed that the two Ayurved-based drugs – developed by Patanjali Research Institute (PRI), Haridwar, and privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science (NIMS), Jaipur – have shown 100% results during the clinical trials on the infected patients, except those on a life support system. According to PRI, the drugs’ trial has so far been conducted on the first and second stage corona patients only. “Clinical trials on 100 patients showed 100% results. We found that 69% corona positive cases became negative in three days while 100% patients tested negative after seven days,” said Balbir Singh Tomar, chancellor, NIMS-Jaipur, and principal investigator of the research team. Sidestepping questions on the drug being approved by government agencies such as ICMR, Ramdev said clinical controlled study of these medicines was done in several cities, including Delhi, Ahmedabad and Meerut and the randomised clinical trial controlled with placebo was conducted at NIMS-Jaipur. Hours later, reacting to the Patanjali’s claims, the Ayush ministry in a statement said, “Facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the ministry.” Earlier in the day, Ramdev claimed, “The whole country and the world was waiting for the medicine or vaccine for coronavirus. We are proud to announce that the first ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial-based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of PRI and NIMS.” According to him, this medicine is useful for prevention from Covid-19 and also for its treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/patanjali-claims-to-have-found-covid-cure-ayush-ministry-asks-for-proof-tells-it-to-stop-advertising-drug/articleshow/76536519.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 24, 2020||Patna||Rabri set to lose leader of opposition post in council||PATNA: RJD national vice-president and former chief minister Rabri Devi is all set to lose the position of the leader of opposition in the 75-member Bihar Legislative Council as five of her MLCs deserted the party and joined the ruling JD(U) on Tuesday. RJD had earlier eight members in the Upper House of the state legislature. With five of them leaving the party, RJD is left with just three MLCs. An official in the Council said as per the Constitution, a party needs to have 10% members of the total strength of the House for having the leader of opposition post. “In case a party does not have the strength, it depends on the government and the Council chairperson to take a decision,” said the official. Taking advantage of the RJD’s predicament, JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad said, “In case of state legislative council, at least eight members are needed. But RJD is now left with only three MLCs. Even after its three more members are elected to the House, it will still fall short of the required strength.” But at the same time, Nishad reminded of somewhat similar situation in 2010 in the state legislative assembly when the party did not have 10% strength, but it was allowed to have the leader of opposition post. “Even though RJD had just 22 MLAs then, our government under chief minister Nitish Kumar allowed Abdul Bari Siddiqui to hold the position of opposition leader,” said Nishad. When asked what the party has planned now, he replied, “This will be decided by senior party leaders. It is too early to talk on this issue.” Bihar Vidhan Parishad acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh also denied commenting on this issue. Five former RJD MLCs, who formed a separate group and joined JD(U) were Sanjay Prasad, Radha Charan Sah, Dillip Rai, Qamar Alam and Ranvijay Kumar Singh. As per the new calculation, RJD has three MLCs, JD(U) 20, BJP 17, Congress two, LJP and HAM (S) one each. There are two independent MLCs. As of now, 29 seats are vacant in the Upper House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rabri-set-to-lose-leader-of-opposition-post-in-council/articleshow/76538115.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 24, 2020||Patna||Magadh University VC hints at rescheduling exams||GAYA: The recently announced dates for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) examinations to be conducted by Magadh University (MU) are likely to be changed. As per a notification issued by MU on June 3, the PG exams were to begin on July 6 and UG exams on July 16. MU vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad said Raj Bhavan is working on a scheme to bring uniformity in the exams to be conducted by the universities of the state and a final exam schedule will be announced on the basis of Raj Bhavan directives. “The previous schedule, in any case, was tentative,” said the VC. Asked whether the exams would be conducted online or in the conventional mode, the VC said a final call will be taken on the basis of the outcome of the ongoing exercise at the state level. The MU VC had earlier mooted the idea of staggered exams with shorter duration and computer-readable answer sheets for early result declaration. The exam calendar of the university was derailed on account of top level vacuum in 2019 when the university was functioning without regular VC and pro-VC. The two top posts in the university remained vacant for about 8-9 months. As the university was trying to streamline things, Covid-19 and subsequent closure of all educational institutions in the state prevented it from doing so. Sushil Kumar, president of the Postgraduate Teachers’ Association, said maintenance of social distancing norms in the exam hall under any mode was almost impossible in view of the high number of student enrolment in the university. “Automatic promotion to the higher classes appears to be the most viable option,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/magadh-university-vc-hints-at-rescheduling-exams/articleshow/76537988.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Indian Bank reports net loss of Rs 218 crore in Q4||Chennai: State-owned Indian Bank has widened net loss at Rs 218 crore for the March-ended quarter 2020, compared to loss of Rs 190 crore in the same quarter previous year. This is due to 15% higher provisioning made for bad loans and contingencies at Rs 1,892 crore. Its MD and CEO Padmaja Chunduru said, “Business grew at 8%, on the back of credit growth of 10% and deposits growth of 7%. Growth in advances was led by the retail sector which grew at 16% and well supported by agriculture and MSME sector with a growth of 14% and 13% respectively. Overseas advances grew by 11%.” The PSU bank, which merged with Allahabad Bank on April 1, 2020, had reported a profit of Rs 247 crore in the December quarter 2019. The bank saw another account declared as fraud (or bad loan) in Q1 of FY 2020-21, and has provided Rs 308 crore as on March 31, 2020. This is besides, provision of Rs 855 crore made to cover an existing NPA in the Power and Steel sector, accounting to Rs 855 crore since 2016. With regard to cover business disruptions due to Covid-19 pandemic, provision at 15% aggregating to Rs 109 crore is set aside to cover outstanding loan of Rs 726 crores which slipped into NPA as on March 31, 2020. Provision Coverage Ratio improved to 73.05% from 65.72% on a yearly basis. Gross NPA declined to 6.87% from 7.11% on a yearly basis and sequentially from 7.20%. Net NPA also reduced to 3.13% from 3.75% a year ago, and 3.50% sequentially. The Capital Adequacy Ratio (Basel III) stood comfortably at 14.12%, well above the statutory minimum. Under Basel III, a bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital must be at least 8% of its risk-weighted assets. The minimum capital adequacy ratio (including the capital conservation buffer) is 10.5%. Shares of Indian Bank ended 7% higher at Rs 68.90 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-reports-net-loss-of-rs-218-crore-in-q4/articleshow/76538957.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||No clearance of Chinese goods at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Customs has suspended clearance of all goods imported from China at airports and ports in Kolkata and rest of the country, air cargo agents said on Tuesday. The development comes in the wake of the call for boycott of Chinese goods from several quarters, following the border skirmish in Ladakh that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and several others injured. Customs officers, however, refused comment on the move. Air Cargo Agents’ Association of India and member of cargo managing committee Jaideep Raha said, “There is an internal instruction from Customs to all custodians of cargo, including port terminals and airports, to hold all consignments originating from China. The consignments, which have been granted clearance, will also be on hold and subject to re-examination before they are released. Customs is yet to issue an official notice or circular in this regard, but clearance is on hold in Mumbai and Chennai as well.” Over 40 tonne of cargo valued at Rs 35 crore is currently held up in Kolkata. Nearly 65% of the 18,000 tonne of imports through Kolkata airport is from China and comprise electronics goods, perfumes, garments, machinery, spare parts, pharmaceutical chemicals, other chemicals, finished plastic products, tea bagging machines and tea filter paper. “Nearly 250 types of goods are imported from China,” Raha said. During lockdown, several freighters operated from Chinese cities, including Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai, flying in PPE kits, thermal scanners, and raw materials for medicines. “If Chinese imports stop, Kolkata airport will take a hit in the short term. But gradually, the goods would have to be replaced from elsewhere or have to be manufactured indigenously,” an official in the cargo wing said. Goods worth around Rs 1,000 crore are imported every month from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-clearance-of-chinese-goods-at-city-airport/articleshow/76539819.cms||---
June 24, 2020||India||64% of parents favour online classes: Survey||NEW DELHI: Normal school routine has remained disrupted due to the pandemic and is unlikely to resume anytime soon, but parents remain divided on the issue of online classes. According to a survey conducted by LocalCircles across 204 districts, 64% of parents are in favour of online classes in schools as against 31% wanting a ban on them. So far three states — Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh — have banned online classes for students of class V and below. The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the state government to find a solution to the situation arising from the ban on online classes in the state. The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) is yet to issue any guidelines on online education and school reopening, though it has been nearly a month that it has been working on two sets of drafts. LocalCircles, a community social media platform, conducted a nation-wide survey to get the pulse of the parents and grandparents on this issue, where they were asked what should be the way forward on this. In response, 31% parents said the bans should continue, while 49% said online classes should be started but limited to two hours per day. 15% said online classes should be started and run for the duration of regular school hours which could be 4-6 hours. Some of the states decided to ban online classes for primary students on the ground that it will lead to over exposure of screens for young children. Another reason cited for the ban is that a large number of children, especially the under-privileged may not have access to devices or an internet connection. On the other hand, some schools in these states have said that they had invested in building the infrastructure to provide online classes to younger kids, which will be of no use now. Many parents also stretched themselves to make arrangements for their children to attend online classes by buying laptops and tablets, getting a broadband connection etc., who now feel that all of that was done for nothing. Rohan Parikh, director, the Green Acres Academy, Mumbai said: “The recent circular is well-intentioned and shows that the government cares about students' well-being. Unfortunately, it does not take into account the successes and transformation online learning has had on learning for students. Parents and teachers are very much in support of online classes in the continued lockdown. It is much better for a student to interact over a screen with their teacher than watching any other content on TV. Credible research shows little to no harmful effects of active screen time. It is when the child is mindlessly watching TV shows that most harmful effects are seen.” Most parents are of the opinion that the online classes should be regulated in terms of the number of hours each day, so that younger children could continue to get education. During the study, some parents opined that screen time for children at home has anyway shot up as they are not allowed to step out of the houses and it is better if a part of that screen time is used in something productive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/64-of-parents-favour-online-classes-survey/articleshow/76541036.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 24, 2020||Surat||Surat: 4,300 fined, Rs 8.6 lakh collected in five days||SURAT: With the disgruntlement around the heavy traffic fines yet to subside, people are now subjected to yet another round of penalty — that of not wearing masks in public. Meanwhile, police have already started penalising mask offenders and at least 4,300 individuals have been fined of Rs 8.6 lakh since June 18. Going by state government’s directives, the police along with civic authorities have been authorised to collect cash fine from those caught without mask in public places. Most of those penalised were commuters caught driving vehicle without masks. Police have also started registering offences against those seen without mask on CCTV camera of police control room during lockdown. However, after the government’s recent order, cops are now collecting fines in cash. “We have started collecting fines from mask-less individuals and have caught over 1,400 on Monday, the highest in a day till now,” said R B Brahmbhatt, city police commissioner. Following the state government order of June 16, the city police also got a receipt book printed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4300-fined-rs-8-6-lakh-collected-in-five-days/articleshow/76539014.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 24, 2020||Bareilly||UP adopts two-pronged strategy, curbs illicit liquor trade & raises sanitiser production||Pilibhit: Special excise department teams have seized 15,500 litres of illicit liquor from different places across the state and registered 579 cases against the defaulters in the past four days. This is the second drive to curb distillation and trade in illicit liquor in UP this month, and follows the state government’s strategy of increasing production of hand sanitiser using alcohol, with the active participation of sugar mills. Prior to this, the excise teams had carried out another four-day campaign that ended on June 15, in which they had seized 14,270 litres of illicit liquor and 45,320 kg of lahaan (the fermented raw material used to manufacture illicit liquor), as well as registering 476 cases and sending 36 traders of illicit liquor to jail. Giving the information to TOI, UP excise commissioner P Guruprasad said the special enforcement drive against illicit liquor was in pursuance of instructions given by the principal secretary of excise, UP sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. He said in addition to seizing illicit liquor in the latest drive, enforcement teams have also recovered 57,330 kg of lahaan, which was destroyed at respective spots in accordance with assigned norms. The excise teams arrested 24 people who were involved in trading of illicit liquor, and impounded three vehicles used to transport this liquor, Prasad said. Principal secretary Sanjay R Bhoosreddy told TOI that the state government was going about uprooting the network of illicit liquor with tenacity, while also focusing on intensifying production of sanitiser in view of the rising graph of Covid-19 cases across the country. He said, “At present, we are supplying sanitiser across the country from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and Gujarat to Manipur, thereby serving the people in their fight against the infection. Ninety companies, including 27 sugar mills, across the state have so far produced over 1.18 crore litres of sanitiser.” The state was producing 2 lakh litres of sanitiser a day. It has successfully marketed over 1 crore packs of sanitisers in different size packs both inside and outside the state. He added that the state also has in its hands a ready stock of 47,81,100 packs of sanitiser for selling across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-adopts-two-pronged-strategy-curbs-illicit-liquor-trade-raises-sanitiser-production/articleshow/76536541.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Job-spinner MNREGS expands wings after tie-up with 11 departments||LUCKNOW: Turning Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) into one of the biggest job-spinners in time of pandemic, the rural development department has tied up with 11 government departments to hammer out 34,265 proposals on Rs 740 crore construction projects. Rural development department data accessed by TOI reveals of 34,265 proposals sent to district programme officers and district magistrates, 31,068 proposals on projects of over Rs 654 crore have been approved while the rest are in the pipeline. The move comes even as the state government looks to produce over 60 lakh jobs under MNREGS for migrants, who returned to the state after lockdown was clamped. The 11 departments roped in for the scheme include minor irrigation, irrigation, forest department, PWD, agriculture department, fisheries, horticulture, sericulture, panchayati raj, integrated watershed management programme (implemented by department of land resources) and animal husbandry. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said, the step has been taken as part of convergence programme to accelerate projects and generate more jobs. “Other departments can draw funds under MNREGS to execute projects in their jurisdiction,” he said, adding this also allows MNREGS to expand for execution of developmental projects. Data shows a maximum of 16,192 proposals worth Rs 333 crore have been sent to PWD, followed by minor irrigation which received as 11308 proposals of Rs 191 crore. Likewise, irrigation department and forest department have received 2,561 and 1,487 proposals for executing construction projects of Rs 112 crore and Rs 48 crore, respectively. The PWD brass has already decided to engage workers under MNREGS for construction of side roads. Likewise, minor irrigation department seeks to dig canals for irrigation under MNREGS. Sources said, the rural department would soon send a proposal to the ground water department for Atal Bhujal Scheme, which has already received a nod from the chief minister’s office. The scheme was launched by PM Narendra Modi on the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee on December 25 last year. The scheme is aimed at improving groundwater management through community participation. At least Rs 6000 crore has already been earmarked for implementation of the scheme for a five-year period (2020-25). “This would be a fresh intervention as far as MNREGS is concerned. A formal roadmap would be rolled out soon,” a rural development official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/job-spinner-mnregs-expands-wings-after-tie-up-with-1-1-depts/articleshow/76540303.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bareilly||‘Disappointed’ pilgrims hail govt’s decision of not allowing Indians to go on Haj amid pandemic ‘right’||Bareilly: After the Centre announced that Indian pilgrims would not go to Haj this year, pilgrims who were selected for the much-awaited pilgrimage told TOI that they were “disappointed” but held the government’s decision as “right” because of the safety of people amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Yusuf Mohammed (61), a retired peon, said, “My wife and I have been dreaming for years of going to Haj. Since my retirement last year, we have been saving money for the pilgrimage. The news that Haj has been cancelled this year was disappointing, but we welcome the decision as there is a risk of getting infected during the pilgrimage. We do not want to spread the novel coronavirus in our country.”Abid Khan, who along with his wife Kamar Jahan had made arrangements to go to Haj this year for the first time, said, “Since the Covid-19 outbreak, everyone travelling is at the risk of getting infected. In such a situation, all of us should take precautions to protect ourselves. We will try to go to Haj when travelling will be safe.”Another pilgrim Mansoor Khan, who was gearing up for a Haj journey along with three of his kin, said, “Both Saudi and Indian governments have denied Haj pilgrimage for Indians this year. We accept the decision.”Pammi Warsi, convenor, Haj Sewa Samiti, a social organisation that assists pilgrims, said, “Flights for Haj were to take off from June 25, while return flights were scheduled from August 4 to September 6. This year, 1,565 people from Bareilly division, including Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun and Shahjahanpur districts, were selected for the pilgrimage. But, they can now fill online forms seeking a refund.” Meanwhile, on Monday, Saudi Arabia said it would not allow pilgrims from abroad to attend the Haj this year due to the coronavirus and allowed only a limited number of Saudi citizens for the pilgrimage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/disappointed-pilgrims-hail-govts-decision-of-not-allowing-indians-to-go-on-haj-amid-pandemic-right/articleshow/76536555.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Repatriation flight from Dubai lands in M’luru||Mangaluru: As many as 166 expatriates, including an infant from Dubai, came in a chartered flight that landed in Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday. The FlyDubai flight landed around 7.30 pm. The flight was arranged by M-Friends and My Community association members. Rasheed Vittal, member of M-Friends, said that the flight was supposed to have 187 passengers on board, but some were not allowed to board it, as they reached the airport late. , An Indigo chartered flight arranged by Amaco, Saudi Arabia, carrying 173 passengers, landed at MIA from Dammam at 9.30 pm on Monday. The flight also had 8 infants on board. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur in-charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said all passengers, after initial health screening, have been sent for institutional quarantine for seven days. Their throat swabs will be collected and tested for the novel coronavirus after five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/repatriation-flight-from-dubai-lands-in-mluru/articleshow/76536542.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Biomed wastefrom patients inhome isolationmay spread virus||Jaipur: Home quarantine of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients may lead to the spread of coronavirus in a big way in the coming days. The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has not put a system in place to collect waste from houses where asymptomatic Covid patients or suspected people are staying, say officials. The garbage is collected from these houses by JMC’s vehicles as general waste, which could contaminate the whole garbage risking the spread of infection, they said. It could also pose a major threat to JMC's sanitation workers who collect garbage door-to-door daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biomed-wastefrom-patients-inhome-isolationmay-spread-virus/articleshow/76539830.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Omni bus seized for ferrying 25 Raj guest workers sans e-pass||Coimbatore: The rural police on Tuesday seized an omni bus that entered the district with 30 people on board, 25 of them guest workers, from Rajasthan with a forged e-pass. The health department has taken throat swabs from all of them for Covid-19 test.It is to be noted that at least 79 vehicles have been seized at the district check posts in the past two days without e-passes or with more passengers than permitted in the e-passes. The Karumathampatti police said the omni bus, which was on its way to Erode, entered the district after the driver lost his way.A police officer said the bus arrived at Karumathampatti check post around 6.30am on Tuesday. Of the 30 people, five were drivers. “The police team at the check post scanned the QR code of the e-pass and realized that was a forged one. They seized the airconditioned sleeper bus and asked the guest workers and drivers to undergo Covid-19 test.”Health department officials subsequently collected throat swabs from them for the test. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the guest workers from Rajasthan were working with a moulding unit at Perundurai in Erode district. “The bus driver was not thorough with the route. He lost his way and entered the district. Revenue department officials have spoken with the moulding unit management and the latter has agreed to quarantine the guest workers on the unit premises. They have sent a vehicle to take the workers to Perundurai,” the officer said. The Karumathampatti police have registered a case against one of the drivers, identified as D Sugaram, 26, of Rajasthan under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code.The rural police have seized 79 vehicles that attempted to enter the district from other parts of the state either without e-passes or with more people than permitted in the pass, in the past two days. After reports of thousands of people entering the district without e-passes or submitting wrong details, police have tightened scrutiny at check posts. A few days ago, 39 workers from Chennai had come to the city by road without e-passes to join a jewellery showroom on Crosscut Road. At least five of them have already tested positive for the virus.A police source said they have seized 25 vehicles at Thekkalur check post on June 21 alone and 45 cars and nine two-wheelers from Chengapalli, Walayar, Kangeyampalayam and Thekkalur check posts on June 22. “While 20 cars and eight two-wheelers had come without e-passes from other districts, the remaining vehicles were carrying more passengers than permitted in the e-pass.”Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While we ensure that flyers and train passengers get tested for Covid-19 on arrival, the road borders continue to be porous, with many vehicles driving through without getting checked. With so many returnees by road testing positive for the virus, we have requested police to tighten security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/omni-bus-seized-for-ferrying-25-raj-guest-workers-sans-e-pass/articleshow/76539831.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West Metro tunnel-borer crosses cave-in zone at Bowbazar||KOLKATA: Engineers heaved a sigh of relief as the second tunnel boring machine (TBM), building the East-West Metro corridor, crossed the cave-in zone of Bowbazar on Tuesday. A 300m radius around the spot, where the August 31 tunnelling disaster had taken place, has been outlined as the subsidence section and an extensive grouting was carried out to strengthen this area. The first TBM named Chundee, which is building the west-bound tunnel, had hit an aquifer while digging through this locality on August 31, last year, having triggered a subsidence that had made buildings collapse like a pack of cards. The 16-km East-West Metro that will connect Salt Lake Sector V with Howrah Maidan will pass under the Hooghly. The first phase, along a 5-km elevated corridor between Sector V and Salt Lake stadium stations, was inaugurated in February, this year. The stretch will be extended to the underground Phoolbagan station after lockdown. The last leg of the underground tunnelling — the 2.5-km stretch between Esplanade and Sealdah — was stopped because of the August 31 fiasco last year. The tunnelling work had resumed on court orders on February 18. Urvi, which is building the east-bound tunnel, had reached the subsidence zone when the lockdown was enforced. It started digging again on Friday and covered the subsidence zone. Urvi crossed the open space, which was strengthened with the hi-tech compaction grouting so that the rest of the tunnelling could be done safely on Tuesday and entered one of the bylanes. At this point, the giant borer curves right towards BB Ganguly Street, from where it will dig till Sealdah station covering around 700m. But the bend has several old and dilapidated buildings and Urvi, weighing around 450 tonnes, must negotiate them at a slow pace. Engineers said it will take around three months to reach Sealdah station, from where Urvi will take U-turn and return to complete rest of the west-bound tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnel-borer-crosses-cave-in-zone-at-bowbazar/articleshow/76539010.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 24, 2020||Bareilly||DM suspends CHC in-charge, seeks explanation from other docs for negligence in duty||Pilibhit: A medical officer-in-charge at Puranpur community health centre (CHC) was suspended and other doctors were called for an explanation on Tuesday after all of them were found to be absent from duty when four people injured in an accident were brought to the hospital. The action was taken by district magistrate (DM) Viabhav Shrivastav when he brought the accident victims to the hospital. The DM was on his way to Pilibhit from Lucknow on Tuesday morning when he witnessed an accident, in which a car and a bike collided near Puranpur cooperative sugar mill on Pilibhit - Basti national highway 730. Immediately, he took the injured to the nearest CHC where he saw the doctors absent from medical duty. “The action against CHC in-charge Dr Kshatrapal and other doctors have been taken due to their negligence in carrying out their duties especially at the present alarming phase of Covid-19,” Shrivastav said. Giving details of the accident, SHO of Puranpur Kotwali police station, SK Singh, said one of the injured Santosh Kumar (40), the biker, succumbed to his injuries in a private hospital after he was referred from the CHC. “Meanwhile, Anuj Mishra, his wife Priyanka and son Priyansh, who were on their way to Bareilly from Lakhimpur in the car, sustained minor injuries and were discharged from the CHC after administering first aid,” the SHO said. The police have sent the body of the biker for autopsy. “We are yet to file an FIR as the kin of the deceased has not filed a complaint,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-suspends-chc-in-charge-seeks-explanation-from-other-docs-for-negligence-in-duty/articleshow/76536547.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hubballi||Scared residents protest burial of infected woman||BALLARI: Residents of Vajpayee Layout and surrounding areas protested on Tuesday, against the burial of a woman who died of Covid-19, at a graveyard near Sangankallu Road. The 85-year-old woman, a resident of Kappagal Road, Ballari, was admitted to VIMS on June 17 and died on June 22. Her throat swabs came positive for the virus. She had kidney problems, pneumonia and suffered from acute respiratory shock. Residents claimed that the district administration was performing the last rites of patients who died due to Covid in this burial ground and they feared the spread of the virus in the area. They urged the government to find a place on the outskirts of the city which is not residential. The impasse continued till MLA G Somashekhar Reddy and other local leaders managed to convince the residents to allow the woman’s last rites to be held at the burial ground. When contacted over phone, deputy commissioner SS Nakul said due to lack of awareness some residents had been protesting. “We have created awareness that burying or cremating deceased who were infected poses no risk to residents in the area,” he added. Assistant commissioner Ramesh Konaraddi urged people to cooperate with the district administration in arranging the last rites of those who die of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/scared-residents-protest-burial-of-infected-woman/articleshow/76537743.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai college marks second year students with new system||Mumbai: Mithibai College (Vile Parle) has marked second year students using a new grading system, implemented in an ad hoc manner in 2019-20. Most students from second and final year had opposed the system and had protested on the campus in February. The college changed the grading pattern after getting autonomy. The students were shocked on Monday when second year results were announced. Most saw a drop in grades. Though final year results are pending, students are worried their performance in fifth semester in the new grading system will impact final semester grading. The students had opposed the new pattern since December, when results for third and fifth semesters were out. After the protest, the college assured them it would review the decision. But after Covid-19 and lockdown, they could not follow up on it, a student said. The end semester exams were interrupted due to Covid. “When chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that final year exams will not be conducted, we wrote to the college seeking clarity on grading. But we did not get any response. There is no transparency in the process. The new system is unfair. For the same marks, our grades have dropped,” said the student. “A new grading pattern under autonomy could have been introduced only for first year students in 2019-20. Second and final year students should have graduated in the grading pattern followed by Mumbai University. Now for same marks that we scored in second semester (under university) and in fourth semester (under autonomy), grades are different. A student who has scored A has now dropped to B+ in the new system. The university followed a seven-point grade scale, the colleges moved to a 10-point scale,” said a second year student. The students were told third year admissions were scheduled on June 23. A day before, the college released second year results. The students did not receive any communication from the college on how they would be graded, said a student. The college’s final year students are worried about their results. “Grades had dropped with the new pattern in fifth semester. It will have a negative impact on sixth semester grades too, if they use previous performance,” said the student. A university official said ideally students should be graded uniformly across the duration of the integrated programme. “How can the same batch of students be evaluated in multiple grading systems? It is unfair and against the law,” said the official. Principal Rajpal Hande was not available for comments. Other officials refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-college-marks-second-year-students-with-new-system/articleshow/76539083.cms||Yogita Rao
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||HC asks officials to stop eviction drive at Kumarasamy Colony||Coimbatore: The Madras high court on Tuesday issued an oral direction to the city corporation and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board to temporarily stop the encroachment eviction drive along Muthanankulam tank at Kumarasamy Colony in the city. Subsequently, the government bodies have decided to stop the demolition drive for two days from Wednesday.Members of Tamil Nadu Thiruvalluvar Makkal Kuttamaipu had earlier filed a writ petition urging the high court to direct the city corporation to provide alternative land with patta to the residents before evicting them from the colony. The petition had the district administration, corporation and slum clearance board as the respondents.While hearing the petition, Justice R Mahadevan passed the oral direction to stop demolition works at the colony and adjourned the hearing to Thursday. A source privy to the development said the petitioners had submitted the details of land available in the surrounding areas of the colony that could be provided to the residents and sought an interim stay order on the eviction drive. The court has provided time for the respondents to file their responses till Thursday, the source said.A slum clearance board official said, based on the court directions, they would stop the encroachment removal works at the colony till the next hearing. “Further steps would be taken based on the court direction.” Close to 1,500 houses, which were illegally constructed along the waterbody at Kumarasamy colony, have been demolished by the city corporation since June 6. They have, however, demolished only vacant houses so far.Meanwhile, Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan met city corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar on Tuesday. During the meeting, a decision was taken to fix a date to hold talks with district collector K Rajamani and other concerned officials to find a solution to the issue. He also questioned the city corporation’s urgency in carrying out the eviction drive when the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hc-asks-officials-to-stop-eviction-drive-at-kumarasamy-colony/articleshow/76539836.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||KMC helps repair pipe leak in Howrah||Kolkata: After a week-long battle to repair a breach in major pipeline at Salkia in Howrah, a team from Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Tuesday completed the work that will lead to the restoration of water supply to nearly 60,000 households in north Howrah. According to KMC sources, water supply to large parts of north Howrah was restored on Tuesday evening. Having failed to repair the large portion of a 750-m diameter water pipeline considered as the lifeline of north Howrah’s water supply system, the Howrah Municipal Corporation authorities had sought help from the KMC water supply department engineers who have the expertise to repair such a major leakage in principal water supply pipelines. However, considering the problems of over 60,000 households depending on the supply of potable water from the pipe that was breached, the KMC decided to undertake the repairing work by roping in additional manpower and using their modern machines to make the restoration process faster.  “We express gratitude to the KMC team for assisting us in restoration of water supply to large areas across north Howrah,” said an official of HMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-helps-repair-pipe-leak-in-howrah/articleshow/76539032.cms||Saikat Ray
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Weapon procured in Kolkata on day of murder, suspect cops||KOLKATA: A couple of CCTV footages near EM Bypass and Bengal Chemical in Kankurgachhi can help cops find the last few missing links in the Phoolbagan murder-cum-suicide mystery. A probe has now revealed that Amit Agarwal (42) had procured an improvised pistol, which he later used to shoot his mother-in-law Lalita Dhandania, from either near the airport or the Bengal Chemical area around EM Bypass. Sources said the app-cab driver, who had dropped him at Phoolbagan from Kankurgachhi, has been traced. “The driver has told us that he had got down at Bengal Chemical and then walked to his in-laws’ residence. There is a possibility he was handed over a laptop bag there, that had the weapon. But this needs further probe,” said an IPS officer, adding that talks about his research on bullets and firearms during the lockdown were fake. “We are looking into all angles,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. He said a special crack team was also working on ascertaining if he was close to any local criminals from north Kolkata suburbs. The new leads have led cops to intensify efforts to trace the arms supplier who might have passed on the weapon to Amit minutes before the crime at Phoolbagan. Experts believe that the improvised pistol was procured locally, though its accuracy can match a Munger-made one. Cops also have enough evidence — from his notes in laptop and mobile— to suggest that he also spent a considerable time in finalizing his plans to acquire the firearm at the last moment from the dealer. Police said Amit had collected the firearm and magazines while on his way to Phoolbagan. “It was delivered only on the day of murder,” claimed a source. “The suicide note also talks of his travel to Tamil Nadu and Bihar and plans of roping in hired assassins,”said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dwaipayan-phoolbagan-murder-weapons-story-23-06-2020/articleshow/76539841.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Three-year-old affair ends in 24-year-old man’s murder in Gariyadhar||RAJKOT: A three-year-old love affair between a man and a woman belonging to different communities has ended in the brutal murder of the former in Gariyadhar town of Bhavnagar district. Police arrested five persons who had thrashed the victim Kalpesh Dhanvaniya so badly that he succumbed on the way to Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on June 22 night. Those arrested were the woman Kajal Rabari’s uncle Sura Rabari, cousin brother Jaga Rabari and three other community men - Pacha Rabari, Kalu Rabari and Jika Rabari. Gariyadhar police officials told TOI that Kalpesh and Kajal were in a relationship for the last three years. “A year ago, they had eloped from their homes and Kalpesh was arrested under Prevention of Crimes Against Children (Pocso) as Kajal was minor then,” said investigating officer HR Padhiyar. When Kalpesh was in jail, Kajal’s parents married her off to a man from their community. But a miffed Kajal continued to live with her parents in their native Mesanka village adjoining Gariyadhar. Meanwhile, after Kalpesh was released on bail few months after his arrest, the duo got in touch again and continued their relationship. On June 4, they both eloped again, but returned to Gariyadhar two days later and started living at the house of Kalpesh’s friends. Sura and others, who were hot on the couple’s trail, got information about their whereabouts on June 22. “The five arrested accused forcibly took Kalpesh and Kajal on their bikes to a forest area near Thasa village. Here, they broke Kalpesh’s both legs and hands with iron pipes and bats and took away Kajal, leaving him in a serious condition in the forest area,” said Padhiyar. When someone noticed him writhing in pain, a 108 emergency service ambulance was called and Kalpesh was taken to a local government hospital in Gariyadhar. As he was unconscious, doctors referred him Sir T Hospital, but he died on the way. The five persons were arrested on Tuesday following a complaint lodged by Kalpesh’s younger brother Arvind, who works as a diamond polisher. Kalpesh earned his living by doing odd jobs and labour work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-year-old-affair-ends-in-24-year-old-mans-murder/articleshow/76539062.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||A birth, a death and 19 +ve cases on coast||Mangaluru: The death of a 70-year-old, a Covid-19 patient giving birth to a baby boy at Wenlock Hospital, and 19 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus characterised how the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi fared on the pandemic front on Tuesday. Incidentally, Udupi accounted for 11 of the positive cases reported, while Dakshina Kannada recorded its ninth death since the outbreak. While efforts are on to trace how P-9594 contracted the disease, one patient was a contact of P-2047, and five were returnees from Maharashtra, two from Kuwait and one from Saudi Arabia, the state health bulletin stated with reference to 11 cases reported in Udupi. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that the district now reported 1,088 cases, out of which 978 patients have been discharged, and the district presently is left with 108 active cases. The 70-year-old patient designated P-6282 was admitted to Wenlock Hospital with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), breathlessness, fever and body ache. Suffering from diabetes as well, the patient who was a heavy smoker, died on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment on the ventilator in the ICU, said Dakshina Kannada district deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The district presently has one patient, designated P-9029, who is in the ICU. The gloom of the death and 8 more patients testing positive during the day, was lifted with a pregnant woman patient having a normal delivery in the early hours. DHO Ramachandra Bairy said this is the second instance of a pregnant woman patient delivering a child at Wenlock Hospital. In a recent instance, a 38-year-old woman had undergone a Caesarean operation. The mother and the infant were discharged during the day, after both tested negative for the virus. Four of the eight cases are primary contacts of P-8318, two have been diagnosed with SARI, while one is a Kuwait returnee and the last one diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI). Five other patients were also discharged during the day, Sindhu said. The district that has recorded 443 positive cases till date, presently has 188 active cases, and 256 patients have been discharged as on date. Reports of 179 swab samples are awaited, the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/a-birth-a-death-and-19-ve-cases-on-coast/articleshow/76536580.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt school starts online registration for admissions||Coimbatore: With inquiries pouring in for admissions, a government higher secondary school in the district has asked parents to register the details of their wards on its website.While the state has not yet announced the plans to start admissions in schools, the school headmaster said they were now asking parents, who inquire about admissions, to register the details of their wards in a form on the school’s website. This, he said, was just a measure to reassure them and that they would start admissions only based on the state government direction. G Ramesh, headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Othakkalmandapam, said several parents have been inquiring about admissions. “They are in a fix as the state has not yet said anything on admissions and school reopening. So, just as a means to psychologically reassure them that their wards would be admitted to the school, we have put up a registration form on our school’s website.”All those who register and seek admission would be admitted to the school, he said. The school, which is supported well by its alumni, has facilities such as smart classrooms and an Atal Tinkering Lab. “Because of this, there are more admission inquiries. Last year, around 30 students from private schools had joined our school,” the headmaster said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-school-starts-online-registration-for-admissions/articleshow/76539842.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Government, private lab results for positivity differ by 6%||MUMBAI: A 6% disparity has emerged in the positivity rates between the samples tested in private and government laboratories in the state. Data compiled by the medical education department shows of the 4.1 lakh samples processed at government laboratories, nearly 15% have tested positive. In private labs that had tested 3.8 lakh samples till Monday, around 21% were positive. While experts say the variation is considerably high, state officials say there’s no ground to question the quality of tests. The overall positivity rate for the state has been around 17%, though Mumbai’s daily positivity rate in June has been almost double of that. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, who heads the medical education department, said they have looked into the reasons behind the difference. “We have found that people go to private laboratories only when they have severe symptoms and actually need a test. That could explain more people coming positive there,” he said, adding the numbers have nothing to do with the quality or specificity as the real-time PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test is considered the gold standard. Interestingly, though, Dr Anup Kumar Yadav of the state’s public health department cited a completely opposite reason. “More severe and symptomatic cases come to government hospitals, whereas people going to private labs could be panic-stricken. Many are individuals who can afford the test and hence walk into private labs,” he said. Dr Yadav’s explanation, though, did not explain the higher positivity rate in private labs. Updated figures on Tuesday showed a total of eight lakh lab samples have been tested in the state so far. Since March, when the first cases were reported, the state has added nearly a lab a day. As on Monday, the state had 103 testing labs, of which 60 were government and 43 private. Statistics show despite being fewer in numbers, private labs are doing nearly as many tests at government labs. An average of 5,847 people per million are tested in the state against 22,688 per million in Mumbai. Dr Mukherjee said the Covid testing scenario will see a landmark change with the antibody testing being allowed. “It will decentralize testing and take the load away from RT-PCR tests. Importantly, it can be used in point-of-care such as hospitals or to test health care workers and the results will be out in 30 minutes,” he said. The state is currently carrying out around 17,000 tests every day, though nearly 40% of the capacity is untapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-pvt-lab-results-for-positivity-differ-by-6/articleshow/76540314.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Plants associated to Lord Ram, Buddha and Guru Nanak to be part of agro-climatic gardens in Gorakhpur division||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur forest division is among the nine conducive zones of the state where agro-climatic diversity gardens will be developed. At least three sub-gardens in the division will bear trees associated with Lord Ram, Gautam Buddha and Gukru Nanak Dev. Saplings of as many as 201 species will be planted in a day in July. However, the date of inauguration of the gardens is yet to be finalized. The Yogi government has decided to plant 25 crore trees in July this year with an aim to increase the green cover of the state. UP government had secured a place in the Guinness Book of World Records last year by planting 22 crore saplings in a day. Saplings of 201 species will be planted in a five-hectare garden at Farenda range in west Lehra compartment no. 2 in Maharajganj district of Gorakhpur division. Apart from other agro-climatic diversity sub-gardens, Gorakhpur forest division has decided to develop three sub-gardens where trees associated with Lord Ram, Gautam Buddha and Gukru Nanak Dev will be planted, said DFO Avinash Kumar. “For instance, Shaal, Jamun, Peepal, Bargad, Khirni associated with Gautam Buddha will be planted in Guru Vatika. Many plants mentioned in the holy books of Sikhs—Reetha sahib, Tili saheb and Ber saheb—which are associated with Guru Nanak Dev, will also get space in the garden” added the DFO. “Gorakhpur forest division and the state forest department have already started collecting saplings. Saplings of medicinal values will be planted only after the advice of experts,” said Kumar. Nakshatra Vatika will be developed in a 100-metre space where 27 saplings will be planted. There will be a separate vatika of medicinal plants. “So far, 150 saplings of different species have been collected, and soon we will get the rest of the species,” said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/plants-associated-to-lord-ram-buddha-and-guru-nanak-to-be-part-of-agro-climatic-gardens-in-gorakhpur-division/articleshow/76537571.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Dry spell for Maharashtra may end with monsoon revival by Saturday||PUNE: The monsoon has entered a weak phase in Maharashtra, southern parts of Telangana and north interior Karnataka. The poor rainfall activity is likely to persist for another three to five days, after which the state can expect a revival. After a drenching start set in motion by the severe Cyclone Nisarga, and later when the monsoon entered parts of Maharashtra, meteorologists with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Skymet Weather Services told TOI that monsoon has now slowed down in the state. D S Pai, scientist and head of Climate Research and Services, IMD, Pune, said the monsoon has been weak over parts of Maharashtra, though it has been raining in northern and southern parts of the country. “The weak monsoon activity in Maharashtra is a result of monsoon trough moving northwards. The rains may revive here after June 27-28,” Pai added. By June 25, the monsoon trough will move close to the Himalayas causing the onset over the western Himalayas region, Delhi, Haryana and other regions in the next three to four days, he said. GP Sharma, president, Skymet Weather Services told TOI, “In central parts of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and east MP had some rains, while it reduced in Maharashtra.” Sharma said only one low pressure system has formed over Bay of Bengal so far. “Typically, after the monsoon’s onset, there should be at least two or three low pressure systems over Bay of Bengal in June. A circulation is expected over southwest Bay of Bengal along with the existing cyclonic circulation (currently over Bihar and adjoining area) which may move in favourable directions to bring back rains over Maharashtra after a few days from June 26,” he said. IMD data showed that the three subdivisions in the state, Marathwada, Konkan-Goa and Madhya Maharashtra, received deficient to largely deficient rain on June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dry-spell-for-state-may-end-with-monsoon-revival-by-sat/articleshow/76539081.cms||Neha Madaan
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur gardens to have plants associated to Lord Ram, Buddha||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur forest division is among the nine conducive zones of the state where agro-climatic diversity gardens will be developed. At least three sub-gardens in the division will bear trees associated with Lord Ram, Gautam Buddha and Guru Nanak Dev. Saplings of as many as 201 species will be planted in a day in July. However, the date of inauguration of the gardens is yet to be finalized. The Yogi government has decided to plant 25 crore trees in July this year with an aim to increase the green cover of the state.  UP government had secured a place in the Guinness Book of World Records last year by planting 22 crore saplings in a day. Saplings of 201 species will be planted in a five-hectare garden at Farenda range in west Lehra compartment no. 2 in Maharajganj district of Gorakhpur division. Apart from other agro-climatic diversity sub-gardens, Gorakhpur forest division has decided to develop three sub-gardens where trees associated with Lord Ram, Gautam Buddha and Gukru Nanak Dev will be planted, said DFO Avinash Kumar. “For instance, Shaal, Jamun, Peepal, Bargad, Khirni associated with Gautam Buddha will be planted in Guru Vatika. Many plants mentioned in the holy books of Sikhs—Reetha sahib, Tili saheb and Ber saheb—which are associated with Guru Nanak Dev, will also get space in the garden” added the DFO. “Gorakhpur forest division and the state forest department have already started collecting saplings. Saplings of medicinal values will be planted only after the advice of experts,” said Kumar. Nakshatra Vatika will be developed in a 100-metre space where 27 saplings will be planted. There will be a separate vatika of medicinal plants. “So far, 150 saplings of different species have been collected, and soon we will get the rest of the species,” said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-gardens-to-have-plants-associated-to-lord-ram-buddha/articleshow/76537769.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Restrictions on buses entering Madurai from other districts||Madurai: The Madurai district administration has announced restrictions for buses coming into or passing through Madurai from other districts, due to the intensive lockdown announced for Madurai West, East, and Thiruparankundram unions and Paravai town panchayat. In a statement, district collector T G Vinay said the buses would not be allowed to ply through Madurai city. Buses coming from Sattur, Sivakasi and Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar to Madurai, would be halted at Thirumangalam. Those from Aruppukottai will stop at Kariapatti.Buses from Ramanathapuram and Manamadurai would stop at Thirupuvanam in Sivaganga district, the border with Madurai. Sivaganga buses will stop at Poovanthi. Those coming from Singampunari, Kottampatti and Thirupathur would have to alight at Melur. Natham travellers would have to alight at Kadavur, and those coming from Dindigul at Vadipatti. Travellers from Theni district via Usilampatti could travel up to Chekkanoorani.Meanwhile, in view of the complete lockdown in Madurai, as announced by the state government from June 24 to 30, all the PRS (passenger reservation system) locations falling under the lockdown areas will be closed during this period. Passengers can obtain a refund after June 30, the Southern Railway has announced..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restrictions-on-buses-entering-madurai-from-other-districts/articleshow/76540319.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||No need to impose complete lockdown in dist: Collector||Coimbatore: The current situation in the district does not warrant a ‘complete lockdown’ as in Chennai, said collector K Rajamani on Tuesday. This was because there was almost nil inflow of people from places where there are alarming number of Covid-19 cases, and almost the entire administration has been delegated on Covid-19 activities, he said.However, the existing restrictions such as ban on gatherings in public places and overcrowding in commercial establishments, hotels etc., and the strict enforcement of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing would continue here, he said.“As Chennai and other districts, where there are alarming number of Covid-19 cases, are under complete lockdown, there is almost nil inflow of people from there to the district. We have also tightened security at the check-posts,” he told TOI. The collector added that they were testing 2,000 samples every day for Covid-19, and on average there were 10 positive cases each day. “We are lifting more number of samples from areas where we get positive cases, we are conducting vigorous contact tracing, and are also forming containment zones in some areas. With these measures, we hope that the situation in the district would get better within the period of complete lockdown in Chennai. As we have been taking such stricter measures, the present situation here doesn’t warrant a complete lockdown,” he said.He said in the city limits, 20 flying squads have been formed to monitor whether people follow instructions on wearing masks, maintaining personal distancing and functioning of shops, commercial establishments, flower markets, fish and meat shops, and bakeries. Tahsildars and officials of the revenue department are also inspecting for violations. “These officials have been permitted to take on the spot action for violations,” the collector said.So far, Rs 11 lakh has been collected as fine from people who had ventured out of their homes without wearing masks, and of this, sRs 8.5 lakh has been collected within the city limits, he said. Cases have been filed against 11 people who had violated home quarantine, and 16 commercial establishments have been sealed as they had allowed people to gather inside.Earlier, he flagged off a posse of autorickshaws which would spread awareness messages using public announcement systems. He said more than 200 vehicles would spread Covid-19 awareness messages in corporation, town panchayat and village panchayat areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-need-to-impose-complete-lockdown-in-dist-collector/articleshow/76539844.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGO helps women farmers in Covid times||Ahmedabad: Vali Palash, 58, a farmer from Raiyavan village in Dahod district, had harvested wheat and corn from her 15 bighas. Due to the lockdown, she was worried about buyers for her produce. “I could have sold my crop for Rs 20 to 22 per kg but due to unavailability of transport, it was not possible. The crop was then procured by Utthan, an NGO, that gave me Rs 19 per kg,” she said. The grains procured from Palash went to Shaku Palash who had not been able to buy grain for her extended family. This model which was adopted across several villages where women farmers were supported by the NGOs in providing grain to families in need. Pravin Bhikadia, CEO of Utthan, said the initiative aimed to ensure a proper livelihood of women farmers it was done through providing a platform to sell produce, which could then be distributed to those in need. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngo-helps-women-farmers-in-covid-times/articleshow/76539847.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Three of family die as cars collide near Anand||Vadodara/ Anand: Three members of a Vadodara-based family died while three others got severely injured in a road accident in Anand district on Tuesday morning. Hitesh Pandya (43), his wife Jayshree Pandya (36) and his son Vivek Pandya (14) died on the spot after two cars collided near Kanthiriya village between Vasad and Asodar on Vasad-Borsad highway in Anand district. The family, residents of Nani Sherkhi village, was on its way to Kapadwanj town to attend baby shower ceremony in their extended family. Pandya’s daughter Krupa (17) and two niece Vidhi Upadhyay (18) and Deepti Bhatt (18) got injured due to the accident. Pandya’s car had hit another car which had passengers from Godhra and was headed for Bhavnagar on Tuesday morning. According to Anklav police, driver Anvarhussain Chunga, who was driving the car along with five others who were travelling in the same car also got injured due to the accident. Such was the collision that both the cars got completely wrecked while locals rushed to the spot to rescue the injured. Sources said that GVK EMRI had dispatched four 108 emergency ambulances to the spot to shift the injured to state-run SSG Hospital in Vadodara. According to police, the car in which Pandya family was travelling had overtook another vehicle and later collided with the car in which the Godhra residents were travelling. Although the driver from Godhra is said to have applied short brake, the collision was major causing severe damage to both the sides. While the bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem, Anklav police is further investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-of-family-die-as-cars-collide-near-anand/articleshow/76536297.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man falls to death from 6th floor of diamond bourse||MUMBAI: A man died after he allegedly fell from the sixth floor of a building at Bharat Diamond Bourse at BKC on Tuesday. Police said it was the first day for Jay Lakhiyar (20) after office resumed, following three months of lockdown. He had been working from home earlier. Police have not found any suicide note. Police said two men allegedly ended their lives on Monday. Vikram Raka (30) allegedly ended is life due to depression after he was unable to go home due to lockdown. Faizan Khan (23) allegedly ended his life at his Andheri home on Monday afternoon. D N Nagar police registered a case of accidental death report (ADR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-falls-to-death-from-6th-floor-of-diamond-bourse/articleshow/76539115.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Virus outbreak takes sheen off realty sector||KOCHI: Covid-19 is expected to change the lifestyle of people and the impact has already started to reflect on the real estate sector. After the Maradu fiasco, the virus outbreak and the following lockdown have taken the sheen away from the realty sector. With the market not catching up and potential buyers keeping away from making major investments, the real estate sector is gasping for breath. “The potential buyers feel that the builders and developers will further slash prices. They are waiting for price correction and more discounts to buy an asset in the city,” said a developer. As per the survey conducted by Commonfloor a property portal on home buyers’ sentiment post Covid-19 after capturing insights of over 3,000 potential homebuyers in cities, including Kochi, revealed that about 51% of the respondents believe that more discounts from developers could make them take a decision to purchase. Moreover, the statements made by Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh and Kotak Mahindra Bank executive vice-chairman and managing director Uday Kotak that developers should sell off inventories by lowering property prices also had its impact on buyers. “In the post Covid-19 context, a good number of people have postponed their decision to buy homes. The reasons for not buying homes include change in investment plans, job insecurity, to reduce expenses, reluctance to visit sites and offices. Even those people who have enough money are reluctant to invest in new projects as they are unsure of the developer’s cash flow. There are uncertainties regarding on-time delivery of projects,” said a banker dealing with home loans. Developers facing liquidity stress have been seeking one-time restructuring of loans, reduction in home loan rates and the like. “Though builders or sellers are placing advertisements, the response is lukewarm. People are making calls to figure the price range and most of these calls do not translate into actual sales. More than investors, it is people who want to own a home immediately are the ones who rush to buy,” said Sinil K, a real estate dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virus-outbreak-takes-sheen-off-realty-sector/articleshow/76537856.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi Vishwanath temple to release postal stamp soon||Varanasi: The coming Shrawan month will neither see kanwarias’ rush on the roads nor serpentine queues of devotees at Kashi Vishwanath temple due to Covid-19 restrictions, but the temple administration is planning some pleasant gifts for the devout. The temple is planning to release a postal stamp on KVT and start delivering ‘prasad’ of Lord Vishwanath through speed post facility of postal department. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Tuesday, “The process for tie-up with postal department for a ceremonial postal ticket on Kashi Vishwanath temple is in final stage and it will be released soon. We are completing basic formalities.” The KVT is also finalising a plan to start delivering prasad to devotees through speed post. “The facility of sending prasad through post on demand by devotees was already available. But, now this facility is being improved by linking it with speed post service,” he added. The postmaster general Varanasi Pranab Kumar said, “The postal department is taking initiative for booking orders for prasad from devotees both online and offline through electronic money order. As per booking, the postal department will ensure delivery of prasad made available by the KVT with some value additions through Nichibagh post office.” Postal department officials said the boxes containing prasad will be packet in tamperproof envelops. As value addition, images of Lord Vishwanath’s Jyotirlinga, Shiv Chalisa, rudraksh rosary and bhasm would also be packed in it. “The arrangements for Shrawan commencing from July 6 are being spruced up. There will be no Kanwar Yatra, so less rush is expected at KVT. The existing arrangements in which maximum five devotees are allowed at a time will remain in practice. Queues will be there along with circles drawn for maintaining social distancing. Devotees will not be allowed entry in the sanctum sanctorum,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-vishwanath-temple-to-release-postal-stamp-soon/articleshow/76537842.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-staff of JNV Univ protest for pension||Jodhpur: Jai Narayan Vyas University appears to be in a financial mess these days. Having faced trouble in paying salaries to the staff in November last year, the university has now expressed its inability to remit pension to its teaching and non-teaching staff. On Tuesday, pension holders staged a demonstration at the central office of the university demanding the administration to release their pension by the end of this month. The university has not remitted pension to the teaching and non-teaching staff for the months of May and June amounting to over Rs 10 crore. Financial advisor of the university Abhimanyu Gehlot said the university had insufficient funds for pension and the administration had pleaded the government to provide assistance for the purpose. “We don’t have sufficient funds for pension this year as the session has delayed due to the pandemic. We usually start receiving fees of students in June, which is used in paying the pension,” said Gehlot. Keeping this crisis in view, the university administration has started the process of provision admission to students by promoting them to upper classes and has directed them to submit their fees. On the other hand, the university administration donated Rs 60 lakh in the state’s Covid 19 fund by deducting amount from the pension fund, which has further deepened the crisis. Inspite of the persistent financial crisis, the vice chancellor continued to divert funds for other amenities. Recently vice chancellor P C Trivedi started the work to shift and renovate the offices of him and one of the former employees Mohan Singh Bhati raising the question that if there was no sufficient funds, why money was being wasted on such frivolous work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-staff-of-jnv-univ-protest-for-pension/articleshow/76539856.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Arasur takes 12-day self-imposed lockdown route to fight contagion||Coimbatore: A week after RG Pudur emerged as the Covid-19 cluster, from where the virus spread to neighbouring Chinniampalayam and Mylampatti, the residents of Arasur, located 9km away, have decided to do their bit to keep their area safe from the novel coronavirus attack. The village panchayat will go into lockdown mode for 12 days - from June 25 to July 6 - when no outsiders will be allowed to enter the locality.Speaking to TOI, Arasur village panchayat president Manonmani’s husband Anbarasan confirmed that the “self-imposed” lockdown would be in force from Thursday. “While medical shops will remain open through the day, grocery shops will function only from 8am to 2pm. The roadside shops, especially hawkers, selling fruits and vegetables will not be allowed.”He said outsiders, especially people from Chinniampalayam, RG Pudur and the city, won’t be allowed to enter the village panchayat limits. Pointing out that there were 85-odd industrial units functioning in the area, he said they had agreed to function only with local employees. “In fact, it was they and members of traders’ association who requested this lockdown. If people from other districts enter our limits, the residents can contact panchayat leaders, who will take care of the issue.”The decision to go into lockdown mode was reportedly taken at a panchayat meeting that was conducted on Monday evening. The meeting was attended by representatives from industries, traders and public.“The residents and traders are worried as an infected young man has died in our close vicinity. with the authorities constantly changing containment zone rules, we don’t know how an outbreak or cluster in our village panchayat will affect our economy and health. So, this is a precautionary measure,” Anbarasan said.As per the 2011 census, the panchayat had a population of 15,000. But panchayat chiefs say the population is close to 40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/arasur-takes-12-day-self-imposed-lockdown-route-to-fight-contagion/articleshow/76539851.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Driver, cleaner of truck die in eway accident||Pune: The driver and the cleaner of a snag-hit pickup truck were fatally knocked down by a four-wheeler in the early hours of Tuesday near their stationary vehicle on the service lane of Pune-Mumbai expressway at Shirgaon, about 36km from the city. The Talegaon Dabhade police identified the deceased as Shaikh Abbas Mehmood Ali (30) of Kurla (West) and Abu Bakur Qureshi (35) of Sakinaka in Mumbai. The truck loaded with batteries was heading towards Pune. Police said the two got down from their snag-hit vehicle and were walking along the service lane towards Shirgaon in search of a mechanic, when the other vehicle, also heading towards Pune, hit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/driver-cleaner-of-truck-die-in-eway-accident/articleshow/76539089.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||‘Rs 8 crore Chellanam project a waste of money’||KOCHI: The much-hyped geotube project at Chellanam, which was projected as the ideal solution to the sea erosion problem in the coastal hamlet, has now instilled doubts among residents on its scientific and practical effectiveness as two out of the eight geotubes, which were filled in January this year, were broken on Friday due to high tide. This happened a week after the dredge-pontoon, which was brought to resume the geotube work, was destroyed by the waves stalling the project. The project, worth Rs.8 crore, is claimed by the government as the comprehensive solution to decade-long sea erosion woes of more than 300 families in Chellanam. But with the tubes getting damaged at the initial stage of the work itself has turned residents furious. They allege that the multi-crore project was started without any scientific study and will be a waste of money. The tubes which were ‘scientifically filled with sand’ by the previous contractor and installed at the northern side of Velankanni church in January, were damaged by the rocks of the broken seawall. The sand from these tubes was washed away and the tubes are now at a level much below the destroyed seawall. The remaining six tubes too may not withstand strong waves and rocks, say residents. Though irrigation department had erected a barrier near the damaged seawall using sandbags, water still gushes through them flooding houses. Residents said this would only increase coastal erosion as the sand beneath the geobags are washed away into the sea. “We cannot sleep peacefully at night due to fear that seawater would enter our houses any time. Moreover, the remaining rocks of old seawall are being battered to the shore when the wall crumbles down due to strong waves, it creates a sound similar to thunder. The geobags are destroying the existing seawall and soon the bags too would be destroyed. Then there would be nothing between us and the angry sea,” said Juliet Alungal, a resident of Companypady. Meanwhile, Fort Kochi sub-collector Snehil Kumar Singh and Ernakulam collector S Suhas visited Companypady, Vachakkal, Bazaar and Velankanni in Chellanam to validate the geobag filling work. The administration had announced that work were completed in these areas and maintenance of broken bags would be done immediately. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his press conference on Tuesday, said Rs.2 crore each will be immediately allotted to collectors of 10 districts to carry out coastal protection measures on war-footing. But Ernakulam district administration is yet to announce how the financial aid will be useful to Chellanam, which is the worst-affected coast in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rs-8cr-chellanam-project-a-waste-of-money/articleshow/76537838.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Donald Trump’s move to freeze visas a KO punch for 50,000 Telugus||HYDERABAD: US president Donald Trump’s decision to suspend H1B, L1 and other temporary visas has come as a rude shock for many Telugus. Immigration attorneys said around 50,000 Telugus would be affected by the latest move of the US President. Apart from prospective visa seekers, those who are all set to get their visas stamped are at their wits’ end. “Among them, the worst-hit are those who flew to India, but got caught there because they could not get their visas stamped as a result of the coronavirus pandemic,” said immigration lawyer Rahul Reddy, founding partner of Reddy & Neumann, PC. Most of these Telugus are on approved work visa petitions, a provision that gives them leeway to get their visas stamped once abroad. But now, thousands of Telugus who came back are stuck in the two Telugu states away from their families and jobs with many paying huge loans for homes and cars there. “ I brought my 14-month-old son to meet my parents in March. My wife was supposed to follow soon. But, neither could she come nor can we go back because of the lockdown,” explained Vamsi Krishna, who is currently in Khammam. The IT employee said he is worried about his son who needs medical support back in Virginia for a pre-existing condition and may not be able to get it as per the executive order till the year-end. The US consulate in Hyderabad closed services in view of the pandemic, bringing to a halt processing of visas like that of Krishna’s. “I have lived in the US for the last three years. I came to Karimnagar for my father’s surgery. I finished my visa interview on February 20 and was waiting for stamping when the consulate closed,” said Pramod Alagandhula. “If I cannot go back, my children’s studies will get affected as they are enrolled in Michigain-based schools,” he said. What is worse is that his children do not have OCI cards and their Indian visas are nearing expiry. Pramod is part of a WhatsApp group with at least 1,600 people stuck in a similar situation. “People who have already valid visas can still travel, it is just those who came for stamping who are facing an issue,” said Lavanya Swarna, stuck in Chittoor, AP. She came to India to get dental treatment. “I attended an interview on February 28 and was asked to submit my passport for stamping on March 13 after which the consulate shut. They still have my passport,” she said, making no bones about her predicament. Watch Trump’s order to freeze visas a direct hit for 50,000 Telugus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trumps-move-to-freeze-visas-a-ko-punch-for-50k-telugus/articleshow/76540604.cms||Uttara Varma
June 24, 2020||Pune||Wife & two sons thrash man over affair in Pune||PUNE: A building contractor (48) from Wakad lodged a complaint against his wife (42) and two sons on Monday for abusing and thrashing him for having an extra-marital relationship with their domestic help. “The domestic help lived in a flat in Wakad,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police said. The man’s family followed him there on Sunday and created a ruckus, following which police were called. They assured they wouldn’t cause harm. After going home his wife caught him and his sons thrashed him with a belt, Mugalikar said. They have been booked under Sections 323 and 324 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wife-2-sons-thrash-man-over-affair/articleshow/76539099.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||13 burial urns found at Sivagalai site in one month||MADURAI: The state archaeology department has unearthed 13 burial urns at Sivagalai in Tuticorin district. Excavation work that began on March 19 was stalled due to the lockdown, and resumed on May 24. Sivagalai was taken up for excavation by the department for the first time this year, for which the Tamil Nadu government sanctioned Rs 31 lakh. A Manickam, a history teacher in Srivaikuntam, drew the state government’s attention to Sivagalai claiming that he had found many ancient artefacts there. In 2018, an expert appointed by the commissioner of state archaeology department confirmed that it was an ancient site. Burial urns, iron tools and bones were among the things found there. When Sivagalai was officially taken up for excavation this year, a 10x10sqm plot was excavated under the guidance of M Prabhakaran, director of the project. The official was accompanied by 10 archaeology students. Local villagers too were roped in. In the last one month, 13 burial urns of various sizes were discovered, according to deputy director of archaeology R Sivanandam. “Initial examination of these urns looked like they belonged to the iron age. We are yet to figure out what it consists of. Small pots were also found. Smaller pots were also found in the vicinity,” Sivanandam said. Sivagalai is located in the middle of Korkai, an ancient Pandya Kingdom, on the banks of the Tamirabarini river. Manickam had then petitioned the government stating that he believed it to be a contemporary site to the Adhichanallur site, which is also a burial site in Tirunelveli district. Sivagalai is situated seven km away from Adhichanallur. The Archaeological Survey of India, (ASI) conducted an excavation at Adhichanallur in 2004 and unearthed 169 urns. It is believed that Sivagalai would yield more urns than Adhichanallur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-burial-urns-found-at-sivagalai-site-in-one-month/articleshow/76540322.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Losses, rental costs drive salon owner to suicide||RAJKOT: A young entrepreneur’s dreams of doing big ended tragically as a nightmare when rising overhead costs of running his unisex salon on Rajkot’s posh Amin Marg coupled with zero business due to lockdown forced 22-year-old Hiren Jetubhai Rathod alias Harry to end life on Monday. Hiren was found hanging inside his shop Modern Hair Salon in Trisha Plaza around 9.30am by his friend Keval Kariya, who had come to meet Hiren but found the shutters of the salon closed. When he opened the shutter he saw his friend hanging from the ceiling and informed Hiren’s family and the police. Hiren’s family lives in Kiran Society on Kotahriya road, about 5km from the salon. Police investigation revealed that Hiren, also a trained tattoo artist, had opened this unisex salon about 18 months back and was paying high rent for the premises. The rental of the salon kept piling up over last three months, said sources. Initially the business was good, but following the lockdown in March last week, Hiren’s income was down to nil. But worse was yet to come. Despite the relaxation by the government, people were avoiding to come to salon fearing infection. As as result Hiren was left with rising debt with no sign of revenue generation. This seems to have triggered Hiren’s extreme step, said police. Police said that Hiren’s father Jitubhai also owns a barber shop. Hiren also has a younger sister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/losses-rental-costs-drive-salon-owner-to-suicide/articleshow/76539107.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC releases timetable for 9 recruitment exams||AJMER: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) has again initiated the recruitment process after a gap of three months due to the lockdown in the state. The commission issued the timetable for nine recruitment exams in various departments of state government on Tuesday. The exams are mostly for recruitment in the medical education department. The screening test for veterinary officer selection exam 2019 will be on August 2. Similarly, the screening exam for librarian grade II (language and library department) will also be on August 2. The lecturer school exam- 2018 (Sanskrit education department) will be from August 4 to 7. The assistant professor (board specialty) (Medical education department) screening test- 2020 will be on August 11 and test for assistant professor for super specialty in medical education department will be from August 13 to 14. Screening test for evaluation officer in planning department-2020 will be on August 23. The test for deputy commandant of home security department will also be on August 23. The test for senior demonstrator of medical education department will be from September 13 to 17 and the exam of ACF and forest range officer grade I- 2018 will be from September 20 to 27. The commission is also starting interviews for sub-inspector and platoon commander (homes) exams 2016 from July 8 and thereafter interviews for public relation officer- 2019, vice principal or superintendent (industrial training institute), group surveyors, food security officer and junior legal officer will be held. The commission has asked interview candidates to download descriptive application form from RPSC website and check the dates of interviews of different departments. RPSC secretary Ashish Gupta said that the dates of written examinations as well as of interviews may change due to Covid-19. He said that the brief programme of written exams will be released soon. Also, he asked the candidates to follow Covid-19 guidelines while appearing for the interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-releases-timetable-for-9-recruitment-exams/articleshow/76542258.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed in Kota road accidents||Kota: Three persons including a 60-year-old woman were killed in two separate mishaps under Anantpura police station and Kaithun police station area in Kota rural on Tuesday. Police handed over the bodies to the families after postmortem and lodged cases in both police stations. Two persons — Devlal Kanchi (30) and Raghuveer Kanchi, both residents of Bhopatpura village in Bundi — were killed on the spot after their bike collided with a vehicle on Baran-Bundi four-lane highway, circle in-charge (CI) Devesh Bhardwaj said. Badribai Bairwa, a resident of Ramrajpura village, was killed on the spot while her 30-year-old son Sukhlal sustained injuries after their motorbike collided head-on with a truck on the four-lane highway near Tathed village under Kaithun police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-in-kota-road-accidents/articleshow/76539864.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||CRPF constable from Solapur dies in J&K encounter||PUNE: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) head constable, Sunil Kale (41), from Barshi tehsil of Solapur district, was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. Kale is survived by his mother, wife, two sons and an elder brother. He hails from Pangaon village in Barshi. His brother, Nandkumar, told TOI over phone, “Sunil completed his schooling from the village. He pursued his junior college education from Barshi. He joined the force on July 13, 2000, and served mostly in Jammu and Kashmir. He also served in Naxal-affected regions in Chattisgarh for a few years.” The joint family has a plot in Barshi. “We have constructed a bungalow on the plot and were to shift to the new house in the next few months. He told us some weeks ago that he had been transferred to New Delhi. But he could not report to the new place due to transport restrictions,” Nandkumar said. “Our f urniture work is going on and we had planned a `pooja’ on his anticipated arrival for moving into the house. But, unfortunately, he will never fulfill his dream of living in the new house. We all had worked together to improve our financial condition,” Nandkumar, grocer from the village, said. Sunil was good in studies but couldn’t go to college due to our financial condition, he said. The mortal remains of the jawan will be brought to the native place on Wednesday morning. “Before the final rites, a procession will be taken out in the village with full military honours,” said sarpanch Sakhubai Gujale. (With inputs from Suryakant Asbe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crpf-constable-from-solapur-dies-in-jk-encounter/articleshow/76539110.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||PMPML won’t use buses of contractors for now: Nayana Gunde||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) would not use any buses of private contractors for now, said Nayana Gunde, the chairperson and the managing director of the transport utility. Gunde said, “The e-buses were doing an excellent job for the PMPML. But our priority is to use the buses owned by the PMPML rather than using those of private contractors till things become normal.” Sources claimed that one of the reasons for discontinuing the e- buses was their manufacturer, Olectra, having a collaboration with a Chinese firm, BYD. N Naga Satyam, the executive director of Olectra Greentech, said, “Like all the automobile manufacturers in India, we re also dependent on global supply chains for some parts. The company has been meeting all localized parameters and is at the forefront of ‘Make in India’ initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-wont-use-buses-of-contractors-for-now-gunde/articleshow/76539125.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||18 new Covid-19 cases logged in dist||Coimbatore: Three days after a 77-year-old man from Velandipalayam suffering from severe breathing difficulty died at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), his 72-year-old widowed wife and 47-year-old daughter tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. The cause of the elderly man’s death was not recorded as Covid-19 as his test results were reportedly inconclusive. His second test results are yet to be released. His body was not handed over to the family and cremated by health department officials. This was the second instance when a patient who died of breathing difficulty was not included in the Covid-19 list, citing the inconclusive first test results. Less than 24 hours after the man died at CMCH on Saturday night, his wife, who is in the high-risk category, got admitted to the PSG Hospitals and gave a swab test. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The elderly woman is one among the 18 Covid-19 cases that the district recorded on Tuesday. While her daughter has also tested positive for the virus, the case has been not added to the tally.” Meanwhile, a new cluster of cases is emerging in and around Karumbukadai after an income tax department officer, who returned from Chennai, tested positive there. Two of his contacts - a 40-year-old man from Kuniyamuthur and a 55-year-old man from Karumbukadai – were among the new cases reported on Tuesday. While four people from a multi-storeyed apartment in Selvapuram, near Perur Road, have tested positive for the virus, only one - a 70-year-old woman – has made it into the official list on Tuesday. A man and a woman from Telungupalayam (both aged 32), a 39-year-old man from Ondipudur, a 49-year-old man from Ranganayaki Nagar in Periyanaickenpalayam, a 56-year-old man from Gandhipark, another 56-year-old man from Kurudampalayam in Vadamadurai and a 54-year-old man from Kumaran Nagar in Sulur were also among the new cases. A senior health department officer said they were yet to identify the source of infection in all the above said cases, except in the case of woman from Selvapuram. “They all went to hospitals either with symptoms of flu or for another procedure and tested positive for the virus. They don’t have a travel or contact history.” Six of the new patients, however, have travel histories. They comprise a traveller from Gujarat, a 22-year-old officer with the Airforce base in Sulur who flew down from Bengaluru, two New Delhi returnees from Chettipalayam and a Mumbai returnee from Rathinapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/18-new-covid-19-cases-logged-in-dist/articleshow/76539858.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Railway engineer attacks senior’s wife in Kota dist||KOTA: Irked over being served a notice from the department, a railway engineer barged into the house of his senior in the Railway Workshop Colony here and injured his wife on Monday afternoon. Police booked the accused, but have not arrested him so far. The chief workshop manager (CWM), Kota, has ordered for his suspension. According to reports, Shivprakesh Meena (45), posted as senior section engineer (planning) at goods bogey maintenance workshop in Kota, reached the house of Pramod Kumar Singh, deputy chief mechanical engineer in Railway Workshop Colony, and attacked his wife Varsha Singh (45) after she opened the door. The woman sustained injuries on her arms after the accused dragged her down on the floor. Hearing her screams, neighbors reached the spot and rescued the woman. The accused attempted to flee but the neighbors took the key of his motorbike, held him and handed him over to police. Following a report by Pramod Kumar Singh, police booked Meena under Sections 341, 323 and 354 of IPC, Railway Colony SHO Hansraj Meena said. Initial investigation revealed, irked over departmental dispute with Singh, the accused attacked Varsha. The railway authorities ordered suspension of Meena. Watch Rajasthan: Railway engineer attacks senior’s wife in Kota||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/railway-engr-attacks-seniors-wife-in-kota-dist/articleshow/76539857.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||‘Willing to provide e-governance software to corporation’||KOCHI: Kochi corporation has no option but to dump the developed modules of stalled e-governance project and opt to integrate software developed by Information Kerala Mission (IKM) as neither they have access to the source code nor can hope for support from Tata Consultancy Service which exited from the project. IKM, which pioneered e-governance projects in the state, has expressed willingness to provide software developed by it if the Kochi corporation requests for. “IKM software are used by almost all local bodies in the state. If Kochi corporation gives us a letter, we are ready to provide software solutions,” said S Chitra, executive director, IKM. According to IT department officials, questions regarding accessibility of data and its compatibility would remain. The infrastructure purchased for the project is now a decade-old and modules run on proprietary code, which cannot be accessed unless TCS provides them. The e-governance project of Kochi corporation had envisaged a total of 10 applications with 24 sub-modules. Out of these 24 modules, GIS and budget management, under the accounts management system were dropped. Standardisation testing and quality certification (STQC) was completed for only two modules — council management system and the corporation portal. Six sub modules — birth, death and marriage certification under health management system, town hall booking under revenue management system, grievance management under general administration management system have also been certified. IKM has been developing an enterprise resource planning (ERP) suite with a single sign-in but its deployment is likely to be delayed. The suite was piloted in Chemmaruthy panchayat near Varkala and bugs are being fixed. Customising the solution for an urban local body would be time consuming. It would be better for Kochi corporation to adopt the IKM bouquet of software which can be made up and run without delay. Another option would be to rope in volunteers for an open source initiative driven by agencies like international centre for free and open source software (ICFOSS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/willing-to-provide-e-gov-software-to-corp/articleshow/76537886.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Security guard rescued at Bandstand||MUMBAI: A 52-year-old man who ventured onto the rocks, a km from the seashore at Bandra Bandstand, was rescued by fire brigade on Tuesday. Personnel donning PPE used ropes and a ring buoy to venture into the sea when it was low tide and rescued the Vikhroli resident. Witnesses said he was at Bandstand since 6pm, clicking photographs, but suddenly started walking into the sea. Bandra police reached the spot and drove away the onlookers before calling the fire brigade. Police said the security guard gave vague answers when asked why he had ventured into the sea. Police have summoned his wife and are recording her statement. They suspect he planned to end his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/security-guard-rescued-at-bandstand/articleshow/76539166.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Order can be challenged only in court: Immigration lawyers||HYDERABAD: Immigration lawyers say the move to block non-immigrant work visa holders and dependants from entering the country can only be challenged in court. Prashanthi Reddy, an immigration lawyer who heads a New York-based law office, said: “The order can be extended if Trump comes to power again. Only hope for affected people is if the matter goes to court.” She said since the IT sector has seen dip in unemployment and the executive order covers a long period of time, these two factors could go against the order being upheld. Speaking to TOI, Rajiv S Khanna, founder, immigration.com, said: “There are several aspects in Trump’s order that do not make sense. For instance, why would you want to separate H4 holders from their families. Most H4 people do not work and are not competition for US job seekers. Similarly, L1 transfers too are within companies’ branches. You can’t hire someone from outside and they do not effect the job market.” Khanna said the ban would affect economy adversely. Most H4 people do not work and are not competition for US job seekers. Similarly, L1 transfers too are within the companies’ branches||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/order-can-be-challenged-only-in-court-immigration-lawyers/articleshow/76540611.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||UPSIDA goes for e-auction, gets Rs 10cr for 9 plots||Lucknow: In a novel initiative, the UP State Industrial Development Authority (USIDA) has held an e-auction for nine plots across the state for the first time. Against the base price of Rs 4.23 crore, the nine plots were auctioned for Rs 10.33 crore. The most expensive property is a plot in Gautam Budh Nagar’s Surajpur which went for Rs 2.02 crore against a base price of Rs 68.48 lakh. Other plots auctioned are located in Barabanki, Kanpur and Bulandshahr. “We had taken a decision for e-auction some months back. On June 16, we auctioned five plots, followed by four more on Tuesday. To avoid allegations of corruption, we decided that there should be at least three bidders for a plot before it is taken up for auction. Now, we shall be targeting about 100 plots a month,” said Anil Garg, CEO, UPSIDA. He added that 30 plots would be advertised on June 27, followed by another 30 plots on July 3. Garg said that the system was adopted at chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s insistence on transparency in the system while also ensuring that land was being made available for industrial development in the state. There are 154 industrial areas in the state of which 75% land has already been allocated. The e-auction is being held for the remaining 25% plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsida-goes-for-e-auction-gets-rs-10cr-for-9-plots/articleshow/76540327.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: HC orders immediate handing over of houses to flood victims||KOCHI: With politics preventing the handover of the 34 houses built for rehabilitation of Kavalappara flood victims, the high court on Tuesday ordered Malappuram district collector to collect the keys and hand over the houses to the beneficiaries forthwith. The court said the delay, despite completion of construction, was unjustified. Justice Anu Sivaraman issued the order after considering a petition by a resident of Chalikkal Colony at Chungathara through advocate CM Mohammed Iquabal. The houses were built at Chembankolly by Federal Bank under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme for the families of the colony who had lost their houses during the 2019 floods. When the construction started, the Nilambur MLA and his henchmen had obstructed it and the then district collector had removed them and allowed the construction to go on, the petition supported by news reports said. The state government was trying to accommodate some other families in the houses due to the influence of the MLA. The said MLA is obstructing the implementation of the project as he was not invited for the foundation-laying ceremony, the plea said. Even though a mass representation was filed before the present district collector seeking rehabilitation to the houses in question, no action is being taken, it was alleged. Government pleader submitted that the delay in shifting the families to the houses is due to the Covid-19 situation. In the order, the court said, “Having considered the contentions advanced on all sides, I am of the opinion that since the project is complete and the residences are ready for occupation, the continued delay… is completely unjustified. In the above view of the matter, the 5th respondent (Federal Bank) shall hand over the keys of the project to the district collector forthwith. The district collector is directed to take appropriate steps to see that the beneficiaries are rehabilitated to the project as contemplated initially without any further delay. The needful shall be done within a period of three weeks from date of receipt of a copy of this judgment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-immediate-handing-over-of-houses-to-flood-victims/articleshow/76537870.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||No respite from surge in Punjab, 162 test +ve||Chandigarh: Punjab reported Covid-19 cases in three figures for the ninth consecutive day on Tuesday as 162 people tested positive and four died of the virus, taking the tally to 4,397 and the casualty count to 105. Two deaths more were reported in Jalandhar and Sangrur, but these were yet to be added to the state tally. There was some respite too, as 222 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state after they recovered from the virus. Among the new patients, seven are police personnel, six are health workers, two are jail inmates and one is a merchant navy officer. Source of 20 cases was outside Punjab and the teams of the health department failed to trace the source of infection in 18 cases. Jalandhar recorded the highest number of cases for the second consecutive day, 38. The new cases include 20 contacts of positive cases. In 16 cases, the health team failed to trace transmission history. Ludhiana recorded 34 cases, of which 18 were contacts of positive cases and the source could not be traced in three cases. Eighteen cases were from Sangrur, 12 from Patiala, 11 from Bathinda, 10 from Fatehgarh Sahib, nine from Moga, seven each from Amritsar. Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Ferozepur, three cases each were from Mansa and Barnala, and one each from Tarn Taran and Faridkot. Two deaths were reported in Ludhiana, and one each in Amritsar and Patiala. In Jalandhar, a 28-year-old woman, who was a TB patient, died at a private hospital on Monday night. Hailing from Guru Nanak Pura locality, deceased was admitted with medical complications at the private hospital. She died soon after testing positive for the virus. Also, a 65-year-old man from Ahmadgarh in Sangrur died at DMCH, Ludhiana. He had been on ventilator support and the source of his infection was unknow. He had caught fever after visiting his duaghter’s home in Malerkotla. It was learnt that two more patients of Sangrur were in serious health condition. In Amritsar, a 67-year-old woman was among those who died. The Loha Mandi resident was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on June 17. She had been on ventilator support. (Inputs from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-respite-from-surge-in-punjab-162-test-ve/articleshow/76539884.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Truck hits bike in Tankara village, kills two||RAJKOT: Two persons were killed when their bike was hit by a speeding container truck near Chhatar village, 25 km from Rajkot, in Tankara taluka of Morbi district on Tuesday morning. In the incident Tayyab Ismail Juneja (50) of Rajkot was riding the bike from Rajkot to Hadala with his relative Tayyab Siddique Junena (57), a resident of Hadala village in Tankara in the pillion seat. A speeding container truck hit their bike from behind, said police, adding that while one of the riders got crushed under the truck’s wheel, the other, who got flung off the bike, fell down on his head on the road. According to police, both riders died on the spot of the incident. “The driver abandoned the truck and fled from the spot anticipating public fury. We have, however, booked the driver on charges of rash driving,” said an official from Tankara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-hits-bike-in-tankara-village-kills-two/articleshow/76539142.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||After slow start, Covid-19 cases galloping at full speed in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus pandemic was a slow starter in Telangana. It took 54 days to hit the 1,000 cases mark after the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 2. Three-and-a-half months later, the state is recording over a thousand cases in a span of just 2-3 days. Going by the health department bulletins, 4,000 cases were reported between June 15 and 23 alone. According to data available with the Union health ministry, the state government (as on June 23) had conducted 63,249 tests with a positivity rate of 15.20%. AP, which has done about seven lakh tests so far, has a low rate of 1.38%. Interestingly, the national average of positivity cases also stands at a low of 6.17%. The rise in numbers and doubling of cases, especially in Greater Hyderabad, is a major concern for the authorities even as people are feeling the heat. Senior officials admit that ever since the lockdown norms were being eased, Covid-19 cases rose alarmingly, more so in the last one month. If the first 1,000 cases was recorded on April 27, it took another 32 days to reach 2,000 cases. But, within five days, the number crossed 3,000 cases. Now, the state is racing towards 10,000 positive cases. From June 1 onwards, the state has been registering over a hundred cases every day. On June 23, the state reported 879 cases in a single day, taking the tally to 9,553 cases. The government has increased testing in the last two weeks following the court directions and also pressure from the opposition parties. Health minister Eatala Rajender, said the tests were being done as per ICMR guidelines. “The government is taking all possible measures, including tests, creating infrastructure and providing treatment to those who test positive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-slow-start-covid-19-cases-galloping-at-full-speed-in-state/articleshow/76540621.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers oppose Centre’s Electricity Amendment Bill||Coimbatore: Farmers in the district have opposed the Centre’s Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 on the grounds that it seeks to alter the modalities of the free power scheme.Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam said as per the amendment, they would not be entitled to free power, but would receive a compensation subsidy amount in their bank accounts.They said farmers were using common wells and pumps on their farm land, and if the subsidy is deposited in separate bank accounts, it could cause unnecessary confusion among them. The farmers have demanded that the amendment be revoked. Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam petitioned the Coimbatore district collector in this regard on Tuesday. “We seek that the Centre repeal the Amendment Bill, and we seek that the state continue to provide power to farmers,” they said. K C Rathinasamy, state president of the association, said around 23lakh power connections for farmers were being provided for free by the state and around half of these were being used by groups of farmers. “The amendment bill says if the states wish to provide subsidy for farmers, they can deposit the amount in their bank accounts. If this is the case, there would be several difficulties for those who are using common wells and pumps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-oppose-centres-electricity-amendment-bill/articleshow/76539869.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana's Rangareddy emerges as Covid-19 hotspot||HYDERABAD: From riding high on a real estate boom, Rangareddy district is now becoming a hotbed for Covid-19 cases in Telangana after Hyderabad district. While a part of the district like Saroornagar, Serilingampally, LB Nagar and Abdullapurmet falls under Greater Hyderabad limits, coronavirus cases are surging rapidly even in non-GHMC areas in Rangareddy like Narsingi, Moinabad, Shankarpally, Rajendranagar, Shabad, Chandanvelly, Lemoor and Balapur areas. The district has recorded 835 coronavirus cases — 477 in GHMC limits and the rest 358 in non-Greater Hyderabad mandals — so far. On Tuesday, 74 new cases were reported. A couple of days ago, the district had just 107 cases. The government is worried over the rising cases as more number of cases are being reported from Serilingampally mandal, which covers a major part of the IT corridor. “In non-GHMC areas, Balapur reported 17 cases and Narsingi 11 new cases on Tuesday. When it comes to GHMC areas, 14 persons tested positive for Covid-19 and eight in Saroornagar,” the district health bulletin said. Earlier, the district has reported cases from LB Nagar, Vanasthalipuram, Saroornagar, Manikonda and other areas in GHMC limits. “The district had less than 100 cases till June first week. Now, there has been a sharp spike in the number post easing of lockdown,” a senior official of the district said. The district has recorded 835 coronavirus cases — 477 in GHMC limits and the rest 358 in non-Greater Hyderabad mandals — so far. On Tuesday, 74 new cases were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rangareddy-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/76540637.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC seeks dist civil surgeon’s help||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), dealing with a sudden spike in coronavirus cases in the city, is in severe need of additional medical staff to work in the Covid-19 hospitals as well as for conducting health surveys to trace high-risk contacts of confirmed patients. The state government had given its consent for the recruitment of 200 medical staffers for the civic body through the civil surgeon. So far, only 23 new medical workers have been recruited for the NMC from this lot. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has now written to district civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale. The NMC has also urged the civil surgeon to provide 200 students from multi-purpose health workshops (MPW) and nursing colleges to help its health department in conducting health surveys in containment zones, slums, old city and other areas. In the past three weeks, there has been a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. More than 1,000 residents have tested positive during this time, said the NMC officials. “We have already recruited 100 medical workers, including 15 doctors, 35 ward boys and 50 nurses, on our own. But we need more,” they said. The state government had okayed the recruitment of 200 medical workers, including 35 doctors and 165 nurses and ward boys through district civil surgeon. But only 23 have been recruited so far, NMC officials said. “We have sent a letter to the district civil surgeon, urging him to recruit the remaining workers and also students from MPW and nursing colleges,” they added. When contacted, district civil surgeon Jagdale told TOI: “We have recruited 23 staffers for the NMC. We have again issued advertisements, inviting applications for the remaining 177 posts.” “Moreover, we have provided 50 students from nursing colleges to the NMC to help with health surveys. We are also in the process to provide more students from homeopathy and other colleges to the civic body,” Jagdale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-dist-civil-surgeons-help/articleshow/76536653.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Suspected Covid patient’s body lies unattended for 20 hours outside home||Kanpur: The body of a 50-year-old man, suspected to have been infected with coronavirus, lay sprawled on the ground at a lane outside his home in Pahadpur village in Bidhnoo area of the district for over 20 hours since Monday. A bachelor, he had high fever and suffered extreme bouts of coughing before he lost consciousness and collapsed outside his house on Monday afternoon. The man’s cousin alleged health officials and police refused to budge despite SOS calls even as panic gripped the village about a possible virus spread. “My cousin’s body lay in the open for nearly 20 hours. It was only after senior district officials were informed that police arrived on Tuesday and dumped the body in a loader vehicle and carried it away for autopsy,” he said. He particularly accused health officials of acute negligence. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla said, he is aware of the incident and said he dispatched a 108 ambulance and asked a medical department team to visit the spot and take stock of the situation. “I will seek an explanation from health officials about the delay,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suspected-covid-patients-body-lies-unattended-for-20-hours-outside-home/articleshow/76540330.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||UP ‘cow smuggler’ enters Rajasthan, arrested||ALWAR: The Bharatpur police arrested one of three alleged cow smugglers who entered the district upon being chased by the Uttar Pradesh police on the intervening night of Monday-Tuesday. The other two accused were nabbed by the UP police, which took them back to their state. The man arrested by the Bharatpur police was allegedly thrashed by the villagers, who later handed him over the cops. Police arrested the man on charges of disturbing peace (IPC section 151) since no cows were found in the vehicle, which was seized from the spot. The Uttar Pradesh police was apparently chasing the cow smugglers and informed the Bharatpur police, which arrested one of the accused. Bharatpur police claimed that the accused was identified as Khan Saab (24), who was produced in a court that granted him bail. The drama intensified on Tuesday morning when there were unconfirmed reports that one of the two cow smugglers caught by the Uttar Pradesh police succumbed to injuries. The Bharatpur police did not confirm it. Bharatpur SP Haider Ali Zaidi said, “We arrested one youth for disturbing peace. We did not find any cows in his vehicle that was seized by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/up-cow-smuggler-enters-raj-arrested/articleshow/76539881.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Kidnapped 3-year-old rescued in 3 hours in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A three-year-old girl’s kidnap case was cracked within three hours with the help of CCTV footage. Bowenpally police tracked the girl, travelling on a bus, and with the help of their Ramayampet counterparts nabbed the kidnapped and reunited the girl with her mother. On Monday morning, Swaroopa, 27, a worker from Daultabad in Vikarabad district, approached Bowenpally police alleging that her daughter Sarita and flower vendor D Nagamma, 37, of Bachupally, who was looking after the girl at Bowenpally bus stop, went missing.  Police verified CCTV footage at the bus stop and noticed that Nagamma boarded a Nizamabad II depot bus along with the girl. They immediately contacted Ramayampet police. “We assessed the bus would be close to Ramayampet and alerted local police with the details. They intercepted the bus and nabbed the kidnapper. We have arrested her,” Bowenpally inspector C Anjaiah said.  The girl was handed over to her mother. On Friday, Nagamma, a native of Nizamabad who sells flowers near the Secunderabad railway station, saw Swaroopa and her daughter and spoke to them. “Swaroopa told Nagamma she quarrelled with her husband and left her home. Nagamma took them to her house in Bachupally promising work. She gave Rs50 to Swaroopa asking her to buy something for the girl when they were at Bowenpally bus stop. When Swaroopa went looking for snacks, Nagamma boarded a bus with the girl,” the inspector said. Nagamma confessed that she kidnapped the girl on the instructions of a man from Nizamabad. The police have seen his visuals on CCTV and launched a manhunt. Police said the investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-3-yr-old-rescued-in-3-hours/articleshow/76540655.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dams need few good spells of rain to reach full capacity||JAIPUR: With monsoon likely to arrive in the next 24 hours, engineers at various dams across the state have started preparations to set up flood control cells. Jaipur Met office on Tuesday said the south-west monsoon is likely to enter the state from Jhalawar. “Humidity levels are increasing and it appears that the state will get its first monsoon rainfall by Thursday,” weathermen said. Rana Pratap Sagar in Chittorgarh had received a good monsoon rainfall due to which it currently has 2078.540 cusec metres of water against its full capacity of 2905.230 cusec metres. “Presently, it is 71.54% filled and it needs two good spells of monsoon. We have set up our flood control cell and are ready to welcome monsoon,” said an engineer at the dam. Bisalpur Dam that caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of Tonk, Ajmer and Jaipur was merely 5.93% filled last year prior to the onset of monsoon is presently 56% filled. “This year Bisalpur dam needs three good spells in its catchment areas to get 100% filled,” said an officer at the dam. Similarly other dams including Mahi Dam (Banswara), Kota Barrage (Kota) and Jawahar Sagar also await good monsoon though they have got a good storage of water. “Last year, Hadauti region had a good monsoon and all its dams have got its water level up to 90%. Thus, if excess rainfall takes place, we will have to be prepared for looking for safer areas to release water,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dams-need-few-good-spells-of-rain-to-reach-full-capacity/articleshow/76539887.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Dairy owner ‘thrashed’ over mask penalty||PALANPUR: Aravalli district superintendent of police (SP) has ordered an inquiry after video of a dairy owner being thrashed by a constable in Bayad town went viral on Tuesday. The dairy owner Jagdish Pandit had allegedly refused to pay Rs 200 penalty for not wearing mask in his shop and an altercation erupted between him the cop. Sources said that Pandit as adamant on not paying the penalty or wearing the mask. Later, he reportedly dished out coins of Rs 10 to pay the fine, which enraged the cop further. Talking to TOI, Aravalli SP Mayur Patil said, “I have ordered deputy superintendent of police Bharat Pasiya to conduct an inquiry and submit a report with two-three days. Further action will be taken based on the report and extent of provocation.” The incident was captured in the CCTV camera installed in Pandit’s shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dairy-owner-thrashed-over-mask-penalty/articleshow/76539182.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli: Trio trying to exploit rape survivor’s ordeal arrested||RAJKOT: Amreli police on Tuesday arrested three persons, who tried to exploit the plight of a rape survivor, to blackmail and extort huge sum of money from her tormentors – the three sadhus – who were arrested for the crime. On Monday, the Damnagar police had arrested Raghuram Bhagat, Jagdish Bhagat and Bhavesh Bhagat, who had allegedly raped the woman several times in the last 18 months. However, it has now come to light that five persons including two women, tried to use the woman’s ordeal to extort Rs 45 lakh from the sadhus in lieu of convincing the survivor not to lodge a complaint. On Tuesday, Damnagar police arrested Pravin Rathod, Jignesh Manwar and Ramesh Maru, after the sadhus revealed that the trio were blackmailing them to shell out Rs 45 lakh. Two women – Labhu Muchhadiya and Meena – are also involved in the extortion bid. Investigating officer VL Parmar told TOI: Before lodging the complaint, the rape survivor had approached Meena and narrated her ordeal. Meena introduced her to others and assured all help. When Pravin asked the woman if she had any evidence, she gave them a video of the rape allegedly shot by the accused.” Pravin and others then started blackmailing the sadhus. “They made calls to the sadhus between June 12 and June 22. Meanwhile, the survivor herself approached police and the sadhus were arrested,” said Parmar. However, the rape survivor is not involved in extortion, Parmar said. Accused Rathod has been running an unregistered organization called Bahujan Tiger Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trio-trying-to-exploit-rape-survivors-ordeal-arrested/articleshow/76539164.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon civic body to hire more doctors||Nashik: The Jalgaon Municipal Corporation (JMC) has decided to recruit more doctors for treating coronavirus patients due to the rising number of cases in the city. Talking to TOI, Jalgaon city mayor Bharti Sonawane said that the civic body is fully geared up to deal with the constant spike in Covid cases in the city. Jalgaon city has emerged as the biggest hotspot in the entire district with over 464 positive cases so far. And, by the end of this month, the number could swell over 1,500. The containment zones in the city have increased from 84 about a fortnight back to 97 at present. “JMC is working as a team to curb the spread of the infection. We will recruit over 15 doctors shortly. We have also set up a second Covid Care Centre (CCC). There are a total of 163 beds in both the centres. The asymptomatic patients of the city are treated at these two centers,” said Sonawane. At present, JMC has 10 doctors and 39 nurses. According to Sonawane, the civic body is operating four fever clinics and has put in place a robust surveillance system to trace and test high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients in the city, especially those residing in the containment zones. According to the mayor, the cases in Jalgaon city started swelling after the easing of the lockdown. “The infection is spreading as people are violating the social distancing norms. The civic body has been appealing to the people to remain disciplined to prevent the spread of the infection. The noteworthy thing is that there has not been a single Covid-related death in our CCC so far,” Sonawane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-civic-body-to-hire-more-doctors/articleshow/76536670.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||With Hyderabad schools still shut, home tutors earn big bucks||HYDERABAD: The extended ‘lockdown’ of school premises in the city have brought home tutors back into business. With many children unable to cope with online classes, parents are turning to in-house tuitions to ensure their kids do not lag behind. And this despite the hefty price tag that most of these tutors come with — anywhere between Rs 4,000 and Rs 7,000 a month, for three classes a week. In rare cases the fee is even higher, confess tutors. “A parent from DRDL offered to pay Rs 8,000 only to clear the doubts of his two sons, who are in classes 6 and 7. It is for an hour-long class every day,” said B Shiva a tutor who is employed at a school in Ameerpet. Like him there are others too who, courtesy the pandemic, have suddenly found themselves in great demand. Unlike other years when home tutors would start getting year enquires only after the first summative tests i.e around October or November, and that too only from parents whose children were set to appear for board examinations, this year parents they already have their phones ringing incessantly. “Last year, during the beginning of academic year, I got about 10 enquires. This year, I have already received enquiries from close to 30 parents,” said T Mahesh, a mathematics tutor adding that this year even parents of classes 8 and 9 students are inclined on hiring home tutors for core subjects. And despite job/salary cuts, many are willing to pay 20% to 30% more for availing tuitions — particularly Physics and Mathematics. Same is the case with parents of class 6, 7 students looking at hiring a teacher for all subjects. “It’s worked out well for us too,” said Ali Basha saying how many teachers, with no salary from schools, are falling back on this income. “I teach Maths, Science, and English to two brothers, who are in classes 7 and 8, for two hours every day and charges Rs 10,000 for it. I am currently surviving on this,” Basha said and added that he is planning to take on more home tuitions to increase his income. Parents say, hiring a home tutor is not just more convenient — as they do not need to send their children out for private tuitions in these circumstances — but also more fruitful for their kids. “My son’s school started online classes from June 1. But I noticed that he is unable to grasp the subjects taught through this format. So, I have now hired a home tutor to come in and clear his doubts. He charges Rs 5,000 per months,” said M Suhasini, parent of Class 7 student. For over a week now, I have started taking home tuitions for class 10 students. Currently, I am teaching physics to three students and conduct classes on alternate days. I charge about Rs 6, 000 per month from each student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-schools-still-shut-home-tutors-earn-big-bucks/articleshow/76540677.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlock 2.0: Gujarat to seek more relaxations||GANDHINAGAR: Facing pressure from various quarters of society, the Gujarat government may seek additional relaxations during Unlock 2.0, which is expected to come into force from July 1. Two major representations that have been made to the state government — increasing the timing for keeping shops and establishments open and reducing the night curfew hours. The state government has received several representations from people, complaining of “harassment” by the police and authorities for keeping shops and establishments open beyond the permitted time and violating night curfew. During Unlock 1.0 which is presently in force, shops and establishments cannot remain open beyond 7pm. Night curfew remains in force from 9pm to 5am. Sources said the government has been receiving feedback from MLAs and various trade bodies over these issued. “People moving in the city after 9pm have been facing problems because the police have been enforcing the night curfew. People arriving in the city by ST buses after 9pm are also facing harassment,” the source said., Besides, restaurants, gyms, shop owners and work establishments have made representations and requested that the 7pm deadline to close down shops, restaurants and other establishments is causing them huge financial losses. “There could be further relaxations in timings for restaurants and other establishments when Unlock 2.0 comes into force. In fact, all timing restrictions could be done away with a strict warning that all social distancing and other pandemic related protocols should be followed. However, all relaxations will be subject to government of India approval,” the source said. Restaurant business is among the worst affected with the restrictions in operational hours imposed by the government. Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat, said, “More than 80% of restaurant business takes place in the evening. The restriction in timings is a major deterrent to our business which has reduced to barely 10% in terms of order volumes for takeaways and dine-in services put together.” Retail footfalls are also low and with restrictions in timings, retailers are facing steeper challenges in recovering business. “Being scared of a forced shut down, retailers are shutting shops by 6pm itself in most parts of Gujarat. With Unlock 1.0 set to end in a week’s time, the government should consider allowing shops to remain open till late and lift curfew restrictions altogether,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). Watch Gujarat to seek additional relaxation during Unlock 2.0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlock-2-0-state-to-seek-more-relaxations/articleshow/76539853.cms||Kapil Dave
June 24, 2020||Agra||AMU girl appears for exam from isolation ward of JN Medical college||Agra: At a time when Novel Coronavirus has completely derailed the examination system across the country, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) helped a Covid positive girl student to appear for her exam from a hospital’s isolation ward with the CCTV camera monitoring it. Her answersheet was uploaded on a special portal created for the purpose. The girl tested corona positive a day before her offline examination that began on Tuesday.The student, pursuing MD in Pathology from AMU’s medical college, gave her final exam from an Isolation ward of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College (JNMC). She was provided with the question paper and answersheets in the ward.According to the controller of examination (CoE) Mujibullah Zuberi, the university made an innovative arrangement by involving both online and offline methods of examination. He said, “The online invigilation of her exam was conducted for three hours through the CCTV camera.”After the examination, the student was provided a mobile phone with internet connection for uploading her answersheet on a special portal created by the university. “Her copy has been put in a sealed cover and will be collected later. Total 190 students appeared for the offline examination,” Zuberi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-girl-appears-for-exam-from-isolation-ward-of-jn-medical-college/articleshow/76536668.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Youth ends life at home on Vasna Road||Vadodara: A 21-year-old man who was helping his father in his furniture business ended life by hanging at his home on Vasna Road in the early hours of Tuesday. While nobody knows why Jay Mistry had taken the extreme step, his parents told cops that their son had discontinued BBA course last year and there weren’t any signs of unhappiness at home either. However, the deceased did not leave any note behind. Cops said Mistry was found hanging from the ceiling fan in the kitchen at around 5 am when his parents woke up. They immediately called 108 ambulance, but the paramedical staff declared him dead. A case of accidental death was registered at the Gotri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-ends-life-at-home-on-vasna-road/articleshow/76536315.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Business||Insurers allowed to launch short-term Covid-19 covers||Hyderabad: Taking note of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country and paving the way for the insurance sector to cater to people across socio-economic strata, insurance regulator Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), on Tuesday allowed all insurers to float short-term health cover for Covid-19 for term of less than 12 months. “With an objective of making available insurance protection to various sections of people in the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, it is considered that short-term health insurance policies providing coverages specific to Covid-19 disease is the need of the hour. Accordingly, all insurers (life, general and health Insurers) are allowed to offer Covid – 19 specific short-term health insurance policies…,” it said. IRDAI has allowed insurers to offer short-term individual and group products. These policies can be issued for a minimum term of three months to a maximum term of 11 months. As per the guidelines, insurers have been advised to devise inclusive short-term health insurance products where waiting period is part of the products but does not exceed 15 days. While life insurers have been permitted to offer only benefit-based, short-term health insurance policies, while general and health insurers have been permitted to offer both indemnity based and benefit-based short-term policies. Adarsh Agarwal, appointed actuary, Digit General Insurance Ltd, pointed out that the demand for Covid-19 specific health covers is high and the company has also been receiving a lot of enquires for a similar cover. “Now with the revised guidelines, we envisage this demand-supply gap can be fulfilled and new innovative Covid 19 specific products will be launched in the market that are relevant and useful to customers in such times of a pandemic.” Bharat Kalsi, CFO, Bajaj Allianz Life, too added that the industry will be responding by introducing value-packed products to help customers manage their healthcare expenses arising due to the Covid-19 virus. “The industry will try to offer products at affordable prices for customers across segments,” he added. These guidelines will remain valid for issue of short-term Covid-19 health policies till March 31, 2021, unless extended further. Earlier in March 2020, the insurance watchdog had directed general and health insurers to design need-based products covering costs of Covid-19 treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurers-allowed-to-launch-short-term-covid-19-covers/articleshow/76539178.cms||Swati Rathor
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||This political move could end up hurting US IT sector, say honchos||Hyderabad: The Trump administration’s decision to suspend H-1B, L-1, J-1 and H-2B visas with effect from midnight is being seen by the IT industry as more of a political move aimed at appeasing voters ahead of the upcoming US presidential elections in November this year. IT industry honchos said the decision may not have too much of an impact on Indian companies if not extended beyond December 31, but could have an adverse impact on the US economy by starving it of skilled tech talent as some of the major consumers of these visas are US-based tech giants such as Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Facebook. The new proclamation `suspending entry of aliens who present a risk to the US labour market following the coronavirus outbreak’ comes into effect from 12.01 am on June 24 and runs through December 31, 2020. “It is more of a political stunt because of the upcoming elections. Unemployment in the US has shot up and the US government has to make some kind of statement to appease the voter community. But I don’t see it having any huge impact on Indian IT companies. It just means a deferment of ambitions of Indian techies aspiring to go to the US,” said Bharani Kumar Aroll, president of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), pointing out that unemployment is up only in the non-IT sectors in the US as most tech companies have witnessed increased demand for skilled manpower due to Covid-19 accelerating digital transformation. According to V Laxmikanth, national chair for GCCs, Nasscom, the move would have negative connotations for Indian IT companies if extended. “Everyone is hoping it’s for a limited period as it is an important visa for Indian IT companies. The only thing in favour is that currently there is no international travel happening due to Covid-19 any way.” However, BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman, Cyient Ltd, and former chairman of Nasscom, said he viewed it as a negative for the US and an opportunity for India to benefit from highly skilled talent that would otherwise have gone to the US. “Those sent on H-1B visa are considered highly skilled professionals, who are allowed into the US because those skillsets are not available there. If additional such workforce is not available, projects with US companies will get delayed and chasing the few number of existing professionals in US will push up their costs. In sum total, I see the move as a negative to the US.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-political-move-could-end-up-hurting-us-it-sector-say-honchos/articleshow/76540668.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 24, 2020||Nashik||14 deaths take Nashik’s Covid toll to 189||Nashik: As many as 14 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported across Nashik district on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 189. Of the 14 deaths, eight were reported from Nashik city while the remaining six were from rural parts of the district. Also, so far a total of 76 deaths have been reported in Nashik city alone. The eight deaths reported in the city included a 57-year-old woman from Dattanagar in Panchavati, 60-year-old man from Pakhal Road, 67-year-old man from Chowk Mandai, 85-year-old man from Amardham Road, 55-year-old man from Kazipura, 65-year-old woman from Phule Nagar, 50-year-old from Shivaji Chowk and 32-year-old from Bhimwadi. The six deaths from rural areas included a 57-year-old woman and 65-year-old man from Igatpuri, 56-year-old woman from Pimpri village in Niphad taluka, 65-year-old man from Deolali Camp, 80-year-old woman from Pimpalgaon and 32-year-old man from Jaykheda village in Baglan taluka. Moreover, Nashik city also touched the 1,300-mark in Covid-19 positive patients on Tuesday with 78 new cases. With the addition of these positive cases, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the city has reached to 1,372. So far, 558 patients have been discharged and the city currently has 738 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-deaths-take-nashiks-covid-toll-to-189/articleshow/76536681.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 24, 2020||Shimla||48 more test positive in Himachal Pradesh, tally hits 775||SHIMLA: Forty-eight fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 775. Twenty-three cases were from Hamirpur district, 17 from Kangra, three each from Shimla and Una, and two from Chamba. A majority of those who tested positive had returned from outside the state. With Covid cases registering a spurt in the hill state over the past week, the state government has decided to issue e-passes only on medical grounds or in case of death. At present, 324 patients are still under treatment in Himachal and 432 have been discharged from hospital after recovering from the coronavirus. Among other cases, 11 have migrated out of state, six have died of Covid-19, and two patients died due to other reasons. With the new cases, Bilaspur district has 37 positive cases, of which 14 are active while 23 have recovered. Hamirpur’s tally is now 205, of which 93 patients are under treatment and 111 have recovered. One patient from the district had died. Kangra’s tally also crossed 200 and settled at 208, with 87 cases being active, 120 patients recovering and one dying. Chamba district’s total has reached 46 cases, of which 10 are active and 35 have recovered. The tally in other districts is — Kinnaur (3), Kullu (5), Mandi (24), Shimla (36), Sirmaur (34), Solan (81), and Una (96). A total of 54,394 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Tuesday. Of them, 34,908 had completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 19,486 are still under active surveillance. So far, 67,020 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 65,803 tested negative and results of 442 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/48-more-test-positive-in-himachal-tally-hits-775/articleshow/76539898.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Agra||Covid-19: Agra & Bareilly report 2 deaths each, Meerut one||Agra/ Bareilly/ Meerut: Agra and Bareilly reported two Covid-19 deaths each while Meerut recorded one death on Tuesday, taking the number of people succumbing to the virus to 83, 6, and 62, respectively. Meanwhile, 10 novel coronavirus positive cases were recorded in Agra, taking the district’s tally to 1,157, whereas Bareilly reported seven new cases, taking the district’s tally to 202, including four cases which have to be transferred to other districts. In Pilibhit, five new cases were reported, taking the tally to 111, whereas Meerut recorded 22 new cases, including three police officers, taking the tally to 818. In Agra, the deaths include a 64-year-old man, resident of Chipitola locality, suffering from a severe acute respiratory infection and acute respiratory distress syndrome, and a 61-year-old man from Kamla Nagar locality who was suffering from chronic kidney disease. According to the health department, the two Covid-19 patients died due to co-morbid conditions. Moreover, in the district, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Out of the 1,157 cases, 83.69% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 112 active cases in the district. Agra chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.” In Bareilly, the deaths include a woman from Baheri town who went to KGMU, Lucknow, on Monday for treatment of kidney ailment. She was later tested positive for Covid-19 by a private laboratory. The second death includes a 45-year-old man, who was suffering from chronic lung disease for the last six years and died on Saturday. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. District surveillance officer, Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Both of them died due to comorbidities.” Meanwhile, Meerut’s chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “The positive cases included a salesman, a labourer, a house help, and three police officers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-agra-bareilly-report-2-deaths-each-meerut-one/articleshow/76536679.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Agra||Sharjeel Imam to be produced in Aligarh court on July 6||Agra: Anti-CAA activist Sharjeel Imam, who was arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch from Bihar’s Jehanabad in a sedition case on January 28 and later shifted to Guwahati Central jail by the Assam Police, will be produced in an Aligarh court on July 6. Civil Lines circle officer Anil Samaniya said a reminder warrant B had been sent to the Tihar and the Guwahati Central jail for the transit of Imam to Aligarh. The process had been delayed due to the lockdown. The CO said Aligarh police had lodged an FIR against Imam on January 25 for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the AMU campus on January 16 against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). A video of his speech that “Assam should be cut-off from the rest of India” delivered during the protest at AMU had gone viral on social media. Recently, the UP government had opposed an attempt of Imam, seeking transfer of all criminal cases against him to the national capital and probe by a single agency. The state government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court stating that the FIR registered by the UP Police against the JNU student and anti-CAA activist should not be clubbed with the FIRs registered by police in Delhi, Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh as his January 16 speech in Aligarh had "vitiated communal harmony for the next two months and led to large scale arson, stone-pelting and firing at police". Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, who is appearing for Imam, told the court that all the cases lodged against his client should be consolidated. There are five FIRs registered against Imam in different states, including Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, in connection with two speeches delivered in Delhi and Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sharjeel-imam-to-be-produced-in-aligarh-court-on-july-6/articleshow/76536699.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Agra||NSUI protests against UP govt’s decision to hold exams after June 30||Agra: Members of National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of Indian National Congress, on Tuesday staged a protest in several districts of UP against the state government‘s decision of holding examinations in higher educational institutes during the Covid-19 pandemic.The protest was organised in Aligarh, Shahjahanpur, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, and Mirzapur with protesters asking for withdrawal of the notification issued by the government in this regard. They demanded promotion of all students who are not in the final year to the next semester without any examinations. They also demanded that all the final year students be promoted based on their past performance with additional 10% marks. Universities and colleges are scheduled to begin exams after June 30 in the state. The government has also planned to conduct joint entrance examination of BEd in the state next month.General secretary of NSUI Anushesh Sharma said that several universities, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Chattisgarh, have agreed to some of the demands and have promoted students without any examination. “Despite a large number of Covid cases being reported everyday in the state, UP government‘s move could further spread the disease and expose students to it. Who will be held responsible if students get infected while participating in the exams?” he questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nsui-protests-against-up-govts-decision-to-hold-exams-after-june-30/articleshow/76536689.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Road, Panchavati traders down shutters||Nashik: Taking cue from their counterparts in the Old Nashik area, traders from Nashik Road, Jail Road, Upnagar and Panchavati areas downed shutters on Tuesday as part of the Janata curfew that will be in effect for the next four days. Traders in other market areas like M G Road, Main Road, Raviwar Karanja, Saraf Bazaar, Kapda Bazaar and Shalimar have been keeping their shops closed from Sunday. Over 50% of the shops in the city are closed on account of the Janata curfew that has been called by traders to break the chain and curb the spread of Covid-19. Now, traders from Cidco have also decided to observe Janata Curfew for five days starting from Wednesday. Senior corporator from Nashik Road area Dinkar Adhav said, “Traders in the Nashik Road area, including vegetable vendors, kept their units closed and observed 100% bandh. Even residents stayed at home and lent their support to the curfew called by traders.” President of Nashik Road Traders Association Nemichand Kochar said, “Traders across Nashik Road, Jail Road, Upnagar, Deolaligaon, Sinnar Phata and other surrounding areas voluntarily closed their shops on Tuesday as part of the Janata curfew.” Meanwhile, grocery shops in the Old city area will open on Thursday and function between 9am and 5pm. Rahul Daga, an office-bearer of Nashik Traders Association, said, “We kept our grocery shops closed for three days from Sunday. Since the Nashik Municipal Corporation had appealed to us to open the grocery shops as they come under essential services, the shops will open on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-road-panchavati-traders-down-shutters/articleshow/76536694.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||81 shops gutted in fire at Ooty market; losses pegged at Rs 2cr||Udhagamandalam: At least 81 shops were gutted in a fire that broke out around 1.30 am at Ooty’s municipal market on Tuesday. It took nearly four hours for fire service personnel to douse the blaze. A preliminary report of the forensic department said a sanitizer bottle kept near a hot surface might have caused the fire, leading to two cooking gas cylinders bursting in one of the tea shops located within the market.Officials said security guards at the market first noticed smoke billowing out of the market around 1.30 am on Tuesday, and raised an alarm. Shortly after, they said they heard the sound of an explosion, caused by the cylinders.“Shopkeepers staying nearby rushed to the spot after hearing the sound of the gas cylinders. Fire service personnel arrived soon. Around 40 gas cylinders kept inside the market were removed thus preventing a huge devastation,” said Saraswathi, commissioner, Ooty municipality.The market was closed for a day. The municipality assessed the damage and estimated the loss to be around Rs 2 crore. While the damaged shops will be rebuilt by the municipality, the monetary loss incurred by the shopkeepers will be recommended to the government for a grant. “The shops were not insured,” said a municipal official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/81-shops-gutted-in-fire-at-ooty-market-losses-pegged-at-rs-2cr/articleshow/76539900.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown aftershocks: ‘To let’ boards dot biz stretches||HYDERABAD: A nine-km drive through the Somjiguda-Punjagutta-Banjara Hills-Jubilee Hills stretch, is all it takes to ascertain the severe blow that the lockdown has dealt Hyderabad’s commercial sector. After every few metres along this road, a ‘to let’ banner hanging outside a closed shop catches the eye, even as most others around it still have their shutters down. The few that are back in business are found waiting, anxiously, for a customer to walk through the doors. When TOI asked locals, it learnt that the leasees gave up the premises recently. Previously, they were either footwear stores, apparel showrooms or branded mobile shops. Many of them were also small eateries and restaurants that haven’t opened post lockdown. “The rent was too high and they couldn’t negotiate for a waiver with the owner. I think that is why they moved out,” said an employee at a standalone commercial building on Banjara Hills Road No 2, about an electronics store on the ground floor. As per current market rates, the leasing rate of ground floor properties along this upscale stretch is anywhere between Rs 100 to Rs 120 per square feet. Given that most of these stores are 2,000 sft to 3,000 sft in size, the monthly rents range from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh. Then there are other overheads like electricity bill, maintenance and salaries of staff. While old tenants are moving out, new tenants are hesitating from signing fresh agreements, say property owners. And that’s evident from the numerous spaces along Jubilee Hills Road No 1 and 36 that are still lying vacant, also with ‘to let’ boards put outside. “The restaurant (on Road No 1) that was operating out of the space moved out before the lockdown. While there was another leasee that was supposed to sign a fresh deal, it has now been put on hold. They want to re-negotiate the rent,” said J P Reddy with properties across Banjara and Jubilee Hills. He said no new lease agreement is being signed now, even as tenants are seeking 50% to 100% waiver on rent. “Negotiations are possible to a certain extent; but then even we have EMIs and other payments,” Reddy added. Realtors predict another three to six months of struggle, especially for new entrants in the market. “Though landlords are trying to do their best, we will see many stores shutting down now. They might revive only after six months to one year if medical science is successful in finding a solution and people venture out again, albeit more cautiously,” said Shailender Singh, director of Proppro, a leasing realty advisory company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-aftershocks-to-let-boards-dot-biz-stretches/articleshow/76540688.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parcel special from Palanpur to Cuttack||AHMEDABAD: Western Railway, which ran a series of parcel special trains, will run one more pair of trains between Palanpur and Cuttack in Odisha. The parcel special train will leave Palanpur on Friday at 10.30pm and will reach Cuttack at 9.30am on Sunday. It will leave Cuttack on Monday at 7.30pm and will reach Palanpur on Wednesday, at 6.15am. The train will halt at Ahmedabad, Anand, Ratlam, Ujjain, Bina Junction, Katni, Bilaspur and Sambalpur among other stations. Railway officials said that between March 23 and June 21, Western Railway has run 353 parcel special trains and transported 62,000 tonnes of good. These included agricultural produce, fish, milk and medicines among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parcel-special-from-palanpur-to-cuttack/articleshow/76539852.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Erode||Two gaurs found dead near Erode||Erode: Two gaurs (Indian bison) were found dead in Andhiyur forest range in Erode district on Tuesday. “Both were aged around 18 and 20 years, and died due to old age,” said Uthirasamy, forest range officer(FRO) of Andhiyur. Officials from Andhiyur spotted the carcasses of the two gaurs near Kollupal area during a patrol exercise in Ennamangalam reserve forest on Tuesday. The forest officials then alerted the FRO, who reached the spot spot and initiated inquiry. Veterinary doctors from the department led by Dr K Asokan reached the spot and conducted an autopsy.“During autopsy, it was confirmed that both the gaurs had died of age related ailments,” the FRO said. Officials later buried the carcasses in the reserve forest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/two-gaurs-found-dead-near-erode/articleshow/76539902.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA slaps Rs5 cr defamation suit against party worker||Mangaluru: Facing a barrage of concerted personal attacks on social media for the last 45 days, from whom he said was a disgruntled BJP worker, Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath on Friday moved the first additional senior civil judge and chief judicial magistrate with a suit for damages as well as injunction. The court that heard the arguments, had reserved its orders for Monday, and granted relief to the MLA by granting injunction. M Chidananda Kedilaya, advocate for the MLA, said Anitha, first additional senior civil judge and CJM, who heard the matter in her order, directed B Sunil Bajilkeri to forthwith desist from levelling any personal allegations against the elected representative, either in person or through his associates, in any manner whatsoever. The court also admitted the damages of Rs 5 crore sought by way of defamation proceedings against the person, Kedilaya said. Vedavyas Kamath said the attacks using various social media platforms were getting sharper with each passing day. “I have been accused of profiteering in various development work initiated across my constituency and even in distribution of food kits to the needy during the lockdown,” the MLA said. “I chose to ignore them initially, and did not take legal recourse, lest I be accused of throttling the voice of people using my position,” he said. Noting that Sunil, who claims to be a BJP worker, had consistently worked against the party at various levels, the MLA said he had all opportunity as a worker, to take proof of any wrongdoings to the party president at the district and state level, and even furnish them to the chief minister. The development works are awarded as per official norms and the MLA has no say in these matters, he said, urging Sunil to go public with any such proof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-slaps-rs5-cr-defamation-suit-against-party-worker/articleshow/76533248.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Construction works of 56 houses begin||KOZHIKODE: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the construction works of the Puthumala Rehabilitation Project at Puthakolly in Wayanad on Tuesday where 56 houses and associated infrastructure will be built for the victims of the devastating landslide in 2019. Laying the foundation stone for the ‘Harsham’ project at Kottappadi through video conferencing, the chief minister said that the construction works will be completed within three months. The 56 families have been provided plots of seven cents each where houses with an area of 650 sq, ft will be constructed at a cost of Rs 6.5 lakh. State government will provide Rs 4 lakh and the remaining amount will be raised through sponsorships. Already 43 families who have lost their houses have been provided accommodation by government and other agencies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/construction-works-of-56-houses-begin/articleshow/76537985.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civil hospital to provide video calling facility for Covid-19 patients||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital will soon provide video calling facility for Covid-19 patients admitted at their facility so that they can talk to their kin.For this purpose, the hospital will procure as many as six mobile phones. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said that there is constant rush of relatives to meet their family members admitted to the Covid ward.“While we have put up a board that family members will not be able to meet the patients, the stream of relatives is constant. On this backdrop, it was decided to start a video calling facility for the patients and their relatives. Once the patient is admitted, his/her family members would be given a phone number on which they can make a video call. The relatives, however, would be given a specific time during which they can make the call. The duration of the calls would be decided later on,” Saindane said. “When someone gets tested positive for Covid-19, the family members start fretting. Thus, the relatives try hard to get in touch with the patient. Our staff is taking good care of every patient that is admitted in the hospital. Hence, there is no need of the relatives to worry about their family members. The video calling facility is likely to start in a couple of days,” he added.With rising number of Covid-19 cases, there is a heavy stream of patients in the isolation ward as well as the quarantine facility at the Nashik civil hospital. As on Tuesday afternoon, as many as 83 patients were admitted to the 100-bed facility at the civil hospital. Doctors said that in these trying times, every attempt was being made by the administration to ensure that the patients and their relatives were in a positive frame of mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civil-hospital-to-provide-video-calling-facility-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76536713.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records new high of 17 +ve corona cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 17 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 46 in the district. With this, the number of active cases went up to 32 in the district. Of the 17 positive cases, two are returnees from Chennai and Bengaluru. While three index cases were identified during random sample testing, the remaining 12 were primary and secondary contacts. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “The doubling time of cases has reduced to five days in the district. Of the 32 active cases, more than 70% are primary and secondary contacts.” According to the collector, the PRO of a private needle manufacturing company here has infected at least nine people. The company located at Yellanhalli has been locked. All the 755 employees of the company are being monitored. The two cases of the returnees from Chennai and Bengaluru will be cross-notified to the tally of their respective places, the collector said. At present, there are 19 containment zones, mainly in Coonoor taluk, in the district. “All safety measures have been taken in all the containment zones. We are in the process of further tracing primary and secondary contacts in the containment zones. Also, random samples lifting at check posts and door to door surveillance in panchayat areas are underway,” Divya said. On Tuesday, a high-level meeting, headed by Supriya Sahu, monitoring officer of the district and managing director, INDCOSERVE, was held in Coonoor to review the measures taken in the hill district in containing coronavirus. “As a preventive measure to contain Coronavirus in the district, it has been decided to, further, intensify checks at check posts and launching of community vigil in town and panchayat areas,” the collector said. As a community vigil, the public can call the the control room number-1077 to inform people who had entered the district without e-passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-new-high-of-17-ve-corona-cases/articleshow/76539908.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Crucial meeting on Metro phase-II today||Jaipur: After preparing a DPR for the Jaipur metro phase-II proposed between Sitapura and Ambabari, the state government will carry out discussions to initiate the project. For the same, the urban development and housing (UDH) minister has called a meeting on June 24. The Jaipur Metro Rail Cosrporation (JMRC) along with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which revised the DPR of phase- II conducted series of exercises to bring down the cost to approximately Rs 5,500 crore. A JMRC official said, “The approval DPR will be made in the state cabinet meeting. The project is now proposed on elevated corridor and the cost is reduced to half from earlier estimation.” An official said, “While construction cost of an elevated corridor is Rs 200 crore per km, it goes up Rs 550 crore per km underground,” said a senior (JMRC) official. In the DPR prepared in 2014, it was mentioned that project required land worth Rs 2,000 crore. “It would require less amount than mentioned in the previous DPR. The estimated cost for acquiring land will be reduced to Rs 500 crore,” said a source. As JMRC also received the conditional safety clearance certificate from commissioner of metro railway safety to open the 2.4 km underground metro railway section in the Walled City area, decisions will also take place to inaugurate the project, said a source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crucial-meeting-on-metro-phase-ii-today/articleshow/76539910.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICG recovers charas worth Rs 1.32 crore from Jakhau||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) personnel have recovered 88 packets of charas worth Rs 1.32 crore from some uninhabited islands off the coast of Jakhau Port in Kutch district in the past one week, an official statement said on Tuesday. The contraband has been handed to the marine police and further investigation is on, said the defence PRO Gujarat in a statement. On June 17, 21 and 22, the Coast Guards found four, 34 and 50 packets, respectively, on different islands close to Jakhau during search operations using hovercraft and rubber boats. During test by drug detection kit, the packets were confirmed containing charas. The search operation was conceived by station commander of Jakhau under the supervision of district headquarters-15 in Okha. After ascertaining that the powder was charas, the drug haul was handed over to the marine police, the official said. “The Indian Coast Guard recently commissioned a hovercraft squadron at Jakhau to make the coastal security robust, and it is yielding good results,” said the statement. On Sunday, security agencies and Kutch marine police had seized over 300 packets of charas along the coast near Jakhau since Saturday night. As many as 183 of these 300 packets were seized by the marine police. It is likely that the seizure could be bigger as the counting of packets was still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icg-recovers-charas-worth-rs-1-32-crore-from-jakhau/articleshow/76539850.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Video allegedly shot inside Roorkee jail surfaces online||ROORKEE: A video allegedly made by an inmate on a smartphone inside Roorkee jail recently surfaced on social media and sparked controversy on the alleged use of cell phones by prisoners. In the video, inmates are seen shouting slogans against jail staff. According to sources, an undertrial prisoner had been beaten up by the jail staff, which triggered the protests. In the 15-second-long video, gangster Chinu Pandit, who is accused in a number of crimes, including murder, can also be seen sloganeering. Jailer Prakash Diwedi said that the video is fake. “No video has been recorded inside the jail’s premises,” he said. However, IG (prison) PVK Prasad has ordered a probe into the incident. “Action will be taken according to the inquiry report,” Prasad told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/video-allegedly-shot-inside-roorkee-jail-surfaces-online/articleshow/76538001.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 24, 2020||Agra||Vrindavan widows to make designer masks with Krishna themes, to be available for sale online||Agra: On the occasion of International Widows’ Day on Tuesday, widows in Vrindavan have launched a project for making designer masks with themes related to Lord Krishna including 'Mor Ankh' and 'Bansuri'. In collaboration with an NGO, they will also make these masks available for purchase online. According to a member of the NGO which has offered support for the initiative, the widows residing in various ashrams in Vrindavan had learned how to make masks during the lockdown and even donated over 5,000 cotton and khaki ones free of cost to police, sanitation workers and government employees in the forefront of Covid-19 fight. He said that masks made of silk, cotton and khadi would now be sold online, adding that the revenue generated would directly benefit the widows. “We will provide the materials required for making masks. We are also planning to approach various renowned brands to facilitate the online sale of these masks,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/vrindavan-widows-to-make-designer-masks-with-krishna-themes-to-be-available-for-sale-online/articleshow/76536708.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Stringent strategy to check spread: Pb||Chandigarh: To check the spread of coronavirus, Punjab government has implemented a stringent containment strategy under which 19 containment zones have been formed in eight districts. Areas with population of more than 500 and more than five cases are being demarcated as micro containment zones. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said demarcation of micro containment zone is helping in proper utilisation of manpower to conduct activities like screening, tracing, testing and counseling of all high risk contacts. He said early identification has proved successful in containing the spread of Covid infection. The entire population in containment areas is screened regularly and all possible suspected cases are tested and positives shifted to isolation centers. About the Ghar Ghar Nigrani campaign, Sidhu said door-to-door survey is undertaken with the help of Asha workers/community volunteers to ensure early detection and timely testing. The data generated is being used for risk mapping which facilitates targeted interventions. As on Tuesday, of the 8,40,223 persons surveyed, 8,36,829 were found to be asymptomatic and 3,997 had symptoms like cough, fever, sore throat, breathlessness etc. The survey, which is still underway, has been completed in 5,512 villages and 1,112 urban wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stringent-strategy-to-check-spread-pb/articleshow/76539914.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Velingkar accuses state of misusing govt machinery||Panaji: Former Goa RSS chief and now an opposition party president, Subhash Velingkar is set for a face-off with the state administration on June 25. Velingkar has alleged misuse of government machinery against Prabodhan Education Society, of whose management Velingkar is currently a part. He has alleged that chief minister Pramod Sawant and state BJP leaders are continuing to pursue their political vendetta against him because he had protested against the then Manohar Parrikar government’s medium of instruction policy. The dispute over Prabodhan Education Society and the state government had even gone to the high court. Now, on June 25, inspector general of societies Soniya Halarnkar has called an annual general body meeting of members of the society to conduct elections of the managing committee. In the order, she has cited failure on the part of Velingkar to comply with the high court orders. Velingkar has, however, shot a letter to Halarnkar stating that her order has misinterpreted the high court order. On Tuesday, he told reporters that there will be no annual general body meeting as per the inspector general of societies’ order on June 25. The society has decided to hold the meeting and elections on July 12. He said the government order does not stand as the society is still functional as per high court orders and therefore no one can interfere in the functioning of a society which is not defunct. “This is the BJP’s way of taking revenge against me. Everyone including the chief minister is misusing government machinery to go after an educational institute.Earlier, payment to nine teachers of the school had been stopped despite all the paper work having been completed. They are pursuing a vendetta against me started by Manohar Parrikar, who, as defence minister, held a meeting at then Goa CM Laxmikant Parsekar’s official residence to plot against a small institute of Prabodhan Education Society, Vidya Prabodhini School in Porvorim,” said Velingkar. Velingkar said he is neither contesting the upcoming elections of the society nor wishes to continue on the school management, yet the interference continues. “The claims that I had failed to act on the high court order have no standing as we had already begun the process of conducting the elections as per the court orders. They think my social work is limited to the education society and want to end my role here. But my sphere of work is far wider than one educational institute,” said Velingkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/velingkar-accuses-state-of-misusing-govt-machinery/articleshow/76539919.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Allow 150 wedding guests in Nashik: Function hall owners||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: Wedding halls and lawn owners association in Nashik has welcomed the state government’s decision to allow ceremonies to take place, adding that the decision will help this sector gradually get back on track. The association has, however, appealed to the state government to allow more guests to attend the wedding functions as they would now be held in halls and lawns. The appeal comes after the state issued a communication to all the civic body chief as well as district administrations asking them to grant conditional permission to function halls. The communication has come as a major relief for the owners of functional halls and lawns who could not make any money over the past three months. The lockdown also had an impact on realted business like food caterers, orchestra groups, horse carts, band parties, florists, decorators, event management companies to name a few. “The decision taken by the state government is a positive move, but we want it to allow more number of people to attend wedding functions to make the business viable. Also, more than 2,000 families depend on this business. Therefore, allowing more people to attend functions will also help these families financially,” said Sunil Chopda, president of the Nashik wedding halls and lawn owners association. “We have suffered huge losses during the lockdown as we could not do business for about three-and-a-half months. Now, there are only a few auspicious wedding dates in June and July,” said Chopda. Chopda said that granting permission to 50 people for a wedding ceremony taking place in homes is alright, however, now that weddings can take place in halls and lawns, the government should extend the limit of guests till 150. “Moreover, we also need staff of 30 to cater to the guests during the wedding functions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/allow-150-wedding-guests-function-hall-owners/articleshow/76536733.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan continues tirade against opposition||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan continued his offensive against opposition Congress on Tuesday. He said that with the opposition leader’s endorsement it is understood that the words of KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran are those of the Congress party’s. Ramachandran had criticized health minister K K Shailaja calling her ‘Nipah queen’ and ‘Covid princess’, inviting sharp criticism from different quarters. “On Mullappally Ramachandran’s statement, the opposition leader has said those were the words of Congress. Has Congress stooped to such a level to use such words,” Vijayan said during a news conference on Tuesday. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and former chief minister Oommen Chandy who had earlier responded to the controversy didn’t disown Mullappally. Both said Mullappally’s explanation, that his words were taken out of context and made into a controversy, was satisfactory. “All who are reasonable have condemned the statement. Mullappally had said he stood by the statement. After that, the opposition leader endorsed it and said what the KPCC president said were the words of Congress”, the CM said. On opposition’s criticism that the CM himself used explicit terms to attack political opponents, Vijayan said, “When the state is united in fighting the pandemic, there is a move to attack the health minister who is leading the fight. I had criticized that. Can that be equated with something else?” To allegations that government was frustrated since opposition foiled corruption attempts in Sprinklr and Pamba sand mining, Vijayan said, “They can only sing what they have learnt. They might be thinking this would have been a golden chance (had they been in power). We haven’t learnt from their school. Covid-19 is a major disaster. Our aim is to save all people. We are making the best effort to prevent its spread. There is not an iota of corruption in this process.” On the controversy over the movie project on Variamkunnathu Kunjahammed Haji, the leader of Malabar revolution, Vijayan said Haji was a brave soldier who fought against British imperialism. “Our land has always honoured him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chief-minister-continues-tirade-against-opposition/articleshow/76538012.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Salem||Compressed bio-gas plant inaugurated in Namakkal||Namakkal: A compressed bio-gas (CBG) plant was inaugurated in Namakkal district by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conference in the presence of Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday. The plant is said to cost Rs 25 crore. “I have inaugurated retail sale stations in Namakkal, Puduchatram, Rasipuram and Salem areas along with this CBG plant,” he said. Palaniswami said Indian Oil Corporation and Germany’s Oil Talking company jointly had set up a bio-gas plant in Namakkal at the cost of Rs 34 crore. The plant is producing 2.4 MW of electricity. “Now, additionally, CBG unit has been set up,” he said. The new unit will produce 15 tonne of CBG and 20 tonne of bio-manure. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/compressed-bio-gas-plant-inaugurated-in-namakkal/articleshow/76539913.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Salem||37-yr-old man, daughter drown in well||Krishnagiri: A 37-year-old man and his daughter drowned in a well while learning swimming near Hosur on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as K Prasath, 37, of Simbalthotty village near Berigai, and his daughter Sylaja, 10. Sylaja was studying Class 5 in a private school while her father was a farmer. Prasath was teaching swimming to his daughter in an agricultural well. Prasath was watching his daughter swimming in the well by standing atop the well’s parapet wall. “She suddenly struggled to swim and Prasath immediately jumped into the well to rescue her,” a police officer from Berigai police station said. Both drowned in the well, he added. A case was registered, and further inquiry is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/37-yr-old-man-daughter-drown-in-well/articleshow/76539915.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||E-classes take toll on kids’ health||JAIPUR: Parents in the city are opposing online classes for primary schoolchildren as long screen time is affecting their health. According to many parents, students in the age group of 4-10 are spending 3-5 hours online. Arunabh Dubey, whose daughter is studying in Class 1 and spending four hours daily on screen for classes, said, “We have received a time table from the school authorities that includes a virtual assembly of ten minutes. What is the need for a class 1 student to attend four hours of online classes? The increase in screen time and concentration of the child are serious issues that we are facing right now,” Dubey said. Unlike Maharashtra where virtual classes are banned till class II and Karnataka, where the government has banned online classes till class V, no such step has been taken in Rajasthan till now. Maharashtra has even released guidelines for virtual classes. Another parent, Akash Saini, refused to let his son in kindergarten take online classes after he complained of headache. “We started with online classes, but my son started having red eyes and headache. I received many calls from the school to start online sessions again, but I refused. Moreover, the speed at which teachers are completing the syllabus is not the same as earlier. They have completed double the syllabus which I think is a justification to demand fees,” Saini said. Parents are demanding that if not total ban, at least there should be a regulation over such online classes. An official of education department said there is no such plan by the government, but discussions are on to take a final call. An important question that arises is about the alternative to online classes. Education expert K B Kothari, commenting on other states banning online classes, said this is too extreme.  “At the time of pandemic, online classes should be used creatively for primary sections. Instead of just sticking to old school methods of chapter-wise teaching, there is a need to introduce creative ways to make children learn. Banning online classes is an extreme step. There should be a middle way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-classes-take-toll-on-kids-health/articleshow/76539917.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Amritsar||Bathinda: Five arrested found +ve, 40 cops quarantined||BATHINDA: As many as 20 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda district on Tuesday. The patients include five persons taken into custody in three different cases of the Excise Act and one case registered under the NDPS Act. They were taken into the custody of CIA wing of the district police. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh said the 40 police personnel from CIA who came in contact with the arrested persons have been placed under quarantine. Further contact tracing is on. Apart from these five, the 12 persons who tested positive have travel history. Five persons had come from Bihar, three had come from Haryana and one each from Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Two others had come from Moga and Mansa districts. Eight others belonged to district Bathinda and are new cases. Two of the 20 fresh cases are pregnant women who came in contact with Covid-19 positive persons. Health authorities have started contact tracing in these cases. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh said apart from these 20, four persons were tested positive on Monday night. They all had travel history from other states to Bathinda. Also, five persons who were cured were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/5-arrested-found-ve-40-cops-quarantined/articleshow/76539921.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Kharif sowing activity picks up in Nashik dist||NASHIK: Kharif sowing across Nashik has picked up pace after the recent rainfall and as per the agriculture department, the activity has been completed on 58% of the estimated area. Maize, cotton, bajra, moong, soybean, jowar and bajra are the major kharif crops of the region. The normal kharif acreage in Nashik district is estimated at 6.65 lakh hectare, of which sowing has been completed on 3.89 lakh hectare. Maize contributes to around 35% of the total acreage, while bajra and paddy share 17.37% and 14.61% of the sowing area, respectively. Sowing of maize has been completed on 1.94 lakh hectare area out of the estimated 2.09 lakh hectare, while of the 1.17 lakh hectare, bajra has been sown on 74,727 hectare (63.60%) in the district. The plantation of paddy is yet to pick up in the district as of the 78,613 hectares, paddy has been planted only on 31 hectare. The sowing activity has been carried out from over 70% to 90% in eight of the 15 talukas of the district, but it is still below 10% in other seven talukas of the district. Talukas where over 70% of sowing has been completed are Malegaon, Baglan, Kalwan, Deola and Nandgaon, Yeola, Chandwad. Meanwhile, Nashik, Surgana, Trimbakeshwar, Dindori, Igatpuri, Peth and Niphad are the talukas where sowing activity is yet to gather momentum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kharif-sowing-activity-picks-up-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/76536751.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 24, 2020||Kanpur||One killed, two hurt in accident on Agra e-way||Kanpur: One person was killed while two others injured in an accident on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday after the Fortuner vehicle they were travelling in crashed into a truck on Agra -Lucknow Expressway in Taalgram area of Kannauj. The car was driven by Brijesh Kumar, a resident of Munshi Pulia Lucknow. Two other persons Amresh Singh (35), a resident of Gomti Nagar and Shivangi Sharma (28) of Rana Pratap Marg, were travelling in the vehicle. “The three were returning to Lucknow from Delhi in an SUV which rammed into a truck near Sakhrani village. Amresh died on the spot while Shivani and Brijesh suffered injuries,” said station house officer Taalgram Vinod Kumar Mishra. All three were rushed to Tirwa medical college where Amresh, who had sustained serious injuries, died later, he said and added, "Shivangi has been referred to a private hospital in Lucknow." The accident was witnessed by few passersby who immediately informed the police, the SHO said. “Police took them to a Tirwa medical college," he added. Police have detained the truck driver identified as Daulu Ram of Jaipur Rajasthan. “We have impounded the truck and further investigations are underway in this regard,” said another police official investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-killed-two-hurt-in-accident-on-agra-e-way/articleshow/76539918.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Century-old pump house converted into cafeteria||JAIPUR: A century-old pump house, which was restored and transformed into a cafeteria under the Dravyavati River project at Panipech, will be given on lease soon with the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) having prepared the tenders. According to the terms and conditions, the company should have five years’ experience in the hospitality industry and atleast have operations in two states. A senior JDA engineer said, “The bid price for leasing out the cafeteria will Rs 1 lakh. The cafeteria is developed inside pump house, where people can learn about its history.” Along with rejuvenating the lost glory of Dravyavati River, the JDA and Tata Projects Limited have refurbished the water pump, which has historical significance. The cafe will have three types of sitting areas — one inside the pump house, another with a transparent roof while the third will be covered with vines that has been existing at the location for several decades. Officials believe the location of the cafeteria will lure investors as it is unique. “The old pump house structure on the compound from the colonial era has been restored as a heritage waterworks museum. Moreover, the park is also promising for bird watchers. The cafeteria will be a good opportunity for investors,” an official said. Explaining the historical value that could attract visitors, the official said the main pump inside the park was manufactured by engineers London and Erith in 1891. This was a steam pump that operated through steam generated in the boiler. The giant pump used to lift and supply water from the reservoir to the Walled City. “Vistors here can see the steam boiler that was manufactured by Babcock and Wilcox, London and Glasgow, and erected in 1911. The generated steam was transferred to the pump room for operation,” added the official. He added, “The other old tools and components excavated from the site have been repaired and mounted as decoration in the museum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/century-old-pump-house-converted-into-cafeteria/articleshow/76539920.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Gurgaon||MP workers in fix as Jind school’s cheques bounce||JIND: In a shocker for 20 migrant labourers from Chhatrapur town of Madhya Pradesh, cheques given to them by a renowned school in Jind, where they were engaged in construction work, have bounced. On May 15, school management had asked the workers to leave without pay amid the lockdown, but it had to take them back after police warned to lodge an FIR into the matter. Later, the migrants had set off on foot for their native place along with their kids from Jind, but someone informed police and social activists after they were spotted on the way. Thereafter, the district administration transported them in government vehicles to MP and they were given post-dated cheques. Rajesh, one of the migrants, said, “The school management had given four cheques worth Rs 19,500, Rs 28,000, Rs 10,500 and Rs 7,500 in return of our work. But when we deposited cheques, they bounced. We have failed to contact the school management. Now, none of us have work or money to survive.” School president Laksmi Narayan Bansal, who signed all cheques along with stamp of vice-president and joint secretary who all are in managing committee, said that “I don’t have contact numbers of migrants with me and I am not aware about cheque bounce. I will pay them through RTGS after establishing contact with them.” Jind DC Aaditya Dahiya said, “I will depute an official to sort this out. Migrants will not face trouble.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mp-workers-in-fix-as-jind-schools-cheques-bounce/articleshow/76539957.cms||Vijender Kumar
June 24, 2020||Surat||26 new Covid cases in Surat rural, 11 in Bhaurch||SURAT: Surat rural reported 26 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the district’s tally to 367. Kamrej recorded 18, while there were four in Choryasi, two in Bardoli and one each in Olpad and Mangrol taluka of Surat district. While five patients have lost their lives, 11 have been discharged on Tuesday. Altogether 220 patients have recovered and been discharged in Surat district. Bharuch district recorded 11 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the tally in the district to 161. Official sources said that a vegetable vendor at Shaktinath vegetable market in Bharuch was among the 11 tested positive on Tuesday. He was detected positive after complaining of severe cough and fever two days ago. Sources said that while 10 positive cases were reported from Bharuch town, one was registered from Jambusar taluka. “The Shaktinath vegetable market will be shut after a vegetable vendor was tested positive. We are tracing all the contacts of the vendor and that an appeal has been made to the residents to take extra precaution while visiting the market to purchase vegetables and fruits,” said a senior officer in the Bharuch administration. Meanwhile, Valsad district reported four more taking the district’s tally to 76. According to the health department officials, one case was reported from Abrama near Valsad. BOX: Covid-19 testing facility at Vyara Surat: Tapi district will not have to send Covid-19 testing samples to Surat now, as the state government allotted one Covid-19 testing machine to the general hospital in Vyara town, district headquarters of Tapi. "The machine has been given to the general hospital's laboratory for testing and we will now carry out the testing here,'' said Dr Naitik Chaudhary, civil surgeon, general hospital, Vyara. Tapi district has so far reported seven Covid-19 cases, although there is not a single Covid-19 active case as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26-new-cases-in-surat-rural-11-in-bhaurch/articleshow/76539246.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Vitamid-D tablets for rural police||NASHIK: Superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh said that Vitamin D tablets have been obtained in large quantities for distribution among the 3,000-odd personnel of the rural police to boost their immunity. The policemen have been instructed to take the tablets once a week. As Covid-19 infection is spreading fast across the district, police personnel who are in the frontline of Covid-19 management stand at a higher risk of contracting the viral infection. A large number of police personnel are deployed in containment zones across the district. Approximately 200 police personnel have contracted Covid-19 during the course of their bandobast duty in Malegaon. Similarly, four personnel of the Nashik police commissionerate have also tested positive for the viral infection. Distributing Vitamin D tablets for boosting immunity are one of the many measures being taken to ensure the safety of the policemen and that they do not contract Covid-19. Officials of the rural police said that they have set up a separate quarantine facility for policemen at Adgaon, where all those who have completed bandobast duty in Malegaon are kept in quarantine for 14 days before they are allowed to go home or resume work at their place of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vitamid-d-tablets-for-rural-police/articleshow/76536771.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Theni district to go into complete lockdown from today||MADURAI: The Theni district administration has announced a full lockdown in all its municipalities from 6pm on Wednesday. Periyakulam in the district is already a containment zone. Now, the municipalities of Bodinaickanur, Theni, Chinnamanur, Cumbum and Gudalur would also go into lockdown from Wednesday. Only essential services like vegetable shops, groceries, drinking water and LPG supply would be allowed on these days. Shops would be allowed to function from 6am to 2pm. Construction activities, hospitals, banks, industries would be allowed to function. Taxis, cars and autorickshaws can be operated for emergency purposes. Only three passengers can travel in a car and two in an autorickshaw. No pillion riding is allowed in two-wheelers. Meat shops can function from 6am to 2pm, while only takeaways are allowed for eateries and hotels from 7am to 9am, 12pm to 2pm and 7pm to 9pm. People without masks in public places, would be spot fined Rs 200. Textile, jewellery, shoe stores, fancy shops, tea stalls, petty shops and mobile phone shops will remain shut during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-district-to-go-into-complete-lockdown-from-today/articleshow/76540347.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist collector: Speed up dept works||NASHIK: District collector Suraj Mandhare has instructed heads of all the departments to ensure that they regularise their routine work immediately and also speed up the pending works. He said the district collectorate staff play a key role in alleviating Covid-19 fears among citizens. Once the departments start functioning normally, it will help normalise life in the district. Additional district collector Dattaprasad Nade, resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doiphode, district supply officer Arvind Narsikar and deputy collector Arvind Anturlikar were among the officials present at the meeting. Mandhare said the role of the revenue department was extremely important to keep the normal course of life intact in the time of the Covid-19 crisis. He also said every department head should take measures to maintain cleanliness, make available sanitizers etc. Thermal scanners and pulse oximeters have been made available to every department. The department heads should give proper training to the employees so that every visitor coming to the office is screened. The district collector said that a large number of people come to the district collectorate for some or the other work. It should be the priority of the staff concerned to ensure that the problem or work of the visitors is resolved at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-collector-speed-up-dept-works/articleshow/76536761.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Nod for liquor sale in restos, hotels to have little impact if 9pm curfew stays||Jaipur: Despite the state government allowing restaurants and hotels to reopen for business a fortnight ago, most have preferred to keep their doors shut. Many restaurant owners and hotel operators TOI spoke to listed out reasons why they were not reopening. In fact some who opened have closed again to save operational costs in the absence of any business. On Tuesday, the excise department allowed restarurants and bars in hotels to sell liquor. While this was a demand of the industry for a long time to attract customers, many said unless the night curfew timings were extended, allowing sale of liquor will not have any impact and will not make a case for them to reopen. Sunil Mehta, who owns restaurants and resorts in the city and outskirts, said that they were excited when the government allowed the sector to reopen on June 8. He said the industry did not expect the government to allow them to reopen before June 30. But with the night curfew starting at 9pm, it is impossible to draw people in to restaurants, he said. “Unless closing timings are extended at least up to 11pm, it is unlikely that restaurants will reopen. We cannot tell guests to place their last order by 7.45pm when the sun even does not set in properly. This is one of the key inconveniences that is not encouraging people to come out and dine in restaurants,” explained Mehta. Another reason that held back restaurants from reopening is the curb on liquor sale. Liquor shops were allowed to reopen but restuarants and hotels were not allowed. “People come to restaurants to have a good relaxing time and it is just not eating. Liquor adds to their experience as they want to unwind among near and dear ones. The curb on serving liquor robed off some of the experience they expect from dining out. I hope the government decision to allow sale of liquor in restautrants will draw in people,” said Atal Saran Bhargava, general manager of a hotel. The industry fears that if the situation does not change, many independent restaurants that have mushroomed over the past couple of years will shut shop. “Standalone restaurants will be in distress if the current Covid situation does not change soon because they have fixed costs to pay. On a brighter side, of late, people are shedding fears of coming out. Additionally, the approval of antiviral drug by the country’s regulator is a big positive. Pushing the night curfew deadline will create lot of confidence among people,” said Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a hotel. In case of hotels, the situation is no different even as the reasons are different. Some hotels have reopened, but there are no visitors. So, they had to close for saving operational cost. “Currently, there is no demand for business and leisure stays. We may be getting one or two guests in a day, but they are related to emergency situations. That’s why many hotels have preferred not to reopen because keeping hotels operational have a huge cost to it. Many people are tracking demand trends and will open as and when they find consumer demand,” said a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nod-for-liquor-sale-in-restos-hotels-to-have-little-impact-if-9pm-curfew-stays/articleshow/76539932.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 24, 2020||Trichy||11 more cops test test Covid positive in Trichy||Trichy: After the car driver of deputy commissioner of crime and traffic, Trichy city police, R Vetharathinam tested positive for Covid-19, 11 more police personnel in his striking force (SF) also turned Covid positive. They were admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Monday. A senior police officer said that most of them were asymptomatic. As soon as the results were out, they were admitted to the hospital. Several of them were residing in the police quarters at KK Nagar. Containment zone was created in the police quarters. Public health department officials said they would take swabs of their contacts for testing. Some of them in the striking force were bachelors. The health department officials also assumed that the striking force personnel could have been infected from the driver of the DCP because they would usually be in close contact whenever they were on duty. It may be noted that the official car driver of DCP Vetharathinam tested positive for Covid-19 on June 19. He reportedly got the infection from a relative from Chennai who had visited his house. The building which housed the offices of the DCP, crime and traffic, city crime branch, assistant commissioner of police, cantonment and the assistant commissioner of traffic, was completely disinfected on the day. All the offices except the DCP offices are functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11-more-cops-test-test-covid-positive-in-trichy/articleshow/76539924.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Aggrieved special teachers meet education director||Panaji: After not receiving salaries since June 2019, special educators working on contract in schools in the state have appealed to the chief minister and education department to release their payment. The special educators received salaries for the academic year beginning June 2017 in April 2018 and for the academic year beginning June 2018 only in December with the balance credited in May 2019 in certain cases. “For the academic year beginning June 2019 no salary has been credited till date. We request to ensure that this payment is released immediately,” stated the letter submitted by the Special Educators Association of Goa to the chief minister’s office and education department. The Special Educators Association of Goa along with the Disability Rights Association of Goa met the education director and secretary on Tuesday to highlight the delay in salary payout and disparity in pay scales among other issues. Special educators have been receiving salaries after an entire year, receiving appointment letters late with no pay allotted for the days they worked since the start of the academic year and instead of a nominal hike every year, their monthly remuneration has been reduced from Rs 35,400 in 2017 to Rs 20,000 in 2019-20, the education department was told. “The cost of living is rising but our salary is diminishing. EMIs, rent, travel allowance, basic household expenditures are monthly and on specific dates, but our salary is not,” the letter stated. The association also highlighted the disparity in pay scales where those who have completed graduation in special education are given undergraduate scale and those who have diplomas in special education are being paid according to graduate scale. “…special educators in general are paid less than the regular educators even though our work is more applicable even for those on permanent basis. We are registered as professionals with the Rehabilitation Council of India and we should be paid as such. There are high court rulings to this effect,” the association president Maria Liberata Mendonca said. Stating that they are being used as subject teachers and paper setters when they’re not qualified to, special educators on contract have also demanded for a job description to be given along with their appointment letter clearly stating the job roles. They have also sought for better teacher-student ratios that will benefit those with severe and mild disability as well as regularisation of posts for job security and trainings for CRE points in the state for their benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aggrieved-special-teachers-meet-education-director/articleshow/76539934.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hubballi||Linguist BB Rajpurohit dies at 86||DHARWAD: Noted linguist, Kannada writer-critic BB Rajpurohit died at his residence in Saraswatupuram in Mysuru on Tuesday. He was 86. He is survived by two daughters who are abroad. Hailing from Sortur in Shirahatti taluk of erstwhile Dharwad district (now Gadag district) Bando Bhimaji Rajpurohit did his schooling at Kurtakoti, Kundgol, Hubballi-Dharwad and obtained a PhD in Kannada. He served as a professor of Kannada at Udupi and Thiruvanantapuram, the Indian Institute of Linguistics, Mysuru, and was a visiting professor to Tokyo University, Japan. He authored Kannada-English-Japanese dictionary. A close associate and disciple of Jnanapith awardee poet laureate Da Raa Bendre, Rajpurohit has written 11 books on Bendre’s works besides 11 in English and 36 in Kannada. His book ‘Bendreyavara Samagra Sahitya Nighantu’ is hailed as a masterpiece. He has also written on Shri Brahma Chaitanya Maharaj in Kannada and Marathi. His final rites were performed at Mysuru on Tuesday. Writer Shaymasundar Bidarkundi, publisher Ramakant Joshi, Harsh Dambal, H V Kakhandki, Raghavendra Patil and others have condoled Rajpurohit’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/linguist-bb-rajpurohit-dies-at-86/articleshow/76539095.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University open house goes online, Covid-19 dominates queries||NEW DELHI: Delhi University on Tuesday hosted its first open house webinar for the upcoming academic session. The webinar addressed the queries of aspiring students seeking admission in the varsity and its affiliated colleges. Covid-19 related questions were the common theme behind the majority of the questions raised by students at the webinar, which was broadcast live on DU’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. As the admission process has gone entirely online this year, so has the first open house of the season. Conducted each year, the open house witnesses hundreds of applicants and parents seeking to learn more about the admission process and get their queries cleared. Most students sought clarity on the likelihood of getting hostels after admission, while others asked general questions about what the admission process would be like in the middle of a worldwide pandemic. DU’s admission committee, tasked with the admission process of undergraduate courses, organised the webinar from 11am to 1pm on Google Meet. The event was also live-streamed on Facebook and YouTube and was attended by over 6,200 registered participants. Dean of admissions Shobha Bagai highlighted the important changes in this year’s admission process. She urged candidates to make the best use of the various initiatives that have been put in place to make the admission process smoother and less stressful. These included seeking help through emails and phone calls for UG, PG and MPhil courses. “The bulletin of information is the Bible of registration. Go through it thoroughly before filling your forms,” she added. Admission committee member Anand Sonkar gave a presentation on the “Journey of Admission” and how the portal could be accessed by candidates to complete the online form. Bagai claimed the Covid-19 situation was being monitored continuously and, depending on it, colleges would take decisions on hostel facility. “The university will convey every decision to the students,” she said. Haneet Gandhi, deputy dean of the admission committee, asked students to not worry and utilise the time in hand to fill the online forms carefully. DU said it received more than 1,400 queries, which ranged from eligibility criteria to issues regarding self-attestation, certification, and clarity about the admission form. Many applicants were also concerned about the entrance exam and were informed by the university officials that admission to entrance-based courses would be conducted soon. A statement would be released by DU within a few days. The admission committee plans to conduct more such sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-open-house-goes-online-covid-19-dominates-queries/articleshow/76539943.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Man kidnaps his wife’s paramour||Vadodara: An employee of an engineering company was abducted on Monday by five people for having a love affair with a married woman for the last two years. The man was released later after his grandfather and a relative met the kidnappers. The man, Rajendrasinh Chavda, was forcefully taken away by the woman’s husband and his four family members to a scrap godown in Makarpura where he was beaten up and threatened at gunpoint. According to Chavda, he and his friend Keyur Patel met the woman’s husband Bhavesh Algotar and his friend Anuj Bharwad near his home at Makarpura GIDC as Algotar had learnt that Chavda and his wife Seema had been in touch. Algotar and Anuj made Chavda sit in their car and took him away to the godown. Meanwhile, Patel went to Chavda’s home to inform his parents about his abduction. Chavda told police that at the godown Algotar’s father Babu and other family members Akshay Bharwad and Bhima Bharwad also arrived. All five accused took turns to flog Chavda. Akshay also pointed a gun at Chavda to threaten him and asking him how he managed to get Seema’s contact number. In the evening, Chavda’s grandfather Ganpatsinh Chavda and a relative Jagdish Thakor arrived at the godown and talked to the five accused to get Chavda released. Police said that Chavda decided was in severe pain and was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. An offence of kidnapping, assault, criminal intimidation, conspiracy and Arms Act was registered at on Monday late night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-kidnaps-his-wifes-paramour/articleshow/76536991.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||RISU gets 23 acres on Sikar Road||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will allot 23 acres free of cost to establish the Rajasthan ILD Skills University (RISU) at Chop village on Sikar Road under ‘Knowledge City’ project. On Tuesday, RISU vice- chancellor Lalit K Panwar along with JDA officials inspected the site. The master plan of the land will be prepared by Rajasthan State Road Development and Construction Corporation. Panwar informed that the state government had allotted 30 acres for free near the petroleum refinery near Pachpadra Village in Barmer district to the university which will be developed as an energy village. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/risu-gets-23-acres-on-sikar-road/articleshow/76539952.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nashik||Cops trace animal cruelty clip to MP||AURANGABAD: After a month-long investigation, the Aurangabad rural police have tracked down the two youths who had — as seen in a viral video — tied the legs of a stray dog before throwing it in a pond. The cyberpolice had first tracked down one Gajendra Singh, a Delhi-resident who originally is from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. Singh confessed that he had uploaded the video on social media, but said his intention was to identify the suspects involved in the cruel act, said cybercrime PSI Vivek Jadhav. During the probe, it came to fore that Singh had received the video on a WhatsApp group called ‘Ujjain Ki Shaan’. It was revealed that it was taken by one Sunny Borasi, a resident of Ujjain. Sources said the preliminary probe has revealed that video went viral on several social medial platforms and the cruel act was committed only for the sake of making a “funny” video. However, the video evoked serious outrage after it went viral around May 20. The investigation by the cybercrime police of Aurangabad rural has not only helped track down two accused - Borasi and his unidentified accomplice - but has also led to the registration of offence. When he across the video, Aurangabad range’s special inspector general of police Ravinder Kumar Singal had ordered a probe. After tracking down the actual suspects, rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil alerted Singal, who personally took up the matter with senior police officers in MP. An offence against the accused was then registered at Ujjain’s Madhavnagar police station. Singal said the MP police have booked the two youths on the charges of cruelty to animals and are in the process of making arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-trace-animal-cruelty-clip-to-mp/articleshow/76536785.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 24, 2020||Trichy||Top officials undergo Covid-19 testing before CM’s visit to Trichy||Trichy: In view of the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s forthcoming visit to Trichy on Friday, top officials including the district collector and high-ranking police officers underwent Covid-19 testing in the city on Tuesday. The chief minister will hold a meeting with the officials including Trichy collector S Sivarasu at the collector office at 10 am on June 26. Going by a statement from director of information and public relations in Chennai, the chief minister will discuss about developmental projects being carried out in the district and measures being taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. Following the meeting he will visit Mukkombu, where the construction of new barrage across river Cauvery is going on. As soon as the unconfirmed information regarding his visit was received on Monday, the district administration put out a message to the media that those willing to cover the chief minister’s program should undergo Covid-19 testing. It was later confirmed that only videographers and photographers need to undergo the testing to be held on Thursday. On Tuesday, Trichy collector S Sivarasu, inspector general of police, Central zone, A Amalraj, deputy inspector general of police, Trichy range, V Balakrishnan and superintendent of police, Trichy district, Zia Ul Haque took the test for Covid-19 at the collector’s office. Commissioner of police, Trichy, V Varadharaju did not take the test on Tuesday.Dean of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), Dr K Vanitha, deputy director of health services, Dr A Subramani, were also among the officials who underwent the test at the collector’s office. Official sources said that the testing was conducted to ensure that the officials moving in close proximity with the chief minister during his visit are not Covid positive. The results of the tests would be released before the CM’s visit and the attendees of his program would be finalized based on the result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/top-officials-undergo-covid-19-testing-before-cms-visit-to-trichy/articleshow/76539954.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s industrial policy to be extended||GANDHINAGAR: The industrial policy of the Gujarat government, which was to lapse ending by the end of the month, will likely be extended by six months, as the state government is yet to finalise the new policy. The current police was earlier extended by six months. Chief minister Vijay Rupani held a meeting with senior officers of various departments to review the draft of the new policy, which was prepared by the government before the lockdown. It was decided that the draft will have to be revised after a fresh round of consultation with various stakeholders, as the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown have changed the scenario drastically. “The fresh consultations could take several weeks and the government is expected to notify another extension of the industrial policy for three or six months,” a government official said. Sources said that the new industrial policy, while focusing on long-term investment, will also provide relief to industries affected by the lockdown. “The government may also announce some relief measures and reforms to attract investment from Japan, USA and other western countries, which are trying to shift their operations from China,” added the sources. Sources in the government said that there has been feedback from various quarters that the cost of land is very high for industries. Besides, securing various clearances for land ownership takes a lot of time. “In the new policy, the government is working on a proposal to offer large chunks of land on long-term leases at nominal rates to ensure that companies are able to start operations without any delays,” the sources said. The state government will also continue the majority of benefits in the current policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-industrial-policy-to-be-extended/articleshow/76539873.cms||Kapil Dave
June 24, 2020||Kanpur||Man shoots self afterinjuring brother-in-law||Kanpur: A man allegedly shot himself after critically injuring his brother-in-law following a dispute with his wife in Nazirabad area of the city. Locals rushed to the spot after hearing incessant gunshots and alerted the police. Arvind Kumar Gautam (32), a resident of Sarojini Nagar in Nazirabad area, worked as a carpenter at a furniture shop. He married Poonam (26) of Kesaripur village of Hardoi district in 2011. After the lockdown, Arvind was rendered jobless, and frequent quarrels occurred between the couple over the issue. According to sources, Poonam had been insisting to visit her parent’s house. On Monday evening, her 22-year-old brother Anil had arrived at their residence to take her to Hardoi. On Tuesday, an altercation between the couple compelled Anil to intervene and resolve the issue. Arvind, however, in a fit of rage, shot at him leaving him critically wounded. He then went inside his room and shot himself using a country-made firearm. Hearing the gunshots, neighbours rushed to the spot and saw Anil lying in a pool of blood. They immediately informed police,” said sources further. “Arvind was declared brought dead at Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, while Anil was admitted and doctors stated his condition to be critical,” said the police. A forensic team also arrived at the spot and collected evidence. Inspector Gyan Singh, meanwhile, said, “Investigations continue in this regard. While treatment of the brother-in-law of the deceased is underway, the latter’s body was shifted to the mortuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-shoots-self-afterinjuring-brother-in-law/articleshow/76539950.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Trichy||11 Covid-19 cases in Trichy spread from shops||Trichy: As many as 11 people including two shopkeepers and their eight contacts have tested positive for Covid-19 in two different wards of Trichy Corporation. They were suspected to have contracted the infection from their customers. Corporation sources said that a 47-year-old man running a money exchange in a commercial street near Singarathope was tested positive recently. Samples collected from four of his close contacts had also tested positive last week. Similarly, another man who is running a mobile phone service centre near Singarathope also tested positive in the same week. Four of his family members contracted the infection. One of the employees in the mobile service centre also tested positive later. Among the 11 cases, 10 are from Thillai Nagar, while the mobile phone service centre employee resides near Mudhaliyarchathiram. Officials said that none of the two shopkeepers had travel history. After the civic body’s instructions, the commercial complexes voluntarily stopped their operations for a few days. “Since the shopkeepers have no travel history, we suspect that they must have contracted the infection from their customers,” a corporation source said. Containment zones have been established around their houses at Thillai Nagar. Though the corporation had a plan for random testing of people at the mobile service centres and other hotspots, it has not materialised. The death of a 65-year-old grocery store owner with no travel history has shed light on the possibility of Covid-19 spreading through shops. Even after three shopkeepers have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city, the authorities are yet to spread awareness among other traders to take up preventive measures. Positive cases in Trichy city: 200 (as on June 22) Cases spread through shops: 13||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11-covid-19-cases-in-trichy-spread-from-shops/articleshow/76539964.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 24, 2020||Trichy||70% wards in Trichy Corpn have reported Covid-19 cases||Trichy: Of the 65 wards in Trichy Corporation, Covid-19 positive cases have been reported 46 wards as new cases are being reported daily. Until a month back, the city seemed to be getting back on its feet but with people returning from other districts and states coupled with conduct of events have led to the infection spreading, even among frontline workers, in zones that were earlier Covid-19 free.From April 5-26, there were only 26 positive cases reported in 14-16 wards in Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar, Thennur and Bhima Nagar, all with travel history to New Delhi. As there was no further spread, many containment zones were vacated on May 5 as the city was resilient to Koyambedu cluster. There were no fresh cases reported between May 7 and 17. The situation took a turn since May 22 as people with travel history to hotspots, including Chennai, started arriving. There were also cases reported due to exposure to containment zones, comparatively lower than Chennai returnees. In the second week of June, the situation worsened with multiple positive cases reporting due to the conduct of events like engagements and birthday parties.Frontline workers including sanitary workers without travel history testing positive also kept increasing the tally. From 32 on May 22, the number of cases swiftly surged to 200 on June 22, a six-fold increase in a month. Wards that reported positive cases also swelled simultaneously. On May 22, only 31% of the 65 wards had reported positive cases. “Influx of people from Chennai is the main reason for the surge in Covid-19 cases. Though there was small-scale local transmission until the arrival of Chennai returnees, the city did not face any troubles,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said. Even now, the civic body is testing people with travel history only if they display symptoms. Poor tracking of returnees from hotspots and lapses in home isolation have caused asymptomatic persons to venture out and spread the infection.Timeline of positive cases:PeriodCasesApril 918May 526May 2232May 3039June 1384June 17109June 22200 Zone-wise break-up of Covid-19 cases: Ariyamangalam: 45 K Abishekapuram: 61 Ponmalai: 45 Srirangam: 49Wards recorded Covid-19 cases: May 2020: 19 June 2020: 46Active cases: 1) May 22, 2020: 5 2) June 22, 2020: 91 Containment zones: 1) May 22, 2020: 0 2) June 22, 2020: 10 Covid-19 deaths: 1) May 2020: 0 2) June 2020: 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/70-wards-in-trichy-corpn-have-reported-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76539971.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 24, 2020||Goa||Won’t change political colours: GFP MLAs||Panaji: GFP MLAs Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar on Tuesday asserted that they are firmly with the party under the leadership of Vijai Sardesai and described the “rumours” of they planning to move out of the regional party as a conspiracy to malign their image and that of the party. “Yesterday, we rubbished the rumours of splitting from GFP. But we have come to the media again because of statements made by former MLAs – Dilip Parulekar and Dayanand Mandrekar today (Tuesday) about us”, said Salgaonkar. He said Parulekar has further added fuel to the rumours saying that he has heard of the moves (of joining BJP) for many months now. “In the past, to media questions, he never made such a statement and now he wants to give credence to the rumours. They are deliberately making attempts to spoil our image and trying to blow things out of proportion,” he said Trying to put to rest speculations that they would jump ship, Paliencar said that they are not going to split from the GFP. “Under Sardesai’s leadership, GFP is deeply rooted to Goa and Goans and we have taken up several issues dear to the people of Goa,” the Siolim MLA who defeated Mandrekar, a former minister in 2017, said. “We have always tried to resolve people’s issues and we’ll continue to take up people’s issues in and outside the assembly. We are firmly under the leadership of Vijai Sardesai,” he reiterated, adding that “in the near future, we’ll try to give a good government to the people”. On Monday, the media was abuzz with reports that BJP was trying to poach the two GFP MLAs and “merge” the GFP’s legislative wing into the saffron fold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-change-political-colours-gfp-mlas/articleshow/76539976.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University principal accused of plagiarism||NEW DELHI: The members of Indian National Teachers’ Congress and Delhi University academic council have submitted a complaint to the UGC chairman and vice-chancellor of DU against Masroor Ahmad Beg, the principal of Zakir Husain Delhi College (Evening), alleging that he plagiarised a number of papers and copied from the work of noted economist and former UGC chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat to get promoted to his current designation. The complaint signed by several current and former academic council and executive council members was sent on June 20. As per UGC guidelines, for selection to the post of principal a minimum API score of 400 is required. “To meet the eligibility, Beg manipulated his work, copied full papers of other authors without mentioning or giving credit, based on which he was appointed as principal,” the letter claimed, adding that he achieved the score “through dubious and fraudulent means”. The letter stated that Thorat’s 2015 paper co-authored with Mashkoor Ahmad titled “Minorities and poverty: Why some minorities are more poor than others?” published in the Journal of Social Inclusion Studies was copied by Beg in his work titled, “A Comparative Analysis of Poverty of Indian Minorities with respect to the Majority” in 2018. DU dean of colleges Balram Pani confirmed that the university had received the complaint. “We are looking into the matter and will take necessary action,” he told TOI. In a separate letter to the UGC, AC member Naveen Gaur on Monday said as per its “Promotion of Academic Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism in Higher Educational Institutions Regulations 2018”, DU should constitute Departmental Academic Integrity Panel and Institutional Academic Integrity Panel to probe the allegations. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Beg was unavailable for a comment on the allegations levelled against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-principal-accused-of-plagiarism/articleshow/76539972.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Health minister K K Shailaja presents Kerala model at UN meet||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja presented the Kerala model in the Covid-19 fight at the webinar on ‘Pandemic and public service delivery: Examining the critical role of public servants at local and national level’ organized by United Nations on Tuesday. She was honoured as part of the United Nations Public Service Day 2020. The UN honoured public servants who are engaged in the fight against Covid-19 as part of this programme. Along with Shailaja, Dr In Jae Lee, deputy minister of the interior and safety, Republic of Korea; Andrew Cuomo, governor, New York State; Annette Kennedy, President of International Council of Nurses; Jim Campbell, director, health workforce division, WHO and Rosa Pavanelli, president of public services international. Shailaja had received widespread accolades in the international media for leading the state’s initiatives to check Covid-19 spread. “The surveillance system and decentralised management of healthcare put in place during Nipah outbreak helped us a lot to fight Covid-19,” she said. Shailaja said campaigns like break the chain and reverse quarantine helped the state contain the outbreak and limit death rate to 0.6% and disease spread through contact to 12.5%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shailaja-presents-kerala-model-at-un-meet/articleshow/76538081.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC adds more vehicles & routes||Jaipur: With the continued demand for buses, the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) on Tuesday increased the frequency of buses and added additional routes. Besides, now the buses will ply to various cities in Haryana. At least 568 buses were operated on Tuesday across state which completed 1,349 trips. Also, buses to Agra, Bharatpur, Dausa, Karauli and Gurugram started operating from Narain Singh Circle. “Earlier, the buses to Bharatpur, Dausa, Karauli and Delhi were being operated from Transport Nagar which was quite far. So, Narain Singh Circle is a better option,” said Lokesh Sharma, who came to drop his daughter travelling to Gurugram. Likewise, the passengers travelling to eastern Rajasthan were happy to board the buses from Narain Singh Circle. “Initially, we had segregated the originating points of the buses. But gradually we are reverting to our usual originating points,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-adds-more-vehicles-routes/articleshow/76539970.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Interstate gang behind Rs 24 lakh ATM loot: Cops||JAIPUR: The Muhana police on Tuesday said that an organised interstate gang may be involved in looting Rs 23.85 lakh from SBI ATM on Monday. Police claimed that they have got some solid leads in the case and will soon crack the case soon. The police have also picked up CCTV footage that was unclear but they have also got some concrete things which might help them to nab the robbers. Senior police officers categorically denied that other failed ATM loot attempts are connected to this case. “It is evident with the modus operandi that some organized inter-state gang is behind the robbery. We are in touch with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police as we have got some leads. Nothing much can be told about it at this point of time,” said a senior police officer investigating the case. Police said that the gang had also done recce and chose 3am time while the guard was half asleep and patrolling near the area was negligible. “They knew exactly from where they were to cut the ATM machine and the way they took merely 20 minutes to cut and decamp with the cash clears that they were part of organized gang,” said Hira Lal, circle inspector, Mohana police station. “In earlier cases those who attempted were amateurs. But robbers who executed SBI ATM loot were well versed with the technique of cutting and reaching to the cash box. We have got some solid leads and will soon nail them down,” said Ashok Gupta, additional commissioner of police (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/interstate-gang-behind-rs-24l-atm-loot-cops/articleshow/76539962.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Cash-strapped GSIDC halts development works till May next yr||Panaji: In view of the ongoing financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (GSIDC) has decided not to take up any new project proposals till May 31, 2021. The board decided not to take up projects related to beautification works, roads, gardens and parks, laying of pavers, construction of playgrounds, community halls, as well as proposals under the Deen Dayal Panel (Upgradation of Infrastructure in Rural Areas Under Deendayal Panchayat Raj Infrastructure Development [Golden Jubilee] Scheme 2013). A senior officer said that GSIDC has also decided not to take up projects related to interior works, erection of sheds and pandals, supply and installation of equipment and machineries, supply of furniture (standalone proposals), development of parking areas, standalone project proposals for installing CCTV surveillance and other minor works below Rs 10 crore of project cost, and those which are specifically debarred in the directions issued by chief minister Pramod Sawant. The officer also said that the board further decided that the process of appointing consultants shall not be initiated before obtaining prior administrative approval and concurrence of the finance department, and to ensure that land under reference where the project proposal is proposed to be set up bears a clear title and free from all encumbrances. Projects of urgent nature may be considered on a case to case basis with the approval of the chairman/chief minister, and subject to administrative approval and expenditure sanction, board members resolved. During the meeting, board members were briefed regarding the status of current outstanding loan amount, budget provisions vis-a-vis release of funds during the previous financial year and budget allocation during the current financial year vis-à-vis various set of liabilities. The board was also apprised of the status of various ongoing projects, those in the pipeline and new proposals received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cash-strapped-gsidc-halts-development-works-till-may-next-yr/articleshow/76539980.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||State govt moves HC for confirmation of death penalty||Ahmedabad: The state government has approached the Gujarat high court for confirmation of death penalty awarded to a 27-year-old autorickshaw driver for rape and murder of a three-year-old child in Rajkot.On March 17, 2020, a special Pocso court in Rajkot condemned Ramesh Vaidhukiya to death for abduction, rape and murder of the child in 2018.To execute a person who has been awarded capital punishment by a trial court, the state government is mandated to seek approval from the concerned high court. Upon the state government’s appeal, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria on Monday admitted it, issued a notice to the convict and sought his response by July 13. The HC has also directed its registry to find out whether Vaidhukiya has filed an appeal against death penalty. In this case, Vaidhukiya was accused of kidnapping the minor and raping her in a nearby isolated hostel building, killing her and then fleeing the spot.Vaidhukiya was also accused of having looted and murdered a 70-year-old woman two days before he raped and murdered the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-moves-hc-for-confirmation-of-death-penalty/articleshow/76539283.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab policy on kids’ health: Panel soon||CHANDIGARH: Punjab social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary has directed her department to form a sub-committee to come up with a comprehensive policy to improve the healthcare and education of children aged up to 6 years. Presiding over a meeting of the state early childhood care and education council at Punjab Bhawan on Tuesday, the minister directed the officials to ensure that the proposals and suggestions of all parties are received before preparing and implementing the policy. She said the ECCE (Early Childhood Care and Education) policy must be effective for the all-round development of children. Chaudhary said that it was imperative to accord priority attention to ECCE and invest in it since it was the most cost-effective way to break the intergenerational cycle of multiple disadvantages and to remove inequity, leading to long term social and economic benefits. She said the policy should recognize the synergistic and interdependent relationships between the health, nutrition psycho-social and emotional needs of the child. The state government shall promote to develop appropriate practices of ECCE through a multi-pronged approach of laying down norms and quality standards, developing framework, provision of appropriate and adequate play material, conducting programme assessment and child assessment, she added.Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-policy-on-kids-health-panel-soon/articleshow/76539982.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||Sevagram’s ‘cool’ PPE kit gets SITRA clearance, to seek final nod from DRDO||NAGPUR: Cooler, reusable and cost-efficient PPE kits developed by doctors from the microbiology department of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sevagram, for doctors working in Covid-19 hospitals have overcome an important hurdle towards getting the nod for mass production. The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), one of the four approved laboratories in the country to test coveralls, masks and the fabric used to make them, has given its approval for the PPE kits developed by MGIMS. As a final step, the institute will send its PPE kits to the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) for testing. On June 15, TOI was the first to report about the innovation of MGIMS which has many special features apart from being cost-effective. “After the first two prototypes in white colour, we have now created a new and refined version of our PPEs in blue colour. We wish to make this design an open source so that anyone can use it after getting it stitched by a tailor,” said Prof Dr Rahul Narang, who initiated the idea of these PPE kits. Post DRDO approval, the design will be available for all. This reusable PPE kit will cost Rs250 to Rs300. Made of polyester coated with polyurethane cloth, it can be reused at least 20 times after washing. The additional ‘Khadi’ factor in this kit helps the user to maintain body temperature even after wearing it for a long time. As per the MGIMS design, users wear Khadi vest with 4 large pockets which absorb the sweat. Each of the four pockets contain a refrigerated phase change material (PCM) which keeps users cool from within all the time. The kit is likely to get the nod quite easily as the basic process of making it started with the guidance and advice of DRDO itself. The MGIMS got the reference of AjyTech, Surat – a manufacturer of cloth for reusable PPE kits through DRDO. After passing the DRDO test, the PPE kit will get the unique certification code(UCC). The product information will be published on the DRDO website. As MGIMS is working on the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, they are willing to keep this design as an open source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sevagrams-cool-ppe-kit-gets-sitra-clearance-to-seek-final-nod-from-drdo/articleshow/76539994.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Supervisor killed as electric pole falls on him at Delhi metro construction site||NEW DELHI: A supervisor working at a Delhi Metro construction site near Wazirabad was killed after an electric pole collapsed and fell on him while he was interacting with the labourers. He was taken to a hospital where he died during treatment on Tuesday evening. The incident happened around noon when the work for the phase-IV corridor between Majlis Park and Maujpur metro was under way. Dilip Kumar Chowdhary, the deceased, was overseeing the work to erect a barricade near Jagatpur village, Metro officials told the cops. A DMRC spokesperson said that Chowdhary was overseeing the barricade fixing work, as the contractor was cordoning off the site for the start of viaduct work. After the incident, he was rushed to the trauma centre near Kashmere Gate, where he was declared dead. “Prima facie, the light mast seems to have fallen on its own. However, DMRC will enquire into the matter to ascertain the reasons behind the mishap,” the spokesperson added. After police were informed about the incident, an FIR under section 304A (causing death due to negligence) was registered. It was found that the pole was erected a few weeks ago when the construction work for the metro site had resumed after the lockdown. Cops are probing whether Chowdhary was wearing a helmet at the time of the incident. The labourers who were with Chowdhary then are being questioned. His family members have been informed about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/supervisor-killed-as-electric-pole-falls-on-him-at-metro-site/articleshow/76539981.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Recoveries outnumber new Covid cases||PANAJI: For the first time since the first week of June when Goa started witnessing significant jumps in Covid-19 cases, Tuesday saw the number of cured exceed the total cases to test positive in a single day. Fifty-three patients were declared cured while 45 tested positive. Goa’s active case count dropped to 702. As of Tuesday, 205 patients have been cured and two have died. Two men with comorbid conditions died on Monday. Goa is yet to implement the new patient discharge policy as it awaits an order from the ministry of home affairs (MHA). Majority of the cases reported in the state so far are asymptomatic and managed in various Covid care centres that have been set-up. One case each was reported from new locations — Sakhali and Ganganagar in Mapusa — on Tuesday. The health department has called them “isolated” as it is yet to find a link to the source of infection. Since the last ten days, isolated cases have been reported from several parts of the state and the health department is still in the dark as to the source of infection. A health official said that in such cases they continue to study them for 14 to 28 days to determine the link. Once again Mangor Hill in Vasco, which is a containment zone, reported the highest number of Covid cases. Twenty-three persons were detected positive in Mangor Hill, while seven cases were detected in Sada, another part of the port town, which was declared a micro-containment zone last week. Curtorim and Raia, which have witnessed a spurt in cases during the last week, reported three and five cases, respectively. The state continued to conduct more tests and 1,991 samples were tested on Tuesday of which 1,274 returned negative while 672 reports are awaited. As of Tuesday, the state has conducted 54,109 tests. As many as 22 suspects were placed in hospital isolation, 229 interstate travellers were assigned home quarantine and 179 international travellers were sent into facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76539973.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Trichy||Tasmac outlet shut following demand from traders||Thanjavur: Based on the request made by traders in Marunkulam village to close down a Tasmac outlet which was functioning till Monday, the district collector ordered to close it on Tuesday. The traders had shut down their shops for 15 days here after a villager tested positive for Covid-19. After a 40-year-old construction labourer of Vallundampatti, nearby Marunkulam, tested positive for Covid-19 on June 19, around 100 traders unanimously decided to shut down their shops for 15 days on their own. They also asked their customers who use to visit their shops from 20 villages located in surrounding areas to avoid visiting shops. Though the residents and traders decided to follow the lockdown, they were concerned over Tasmac shop continuing to function at the village. They had appealed the district administration to help them to maintain full lockdown for at least 15 days. District collector M Govinda Rao told TOI that he ordered to close down the Tasmac outlet during the lockdown period based on the request from traders. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tasmac-outlet-shut-following-demand-from-traders/articleshow/76539977.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Satellite man accuses domestic help of theft||Ahmedabad: A resident of Satyagrah Chhavani in Satellite filed a police complaint on Monday, stating that ornaments worth Rs 3 lakh have been stolen from his house. The complainant says he suspects the involvement of his two domestic help. In his FIR filed with Satellite police, Abhijat Sharma, 40, said that he discovered the theft on June 16 when his wife Srujal looked for her gold ring .Sharma said that he had employed Kismat Vanjhara and his wife Anjali Vanjhara in November 2019 as domestic help. He said that Kismat went to Bhuj on March 3 and Anjali left to join him on March 8. On March 15, Anjali and her sister came Sharma’s house and stayed till April 1. Satellite police have registered a case of theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-man-accuses-domestic-help-of-theft/articleshow/76539275.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrants are victims, not criminals: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The government has again drawn the Gujarat high court’s ire over its inept handling of the migrant worker crisis during the lockdown. The court termed 33 labourers arrested for rioting outside Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) last month as the “victims” and “not criminals”, and said that instead of arranging for their return, they were sent to jail. An incident of stone pelting on police took place and labourers engaged in construction of a new IIM-A building rioted on May 18 outside the institute in Vastrapur. Cops arrested 33 migrant labourers and booked them for unlawful assembly, rioting, and obstructing cops from performing their duty, causing damage to public property as well as for violation of lockdown rules under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. After languishing in prison for a month, the workers, 32 from Jharkhand and one from West Bengal, sought bail from the high court. When Justice Paresh Upadhyay learned that the workers were agitated because they had lost their jobs, did not have money or food and wanted to return to their native place, the judge observed, “In the lockdown, when the applicants were without any work, without any money and even without any food and under such circumstances, instead of arranging for their going back home, they are sent to jail. The applicants are more the victims, certainly not the criminals.” The HC opined that these workers were not required to be kept in custody any further. “They need to be set free immediately, on furnishing their personal bond, without any further condition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrants-are-victims-not-criminals-hc/articleshow/76539294.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Teachers to report to work from today||Panaji: Every teaching and non-teaching staff member of all schools in the state will resume work from June 24, stated an order issued by the directorate of education on Tuesday. The order was issued based on the decision announced by CM Pramod Sawant a day earlier, after he held a meeting with the education secretary and director. Since the lockdown norms were eased, teachers across the state had begun reporting to work, but only as and when they were required. Many were carrying out online teaching through from their homes itself.  Some were reporting three times a week and so on, depending on the arrangement decided with their school heads. But the chief minister on Monday said that reporting to school as per normal work hours will be mandatory from June 24. “Till such times the schools reopen, the teachers should prepare worksheets and lectures and reach out to students not connected via online means, in addition to carrying out the online teaching. To facilitate this, it has been decided that teaching and non-teaching staff of all schools should resume duty in the schools from June 24,” the circular issued by director Vandana Rao stated. School managements have been told to ensure that their staff report to schools as per the order. “This however shall not apply to the schools in containment zone, teachers residing in containment zone and schools taken over by the disaster management authority,” the order stated. It stated that as advised earlier, teachers should utilise the time till schools reopen to come up with alternatives for students who could not participate in online/offline teaching-learning. “The online/offline classes conducted by the teachers are meant to engage students and to support them till such time as the schools reopen. On commencement of regular classes, the teachers will cover the entire syllabus for the academic year 2020-21, so that no student is left out,” Rao has stated. Teachers in the state were however critical of the order which makes it mandatory for them to report to work. “There is no public transport available and teachers are already reaching out to students as per their training with online and offline modes. Then what is the need to make it mandatory for teachers to report to work when there seems to be no sign of schools reopening any time soon. Do teachers not have the risk of infection? That too the decision has been taken when Covid-19 cases are sharply rising in Goa. It looks like the government has some bone to pick with teachers,” headmaster Vithoba Dessai said. He criticised the decision of the state to also promote Class IX and XI students who had failed in one or two subjects by cancelling the supplementary exams. Dessai said that these students will suffer due to a weak foundation. “I had taken optic fibre connectivity at home after the state government trained nearly 12,000 teachers on how to conduct online classes. In my school, I do not get connectivity. I had already started teaching my subject and completed three chapters with my students. Just because we are at home does not mean we are resting. Preparing online presentations takes time, it is unlike face to face teaching which can be carried out everyday,” said another teacher from Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-to-report-to-work-from-today/articleshow/76539999.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Testing of fish at wholesale mkt: SGPDA||Margao: The South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) at its emergency meeting held on Tuesday, approved a set of guidelines for traders doing business in its wholesale fish market. The move comes ahead of a hearing in the high court over a petition file by the wholesale fish traders who were aggrieved over some conditions set by the SGPDA to reopen the wholesale fish market. Among the set of guidelines approved are revised parking rates for vehicles entering the wholesale fish market. While earlier, the vehicles were charged Rs 20 to Rs 30, the new rates will be Rs 50 per hour for rickshaws, Rs 300 for four-wheelers and Rs 500 for six-wheeler vehicles, SGPDA chairperson Wilfred D’Sa said. “We have asked FDAto conduct tests on the fish arriving at the market,” D’Sa. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/testing-of-fish-at-wholesale-mkt-sgpda/articleshow/76539988.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drunk cop, girlfriend trespass into house||Ahmedabad: Another example of the farcical implementation of prohibition in Gujarat came to light in the wee hours of Monday with the outrageous behaviour of a man tasked with enforcing it. A badly drunk cop trespassed into another person’s house in the wee hours of Tuesday, along with his girlfriend, “to spend quality time together”. The city police control room at around 3.13am got a call from a Sabarmati resident that an unknown person, who was heavily drunk, had trespassed into his house. The man was so drunk that he first went into a bathroom and then into a store room in the house. As the cop and his girlfriend made a noise in the store room, one of the family woke up and went to see what was happening. He found the drunk man and the woman in the store room, said an official of Sabarmati police. The family member called up police and handed over the drunken man to Sabarmati police. The woman was allowed to go, while the man, a constable, was booked for violation of prohibition laws. The accused cop, Upendrasinh Chavda, 33, who is posted at Ranip police station and is a resident of Shahibaug police lines, was earlier charged under IPC Section 306 for abetting the suicide of his wife. His wife allegedly committed suicide due to his harassment. During his questioning, Chavda told police that he and his girlfriend were roaming late on Monday night. They were looking for a secluded spot to spend time with each other and they found the house in Sabarmati. While Sabarmati police booked him for prohibition offences, Chavda was not booked for violation of the curfew without a good reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-cop-girlfriend-trespass-into-house/articleshow/76539846.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang of robbers who targeted commuters busted, five arrested||NEW DELHI: A wedding photographer was found leading a gang of criminals who would rob people of their belongings on the streets and later use their credit and debit cards to siphon off money. Five members of this gang have been arrested. They have been identified as Vishal, the photographer, Nahid Hussain, a MA student working as a part time designer, Ajay, Pintu Kumar and Aman. The gang had robbed a person on June 16. Amit Kumar was going to his office around 8.30am on his motorcycle and had reached the Raja Garden flyover when three boys on a red motorcycle targeted him from behind and took away his bag containing his laptop and wallet. “An FIR was filed and a team formed under SHO Anil Sharma to catch the criminals,” DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said. The team scanned the footage from CCTV cameras around the spot and also analysed the account statements of the stolen cards. It was found that there were transactions from victim’s accounts to two Syndicate Bank accounts opened on forged documents. Cops found that the criminals had bought fuel from a petrol pump in Rohini, Sector 20. Some mobile numbers associated with these accounts were also analysed which indicated that the criminals were based in Kirari Suleman Nagar. On June 19, the criminals again transacted at the same petrol pump after which they were nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-of-robbers-who-targeted-commuters-busted-5-arrested/articleshow/76539989.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Roof of central mess at Bamu caves in||AURANGABAD: Within three years of its construction, the roof of central mess facility of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University ( Bamu) has collapsed, leading to angry reactions. While the structure might have incurred damage earlier during lockdown when the varsity was closed, the collapsed roof came to public notice on Tuesday. Different student activists have called for an official inquiry into the alleged poor construction quality of the roof that is made of fibre-like material. When contacted, Bamu’s executive engineer Ravindra Kale said he was not in the city and would visit the facility after returning. “The damage caused and possible reasons behind it could be known only after visiting the facility,” he said. Spread over 13,000 square feet in front of the university’s main building, the central mess for students was built at a cost of over Rs 1.67 crore. Designed to cater and accommodate over 200 people at one time, the facility was thrown open to students in May 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/roof-of-central-mess-at-bamu-caves-in/articleshow/76539292.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Trichy||More quarantine facilities set up in Thanjavur as cases spike||Thanjavur: As Covid-19 cases see a sharp rise in Thanjavur district following the influx of Chennai returnees, the district administration has set up more quarantine facilities in the district. As part of this, the authorities have started converting 250 houses built under the slum clearance board scheme at Pillaiyarpatti in Thanjavur.The district administration has decided to convert the entire building as Covid-19 care centre, officials said. Since every house has separate toilets and bathroom facilities, health officials have recommended the building to use as a Covid-19 care centre, officials further said.The district administration has identified many building for the purpose, district collector M Govinda Rao said in a statement.Following the lockdown in Chennai, Thanjavur natives started arriving here from the hotspot. This has led to the number of positive cases in the district jumping day by day, officials said.Teams formed to trace the returnees from other places have so far identified 125 people in the corporation limit. This apart, they have identified 338 people from Thanjavur rural areas, 91 from Kumbakonam and 27 from Pattukottai for the last few days. However, health officials intensified the testing process among the returnees, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-quarantine-facilities-set-up-in-thanjavur-as-cases-spike/articleshow/76539991.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court orders police inquiry into call to judge from ‘MLA’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday ordered a police inquiry into the phone call received by Justice Bela Trivedi, in which the caller told her not to grant anticipatory bail in a certain case. The HC said that this is a serious matter and before initiating contempt proceedings it was required to ascertain who the actual caller was. The judge received calls on Monday morning and the caller identified himself as the MLA from Petlad, Niranjan Patel. The phone number used is registered in the name of one Tofik Vohra. The judge then received messages telling her that anticipatory bail should not be granted, in a petition filed by one Vjay Shah from Petlad. Interestingly, the petitioner told the high court that he has got no connection with any of them and he could not say why the MLA should take interest in his case. After a preliminary inquiry, the HC on Tuesday ordered Anand district SP to get statements of both the persons, MLA Patel and Vohra, recorded through a DySP and submit his report on Wednesday. The court said that if they do not tell truth, the matter would be viewed very seriously. Before this, the HC observed, “Any person doing any act whatsoever which prejudices or interferes or tends to interfere with due course of any judicial proceeding or interferes or tends to interfere with the administration of justice in any manner, would be said to have committed criminal contempt within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Court Act.” The judge was furious at the phone call and the message asking her to deal with the case in a particular manner and ordered an inquiry with the observation, “Nobody can directly or indirectly try to approach the court or to influence the court, in a way try to pollute the stream of justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-police-inquiry-into-call-to-judge-from-mla/articleshow/76539288.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Three cases take Kolhapur city’s Covid count to 29||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur city on Tuesday registered three Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) limits to 29. Four fresh cases were also reported from rural parts of the district. With this new addition, the total number of coronavirus cases in the district stands at 749. Officials of the health department said that the recent cases were reported from Kanherkar Nagar and Nagala Park. Civic officials have marked containment zones in both the areas. Of the three cases, two people (mother-son duo) are from Kanherkar Nagar while one is frok Warna Colony of the Nagala Park area. Deputy commissioner of KMC Nikhil More said, “We have taken swab samples of the high-risk contacts of these three patients. They have been placed in Covid Care Hospital for treatment.” Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai ordered compulsory swab testing of people aged 60 and above who are suffering from prevailing diseases such as heart ailments, blood pressure and diabetes. Sangli reports 1 Covid-19 case Sangli district registered one Covid-19 case on Tuesday after a 55-year-old man from Lengrewadi in Atpadi tehsil tested positive. With this, the total number of patients in the district jumped to 299.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-cases-take-kolhapur-citys-covid-count-to-29/articleshow/76539295.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||High court allows state govt to proceed with takeover||Kochi: The high court on Tuesday said the state government can take steps available legally to take over the Cheruvally estate for building the Sabarimala airport. However, the government should not resort to forceful takeover, the court said. In an interim order, Justice A Muhamed Mustaque said government should take over the land only in accordance with the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and that the government should not use force. The court considered a petition by Ayana Charitable Trust questioning the government’s move to take over the estate comprising of over 2,200 acres in Kottayam district. Even as the petition was pending, the government had issued an order last week to take over the estate. In the order issued by revenue secretary to Kottayam district collector, it has been directed to deposit the compensation for the land in court as dispute exists regarding its ownership. On Tuesday, a counsel representing the petitioner brought the government’s latest order to the notice of the court. The counsel submitted that the petitioner trust should be paid the compensation, instead of depositing the money in court, as it is the owner of the land. A case filed by the government regarding ownership is pending before a sub court at Pala. The government is now trying to take over the land even before a decision is taken on this case by the court, the petitioner’s counsel submitted while contending that the government’s order is not legally sustainable. However, the government informed the court that the order is to take over the land legally and it is evident from the order itself. Following the submission, the court said the government can take over the land by resorting to legal steps but should not use force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/high-court-allows-state-govt-to-proceed-with-takeover/articleshow/76538166.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Trichy||Inter-dist travellers under scanner||Trichy: Health officials in Pudukottai have intensified the monitoring of Covid-19 cases after the district reported the highest single-day spike of 16 Covid-19 cases on Monday. People travelling with valid e-pass are taken for health check-ups if they showed any symptoms on the district borders.District collector P Uma Maheswari conducted surprise inspection in one of the 13 check-posts in Pudukottai and checked vehicles coming from other districts. The village administrative officer, town panchayat and municipality officials have been asked to compile a list of people entering the district on a daily-basis. While they are being monitored, officials are keeping track of people entering the district without proper permission.The collector said that 15,338 vehicles were seized for entering the district without proper permission. As many as 8,768 cases have been booked for flaunting lockdown norms. She asked local people to share details of people who enter the district without passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/inter-dist-travellers-under-scanner/articleshow/76539986.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Trichy||Mother of newborn treated for acute lung injury in Pudukottai||Trichy: A 31-year-old mother of a newborn was cured of health complications caused by acute lung injury by doctors at Pudukottai government medical college hospital.The woman, Gladys Geetha from Vichur village in Manamelkudi, was admitted to Aranthangi government hospital for her second delivery and she underwent caesarean section on June 10. The next day she developed aspiration pneumonitis — an acute lung injury caused by refluxed gastric contents entering the trachea (windpipe). She had severe shortness of breath (dyspnoea). As her condition worsened, doctors transported her to Pudukkottai MCH on June 11.When she arrived at the hospital she was feverish and gasping for breath. The oxygen saturation in the blood which must be a minimum of 96 was only 84 for her. The doctors corrected the metabolic imbalance based on arterial blood gases done twice a day. The patient was treated with higher antibiotics. To infuse drugs and fluids into the heart central venous, catheterization was done through internal jugular vein. Chief anaesthesiologist Dr Saiprabha and assistant professor Dr Ganesan instituted artificial ventilation for her and arterial blood gas analysis was done. It was found that the patient was suffering from oxygen deficit and excess of acid in the body. The patient was given five days of artificial ventilation and kept on partial artificial ventilation for two days. On the seventh day she was allowed to breathe normally. She was discharged on Tuesday in healthy condition. Hospital dean Dr.Meenakshi Sundaram said, “ It is always difficult to revive a patient from an unconscious state. The treatment cost around Rs 2 lakh in a private hospital which is done free of cost in government hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mother-of-newborn-treated-for-acute-lung-injury-in-pudukottai/articleshow/76539995.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Padra man held with 17kg narcotic substance in Dabhoi||VADODARA: A man from Padra was arrested in Dabhoi on Monday with 17kg of narcotics substance worth Rs 3.5 lakh. The special operations group of Vadodara rural police intercepted Vijay Padhiyar near Bhilapur village of Dabhoi taluka. Police found a sack containing white powder in Padhiyar’s car. When he did not give any satisfactory reply about it, the powder was tested by forensic experts at the spot. “Tests revealed that the white powder contained traces of basic alkaline substance and it seemed to be narcotic drug so we seized it and detained the accused,” said a police official. During preliminary interrogation, Padhiyar told police that the powder was given to him by one Kalpesh Padhiyar, who lives in Padra. “The powder is used in manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and he was bringing it to Vadodara. However, the purpose is not known yet as the accused has been kept in quarantine,” the police official said. Padhiyar will be interrogated after his Covid-19 report arrives. A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the duo at Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/padra-man-held-with-17kg-narcotic-substance-in-dabhoi/articleshow/76537015.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: High electricity bills irk Vasco residents||VASCO: Jayesh Shetgaonkar, a resident of Sada, Vasco, was in for quite a shock recently when he received his electricity bill. The bill, generated for a 63-day billing cycle due to the lockdown, totaled to Rs 7,500. Shetgaonkar would usually receive a monthly bill of around Rs 500. Many residents of Vasco are upset over the over the “exorbitant electricity bills” they have received after a gap of 63 days. Another Sada resident, Sameer Chodankar said he has received a bill of Rs 4,500 while Umesh Naik from Dabolim said his bill amount is Rs 9,000. On Tuesday, nearly 200 locals met the Vasco electricity department’s executive engineer, Paulito Viegas, and demanded that their bills be cross-checked with the meter readings. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) vice-president Sankalp Amonkar accompanied them. Viegas meanwhile said that no re-checking of the meter reading would be done and that consumers will have to pay their bills. “Due to the lockdown, people have had to stay home the entire summer season and have consumed double the electricity. The bills are charged as per the meter readings. Consumers can pay their bills in instalments, if need be,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-electricity-bills-irk-vasco-residents/articleshow/76540006.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three flights cancelled||AHMEDABAD: The departure of three flights got cancelled from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. These are two flights to Hyderabad and one to Kolkata. Sources confirmed that all three flights were cancelled due to operational constraints faced by airlines. A source in an airline said that at times, there are not even five passengers scheduled to travel by a certain flight and as a result, departures get cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-flights-cancelled/articleshow/76539302.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Six Covid deaths in south, central Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: Covid-19 cases and deaths continue to spike in south TN as the region reported 360 new cases and three deaths on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 4,083, while the death toll touched 30. Meanwhile, the central region of the state also recorded three more Covid-19 deaths while 84 new cases took the tally to 1,880 on Tuesday. A 61-year-old man from Tirunelveli with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension died of Covid-19 on June 22 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, taking the death toll in the district to five. Ramanathapuram recorded its third Covid-19 death after a 46-year-old man from the district with hypertension died on June 21 at Sivagangai Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old man from Madurai with comorbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension died of Covid-19 on June 20 at Government Rajaji Hospital. With 137 cases and a death on Tuesday, Madurai district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (988) and deaths (9) in the southern region. Five cases were cross-notified to other districts while two more accused from Madurai Central Prison also tested Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-covid-deaths-in-south-central-tn/articleshow/76540378.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 100km dug-up road stretches yet to be restored||KOLHAPUR: Road stretches, mostly in the suburbs and collectively measuring more than 100 km, have remained dug up for the past year. The roads had been dug up for drainage and water supply works. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) had appointed separate private contractors for the works, which started at different times. If the works had started simultaneously, the dug-up roads could have also been restored at the same time. However, that did not happen. Now, the contractors are blaming each other for the sorry state of affairs. The corporators from the suburban areas have threatened to take to the streets if the roads are not restored immediately. Sharangdhar Deshmukh, the Congress corporator from Sane Guruji Vasahat, said, “We found both contractors to be lethargic. One contractor finishes the work and restores a stretch of road, but then the other digs it up again. The administration is also at fault. Only 36km roads have been restored. The citizens here are angry and we are facing the flak.” The corporators have taken up the matter with civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti, who has asked chief city engineer Netradip Sarnobat to look into the issue. Sarnobat said, “During monsoon, road construction works cannot be taken up. Instead, we have asked the contractors to fill the potholes and the dug-up parts with gravel. Underground drainage and water supply works will also remain on hold during the monsoon.” The drainage works involve laying of 120km underground drainage pipelines with a total estimate of Rs 57 crore. The pipelines will be connected to Dudhali-based sewage treatment plant. Currently, wastewater flows in the open nullahs. The water supply works, meanwhile, include laying of new and replacing old pipelines of 300 km stretch across the city with a total estimate of Rs 107 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-100km-dug-up-road-stretches-yet-to-be-restored/articleshow/76539300.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wait almost over, monsoon may be here in 48 hours||NEW DELHI: The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Delhi in the next 48 hours, covering large parts of National Capital Region by Thursday, IMD forecast stated. The normal date for the onset of monsoon in Delhi is June 27, however, it is likely to hit earlier this year. Delhi has been receiving light showers for the past few days, while Met department has forecast a spell of light to moderate rain from Wednesday to Friday with parts of Delhi even receiving heavy rainfall on Thursday— when its intensity will be the highest. The IMD’s bulletin released on Tuesday stated that monsoon had advanced into some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, while conditions for further advancement were also favourable. “The conditions are becoming favourable for advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, the entire western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Punjab and some parts of Rajasthan in the next 48 hours,” said IMD on Tuesday. The temperatures continued to remain below the normal mark on Tuesday, with a maximum of 37 degrees Celsius recorded at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station. This was two degrees below normal for this time of the season. While the capital recorded no rainfall during the day, Met department has forecast light showers for the night and Wednesday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said Delhi is likely to see a good spell of rain in the next three days with parts also receiving heavy rainfall. IMD classifies rainfall as ‘heavy’ when it exceeds 64.5mm on a single day. Parts of Delhi were waterlogged on Monday morning as the capital recorded ‘moderate’ rainfall at both Safdarjung and Lodhi Road. While Safdarjung recorded 43.8mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Monday, Lodhi Road received 44.4mm of rain. The forecast for Wednesday shows light to moderate showers, accompanied by gusty winds 30-40 km/hr. Delhi’s air quality, meanwhile, improved and touched an overall AQI of 76 (satisfactory) on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wait-almost-over-monsoon-may-be-here-in-48-hours/articleshow/76540007.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Ex-BJP ministers play ‘wait & watch’||Panaji: In view of the talks between BJP and two Goa Forward Party (GFP) legislators Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar over entry into the saffron fold, former BJP ministers Dilip Parulekar and Dayanand Mandrekar have decided to adopt a ‘wait and watch’ policy. Salgaonkar and Paliencar represent Saligao and Siolim constituencies, respectively. Earlier, Siolim was represented by Mandrekar while Saligao by Parulekar. If BJP decides to allow entry to Salgaonkar and Paliencar, then a question will arise over the political future of these two former ministers, a political observer said. Mandrekar is now a core committee member of the party while Parulekar was the two-time MLA. Both were ministers in the dispensation led by Manohar Parrikar and Laxmikant Parsekar. Speaking to TOI, Parulekar said that he has not been informed by the party over induction of GFP MLAs. He said the rumour over the duo joining the BJP was making rounds during the ZP election campaign too. “How are we supposed to know whether they are joining the party or not? I don’t know whether our party leaders have spoken to them over this issue. I have not been told whether they approached BJP with a proposal of joining the party or of their induction into the fold,” he said. Former tourism minister Parulekar said if the party had discussed their induction, then they would have been able to tell what was discussed. “We would have given our stand if the party had made its stand clear,” Parulekar said. When asked about his stance on the new development, he said the party is bigger than the individual karyakarta. “Party has to take a decision. I am a small humble karyakarta. In the past, party had taken decision against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and former environment and forest minister Rajendra Arlekar. We are small in stature compared to our senior leaders,” the former tourism minister said. Mandrekar said that they have heard of GFP MLAs joining BJP. “Right now, nothing has happened. If some truth was there in it, then the party should have informed us. I will wait till party takes a decision. If we take up this matter with the party, then it may ask us as to who informed us about the development,” Mandrekar said. Former water resources minister said they will decide on the future course of action after the party takes a decision.“We don’t have any idea whether the party has decided to induct Goa Forward MLAs into BJP fold. We will wait and watch,” Mandrekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-bjp-ministers-play-wait-watch/articleshow/76540005.cms||Murari Shetye
June 24, 2020||Delhi||City of lakes? Why Delhi’s claim doesn’t hold water||NEW DELHI: With expectations that the coming monsoon season would help revive Delhi’s waterbodies, many of which are now dry, a Delhi-based NGO and a residents’ welfare association have come up with an index to show the health of the capital’s 1,009 water bodies. These were mapped with the geo-coordinates provided by Delhi Parks and Gardens Society and each given a score of 0 to 7, with 7 being the healthiest. In the exercise, no waterbody in Delhi could get more than a 4 rating. Several waterbodies, in fact, received a negative rating on the health index, indicating encroachment or presence of construction on their area. Some villagers sent postcards to the Chief Justice of India to highlight the condition of these waterbodies. The study, which was carried out by the Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment (Cycle India) and the RWA of Jhuljhuli village in southwest Delhi, determined that only 327 water bodies currently have water, while 345 are dry and fully bereft of water. Another 302 have been given negative health ratings because they were found to have been partially or completely encroached upon. Paras Tyagi, co-founder of Cycle India, said the study team began mapping the waterbodies after coming across several in urban villages that were dry at the moment or had been occupied over time. “Of the 327 waterbodies that have water in them, a majority of them are in urban villages and rural areas. However, these are also paradoxically the areas that have been the most affected,” said Tyagi. “Johads and small village ponds that earlier were useful for the local residents have dried up and there is no step being taken to revive them. In most places, such lakes get covered by soil and trash and developed as land.” Appalled by the condition of the city’s waterbodies, 11 residents from 11 Delhi villages are sending 11,000 postcards to the Chief Justice of India, requesting swift action. Tyagi said around 9,000 of these postcards had been dispatched so far. Tyagi himself is one of the 11 representing Budhela village. The other villages involved are Jhuljhuli, Rawta, Ujwa, Shikarpur, Malikpur, Ghumanhera, Issapur, Paprawat, Dhansa and Kanjhawala. “The youth of these villages want to know if they are not entitled to planned and inclusive growth,” said Tyagi. According to him, there aren’t too many waterbodies existing within the urban localities of Delhi, with lakes such as Hauz Khas, Bhalswa and Sanjay Lake reliant on man-made interventions and water from sewage treatment plants. Among the prominent ponds, Naini, Sanjay and Bhalswa lakes scored 4 on the index. The Mehrauli (Kishangarh) lake was given a score of 2.5, while Khirki lake scored 2. The pools at Rajokri and Hauz Khas were scored 3.5 on the index. “The healthier lakes are located in urban villages and on the periphery of the capital. Within the urban limits, very few natural waterbodies exist, and those that are present are being preserved through human intervention. If similar efforts are made for other languishing waterbodies, the groundwater in those areas can be raised,” said Tyagi. Over 100 water bodies were found to be contaminated by sewage lines or because of direct dumping of sewage and garbage. Tyagi said government documentation related to these water bodies also revealed confusing terminology like ‘partially built up’, ’partially encroached’, ‘legally built up’, illegally built up’, among others. “It is very strange to see such terms and how water bodies can be allowed to be ‘legally’ built up. This renders saving these waterbodies even more difficult as more and more of them are being sacrificed for land development,” rued Tyagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-of-lakes-why-delhis-claim-doesnt-hold-water/articleshow/76540002.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Karad taluka sees rise in Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Karad taluka has registered a surge in coronavirus cases in the last one week with four villages — Mhasoli, Wanarwadi, Tulsan and Shere — registering consistent number of patients. Most of these people have travel history to Mumbai. As of now, Karad has reported 235 confirmed patients, of which, 40 are currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Official data indicates that majority of the patients are from the same family or relatives/ close contacts of confirmed patients who had come in contact with them at the initial stage. This trend has been witnessed in all four villages. Mhasoli village has registered 35 patients, followed by Tulsan which has reported 20 patients. Wanarwadi and Shere villages have identified 16 and 11 patients respectively. Satara registers one Covid death Satara district reported one Covid-related death on Tuesday evening, taking the total number of fatalities to 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/karad-taluka-sees-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76539309.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Financial crunch puts GMC’s six big projects on hold||PANAJI: Financial crunch has affected the expansion of services and facilities projects planned for the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Consequent to the state government’s decision to cut down expenses as part of austerity measures two weeks ago, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) which handles GMC works has intimated the hospital that six projects, including the extension of administrative block of the college, have been kept in abeyance till May 31, 2021. A senior GSIDC official said the corporation board recently took this decision after it became clear that new projects will not be granted financial sanction. “Only the ongoing projects will be as per the schedule,” he said. Another major project that has been on hold is upgradation of neonatal intensive care unit. The construction of a new out patient department (OPD) has been deferred which formed the part of additional infrastructure to be created for the top government-run hospital. Construction of the independent allied health science college adjacent to the institute of nursing education at Bambolim has also been postponed. Setting up of the IVI/IVF facility under the department of obstetrics and gynaecology has also been put on hold. More than six month ago, IVI/IVF facility was started in the hospital in a preliminary state and hospital administration was looking forward to expanding it, once the infrastructure was ready. “It will have to put a break on the expansion plan as the infrastructure will not be ready for a year. I don’t know as to what will be the status of the project a year later. We will have to push it yet again,” a GMC official said. The hospital’s forensic block morgue which has faced problems since its inception in 2014 will have to wait longer for supply, installation, testing and commissioning of Mopec to make hydraulic trolleys since this plan has been in cold storage till May 31, 2021. The services of consultants appointed for all six projects have also been suspended by the corporation. The official said all six projects will take more than a year to take off even if the government agrees to execute them a year later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/financial-crunch-puts-gmcs-six-big-projects-on-hold/articleshow/76540021.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 24, 2020||Goa||CM always securedfunds for state: BJP||Panaji: Reacting to Congress criticism that the government failed to handle effectively Covid-19 pandemic, BJPon Tuesday hit back at the opposition saying the former should not hold press conferences and instead motivate the party workers. It stated that the opposition only issues press notes and doesn’t help people exposed to a crisis situation. BJP said chief minister Pramod Sawant always secured funds for the state from the Centre.  Vice-president Anil Hoble said the former chief minister Digambar Kamat should tell the people how much funds did he arrange for the state from the Centre during his tenure as the CM instead of asking the BJP government to give the details. BJP said that it was their karyakartas who actually catered to the people by making available essential commodities. BJP spokesperson Subhash Phal Dessai said that GPCC president Girish Chodankar should not hold press conferences instead that he should strengthen party organization to fight against BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-always-securedfunds-for-state-bjp/articleshow/76540016.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Experts to probe complaints about substandard soya seeds: Dada Bhuse||KOLHAPUR: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said the reasons for failure of soybean seeds from germinating across the state will be studied by a panel of experts. He said action will be taken against the producers, including Mahabeej, if it is found that poor quality seeds were supplied by them. On Tuesday, TOI had reported that farmers are complaining about the non-germination of the soybean seeds. Bhuse said over 1,000 farmers have filed complaints in the past two days. “We have appointed agriculture research experts who have started visiting the fields to study the reasons for non-germination of the soybean seeds. If they find that the seeds provided were of poor or sub-standard quality, then action will be taken against the seed producers, be it our Mahabeej agency or any private company. I have ordered Mahabeej officials to replace the seeds of the farmers who have complained about non-germination of seeds,” he said. Soybean is the second-largest crop in the state after cotton and gives good returns to the farmers every year. There can be two reasons for non-germination of seeds, one is poor quality and second is inadequate moisture in the soil during and after sowing. Bhuse said the experts will give their opinion in a day or two. “The soybean is grown in most parts of the state. This time, we had to face shortage of seeds mainly due to less production of good quality seeds. We have advised farmers to use home nurtured seeds after checking germination rate. As compared to earlier years, the farmers have started early sowing anticipating good rainfall,” said Bhuse. Refinance to farmers qualified for loan waiver Bhuse said he has ordered banks to provide loans to every farmer who is eligible for the loan waiver scheme but may not have got the benefit due to technical reasons. Buffer stock of ureaBhuse carried out a sting operation of a fertiliser shop, which was declining urea to farmers stating shortage. He said the stock was available. He said the state government will make buffer stock of 50,000 metric tonne of urea every year to address shortage crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/experts-to-probe-complaints-about-substandard-soya-seeds-bhuse/articleshow/76539315.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||High June bill as MERC hiked power rates, not govt: Nitin Raut||NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has increased the power tariff from April 1 and not the state government, stated energy minister Nitin Raut in a release on Tuesday, while explaining the reasons for high power bills in June. Following an outcry, the government has allowed consumers to pay the amount in instalments. In March, Raut had said the power tariff had been reduced by 7-8% for the next five years. He was reiterating the announcement made by MERC chairman Anand Kulkarni. While on Tuesday, sources in MERC stuck to their earlier announcement, power experts pointed out the quasi-judicial body had hiked the tariff by around 10% for 2020-21. As most consumers had paid average bills in April and May, the June bill amount was very high. There were complaints from all over the state that MSEDCL had sent inflated bills. “There has been no deliberate attempt to increase the amount. It may also be high because consumers were under lockdown in the house for three months and consumed extra power,” said Raut, adding that “they should approach the nearest MSEDCL office for availing instalment facility”. Following imposition of the lockdown, MSEDCL stopped monitoring meter readings. It sent average bills to consumers on the basis of winter power bills. As domestic power consumption in winter is not much. people got low bills. The discom took meter readings in June and sent bills based on actual power consumption. Consequently, consumers got bills equivalent to two months following which the government came under a lot of criticism. Hence, Raut decided to agree to demands of consumers to allow payment in instalment. The announcement was made in Mumbai. “We are a government and not moneylenders (chasing consumers’ money),” stated Raut. Power consumer activist Pratap Hogade slammed Raut, his predecessor Chandrashekhar Bawankule of BJP and MERC for misleading consumers. “This has been happening since last five years. MERC used to claim that it has reduced power tariff and Bawankule used to repeat it. However, Raut and his party men claimed that tariff had increased. Now, Raut himself has committed Bawankule’s mistake. Unfortunately, neither Bawankule nor Raut want to acknowledge that the reason for power tariff hike is massive corruption in the three state-run power companies. Both did not take any steps to end the menace,” he told TOI. Shantanu Dixit of Prayas Energy Group said if the tariff for small domestic consumers for March and April was compared, it would be evident that there was no increase in it. “MERC had claimed reduction by clubbing February’s fuel surcharge with the tariff and comparing it with the new one. All approaches are wrong,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-june-bill-as-merc-hiked-power-rates-not-govt-raut/articleshow/76540029.cms||Ashish Roy
June 24, 2020||Goa||Promotions for 30 officers, new director of accounts from July 1||Panaji: The Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC), through a duly constituted departmental promotion committee (DPC), has recommended 30 names for promotions at various departments, including that of present joint director of accounts department, Dilip Umraskar, who will be the new director of accounts from July 1. GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said that incumbent director, Prakash Pereira, is due to superannuate on June 30. The director of accounts is selected from amongst joint directors of accounts possessing six years of experience in the position. The commission through the DPC has also recommended that Pralhad Naik be promoted as deputy director of transport, while three motor vehicle inspectors have been promoted to the position of assistant directors of transport. The deputy director of transport is promoted from amongst assistant directors of transport possessing five years experience in the post. The commission has also promoted eleven officers to the position of principal of government higher secondary school, deputy education officer, deputy director SIE in the department of education. These promoted officials held the position of headmaster, vice principal of government schools with minimum eight years experience. Another fourteen officers were promoted through the DPC in the department of planning and statistics to the position of research assistant, while one officer was promoted to the position of information officer in the department of information and publicity. The commission also lifted the period of probation of several officers in the departments of archives and archeology, animal husbandry and veterinary services and electricity department. In view of the covid pandemic the commission continues to conduct DPC’s through circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/promotions-for-30-officers-new-director-of-accounts-from-july-1/articleshow/76540015.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Jamia Millia Islamia student gets bail as cops drop opposition||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court granted bail to Safoora Zargar on Tuesday after Delhi Police dropped its earlier opposition to her release on humanitarian grounds. The four-month pregnant Zargar is an MPhil student at Jamia Millia Islamia and was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. On Tuesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi Police, told justice Rajiv Shakdher that the prosecution would not object if Zargar was released on bail on humanitarian grounds, while clarifying that the decision had not been taken on the merits of the case and should not be made a precedent. SG Tushar Mehta, along with additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, also urged the high court to impose certain bail conditions while releasing the accused. Delhi high court granted bail to Zargar on a personal bond of Rs 10,000 and a surety of the same amount. Justice Shakdher said the accused should not indulge in any activity for which she was being investigated and should not hamper or interfere with the on-going investigation or influence witnesses. The court also directed that in case Zargar needed to travel, she should seek permission from the trial court and remain in touch with the investigating officer over phone once every 15 days. The high court noted that the order was not passed on merit and would not be treated as a precedent. On Monday, in its status report, Delhi Police opposed Zargar’s bail plea saying a clear and cogent case had been made out against her and as such she was not entitled to bail in view of the grave and serious offences that had “been meticulously and surreptitiously planned and executed by her”. The police report claimed the statements of witnesses and co-accused clearly implicated Zargar as being a leading co-conspirator in commissioning of serious offence of causing large-scale disruption and riots, not only in the capital but also in other parts of the country. Police said there was sufficient material available to prove Zargar’s direct involvement in the communal violence that shocked the capital earlier this year. The prosecution added that there was no exception to be made for a pregnant person accused of heinous crimes to be released on bail merely because of pregnancy. Delhi Police claimed that 39 deliveries had taken place in city prisons in the past 10 years. Jamia Coordination Committee member Zargar, who was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police on April 10, had petitioned the high court against the June 4 order of a trial court denying her bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-student-gets-bail-as-cops-drop-opposition/articleshow/76540020.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||MC wants part of UT income, govt stalls||Chandigarh: The cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) has been eyeing grants under the third or fourth Delhi Finance Commission report for the past several years, but to no avail. The recommendations can be a major revenue booster for the civic body authority. Sources said Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore has written to the Centre, asking for funds based on the recommendations of the fourth Delhi Finance Commission, but the Union government has not given the green signal so far. The move came in the wake of municipal councillors’ request to the administrator. The MC passed the agenda in the general house too. A few months back, the MC told the UT that according to the third Delhi Finance Commission, 17.50% of total revenue generation of the UT administration should go to the MC, which is around Rs 700 crore. Moreover, the civic body authority said according to the 4th Delhi Finance Commission, 30% of the total revenue generation of the UT should go to the civic body, which is around Rs 1,200 crore. Asking for implementation of the commission recommendations, the civic body authority has been saying that this revenue is a matter of right. Since the MC has been carrying out maximum civic works across the city, their justifiable share as per recommendations must be given to them without delay, civic authorities have asserted but there has been no progress in this regard. A few months back, the MC wrote a letter to the UT saying, “majority of transferred functions by Chandigarh administration to the MC by virtue of Act are related to public utilities services which contribute negligible towards revenue generation. Consequent upon this, the Corporation largely remained dependent on financial assistance provided by the UT in the shape of grant-in-aid (GIA). From the perusal of last five years data as provided hereunder, it is abundantly clear that there is a wide gap between grant-in-aid received viz a viz expenditure being incurred by the MC on various development works, apart from establishment expenses of employees viz salaries, wages to regular/work charged and other contractual/outsource staff and other committed expenditure like electricity/water charges, POL. Telephone etc. In addition, there is recurring liability of pension and other retrial benefits of the retired staff of MC.” Earlier, taking note of the poor financial condition of the civic body, the Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Home Affairs expressed its “anguish over shortfall of approximately Rs 682 crore” in allocation of funds for the civic body for the 2018-19 fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-wants-part-of-ut-income-govt-stalls/articleshow/76539326.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana industrial power use falls 55%||CHANDIGARH: Courtesy the lockdown, the electricity distribution companies of Haryana — Uttar haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) — have seen a decline of 55% in electricity consumption by industrial sector between April and June According to UHBVN and DHBVN, the consumption rate of 2,488 million units per day was recorded between April 1 to June 22 last year. This year, the consumption has been recorded at 1,120 million units per day. “Now, since the industrial sector is gradually opening up, the consumption is expected to show an upward trend too. We are prepared for any kind of demand as we have sufficient arrangements now,” chairman-cum-managing director of UHBVN and DHBVN Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor said. There are total 1,10,636 industrial consumers of various categories across the state. Haryana has total 67.98 lakh electricity consumers of all the categories across the state. Haryana had officially announced the lockdown on March 17, and by April 1, there was a complete shut down of industries. Except for select industries involved in essential supplies, all units were closed, and in May labourers and industrial workers had started migrating out. The lockdown 4.0 began with the lifting of restriction and the government too had announced special packages and benefits, which included relief in electricity bills, penalty waivers and lower fixed charges. Keeping in view the restrictions of social distancing, the industries are working with 50% manpower and most units are working in single shifts. The government had also announced not to increase the electricity tariff, and rather bringing down the rates of electricity to Rs 4.75 per unit for the agro industries. Earlier, agro industries were treated at par with the other MSMEs. Meanwhile, with the mercury touching a new high every day and paddy sowing on, the power demand is rising. “We are supplying 9,500 to 9,800 MW per day. We have sufficient arrangements for supply to all the categories of consumers,” discom officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-industrial-power-use-falls-55/articleshow/76540039.cms||Manvir Saini
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court grants time to school owner to file reply||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday was informed by the lawyer of Faisal Farooq, owner of Rajdhani Public School who was granted bail by a trial court recently, that Farooq has been arrested in another case related to the riots and is currently in custody. The court then granted time to Farooq to file a response on the plea filed by police challenging the bail granted to him in connection with a case related to northeast Delhi violence in February this year. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait posted the matter for July 1 after senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Farooq, sought time to file the reply. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, appearing for the Delhi Police, argued that the trial court order granting bail was unwarranted. In the plea filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, Delhi Police submitted that by granting the bail, the trial court judge made a patent error of law as he failed to consider the most important factor held by the Supreme Court to grant bail — there should be a reasonable ground to believe that the accused has committed the offence and the nature and gravity of the charge. Police maintained that the trial court failed to appreciate that Farooq was charged with criminal conspiracy. It said the matter was one of the cases arising out of the riots that occurred in North East district and in DRP school, which was completely destroyed in the alleged incident. Police alleged that Farooq, who owned Rajdhani Public School in close vicinity and was an influential person in the area, allowed the rioters to enter the school and create havoc from its terrace. Police added that the mob opened indiscriminate fire on the other party and caused loss of life, limb, and property. “The nature of the offence, the brazenness and impunity with which the accused committed these, disentitles him from seeking bail. Looking at the character of the accused, there is likelihood that he will evade the process of law and threaten the witness who have been named in the chargesheet and are in the knowledge of the accused,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-grants-time-to-school-owner-to-file-reply/articleshow/76540027.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: GSIDC delays in settling bills worth Rs 150 crore||PANAJI: Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (GSIDC) requires around Rs 150 crore to pay consultants and contractors who have undertaken work for the state government. Chief minister Pramod Sawant admitted that there has been a delay in bill payments, but assured these would be cleared. GSIDC had appointed contractors and consultants for various projects, including those in the education and health sectors. A senior officer said that around Rs 24 crore has to be paid for the work undertaken in the education sector, whereas payment of Rs 26 crore for contractors and consultants in the health sectors has been pending and around Rs 100 crore for other projects. The GSIDC board has taken note of the substantial amount of funds required towards completion of ongoing projects, and has also noted that the completion status of projects varies from 10% to 90%. Considering the fund requirements and availability under budget provisions, the board decided that the projects need to be prioritised considering their importance and nature, physical completion, court directives, etc, so that maximum number of projects can be completed with the funds released by the government. Further, the board also decided to concentrate on finishing projects which have physical completion status of 70% and above, at the earliest in a time-bound manner. The officer said that in cases of projects which are in the pipeline, and for which consultants are appointed and works are tendered (work order yet to be issued), the board decided that only those which are sub works of main projects have to be taken up. However, new works (main projects) under this category have been deferred until May 31, 2021, and accordingly will be put up before the board for review thereafter. The service of the consultant concerned will be suspended accordingly for the period until the board decides to restore it, the officer said. Further, individual proposals which are required to be dropped/delisted under this category will be placed before the board during its subsequent meetings, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-infra-corp-delays-in-settling-bills-worth-rs-150cr/articleshow/76540026.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Zilla panchayat elections in October depending on Covid scene, says Tanavade||PANAJI:BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that depending on the Covid-19 situation, zilla panchayat elections can be held in October. Tanavade told TOI that the elections cannot be held now due to the monsoon. “Depending on the coronavirus situation, elections can be held in October. However, if the situation is still not under control at the time, then it could be postponed,” he said. The state BJP chief said that there is no hurry to conduct the elections. “If we decide to hold it now, then people will hit out at us,” he said Tanavade said that it makes no difference to the public if the elections are held today or tomorrow.  Tanavade said, “At the village panchayat level there are lots of works. If an administrator is appointed for a panchayat then he has to go to the block development officer to execute the work. But, in the case of zilla panchayat, there is no direct connect with the public.” Tanavade said that as far as the zilla panchayat elections is concerned, all that remains is voting and counting. The election process does not have to be started afresh, he said. “We are facing this situation for the first time. If elections are held today or in six months or even after one year, it does not matter,” Tanavade said. Last month, panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho had said that the new dates for the zilla panchayat election would be announced after the SSC examinations. However, chief minister Pramod Sawant later clarified that the government has no plans to conduct the election. The election was initially scheduled for March 15, after which the state government postponed it to March 22. Even as the threat of novel coronavirus loomed, the state government was adamant on going ahead with it. But on March 20, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised social distancing due to the pandemic, Sawant indefinitely postponed the election. Modi then called for a ‘janata curfew’ on March 22. A total of 203 candidates are in the running for the elections to two bodies — South Goa ZP and North Goa ZP — each comprising 25 constituencies. BJP has fielded candidates for 43 seats, while Congress has put up candidates in 38 seats. MGP, which has an informal pact with Congress, will fight the election in 17 seats. AAP and NCP have put up candidates in 17 and six constituencies, respectively. Besides, 79 independent candidates are also in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-polls-in-oct-depending-on-covid-scene-says-tanavade/articleshow/76540034.cms||Murari Shetye
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Doctors’ body slams verbal abuse of staff by patient kin||MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA), in an official statement issued on Tuesday, condemned the verbal abuse of medical staff by a deceased patient’s kin while the staff were on duty at the Covid-19 ward in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Madurai. As per the statement, on Tuesday morning, after one of the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at GRH’s Corona Speciality Hospital succumbed to the illness, the patient’s kin verbally abused the doctor and nurse on duty at the ward. The kin issued threats against the staff. “All possible efforts were made by the doctor and nurse to save the patient. In fact, though the nurse’s mask was torn while carrying out treatment, the nurse still did best she could to help save the patient. It is deeply saddening to see such incidents when despite our fears of being infected, we are doing our best to treat patients,” said Dr K Senthil, state president, TNGDA. The association urged for better understanding on the part of the patients’ family. “Despite the risk, the doctors and staff continue to turn up to treat patients. Such incidents are extremely saddening and we condemn it. But, considering the Covid-19 pandemic, we are not even angered but are only trying our best to serve patients,” added the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-body-slams-verbal-abuse-of-staff-by-patient-kin/articleshow/76540380.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Upload balance sheets by July 4, schools told||Chandigarh: The UT education department has awarded “one last chance” to around 40 unaided private schools to upload their income, expenditure and balance sheets by July 4 as required under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to UT Chandigarh in 2018 or face penalty. Director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar has confirmed the same. The private unaided schools were first directed to upload their financial statements in compliance with the provisions of Section 5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Education Institutional Act, 2016 as extended to UT, Chandigarh, by the district education officer on April 24. The first deadline given by the UT education department to private schools was April 30. This was later extended to May 8. However, when schools did not do the needful, the education department gave them two more days on May 13 and asked them to upload their balance sheets by May 15. H S Mamik, president of the independent schools association, said, “Both the notices have been received by the schools. Court cases on both subjects are lined for hearing on June 29 and July 1. We will wait for their decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/upload-balance-sheets-by-july-4-schools-told/articleshow/76539334.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Jobless youth ends life in Mohali, was ‘depressed’||MOHALI: A 24-year-old youth committed suicide in Mohali. The youth was under depression as he had lost his job during the lockdown period. The deceased has been identified as Harpreet Singh, who hails from Hanumangarh and was working in an IT company in Mohali. ASI Amarjeet, investigating officer, said, “The victim went back to his native place before the lockdown and had lost his job. He came back around four to five days ago in search of job. He was under depression and took the extreme step at his rental accommodation in Phase V, Mohali, on Monday night.” In another incident in Chandigarh, A 25-year-old woman allegedly tried to commit suicide by hanging herself at her resident at Palsora village in Sector 56 on Monday. The police said the woman was in a relationship with a man, whose family was against it. Both the families had quarreled over the issue on Monday morning. The man’s family attacked the woman’s parents and damaged the household items, following which she allegedly hanged herself. However, was saved by her family on time. She has been admitted to GMSH-16 and is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jobless-youth-ends-life-was-depressed/articleshow/76539355.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Unlock tourism sector, trade body urges Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Members of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) on Tuesday called on chief minister Pramod Sawant and requested him to unlock the tourism sector in the larger interest of the state. A delegation led by TTAG president Nilesh Shah handed over a letter to Sawant with a request to take immediate measures to restart tourism activities. “We want tourism to restart with all guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place,” said Shah. He said that not just hotels, but every person in the state who is dependant on tourism for livelihood has been affected. “Be it a taxi driver, vegetable and fish vendor, or a person operating a grocery store, we are all affected,” he said. They all, he said, are eager to see that tourism activities resume, even though the fear of Covid exists. They understand the dangers of Covid, that it will not disappear soon, but their livelihood is also important, Shah said. He said hotels are trying to survive despite operators going through the worst financial crisis. Shah said some hotels have offered a helping hand to taxi operators who are witnessing a rough phase. More than 15 days after the tourism department started accepting online applications from hotels that are willing to open, it is yet to issue standard operating procedure (SOPs) for their operations. The department had announced that it will unveil the protocols soon. Since then, more than 200 hotels have expressed willingness to open amid the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlock-tourism-sector-trade-body-urges-sawant/articleshow/76540031.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows BMC to use private building in Byculla as quarantine centre||MUMBAI: Bombay high court allowed BMC to use a private building in Byculla as a quarantine facility for persons in contact with Covid-19 patients. The HC, in an “urgent workable order’’, accepted BMC’s undertaking that it would pay over Rs 28 lakh per month as rent for transit accommodation of the original 200-odd tenants, till the building is handed back to the developer. DB Realty group company, Neelkamal Realtors Tower Pvt Ltd, had in May challenged BMC’s move to requisition its rehabilitation building, Rangwalla Compound, with 240-odd tenements. Its counsel, Girish Godbole, had questioned the power of requisitioning private buildings by BMC. BMC had taken its possession in April and said it would compensate the developer or tenants. The developer’s counsel said it had no objection to the requisition if BMC paid monthly rent of original tenants for alternate temporary homes from April 24 till it is handed back, to which BMC agreed. BMC special counsels Aspi Chinoy and Anil Sakhare said there are 975 positive cases in E ward where the building is, and almost 2,700 high-risk cases of people who came in “close contact’’ with positive persons and needed to be quarantined. E-ward has only four facilities, including Rangwalla Compound, where it created a 1,000-bed facility. Vivek Shukla, counsel for a tenant, said, “Tenants could not object to the requisition as construction was illegal.’’ But nine tenants, through their advocate, disagreed with Shukla, and said BMC cannot use it. The HC noted there were 218 tenants, of which 208 did not bother to place their say before it. The developer undertook to maintain transit accommodation in a good condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-allows-bmc-to-use-pvt-bldg-in-byculla-as-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76539382.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Part of hospital bulldozed for encroaching govt land||Lucknow: A part of a private medical college and associated hospital on IIM Road was bulldozed by the district administration on Tuesday following the order of a revenue court. According to the court, the building was encroaching government land meant for construction of a road. The hospital had been designated as a level-1 Covid-19 hospital by the administration but no patient has been admitted here so far. A heavy posse of personnel from three police stations and a company of Provincial Armed Constabulary was deployed at the site. Three bulldozers took all day to demolish the part said to be constructed on encroached land. Additional district magistrate (administration) Amar Pal Singh said that the revenue court had in February directed to remove the encroachment but the institutes’s administration did not comply with it, hence bulldozing became necessary. “The court had also imposed a penalty of Rs 3 lakh on the institute. Power supply to the institute was disconnected before the bulldozing started,” he added. Singh also said, “The institute was kept in reserve to be used as a level-1 Covid-19 hospital where asymptomatic patients can be kept, but so far no admissions were done.” Administration officer of the medical college Captain RK Pandey said that OPD services were affected because of the exercise. The demolition will also affect studies of around 500 students currently enrolled with the institute. He also said that the institute had offered land behind the building for construction of road but it was not accepted. Director general medical education KK Gupta said, “Around 150 seats for UG programme and 20 seats for PG have been approved for the institute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/part-of-hospital-bulldozed-for-encroaching-govt-land/articleshow/76540048.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Goa||Mapxekars to get immunity tablets||Saligao: In a bid to boost immunity in the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) on Tuesday adopted a resolution to distribute Arsenic Alb 30 tablets to all residents in its jurisdiction, including vendors and traders at the market. The tablets will be disbursed within the next 7 to 10 days. The meeting at which the resolution was taken was presided over by MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza, and attended by chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar, vice-chairperson Marlene D’Souza and the councillors. Regarding the re-auctioning of collection of pay-parking fees at the taxi stand, the civic body decided that till the tendering procedure is completed, the collection of pay parking fees should be done by the council. The councillors suggested that Rs 5 lakh should be the initial bid amount for pay-parking aucton, instead of Rs 8.25 lakh decided earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapxekars-to-get-immunity-tablets/articleshow/76540035.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||FIR filed against Ganga Ram hospital unjustified: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: The FIR lodged against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) on the complaint of AAP government appears unjustified, Delhi high court has said. In its 53-page order where it stayed the criminal proceedings against the hospital, the court underlined that the allegations in the FIR don’t disclose commission of a cognizable offence but an “infraction”. A cognizable offence is a crime of serious nature where the police can arrest without a warrant. Justice C Hari Shankar observed in his prima facie opinion that the FIR against the hospital “does not allege any impediment to human health, or loss to human life, having resulted, as a consequence of the default, on the part of the petitioner, in complying with the requirement of using the RT-PCR App.” The court said various communications, between the government and SGRH, before registration of FIR, “do not disclose that, as a consequence of the failure, on the part of the petitioner, to collect samples, for Covid-19 testing using the RT-PCR App, any danger to human life, much less any loss to human life, had resulted.” The court’s observations came while rejecting the argument of standing counsel Rahul Mehra that a case against Section 188 IPC against the hospital is valid as failure to adhere to government order resulted in consequences — delayed treatment and loss of lives. The court pointed out there was no evidence to back this claim in the FIR, which should disclose a cognizable offence. “Else, the very registration of the FIR would be unjustified” it noted, highlighting that in this case documents merely allege “infraction, by the petitioner, in failing to comply with the directive of using the RT-PCR App, and nothing more.” Justice Hari Shankar noted that Mehra had been unable to show any difference, between the details contained in the Specimen Referral Form (SRF) issued by the ICMR, and those required to be transmitted by the RT-PCR App adding that violation of a government order can’t “justify initiation of criminal action, against a hospital” when the FIR doesn’t disclose any offence. It also noted that SGRH is “a frontliner, in the war against the pandemic, being fought by the nation at present” and allowing a police probe at this stage would “be severely detrimental to public interest, especially as there is nothing in the FIR to suggest that the petitioner-Hospital has, in any way, impeded its doctors in treating patients suffering from the Covid-2019 pandemic, which is of paramount importance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-filed-against-ganga-ram-hosp-unjustified-hc/articleshow/76539375.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Three held for looting Rs 85,000 using toy pistol||MOHALI: Within 48 hours of crime, Mohali police have arrested three accused, including an employee of the finance company, for allegedly looting Rs 85,000 at gunpoint on June 21. The SSP said they had used a toy pistol in the crime. The accused have been identified as Vinod Kumar, an employee of the finance company, along with his two accomplices, Vijay Kumar and Akash Sisodia. Sohana police SHO inspector Daljit Singh Gill said the accused had taken loan to live luxurious life and were unable to pay back. Therefore, they hatched a conspiracy to loot cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-held-for-looting-rs-85k-using-toy-pistol/articleshow/76539367.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||At 123, Vidarbha records highest recoveries in a day, rate surges to 69%||NAGPUR: Total 123 patients recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged in Vidarbha on June 23, a record since the pandemic began. The earlier highest number, 113, was on June 18. Out of 123 on June 23, Akola discharged highest 61 and Nagpur 46. The recovery rate of Vidarbha surged to 69%, the highest in June. At the same time, only 48 new positive cases were detected on June 23, again the lowest figure in June. Total cases in Vidarbha have reached 3,847. Nagpur and Yavatmal recorded 15 new patients each followed by Amravati (8), Chandrapur (4), Washim (3) and Wardha (1). For the first time in last 45 days, Akola recorded only one new patient in a day. Deaths, however, continued to remain a cause of concern for Vidarbha. Total four deaths were recorded. In Akola, a 55-yr-old woman from Balapur, who was admitted since June 12, died during treatment. She had high blood pressure. In Buldhana, reports of a 55-yr-old woman from Mominpura in Malkapur, who died on June 23, tested positive. A 70-yr-old woman, from the same area in Malkapur town, also died during treatment. In Amravati, a 74-yr-old woman, who tested positive on June 22, died on Tuesday. This took the Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha to 132. AMRAVATI: A 74-year-old woman, a resident of Habib Nagar, who tested positive on Monday evening, died before being admitted to Covid hospital. This takes the death count of the district to 19. Eight new positive cases took the district’s count to 446, while discharge of 12 patients took the recoveries to 312. Hotspot Badnera took its tally to 59 as a 48-year-old man from Almas Colony in Patel Nagar area tested positive. Sabanpura reported its eighth case, a 38-year-old woman, while Vilas Hagar posted its second, a 25-year-old youth. Maya Nagar and Gopal Nagar posted their third case today, a female aged 47, and a youth aged 19 respectively. Kamela Ground too reported its seventh case, a man aged 50. Chhaya Nagar posted its third case, a 45-year-old man. After 19 deaths and 312 recoveries, there are 115 active cases, including 11 taking treatment in Nagpur. YAVATMAL: The district reported 15 positive patients on Tuesday, at Ner (10), Digras and Wani (2 each) and Darwah (1), taking the total to 78. Currently, 82 persons are admitted in the isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal. The district has recorded 247 positive cases, of which 161 have recovered and been discharged. CHANDRAPUR: Four positive patients were detected in Chandrapur city, taking the total to 61. Three of them belong to same family in Lumbini Nagar, and one is a 31-year-old from Binaba ward. Officials claimed a family comprising husband (47), wife (40) and son (21) had returned from Hyderabad on June 16 and were in home quarantine at Lumbini Nagar in city. The person from Binaba ward had returned from Secunderabad on June 19 and was serving home quarantine. Out of 61 positives, 43 have been discharged. Currently, there are only 18 positive patients. WARDHA: A 19-year-old youth who came from Mumbai to Pulgaon tested positive on Tuesday. He has been admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital in Sawangi, and 10 of his close contacts kept in isolation. Also, 17 other low risk persons have been kept in the isolation room at Covid Care Centre, Deoli. WASHIM: Three persons tested positive in rural Washim on June 23. They include a 55-yr-old woman and 25-yr-old youth from Tamasi village in Washim tehsil, and a 38-yr-old woman from Asan Galli in Risod tehsil. All three were close contacts of already positive patients. GONDIA: For the sixth day in row, no fresh case of Covid-19 was reported in Gondia district. Active cases remained at 30. Reports of 139 samples are awaited, with 2,695 persons in institutional or home quarantine. Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli also reported no new cases on June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-123-vid-records-highest-recoveries-in-a-day-rate-surges-to-69/articleshow/76540038.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 24, 2020||Goa||Days after leaving Goa, some migrants return in search of livelihood options||Margao: In an irony of sorts, while several thousands of migrants have already exited the state by Shramik Special trains to return to their native places, many among them have started returning. District administration officials overseeing the situation at the Margao railway station have noticed the arrival of migrants over the last few days. “What adds a touch of irony to the situation is the fact that these people who were desperate to return to their homes are making it back to Goa after spending a few days with their families there,” said an official. “What this means is that with economic activities back on the path of revival in Goa, they are convinced that their livelihood is more secure in Goa than in their native places.” Sources said some of the labour contractors have also begun contacting their labourers asking them to return, even offering to fund their travel expenses and arranging for their accommodation. “Returning home to their families in times of crisis was just a psychological need that they fulfilled. But the stark reality is that they need work to survive, and Goa has evidently offered them the means of livelihood all these years. Some of them have thus started coming back hoping to pick up from where they had left,” a source associated with migrant welfare agencies, said. Nevertheless, a day after the Supreme court-mandated deadline of June 22 for the state government to make travel arrangements for stranded migrants to return to their native states passed, the shelter home at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium Fatorda has once again begun teeming with migrants after a brief lull. TOI had earlier reported that after two Shramik special trains — one for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, and the other for Jharkhand, Orissa and West Bengal — left from Margao railway station on Friday, the shelter home was left with only 18 migrants, 14 of which left by the Goa Express train on Sunday. However, pretty soon, hordes of them began landing at the shelter home, and by Tuesday, over 900 people had been accommodated inside the Fatorda stadium. “As these migrants are from different states, the South Goa district administration is working out travel arrangements for them in coordination with the respective state governments,” Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar, who is overseeing arrangements at the shelter home, said. Many are expected to leave by another Shramik Special train on Wednesday. The shelter home is in operation for the last over three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/days-after-leaving-goa-some-migrants-return-in-search-of-livelihood-options/articleshow/76540057.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Orange alert issued for four districts||KOCHI: As the week progresses, the weather department has forecast lot of rain for south and central Kerala from Wednesday. A orange alert has been sounded for Idukki, Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam with extremely heavy rainfall of more than 11-20cm and even above 20cm in 24 hours likely in some parts of these districts. As monsoon picks up, southern and central districts are expected to receive heavy rainfall of 7-11cm. The districts include Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki. Squally weather with wind speeds reaching 40-50kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala with coastal areas feeling the impact of high waves in the range of 3.0-3.3 metre from Pozhiyoor to Kasargod. Surface current speeds may vary between 43-59 cm/sec On Tuesday, Vaikom and Perumbavur received 5cm of rainfall each while Cial Kochi, Idukki, Ottappalam received 3cm each. Alappuzha, Ernakulam south, Munnar, Peermade, Thrithala and Hosdurg received 2cm each. Private weather agency Skymet said that the extremely wet spell expected during June 25-27 is because of the cyclonic circulation marked over south Bay of Bengal is shifting off Tamil Nadu coast on June 25 and moving inland bringing the rains to the hilly regions of south and central Kerala. Though the monsoon onset phase gave an excess of 46% in the first week of June, the next two weeks were almost dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orange-alert-issued-for-four-districts/articleshow/76538252.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Row over film on Malabar revolt leader||KOZHIKODE: The Hindu Aikya Vedi has asked actor-director Prithviraj to withdraw from the film project on Variamkunnanath Kunjammad Haji, the leader of the Malabar rebellion in 1921. Vedi state secretary R V Babu said that glorification of a person like Haji will have far-reaching consequence. “ It is not like glorification of Chanthu in the film Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha,” he said. Babu said Haji is not the person the film would like to portray. “It is a different picture that emerges from the documents and narrations of the time,” he said. Vedi believes that there is a conspiracy behind the project. “There is a concerted move to whitewash the revolt that is still an embarrassment for many,” Babu said. He asked those behind the film project not to rake up old memories and apply salt on the wounds of the Hindu community. Meanwhile, BJP state general secretary M T Ramesh said the film on Malabar rebellion should be true to history. Any distortion would bring disturbance in society, he said. In a related development, BJP leader and film director Ali Akbar said he would direct a movie ‘depicting the real picture’ of Malabar rebellion. “Many people asked me to do a film on the real aspects of the revolt,” Akbar said. “The letters written by the women of Eranad, who bore the revolt’s brunt, to Annie Besant is enough to understand the horrors of the incident. Even EMS Namboodirippad’s family fled from the violence,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/row-over-film-on-malabar-revolt-leader/articleshow/76538300.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Sensors to check crowding at Delhi airport||NEW DELHI: To enforce social distancing at Indira Gandhi International Airport, the operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), will soon be installing sensors to map the total number of people in a room or a queue. An alarm will sound each time the number exceeds the value set in the system. A source said trials are currently being conducted for implementing this technology. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar had mentioned this technology in a webinar, which was also attended by Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, last week. “For instance, if a washroom already has the set number of people, an alarm will sound if another person enters. This will indicate that no one can enter until a person exits. This can be an effective way of managing crowds,” he had said. A source said the technology would be installed in the ceiling and small laser beams would be projected down vertically, creating a virtual grid of the room. Each individual would be treated as a “dot” or a value in the system. The alarm would ring if the predefined value was exceeded. “If the value for a washroom is set at four, an alarm will ring as soon as a fifth person enters,” said a source, adding that a similar technology was being used in immigration to help identify the time it would take to reach the counter. DIAL did not comment on when the technology would be implemented at IGI airport. Officials privy to the development said this won’t be the last addition to the technologies being introduced for the safety of passengers. The implementation of the technology was felt after considering the crowd gathering at the airport every day since flight operations began. Since then, IGI has catered to at least 7 lakh passengers while ensuring that all precautions and safety standards are met. The precautionary steps taken at IGI include stalls selling safety gear, installation of automatic hand sanitiser at more than 400 spots, floor markers, allocation of entry gates and check-in islands for departure passengers to encourage social distancing and minimising human contact. Gate number 2 and 5 of the departure area have UV tunnels to sanitise baggage. Gates 1 to 8 have sanitiser cans for spraying on the baggage of passengers. Apart from this, regular announcements are made to make people aware of the importance of maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sensors-to-check-crowding-at-airport/articleshow/76539396.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Lord Jagannath’s Yatra held in temple premises||VADODARA: The full-fledged Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra might have got cancelled amid Covid-19 pandemic but that didn’t deter enthusiasm of the devotees in the city on Tuesday. The ISKCON temple management had organized a rath yatra that began in the temple after 3 pm and took a short route outside before returning to its premises within half-an-hour. The city police had deployed additional security outside the temple to ensure that people don’t gather there in large numbers. The road leading to ISKCON was also blocked for some time when the lord’s chariot came out briefly. As per the ritual, mayor Jigisha Sheth cleaned the path before the yatra began. Senior politicians from the city were also present along with ISKCON devotees chanting ‘Hare Rama Hare Krishna’. The chariot was pulled by the devotees in the temple premises and later ‘prasad’ as well as fruits were distributed among the people. Devotees were all wearing the masks and ensuring that social distance was maintained during the yatra. Residents of the old city, though, were disappointed as they couldn’t witness the grand rath yatra that passes through Raopura, Jubileebaug, Khanderao Market and Polo Ground every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lord-jagannaths-yatra-held-in-temple-premises/articleshow/76537041.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||Home minister asks Mundhe to probe allegations about OCW, 2 land parcels||NAGPUR: Home minister Anil Deshmukh has asked municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to conduct inquiry and take proper action in allegations levelled by NCP state vice-president Vedprakash Arya on Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) private water operator Orange City Water Pvt Ltd (OCW) and fate of two pieces land situated at Gorewada lake in West Nagpur and Nara in North Nagpur. Arya met Deshmukh and submitted a memorandum on which the minister wrote the remarks and his office sent it to Mundhe. In the complaint, Arya said NMC had made profit of Rs 3 crore from drinking water supply in 2010-11. NMC engaged OCW in 2011-12. Since then, NMC has incurred a financial loss of around Rs 600 crore. OCW was supposed to complete the project and ensure 24x7 water supply to entire city in 2017. Arya said even now many areas were getting water supply for just 30 minutes and round-the-clock supply remained a distant dream despite expenditure of crores sanctioned by the central and state governments. “Till 2012, drinking water was being supplied through 220 water tankers. Now, the number has increased to 422 instead of city becoming tanker-free. There is need for a detailed inquiry as to why NMC continues to support OCW despite huge losses and failure of 24x7 water supply project,” he said. Arya, a former corporator and NCP group leader in NMC, added, “NMC had handed over 65 acres land worth around Rs 600 crore adjacent to Gorewada lake to a private company free of cost. Apart from loss, any project coming on this land may cause damage to lake as well as environment.” Arya also said there was need for an inquiry into planning going on to change reservation on 130 acres land situated at Nara. “Reservation of social and financial development of backward class is on the land for decades. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had floated a tender in 2003 for developing a national-level park on this land but it was dropped. Some people have planned to change the reservation on it in new development plan of the city which is under preparation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-min-asks-mundhe-to-probe-allegations-about-ocw-2-land-parcels/articleshow/76540051.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana hits 80% target of working days provided under NREGS||HYDERABAD: While many states are struggling to reach the target of providing cumulative person days (number of works given to the people under the scheme daily) in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Telangana has achieved 80% of the target to provide 13 crore cumulative person days in this year till now. Details in possession of TOI show that state provided 10.42 crore person days within three months. Officials say that reverse migration from Hyderabad to neighboring districts due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the fear of spread of coronavirus are the reasons. “There has been reverse migration from the Hyderabad to nearby districts and with private sector coming to halt, especially during May,” said a top official associated with the scheme. “Many youth working and studying in city and professionals also sought job cards, and we provided it to all of them. That is the reason we could achieve 80% of the target,” the official added. According to officials, a total of 1.2 lakh new job cards were also issued in the state during the last three months, in the backdrop of the Covid- 19 crisis. In April, 1.63 crore person days were provided. During May, when strict lockdown was implemented, 6.13 crore person days were achieved and in June till now, 2.65 crore cumulative working days were provided. The central government fixes the daily wage upper limit with the help of National Institute of Rural Development (NIRD), based on time motion study of the different categories of the works. The daily wage varies in state and districts within states also. The upper limit of daily wage in the state is Rs 237 and wage seekers have to work in such a way that they are eligible for a minimum of Rs 50. According to the officials in the state, average daily wage earned by wage seekers under the scheme is Rs 150 per day. The state government contributes 10% of the payments as part of the scheme, while 90% of the share is contributed by the Central government. Currently, the state has released Rs 161 crore as its’ share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hits-80-target-of-working-days-provided-under-nregs/articleshow/76539404.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Varsity exams: Haryana to promote students of terminal classes||CHANDIGARH: Under pressure from student outfits, the Haryana higher education and technical education departments have announced to promote students of terminal classes without holding examinations. The students of these classes will be promoted to the next semester with 50% weightage of marks of internal assessment/ assignment plus 50% weightage of marks in previous examinations. However, the students will have the option to go for examinations for improvement of grades once the situation becomes normal in the state. The same formula will be applicable for distance education/private students too. The orders also said the universities can opt for online examinations “only if they have the sufficient and elaborate arrangements and infrastructure for conducting such examinations.” An order related to this was issued from the office of principal secretary and financial commissioner Ankur Gupta in which the departments concerned have been told to take action accordingly in consultation with vice-chancellors of the universities. The government order has come a day after NSUI state president Divyanshu Budhiraja approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the order of higher education department related to exemption to students from out of Haryana from appearing in the examinations, while, it was made mandatory for local students.The NSUI president had even staged symbolic agitation outside the residence of Haryana CM residence on Sunday. The Indian National Students Organization (INSO) as well as Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) too had asked the government to take adequate steps in the interests of students. ABVP state executive member Purnoor had also submitted memorandums for the Haryana governor.The government had initially announced the examination of all classes from July 1 to 31. As NSUI moved court, the government decided to hold exams of terminal classes with an exemption to students from outside states. This triggered an unrest again and the NSUI once again moved court on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/varsity-exams-hry-to-promote-students-of-terminal-classes/articleshow/76540059.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: District reports no community clusters yet but ‘home clusters’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even when the Covid management team in the district has been trying to trace the source of infection in a bunch of cases, the district has so far thrown up ‘home clusters’ instead of the much more dreaded community clusters. In three months, Pothencode, Nellanad,Vamanapuram, Pullampara, Kattakada and a few corporation wards were declared containment zones after cases were reported mostly from the local population. Each of these cases had left behind a long trail of high-risk, primary and secondary contacts, numbering often above 200 and sometimes going up to 300. The sample collection itself took almost a week and entire areas had to be contained and decentralized swab collection centres had to be set up to facilitate sample collection. None of the high-risk contacts or primary contacts in cases where source of infection was not traced had turned positive. However, home clusters happened in two cases without evident sources; father and husband of nursing assistant at Kodunganoor had tested positive, wife and two daughters of the auto driver at Manacaud had also tested positive. The epidemiological team has reported that they hadn’t been able to spot symptomatic contacts in almost all of these cases except in two cases where home clusters had developed. Community spread is mostly ascertained by development of unknown set of clusters within locales and district has so far managed to avoid development of such clusters. Massive testing of contacts was done at Pothencode, Nellanadu, Pullampara, Vamanapuram, Kattakada, however none of the contacts were tested positive. “One reason why transmission rate was reduced was due to effective compliance with social distancing and use of masks. Although we can’t claim of 100% mask usage within the community, 70-80% people use masks strictly. Even without a lockdown, we have been able to go by restrictions regarding distancing, frequent use of hand wash and wearing masks. A social sensitivity has also developed regarding use of masks. The local body level monitoring of quarantine system along with public support had a key role in reducing the transmission rate,” said E Sreekumar, scientist at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB). The absence of infection amongst contacts of positive cases where source of infection was not traced also raises the question about sensitivity of results. However, officials said that positivity of such cases have been ensured through repeated tests to rule out false positives. Health officials said that the development of home clusters could be attributed to relaxation in use of masks and distancing at home. In-house infection was earlier reported in families of foreign returnees at Malayinkeezhu and Kallatumukku who had first tested positive and transmitted disease to family members. Meanwhile, four positive cases were reported in the district on Tuesday. Two of them came from Gulf countries and two others returned from Delhi. Two more wards in city corporation, Karikkakam and Kadakampally, were declared as containment zones on Tuesday. Late in the night, the district administration denotified containment zones in all 10 wards of Kattakada panchayat. However, Kattakada panchayat will continue to be an area needing special attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-reports-no-community-clusters-yet-but-home-clusters/articleshow/76538324.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks replies on BMC Opposition leader post||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Tuesday sought replies from state, civic administration and Mumbai mayor within a week to a petition by Prabhakar Shinde, a BJP corporator and party leader. Shinde challenged Kishori Pednekar’s “arbitrary’’ decision not to appoint him as leader of Opposition in BMC. Shinde’s counsel Birendra Saraf said the mayor’s decision had left BMC effectively without any leader of Opposition. As the Opposition leader now is Ravi Raja (Congress), the HC bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar directed Shinde to make Raja a party to the petition. The petitioner said the mayor “failed to recognize’’ him as leader of the second largest group in BMC, as leader of Opposition, in place of Raja, who is leader of the third largest group. After the 2017 civic elections, BJP decided to stay “neutral and perform the job of a watchdog and not join with the ruling party and not take up the post of leader of Opposition. That post then went to the third largest party after Raja raised a point of order on it. M P Lodha (BJP) had on February 28 requested the mayor to appoint Shinde as new group leader of BJP, which has 83 members, and as leader of Opposition in BMC. Shiv Sena, with 84 seats, heads the house; Congress has 31 and NCP nine. The mayor had on March 5 rejected Lodha’s request. Shinde had on June 10 filed his petition before HC through Parinam Law Associates assailing Pednekar and saying that under BMC Act, she was obliged to assess who should be fit to be appointed leader of Opposition based on numerical strength of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-replies-on-bmc-opposition-leader-post/articleshow/76539412.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Auto drivers, head-load workers hit hard||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There is a leather pouch in the driver’s cabin of Pradeep’s autorickshaw in which he has kept a notebook. The notebook is to be used as a ‘trip sheet’ – a system introduced by the police to note down details of passengers to make contact tracing easy in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases.  On Tuesday, until evening, there were only three names on his trip sheet. Pradeep conducts service from Manacaud Junction and the near empty trip sheet shows the bleak phase he is going through as a worker confined in a containment zone. The fact that it was another autorickshaw driver who became the cause of this lockdown in his neighbourhood has only worsened his plight. “People are reluctant to hail rides because they think that we are also carriers of this virus,” said Pradeep. His total earnings for the day till the evening was just Rs 70. His friend Prakash’s condition was a little better. He earned a total of Rs 150. All trips they received on Tuesday were short rides within the containment zone. Another group that was hit hard by lockdown at Manacaud is the headload workers as it is a trading hub. With majority of shops and establishments remaining closed, they have very little work. However, not all residents of the region are complaining. “We are aware that these measures are being implemented to contain the virus and we need to cooperate with the authorities,” said Babu, a resident who works in a petrol pump at Powerhouse Road. Fort assistant commissioner R Prathapan said that despite the best efforts of the police there were still rule violations in the region. The area comes under the limits of Fort station. “There are many people, both residents and travellers passing by, who refuse to follow the traffic diversions and are adamant to pass through the blocked roads, leading to arguments,” said the assistant commissioner, adding that barring such issues, things are going smooth. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, a homeless man and his two sons were taken to General Hospital following the vigil of trade union workers at Manacaud Chattambi Swami Temple Park. They spotted the trio sleeping in the park and noticed that the elder son, aged 14, was visibly ill. The younger son was aged 10. The father had burn injuries all over his body, which he apparently suffered recently in a hotel he worked at. They hailed from Kollam and were living at Valiyathura. He was forced to vacate as he could not pay the rent. The residents promptly alerted the police, ward councillor and corporation health wing officials, who came to the spot and took the father and sons to the hospital. Kaladi, Attukal, Chiramukku and Iranimuttam are the other containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/auto-drivers-head-load-workers-hit-hard/articleshow/76538342.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, private hospitals stay shut over new rules||CHANDIGARH: The one-day strike called by the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) crippled the health services — both outpatient departments (OPDs) and emergency services — at all private hospitals in the state. All private health facilities remained closed on Tuesday in protest against the decision of the government to enforce the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) by the way of an ordinance. Patients unaware of the strike had to face inconveniences as they reached hospitals only to return back. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Holding the Congress government responsible for inconveniences caused to patients, IMA maintained that the unwanted situation arose due to negligence on part of the state government and demanded that it should immediately defer the implementation of the Act and engage in talks with them. IMA, Punjab, general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann said the new regulation was brought in hurry without taking IMA Punjab, the biggest stakeholder, into confidence. “We had submitted memorandums to the government through elected representatives and deputy commissioners demanding immediate withdrawal, but the government ignored our demands. It seems that the government has become insensitive and is least bothered about the health of people,” allaged Dr Mann.While defending the decision to go on strike amidst Covid-19 outbreak, he said: “In such a situation we were left with no alternative than to shut down our hospitals to wake the government out of its deep slumber. If the government even now fails to meet our genuine demands, we will be forced to escalate the agitation, which we are not in favour of due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Under pressure to resolve the issues, the state government has reached out to IMA and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will hold a meeting with them on June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-pb-private-hospitals-stay-shut-over-new-rules/articleshow/76540078.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||In Punjab, private hospitals stay shut over new rules||CHANDIGARH: The one-day strike called by the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) crippled the health services — both outpatient departments (OPDs) and emergency services — at all private hospitals in the state. All private health facilities remained closed on Tuesday in protest against the decision of the government to enforce the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) by the way of an ordinance. Patients unaware of the strike had to face inconveniences as they reached hospitals only to return back. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Holding the Congress government responsible for inconveniences caused to patients, IMA maintained that the unwanted situation arose due to negligence on part of the state government and demanded that it should immediately defer the implementation of the Act and engage in talks with them. IMA, Punjab, general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann said the new regulation was brought in hurry without taking IMA Punjab, the biggest stakeholder, into confidence. “We had submitted memorandums to the government through elected representatives and deputy commissioners demanding immediate withdrawal, but the government ignored our demands. It seems that the government has become insensitive and is least bothered about the health of people,” allaged Dr Mann.While defending the decision to go on strike amidst Covid-19 outbreak, he said: “In such a situation we were left with no alternative than to shut down our hospitals to wake the government out of its deep slumber. If the government even now fails to meet our genuine demands, we will be forced to escalate the agitation, which we are not in favour of due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Under pressure to resolve the issues, the state government has reached out to IMA and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will hold a meeting with them on June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-pb-private-hospitals-stay-shut-over-new-rules/articleshow/76547065.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||KU finally pays salary to staff as Hry releases Rs 64cr grant||Kurukshetra: With Haryana government releasing Rs 63.75 crore, the second installment out of the total annual grant of Rs 85 crore, on Monday, Kurukshetra University (KU) has started clearing salaries of its employees and teachers and pension of retirees, varsity working vice-chancellor (VC) Dr Nita Khanna said on Tuesday. Notably, since the last few months, KU was struggling to release salaries and pensions of its employees and pensioners and it had been expecting financial help from the Haryana government. The KU officials said they received Rs 85 crore grant when they needed it the most. KU had received the first installment worth Rs 21.25 crore on May 13. Dr Nita said, “The state government released Rs 85 crore as budget grant for the year 2020-21 to KU. Due to special intervention of Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the government released the annual grant to KU at one go.” The working VC said in the previous years, the annual grant was released after every three months in four installments, but this time due to an emergent situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has released the grant in one go. She said the salaries of KU teachers and employees have been released and pension of retirees is being deposited in their accounts on Tuesday. The KU officials said with this grant of Rs 85 crore, the varsity has funds to manage the salaries and pensions for the next two months, but after that it would have to manage with its own income for the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-finally-pays-salary-to-staff-as-hry-releases-rs-64cr-grant/articleshow/76539409.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||‘Worried till we meet Vishnu’||ALAPPUZHA: Though Havildar Vishnu M Nair, who was injured in the violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in Ladakh, spoke with his family members several times over phone, they said that their tension would end only after seeing him directly. “It is a big relief that his health is improving. But tension in our mind will end only after seeing him. We requested MPs A M Ariff and Kodikunnil Suresh and Mizoram governor P S Sreedharan Pillai to help get him here for treatment. They assured us that he is being given better care and treatment there,” said his mother Indiramma. “I feel proud to know of his brave deed. But I am a mother too. I can breathe easy only after seeing and hugging my son,” she added. Vishnu, 34, son of late S Madhavan Nair, Nadakkavu, Chettikulangara, Alappuzha, joined Indian Army 16 years ago. Vishnu and his family were staying in Bihar. In October last year, he brought his wife Preetha and their children Devika (5) and Madhav (1) back to Kerala after he was transferred to Siachen glacier. He returned to Siachen on November 15. In May, he was posted in Galwan Valley. “We are very proud that he stood strongly against Chinese troops. But all of us want to meet him. He would call everyday before Chinese attack.We are requesting the Union government to get him home at the earliest,” Preetha said. Vishnu’s brother-in-law Rajesh V R said that on Saturday last, Vishnu made a video call. “After that he only made normal calls. In the video call, we saw his injuries and it pained all of us deeply. He told us that he was attacked by Chinese army with iron rods. His left arm was fractured in the attack. There were injuries all over his face and even inside his mouth. He assured us and said he was alright,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/worried-till-we-meet-vishnu/articleshow/76538333.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 10,000-bed care centre to be ready in three days, says Home minister Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said the 10,000-bed Covid care centre at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram in south Delhi would be operational by June 26 and another 1,000-bed hospital being developed by DRDO and Tata Trust near IGI airport would be ready in the next 10 days. This was in response to a report which said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had requested deployment of ITBP personnel. Shah said decisions with regard to the Radha Soami centre and ITBP were finalised at a meeting chaired by him on Sunday itself when there was a review of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Responding to an ANI tweet about a letter written by Kejriwal inviting Shah to inspect the Covid care facility at the Radha Soami campus in Chhatarpur and requesting deployment of ITBP doctors and nurses, Shah reminded that the decisions had already been taken as part of measures finalised earlier. The chief minister was part of this review meeting held by Shah, an officer said. “It has already been decided in our meeting three days back and MHA has assigned the work of operating the 10,000-bed Covid care centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by June 26,” Shah said in a tweet addressed to Kejriwal. Following the tweet, Kejriwal thanked the Union government for "helping" the people of Delhi. “The country's Army, doctors, social institutions, central government and Delhi government - all are working together for the city. I am sure we will together beat corona. Thank you for helping the Delhi government and the people of Delhi in these difficult circumstances,” the CM tweeted. The home minister further said a 1,000-bed hospital with 250 ICU beds for Covid patients would be ready next week. “DRDO and Tata Trust are building the facility. Armed forces personnel will man it. This Covid care centre will be ready in the next 10 days,” Shah said. An officer told TOI that this facility would be located behind the office of the Controller General of Defence Accounts/Raksha Sampada Bhavan, which is not too far from the airport. Besides, Shah tweeted, “Armed forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid patients housed in railway coaches in Delhi… 8,000 additional beds have already been placed at Delhi government’s disposal for making Covid care centres, as per requirement.” In the wake of review meetings chaired by Shah over the past few days, around 20,000 beds including 250 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients will be available in the national capital by next week, said a home ministry release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10k-bed-care-centre-to-be-ready-in-3-days/articleshow/76539419.cms||Bharti Jain
June 24, 2020||Amritsar||In Punjab, private hospitals stay shut over new rules||CHANDIGARH: The one-day strike called by the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) crippled the health services — both outpatient departments (OPDs) and emergency services — at all private hospitals in the state. All private health facilities remained closed on Tuesday in protest against the decision of the government to enforce the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) by the way of an ordinance. Patients unaware of the strike had to face inconveniences as they reached hospitals only to return back. The private health sector caters to about 70% of the population of the state. Holding the Congress government responsible for inconveniences caused to patients, IMA maintained that the unwanted situation arose due to negligence on part of the state government and demanded that it should immediately defer the implementation of the Act and engage in talks with them. IMA, Punjab, general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann said the new regulation was brought in hurry without taking IMA Punjab, the biggest stakeholder, into confidence. “We had submitted memorandums to the government through elected representatives and deputy commissioners demanding immediate withdrawal, but the government ignored our demands. It seems that the government has become insensitive and is least bothered about the health of people,” allaged Dr Mann.While defending the decision to go on strike amidst Covid-19 outbreak, he said: “In such a situation we were left with no alternative than to shut down our hospitals to wake the government out of its deep slumber. If the government even now fails to meet our genuine demands, we will be forced to escalate the agitation, which we are not in favour of due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Under pressure to resolve the issues, the state government has reached out to IMA and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will hold a meeting with them on June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-pb-private-hospitals-stay-shut-over-new-rules/articleshow/76547069.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Race hots up for top post in UP BJP women’s wing||Lucknow: As the BJP state unit is heading for a much-awaited revamp, the race for the post of Mahila Morcha chief is turning out to be an interesting affair. The post has to be decided through the ballot and party insiders say that while the present incumbent Darshana Singh has intensified her efforts to retain her post, the present general secretary is emerging as a key challenger. Almost a year has passed since Swatantra Dev Singh took over as the head of the state BJP, but he has not been able to have his own team so far. Recently, Singh had told TOI that as soon as unlockdown process would start the new executive would be announced. Once the state executive is announced, various wings of the organization, including Yuva Morcha, Mahla Morcha and Kisan Morcha, will also be reconstituted and new office-bearers will take over. “A situation is emerging in the state BJP which has put the old guards against new and energetic leader. Though this makeover is a healthy sign, it has given rise to a tough competition between seniors and juniors. So, we can see senior functionary like the present chief is facing a tough competition from her junior,” says a political analyst. Darshana was appointed the chief of women’s wing when Mahendra Nath Pandey was the state president. Pandey has been elevated as Union minister. Both belong to Chanduali district and so does Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. She was quite active during the lockdown and worked tirelessly to provide help to migrant workers, distributing relief materials and essentials like face mask. “I have tried my best to live up to expectations of the party and also its national leadership,” remarked Darshana. Archana Mishra, who, interestingly, got the post of the morcha general secretary on Darshana’s recommencations is now well entrenched in the outfit. She was recently named as state convenor of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s flagship Ujjawla scheme under which the LPG cylinders are distributed among the poor and the needy. Sources in the state BJP said that it would be a close contest between a veteran and an upcoming neta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/race-hots-up-for-top-post-in-up-bjp-womens-wing/articleshow/76540064.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||2 SITs in FIRs against Moose Wala, probe withdrawn from Barnala SP||Barnala: Punjab Police have constituted two special investigations teams (SITs) in Barnala and Sangrur to probe into two FIRs registered against singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu aka ‘Sidhu Moose Wala’ and five cops in connection with him firing from an AK-47 assault rifle of the police and from a pistol at separate places in May. In the case registered in Barnala district, the investigation has been taken back from SP (bureau of investigation) Rupinder Bhardwaj and the SIT there will be headed by SP (investigation) Sukhdev Singh Virk. The investigation officer in Sangrur, SP (bureau of investigation) Gurmeet Singh, will continue the probe and will head the SIT formed there. Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg will continue to supervise the investigations into both cases. The SITs have been constituted after Sidhu had filed an application and raised issues pertaining to the probes, said Patiala range inspector general of police (IG) Jatinder Singh Aulakh. Officials remained tightlipped about the contents of the application sent by the ‘So High’ singer. “As the cases are high profile and police did not want to take any risk, the SITs have been set up for thorough investigation and supervision will remain with Sangrur SSP,” said IG Aulakh. A video clip had gone viral on May 4 where Moose Wala was seen firing from an AK-47 at a private firing range in Badbar village in Barnala in the presence of cops. Similarly, another video of him firing from a pistol at Ladda Kothi near Dhuri had gone viral. Two cases were registered 9 persons each, including five cops. The cops though had gotten anticipatory bail in the Sangrur case, but it was dismissed in the Barnala case. Sources said higher-ups were not happy with the probe in Barnala, due to which bail had been rejected to cops. The case in Barnala has been registered at Dhanaula police station. Its SHO, DSP Ramaninder Singh, has been asked to assist SP Virk in the investigation. Some activists, however, accused police of going slow on the case and claimed that Moose Wala could get reprieve in the case after formation of SITs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-sits-in-firs-against-moose-wala-probe-withdrawn-from-barnala-sp/articleshow/76539416.cms||Neel Kamal
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||State drafts guidelines to permit inmates to email lawyers||MUMBAI: The state modified guidelines for jail inmates to allow them email communication with lawyers along with voice- and video-calling facilities with permission from jail superintendents. People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) had filed a PIL before HC to raise concerns over Covid-19 outbreak across prisons in Maharashtra and inmates’ lack of communication with relatives and lawyers. The guidelines stated that relatives of symptomatic and asymptomatic inmates testing positive for Covid-19 will be informed. “Every prison authority, such as superintendent, shall update family members of inmates who are asymptomatic, but turn out to be positive, as also those who are symptomatic, whether mild, moderate or severe, within 48 hours of detection of the fact that such an inmate has been infected with Covid,” it said. The prisons department on Tuesday informed Bombay HC, via video-conference, that through modified draft guidelines they have added mode of communication after considering suggestions by the petitioners. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik was hearing petitions by PUCL, Geeta Bharat Jain, Archana Rupawate and Devmani Shukla. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, along with additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan, said the state had accepted some recommendations by the petitioners. The state prisons department also said postal correspondence with prisoners would be allowed in non-containment zones where postal services resumed. The HC posted the matters, including one which sought that an FIR be registered for a case of murder against jail superintendent at Arthur Road and IG prisons, to Friday. One petition was filed by activist Harrison D’Mello, who alleged negligence in handling the situation related to Covid-19 outbreak in jails and deaths of inmates and sought an FIR be filed against them as well as compensation to victims. Another petition clubbed along was by Preeti Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-permits-inmates-to-email-lawyers/articleshow/76539431.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now KSRTC to operate point-to-point service||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a move to attract commuters, KSRTC has planned to start point to point services in the district from next week. KSRTC’s new MD Biju Prabhakar had earlier said the target group of KSRTC would be two-wheeler riders and the corporation will try to improve amenities to cater to their needs. “We can remove 30 bikes from the road, if we run a bus. This will not only reduce accidents, pollution and congestion on roads but also bring down import bills on fuel,” he had said after taking over as MD. In the first phase, services will be operated from Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara depot to Secretariat catering to the demand of government employees as well as other daily commuters. Unit officers have arranged fast passenger and super-fast passenger buses for the services. The non-stop bus services will be operated in the morning and evening only. “It is a dream project of the MD to operate demand-based services. If we can provide regular services on time, people will opt for buses. Instead of traveling in crowded buses, passengers can have a reserved seat and there will be no other boarding and alighting points other than the destination, which will attract many people to avail the service. Plan to collect a monthly fee for the service is also being considered,” said ATO, city depot. Passengers will be provided demarcated space to park their two-wheelers in the parking lot at these depots. It is planned in such a way that office-goers can park their vehicle, pay for both parking and travelling. Fare for the services is yet to be finalised. "I received many calls enquiring about the point to point services. Buses will be arranged based on registration. We have arranged spaces for more than 50 bikes at the depot," said K Rajan, inspector at Nedumangad depot. Passengers may contact Rajan at 8301858017 for registration. Neyyattinkara depot has arranged parking space for more than 250 two-wheelers. The depot has provided helpline numbers for passengers 9995707131, 9400978103 to enquire about the services. “We have received registration for around three buses. The depots where adequate parking facility is available have been selected for the services. Buses will be operated from Neyyattinkara from 9.05am to 9.30am and return service will be from 5.15pm. The bus will travel via Balaramapuram NH route to Secretariat,” said the unit officer at Neyyattinkara depot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-ksrtc-to-operate-point-to-point-service/articleshow/76538362.cms||Anasooya.S
June 24, 2020||Pune||Standard X pupils adjust, but fret about new teaching ways||PUNE: Standard X students, who will take the board exams next year, are facing a tough time. Be it school lessons or coaching classes, they are in front of screens for long hours which is taking a toll on them and reducing productivity, they said. Sanika Kulkarni’s day starts at 5am as she prepares for a marathon online session conducted by the coaching class she joined to prepare for the state board exams. Since April, Sanika has been in front of the screen for at least eight hours every day as her school began live tutorials. Sanika said, “I have now become so phobic to holding my tablet that after the eight hours of spending screen time, I refuse to touch it. It is too much screen time and my productivity has dropped.”  Experts have also raised concerns about excessive screen time that most students will spend this year . The students are given a 10-minute break after each session to relax and take a stroll but most students found the classes boring especially while preparing for such a crucial year. Mariam Shaikh, another student preparing for SSC exam next year felt online classes are not that helpful. “There are 200 students at a time and we don’t even know if the teacher has any watch on each of us. It is non-interactive and some concepts remain ambiguous. We are waiting for classroom sessions to begin,” she said. A new kind of absenteeism has crept in when classes by schools go on for four hours and coaching classes are conducted for three to four hours. Teachers said some students join school classes online and after a few minutes leave the class to join the coaching class session. “We received screenshots from students about their classmates who had joined coaching classes skipping sessions conducted by the school,” a teacher said. “It is getting difficult to teach online but at least students are starting work,” the teacher added. Rashi Mehta, a standard X student said, the online classes are adding to the pressure. “It is not going to be easy as by the time classrooms sessions begin, it will be time for prelims and in the board exams will be scheduled. It is going to be very difficult for us,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-x-pupils-adjust-but-fret-about-new-teaching-ways/articleshow/76539424.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra set to procure 1 lakh rapid antigen test kits: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that the state is set to procure one lakh rapid antigen test kits to screen people across Covid-19 hotspots and government hospitals in Pune and Mumbai. The kits, which can produce results within 30 minutes, will prove particularly useful for screening patients heading into emergency care at hospitals, officials said. A total of 40,000 kits will be bought during the first phase of procurement. Each kit is being procured at a price of Rs 450. A senior official from the state health department said the antigen kits will be used to screen emergency or trauma cases; pregnant women set to deliver; and populations inside containment zones. But this is strictly a screening test. “Symptomatic individuals who test negative on this test should undergo the regular RT-PCR test for confirmation. And a positive result via the antigen kit should be considered as confirmation,” the health department official said. The technical advisor to the state government on Covid-19, Subhash Salunkhe, said antigen kits will boost swift testing for specific cases. “It will not be for general cases; the RT-PCR test will be enough for that. Antigen kits will be used with discretion,” he said. The Indian Council of Medical Research had approved the use of antigen kits developed by South Korean firm, SD Biosensor. The test kits look for antibodies that are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. Apart from being quicker than the regular RT-PCR tests, antigen kits are cheaper and quicker. They don’t have to be taken to a lab to extract results. Another state health official said, “Currently, the antigen kits will be used on a limited scale. But their use can be scaled up depending on requirement. If production increases we can use them on a mass scale. Right now, we have just one supplier.” Several countries have deployed antigen kits to trace Covid-19 in their populations. But the kits are not as sensitive as the RT-PCR tests, which are still considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing. However, they are extremely convenient. Results are visible to the naked eye and they can be carried out on-site. The RT-PCR test takes a minimum of 2-5 hours including the time taken for sample transportation. “These specifications limit the widespread use of the RT-PCR test and also impedes quick augmentation of testing capacity in various containment zones and hospital settings,” an ICMR advisory has stated. In a reliable rapid antigen detection test, the maximum duration for interpreting a positive or negative test is just 30 minutes, much faster than most tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-set-to-procure-1-lakh-rapid-antigen-test-kits-tope/articleshow/76539434.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Body of four-year-old found inside parked car in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The body of a four-year-old child was found inside a car parked near his house in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Tuesday morning. Police suspect that the boy died of a snake bite. “The body of Ankush, a resident of Wadhwa Camp in Kirti Nagar, has been sent for autopsy to establish the cause of death and a FIR will be registered post the post-mortem,” said a senior police officer. Ankush had gone missing from his house on Monday night, with his family members searching for him in the locality the entire night. On Tuesday morning, they found the door of the car open with the child found sitting on the front seat of the vehicle. His body had turned pale and there were stains of blood on his nose and mouth. Police were informed and the body was taken to DDU hospital where doctors found a fang mark on his toe. Police said there were no other external injuries on the child’s body apart from the blood stains which might have oozed out due to the poisoning. The car will be sent for a forensic examination. Neighbours informed the cops that the vehicle belonged to a local who had junked it a few years back and parked it by the road side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/body-of-four-year-old-found-inside-parked-car/articleshow/76539443.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||MNREGS: UP betters its past 5-year show in just 2 months||Lucknow: While UP has emerged as the biggest employer under the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), piping Rajasthan, past records show that the state rural development department had to take its own performance several notches up to make it happen. Following chief minister Yogi Adityanath's directives to generate enough jobs for over 30 lakh migrants who have come back to the state in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown, the department went into an overdrive when the new financial year started. And since April 21, when the fresh job cards were started to be given, over 60 lakh households have been engaged under the scheme in just two months. Over 5 lakh of them are migrants. So, while almost 60% of the annual target of engaging 1.03 crore workers has been achieved in just two months, the past five years records of the rural development department show that it has never gone beyond 52.2% in the whole year. According to MNREGS data accessed by TOI, while the target for enrolment of people under the scheme remained constant at 1.03 households in the past five years, the department achieved 52.22% in 2015-16, 48.11% in 2016-17, 46.81% in 2017-18, 48.60% in 2018-19 and 43.69% in 2019-20. The engagement of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe under the Centre’s flagship scheme was as low as 33.21% in 2019-20). The enrolment under the scheme has been even lower for women with the rural development department achieving 30% to 25% of the projected target in the past five years. When contacted, additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar maintained that achieving a target of even around 50% was commendable given the tedious task of rolling in socially deprived people in the mainstream of economic activity. “The idea is to engage people who are low down the social-economic index. This is being done to attain the sustainable goals as flagged by the Centre. The number of people getting engaged under MNREGS is expected to rise gradually,” he said. Kumar said that engaging people from the socio-economic background is part of the national vision to end poverty. “We are working in that direction,” he said. With over 30 lakh migrants coming back to UP following Corona induced lockdown, the rural development department looks to improve its performance in terms of engagement of labourers under MNREGS. Rural development department officials said that the annual target under MNREGS is to the tune of 26 crore man days. At present, the state has achieved around 8 crore man days in two months, which was recently pegged by the state government as one of the highest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mnregs-up-betters-its-past-5-year-show-in-just-2-months/articleshow/76540082.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-MLA among those booked for protesting near Bathinda thermal plant||Bathinda: Police registered a case against Shiromani Akali Dal ex-MLA Sarup Chand Singla, ex-mayor of Bathinda Municipal Corporation Balwant Rai Nath, a number of councillors and Akali leaders for assembling near Guru Nanak Thermal power plant and staging a protest against transfer of thermal plant land to Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA). The case has been registered for violating prohibitory orders due to Covid 19 restrictions. The Akalis assembled to burn the effigy of the state government after the cabinet, on Monday, decided to transfer thermal plant land. A total of 32 persons have been named in the FIR whereas 40 to 50 unidentified persons have been booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and the Disaster Management Act. The Akalis assembled near the thermal plant at 1PM with a pick-up vehicle fitted with a speaker. Social distancing norms had been openly flouted. They protested against development of the land for an industrial park. Sarup Chand Singla said, “Before the 2017 assembly elections, Punjab Finance Minister promised to keep the thermal plant running. But after gaining power, he relegated the promise to the backburner and now wants to earn money from the thermal plant land. We will not tolerate it.” Singla also described the police case as politically motivated and said even though Akalis had been singled out, they would not fear such cases. Meanwhile, Manpreet Badal justified the decision saying that the highly loss making thermal plant has been closed down due to environmental, economic and administrative concerns. He said the largest industrial park in the state would revitalise and rejuvenate the economy of Punjab. Bathinda SSP Nanak Singh said a case has been registered for violating Covid 19 norms. Contract-based employees and Engineers Association also staged a protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-mla-among-those-booked-for-protesting-near-bathinda-thermal-plant/articleshow/76539427.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Realtors get month to adapt to new portal||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gujarat RERA) has allowed a month’s time to real estate developers to adapt to the state regulator’s new portal. The decision was taken after a meeting of RERA officials and real estate developers on Tuesday. The real estate regulator has readied its new portal with improved software services. Called Gujarat RERA 2.0, the new portal bundled with a mobile application was scheduled to be rolled-out from June 26. “We requested the regulatory authority chairman that the new software (portal) should not be immediately implemented,” said Ashish Patel, president, CREDAI-Gujarat, which is a state chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI). “Real estate community also urged that it is not the right time to introduce a new initiative when enough working staff is not available and developers are facing tough times in starting work at their sites. We sought time to understand the new software and provide our feedback,” added Patel. Realtors’ request was accepted by the authority chairman and they have been given a month’s time to adapt and understand the portal as well as have first-hand experience of using the new software. “Based on our user experience, we will provide feedback and suggestions in a month’s time, which will then be reviewed by the authority,” said Patel, who along with CREDAI-Gujarat secretary Kinjal Patel led the discussion with the state authority. The meeting was attended by over two dozen representatives of various city-chapters of CREDAI-Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/realtors-get-month-to-adapt-to-new-portal/articleshow/76539843.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Mani defiant, UDF in crisis||KOTTAYAM: Even as UDF convener Benny Behanan and senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy reiterated that the Jose group should relinquish the Kottayam district panchayat president post for Joseph group, Jose K Mani remains defiant. With this, the UDF finds itself in deep crisis. MLA Roshi Augustine of Jose group denied rumours of Jose group holding talks to leave UDF. Behanan said that Mani had informed him of his dissatisfaction on UDF’s decision. “I don’t think he will leave UDF for this,” he said. Chandy, however, took a stronger stand. “Let UDF’s decision be implemented first,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mani-defiant-udf-in-crisis/articleshow/76538353.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot wins global climate change challenge third time||RAJKOT: Saurashtra’s commercial capital Rajkot has once again pipped other Indian cities to bag the prestigious title of ‘National Capital of India 2019-20’ bestowed by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) for efforts taken to reduce carbon dioxide emission and tackling climate change. WWF, the international organization that is championing the cause of reducing human impact on the environment, picked Rajkot above cities like Nagpur, Kochi, Panaji, Pune, Guwahati, Gangtok and even Indore, which had been voted India’s cleanest cities earlier. In the year 2019-20, Rajkot has reduced conventional energy consumption by 17.26 million kilo watt hour (KWH) and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 14,000 tonnes, by embracing solar in a big way and other projects. In fact, Rajkot has won his title three times now - in 2016-17, 2018-19 and 2019-20. The cities had participated in the ‘One Planet City Challenge (OPCC), a global competition in which 255 cities from 53 countries had participated to demonstrate their innovations in sectors like energy, transport, housing, waste-to-power taken to reduce carbon emission. Municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal told TOI, “The OPCC international jury of experts had met in March and April to select one city from each country as the national winner and global winner. Kochi and Nagpur were also selected as finalists and Rajkot emerged as national winner for India.” In its observations, the jury noted: Rajkot is implementing an ambitious energy efficiency project and is taking important action to mitigate water scarcity risks, including measures to reuse and recycle waste water. Rajkot is further tackling storm water flooding risks by restoring nature-based drainage solutions, with important filtration and health co-benefits. The city's mitigation actions focused on its highest emitting sectors, most notably in the buildings sector.” “Rajkot demonstrated several actions across at least three identified hazards and scored well on political commitment indicators,” WWF’s letter to Agrawal stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-wins-global-climate-change-challenge-third-time/articleshow/76538381.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Driver killed by brother-in-law in Hyderabad after argument over family issue||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old driver, Mohammed Khaled, was killed by his brother-in-law at Shahalibanda during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday after a heated argument over a family issue. According to police, the deceased would frequently visit his in-law’s house and start arguments. The accused, Shaik Abdul Suleman (25) who stays in the same locality, had earlier stopped Khaled from picking up fights with his family. On Monday night, the accused went to his in-law’s house between 12.30 and 12.40 am and picked up an argument and allegedly beat up his father-in-law. “Suleman initially tried to stop him but lost his calm and picked up a kitchen knife. He then stabbed Khaled on his leg,” said a police officer from Shahalibanda police station. The victim sustained a deep bleeding injury and was rushed to Osmania General Hospital (OGH). On Tuesday morning, Khaled died while undergoing treatment. Soon after the incident, Suleman went absconding. A case was registered against him under section 302 (murder) of IPC and police are on a lookout for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-killed-by-brother-in-law-after-argument-over-family-issue/articleshow/76539468.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for murder of Congress worker in Telangana's Shadnagar||HYDERABAD: Four days after a Congress worker was murdered in Shadnagar, a realtor and his driver were arrested at Keshampet crossroads by Cyberabad police on Monday. The victim, B Ram Chandra Reddy (62), was also a realtor. He was stabbed to death allegedly by B Pratap Reddy (34), a realtor from Shadnagar, and his driver Vijay Kumar (23) on June 19. The duo drove the car to Penjerla village near Kothur and abandoned the body inside the car in an open land. After committing the murder, Pratap even called up cops about locating a body in the open land.“Pratap and his driver stabbed Ram Chandra with broken pieces of scissors while he was seated in the car. Pratap also held a grudge against Ram Chandra for humiliating him by referring to inter-religious marriages in his family,” Shadnagar ACP V Surender said. The accused confessed to the crime which they attributed to a property dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-murder-of-cong-worker/articleshow/76539489.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||HC junks plea stating Panjagutta steel bridge had disturbed tombs||Hyderabad: Stating that the construction of the Panjagutta steel bridge over the graveyard was done in public interest to help ease traffic congestion in the area, the Telanagana high court on Tuesday dismissed a PIL filed by P Anil Kumar, one of the stakeholders of the graveyard. Kumar had contended in his plea that the GHMC had undertaken and completed the work during the lockdown and in the process had disturbed several graves beneath the bridge. He had urged the court to stall construction work on the bridge. However, the GHMC refuted the claims. In an earlier hearing, advocate general BS Prasad had argued that the construction of the bridge was undertaken in public interest and urged the court to allow its completion during the lockdown as otherwise the road is always crowded which would interfere with the work. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy had appointed advocate Vedula Srinivas as amicus curiae in the matter. Srinvas, after studying the area, reported that most parts of the bridge were away from the graves and in places where it did pass through graveyard, the civic body had been careful to only utilise the vacant spaces between the graves. Stating that the bridge was in public interest, Srinivas told the bench there was every need to allow it. Agreeing with him, the high court dismissed the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-plea-stating-panjagutta-steel-bridge-had-disturbed-tombs/articleshow/76539452.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||No arrests yet over death of 16-yr-old domestic help||Hyderabad: Activists have approached the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) as no arrest had been made for weeks in a case wherein a minor girl working as a domestic help died under suspicious circumstances in Bachupally. The couple who had hired the the girl had been booked under Juvenile Justice Act, SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act. “The post-mortem examination (PME) report is awaited. We are still investigating the case. No arrests have been made,” Bachupally inspector P Jagadeeshwar said. The deceased 16-year-old hailing from Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district had made a call to her mother on June 1 complaining of harassment by her employers just before her death. The minor had been employed as a 13-year-old by the couple — A Prasad and Sumalatha — who reside on Rajeev Gruhakalpa Road. According to police reports, a half-opened bottle of pesticide was found in the room where the minor’s body was found. Following the incident, a complaint had been filed with the State Human Rights Commission who had forwarded the same to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “The SCPCR has not responded about the status of the investigation till now except that the investigation has been initiated. The post mortem exam report has not been given to her mother. He belongings are being held back by her employers,” said Lisee Joseph of National Domestic Workers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-arrests-yet-over-death-of-16-yr-old-domestic-help/articleshow/76539505.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Corporation introduces token system for fish markets||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Token system in fish markets and ‘home delivery days’ will be introduced in the city as part of measures to curb spread of Covid-19 as cases without evident sources on infection have been reported in the past few weeks. In a meeting of merchants, convened by mayor K Sreekumar here on Tuesday, it was decided that only 50% shops selling fish will be allowed to function on a given day in markets. Token system will be introduced through contractors who have won auction for fish sales. Street vending of fish will also be regulated. Police help will be sought in regulating entry of people to markets. Supermarkets in shopping malls will be open on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. Public entry will be prohibited to supermarkets in malls on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday. These days will be observed as ‘home delivery days’ and focus will be on delivering goods at home. Shops selling fruits and vegetables will be open in markets at Chalai and Palayam on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday. Meat shops and provision stores will also function on alternate days. The arrangements will be in effect for ten days. Mayor K Sreekumar said that if the restrictions could reduce crowding in these areas, another meeting will be convened to discuss relaxations. All shops functioning in the city will have to comply with social-distancing measures. Only those wearing masks shall be allowed to enter shops. In case of violations, steps will be taken to cancel the trade license of shops. Regulations will be in effect in shops selling food at night. Four health squads of the city corporation will be deployed to ensure social distancing in shops. Special arrangements have been made at corporation main office as well. Public are allowed entry to the main office only after initial screening at the counters set up outside the office. Token system will be introduced in the main office. Mayor said that regulations are being effected as part of steps to avoid community spread and to prevent a situation which would necessitate complete lockdown in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-introduces-token-system-for-fish-markets/articleshow/76538407.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Temporary shelters shut, homeless children suffering, high court told||Hyderabad: Professor PL Vishweswara Rao of the Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) on Tuesday sought directions from the Telangana high court to the state to take care of street children and orphans who have been displaced due to the closure of temporary shelters after lockdown curbs were relaxed. Appearing before a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, Rao informed that such children were being thrown into a pathetic situation due to the closure of shelters. As part of their efforts to house migrant workers, the state had erected several temporary shelters and had also earmarked function halls to be used for this purpose. “Several children living on the streets in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the state were also accommodated in these shelters and provided food and other facilities,” Professor Rao told the bench. However, with migrants leaving after lockdown curbs were relaxed, these temporary arrangements were also closed. “All of them (children) are now on roads again. It is the duty of the state to take care of them. More over, they pose a threat to the efforts of the state to contain Covid-19,” Rao said. He also pointed out that there were only two senior citizens shelters in the state, one in Hyderabad and another in Karimnagar. “Under provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Senior Citizens Act, the state is supposed to establish one such shelter in each district,” he added. The bench in response assured Professor Rao that it would elicit an answer over the issue from the state through the advocate general. “But before that, you have to file an affidavit narrating all these issues. We cannot issue firmans like Nizam emperors based on oral submissions. Tell us areas where temporary shelters were closed and he details of children orphaned on account of such closures,” the bench told the professor and posted the case to next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temporary-shelters-shut-homeless-children-suffering-high-court-told/articleshow/76539438.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Faster testing device will boost screening at 18 medical colleges in Maharashtra||PUNE: Rapid antigen testing kits will now allow state government-run medical colleges across Maharashtra to scale up Covid-19 testing, officials said. The Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER), which oversees the work of the 18 government medical colleges in the state, has allowed their attached hospitals to procure antigen kits to test individuals who may have Covid-19. Frontline doctors at these units will now also be able to quickly screen general patients coming in for procedures. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had approved the procurement of antigen kits from a South Korean firm on June 15. “On June 23, the state government allowed use of the kits at the 18 medical colleges. We have asked the colleges’ attached hospitals to procure the kits on their own and to start using them on patients for free,” Tatyarao Lahane, director of the DMER, told TOI. The ICMR has said that once a sample is collected in the virus transport media (VTM), it will be stable only for an hour. “Therefore, the rapid antigen tests need to be conducted at the site of sample collection,” the agency said in an advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/faster-testing-device-will-boost-screening-at-18-medical-colleges/articleshow/76539440.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway agrees to send Bihar migrants home||HYDERABAD: The wait to return home for 49 stranded Bihari migrant workers is over with the South Central Railway (SCR) agreeing to arrange their travel aboard its Hyderabad-Patna train on Wednesday under the emergency quota (EQ). Secunderabad divisional railway manager (DRM) Anand Bhatia conveyed this to a Telangana high court bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Tuesday. The DRM assured the bench that the SCR will do everything in its power to help stranded migrants. The bench said that this was what they were expecting officials to do during a crisis instead of “repeating verses from the rule book.” It may be recalled that earlier, while hearing pleas by social activist Professor Rama S Melkote, S Jeevan Kumar of Human Rights Forum, the HC had been upset with the SCR for listing out reasons for not being able to help migrants despite the fact that the expenditure was being taken care of by the state. The DRM agreed before the bench to allot all EQ seats in sleeper class and third AC coaches to migrants travelling to Patna. “We have 34 sleeper class seats and 20 third AC seats at our disposal to be allotted under EQ and we are ready to earmark these seats to the migrants. This is a special arrangement and we will ensure all migrants are sent to their places,” Anand said. For this, officials like the district collector have to obtain tickets for the migrants and apply for EQ to enable the provision. Petitioners’ counsel Vasudha Nagaraj urged the bench to ensure that this arrangement is continued for some more time because given the regular inflow of migrants at the Secunderabad railway station. “Their number may not be as high as in the past but it is a fact that they are still coming every day in smaller numbers,” she said. The bench directed the state and SCR to continue this arrangement. “This is a human tragedy and we must act accordingly,” Chief Justice Chauhan said. Rejecting a point raised by one of the petitioners to allot migrants seats instead of berths, the CJ said: “They suffered enough. Let them go home comfortably.” The bench posted to case to June 26 to verify its progress. Earlier, the bench was flummoxed when the SCR had narrated about specifications of a 24-bogie train and the difficulty to add more coaches to existing trains. However, the DRM admitted that all trains were not 24-bogie long and that some of them run with 18 bogies too. “We will be able to attach up to six bogies to such trains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-agrees-to-send-bihar-migrants-home/articleshow/76539369.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Teacher gets 10-year rigorous imprisonment for rape of minor||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old school teacher was sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for sodomising a minor boy in 2015. First additional metropolitan sessions judge of Hyderabad, Suneetha Kunchala, declared the teacher guilty under section 377 of the Indian Penal Code and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in a case registered at Bahadurpura police station in 2015. The judge also imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 for each of the two offences he was found guilty of. Both sentences will run concurrently. The 12-year-old student of a private school in the Old City told his father about his ordeal on November 10, 2015. The convicted teacher was a teacher of Urdu and Arabic in the school. Additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy said the teacher, under the pretext of handing over some Arabic books to the boy, called him to his house the previous day and forced himself on him. Following a complaint from the boy’s father, Bahadurpura police registered a case against the accused teacher under sections 6 of the Pocso Act and 377 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teacher-gets-10-year-ri-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/76539478.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mysuru||Recently retired ASI ends life||MADIKERI: Erappa ,60, who retired recently as an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from Shanivarsanthe police station, allegedly shot himself dead, using his SBBL gun, inside his house at Madegodu village on Tuesday morning.  His wife, son and daughter rushed to the room when they heard the gunshot, but found him dead. His wife informed the Shanivarasanthe police, who conducted the mahajar. Police have registered a suicide case. They said that he was depressed. He retired on May 31. He had served as a police constable in Kushalanagar, Shrimangala and other places in Kodagu, and was then promoted as an ASI. Man drowns in Triveni SangamA man from Hunsur in Mysuru drowned in the Triveni Sangama at Bhagamandala on Tuesday morning. Two others who had come with him, who tried to rescue him, got injured in the attempt, and are being treated at a hospital in Madikeri. A total 11 members of a family, had come to Bhagamandala in a Scorpio vehicle from Hunsuru. They reached Bhagamandala at 7am. They came to conduct the death anniversary rituals of a elder in the family. Manikanta, the son of the deceased elder, for whom the rituals were being performed, stepped into the Cauvery, and slipped and fell in the deep portion of the river. His brother Subramani,29, sister Prameela,34, and mother Yashoda, 65, jumped into the water to save Manikata. All of them got in trouble after getting into the water. Prameela was rescued by her husband Kannan. Meanwhile, hearing the screams for help of those who were drowning, locals Monnappa, Parakash, Nidube Ravi and others succeeded in saving all those who were drowning, except Subramani. Prameela and Yashoda were seriously injured, and have been admitted to a hospital in Madikeri. Yashoda is in a critical condition. Locals vented their anger against the temple administration for not opening the blocking gates, to stop water flow during the summer, to enable bathing. The gates remained closed even after it rained, due to which the water level was high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/recently-retired-asi-ends-life/articleshow/76538421.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Leader of opposition tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to PGI||Lucknow: Leader of opposition and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary tested positive for novel coronavirus infection and was among 14 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 843 so far. Chaudhary, a resident of Gautampalli, was shifted to SGPGIMS at around 12pm after being diagnosed with Covid-19 from a private hospital on Shaheed Path where he was admitted on Monday following complaints of difficulty in breathing and fever. Party sources said he had recently visited Ballia. “We are tracing those who came in contact with him to find source of infection. His family members have been asked to home quarantine themselves and will be tested,” said spokesperson of chief medical officer (CMO) office Yogesh Raghuvanshi. “A father-son duo from Alambagh also tested positive and admitted to SGPGIMS. The condition of the father is critical. They had purchased medicines from a pharmacy of a nearby hospital. Two employees of the pharmacy had tested positive on Sunday,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. The CMO also recommended a nationalised bank to close its branch in Vrindavan for 24 hours for sanitisation after three employees tested positive. The employees got themselves tested at SGPGIMS after developing fever and cough. “Family members of the bank employees and other staff of the branch have been home quarantined and are being tested,” said CMO. A jawan of PAC 10th battalion from Mohan was also diagnosed with Covid-19. A constable of the battalion had tested positive earlier. A 45-year-old woman admitted to RMLIMS on Monday after a stroke also tested positive. Hospital shut for sanitisationA private hospital in Alambagh on Kanpur Road was partially closed for sanitization for 48 hours on Tuesday after two persons who visited its pharmacy tested positive. So far, 15 cases related to the hospital have been reported. The first was the 60-year-old owner on June 17, followed by his cousin, wife and two kids on June 18 and seven more family members on June 19. Two employees working at the hospital’s pharmacy tested positive on Sunday. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said the hospital has been told not to admit new patients. Containment zone norms made stringentAs Covid-19 cases are rising steadily in the city, the health department on Tuesday decided to make norms for declaring an area containment zone more stringent to check the spread of virus. Now, a locality will be declared containment zone if just one case surfaces, instead of two or more cases. “The area in 250 metre radius of the case will be barricaded. The radius would be increased to 500 metre if another case is reported from same area,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/leader-of-oppn-tests-ve-for-covid-admitted-to-pgi/articleshow/76540096.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to disallow ICSE, ISC exams||MUMBAI: The state government will tell Bombay HC on Wednesday that it cannot permit Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board exams for students of classes X and XII in their pending papers due to Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state disaster management committee on June 22, chaired by the chief minister. “It was decided that the state cannot permit conduct of ICSE (sic) exams from July 2 given the current COVID-19 situation in the state. The decision may be conveyed to the Hon’ble Bombay HC,” said a letter by Vandana Krishna, additional chief secretary, school education department, to the advocate general. She stated that “a similar decision was taken for not conducting university exams” for final year students, and this to would be conveyed to HC. A bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, hearing a PIL against holding of exams, on Monday sought the ‘clear’ stand of the state government on allowing CISCE to conduct ICSE (class X) and ISC (class XII) exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-disallow-icse-isc-exams/articleshow/76539470.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana raises Rs 2,000 crore through open market borrowing||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Tuesday raised Rs 2,000 crore as state development loan (SDL) in an auction conducted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The tenure of SDL will be 10 years and will have a cut-off yield of 6.6%. This is the second time the state has gone for borrowing this month. It had earlier done so on June 9. After the latest round of auctions, the total market borrowing for the current financial year has reached Rs 12,500 crore. Before the coronavirus crisis, the government had initially planned to raise Rs 9,000 crore in the first quarter of FY2020-21. However, with income generation taking a hit, the state has had to set aside its original plan. As per the Centre, the state is allowed to raise Rs 15,051 crore through open market borrowing in the first nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-raises-rs-2k-cr-through-open-mkt-borrowing/articleshow/76539518.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 24, 2020||Surat||90% Daman barricaded with spurt in Covid cases||Surat: About 90% of the union territory of Daman has been put under containment following the sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases in the last 10-odd days. Official sources said that two Covid-19 cases were recorded in Daman on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 41. The two patients were already under the quarantine facility as they were close contacts of another Covid-19 patient. The administration has put about 18 areas in Dabhel, Nani Daman and Kachigam under containment to stop the spread of the deadly virus. Majority of the containment zones are in Dabhel, which is the industrial hub and populated by the migrant workers. Daman is spread in 72 square kilometres having population of about 2 lakh people.All the borders at Pataliya, Dabhel and Kunta village have been sealed and that the workers coming from Vapi and Valsad are not being allowed entry into Daman from the last few days. Official sources said that the borders with Gujarat state were sealed to prevent the workers residing in Vapi and working in the factories of Daman, from entering the UT for few days. Earlier, district collector Rakesh Minhas had stated that majority of the workers employed in Daman’s industrial units were residing in the Chawls in Daman and they are being screened by the health teams on regular basis. However, there are many workers residing in Vapi, who cross the border on daily basis, to work in the industrial units.Charmie Parekh, deputy collector of Daman said, “At present, we have about 18 containment zones. The movement of residents in the containment zone has been banned and the administration has set-up the facility for the home delivery of grocery, vegetables and other essential items.”Parekh added, “Majority of the Covid-19 cases have been detected from Dabhel, which is a industrial hub. A rigorous health check-up drive has been started in the industrial units to screen the workers”Director of medical and health services of UT, Dr V K Das said, “The surge in the Covid-19 cases was expected in Daman after the workforce in the industries started coming from nearby Gujarat. We are collecting about 50 samples on daily basis of the people having suspected symptoms of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/90-daman-barricaded-with-spurt-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76538412.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Scrap new stay-home norms, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Tuesday wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking withdrawal of the new home isolation norms that require Covid-positive people to go for health assessment at Covid care centres before a decision could be taken about allowing them home isolation or institutional quarantine. Sisodia also sought another meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) where the new home isolation condition could be discussed. The new condition was put in place on Saturday after the LG withdrew his order making five days institutional quarantine mandatory for all Covid-positive people. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked the LG to withdraw the order in a meeting of DDMA. On Monday, TOI had reported about how the new order was causing inconvenience to people. Many Covid-positive people had reported their inability to get ambulances or alternative transport to reach the care centres. The deputy CM said that he wanted restoration of the earlier system of home isolation under which a person testing positive was visited by a government medical team at his house. If he was found asymptomatic or with mild symptoms and fulfilled all requirements, then home isolation was permitted. Those having moderate to serious symptoms or patients with inadequate isolation facilities at home used to be shifted to a hospital or a government quarantine facility. “The new system is not suitable for anyone. Under the system that was in practice till recently, patients in home isolation were provided consultation over the phone daily. This system was running smoothly. Is ending this system and calling patients to the Covid centres appropriate?” asked Sisodia, who is also handling the health portfolio since Satyendar Jain was hospitalised. The letter added, “Delhi is reporting around 3,000 new Covid-19 cases every day. Where will the ambulances come from to take all these people to the Covid care centres? It is almost impossible for the district administration and medical teams who are already handling more workload than their capacity. It will result in huge queues at the centres.” In a press conference, Sisodia stated that the new process of getting a check-up done after testing positive was creating a lot of confusion in the minds of people. “If a person chooses not to go to the Covid centre, then he is harassed by repeated phone calls from police or the administration prodding him to visit a nearby centre and get a check-up done. People are in a state of fear that if they refuse to go to a centre, then police will come to their house and take them there,” added the deputy CM. “People are worried, not because of the disease, but for the trouble they would go through, waiting in queues outside the care centre to get checked,” said Sisodia. Delhi government has a fleet of only around 450 ambulances. Sisodia said the new norms are putting a massive pressure on the ambulance service. “Should the ambulance take critical Covid-19 patients to the hospital or asymptomatic patients to the care centres for a check-up?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-scrap-new-stay-home-norms/articleshow/76539460.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘11.46% of season’s rain received’||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has so far received 11.46% of the season’s rainfall. Against the long-term average of 831mm, the state has so far recorded 111.3mm, said state relief commissioner Harshad Patel. Patel shared the data after a meeting of the Weather Watch group on Tuesday. Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and other stakeholders attended the meeting through video-conferencing. “Except Lakhpat taluka in Kutch, all talukas of Gujarat have received rainfall between 1mm and 343mm,” Patel said. IMD representatives said that heavy rainfall is forecast in Navsari, Tapi, and Valsad districts over the next seven days. Moderate rainfall is expected in parts of north Gujarat, Saurashtra, and Kutch. The IMD on Tuesday said that light to moderate rain is expected in places such as Aravalli, Mahisagar, Sabarkantha, Dahod, Banaskantha, Patan, Surat, and Bharuch on Wednesday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-46-of-seasons-rain-received/articleshow/76539740.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Report suspicious movement, police and RWAs tell the elderly in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A circular has been issued in Dwarka by Delhi Police and Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA) asking senior citizens to take precautions and inform cops about any suspicious movement in their housing societies. The step was taken after an 88-year-old woman was murdered by a security guard in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave. The RWAs that TOI spoke to stated that the vulnerability of the general public, especially senior citizens, had increased since the lockdown restrictions were eased. In all, 38,353 senior citizens, including 2,391 from Dwarka, are registered with the senior citizen cell of Delhi Police. After the Safdarjung Enclave murder, a circular was issued by various RWAs asking for a thorough check of people entering the housing societies. Rejimon CK from Dwarka Forum said they issued a circular asking senior citizens to be more alert for their own safety. “We have asked deliverymen to leave the items at the gate. A person has been designated in each society to deliver it to the residence of the senior citizens. We work in close coordination with police and also have WhatsApp groups for residents. We have given contact numbers to senior citizens who are not technology friendly,” Rejimon added. He also highlighted that most people wear a mask or cover their face with a stole owing to the novel coronavirus scare. This makes it difficult for them to be identified in the CCTV footage. “There are many unemployed people in dire need of money roaming around. For added safety, if an unknown person wants to enter the society, we click their pictures without a mask or ask them to be identified on a video call by residents,” said Rejimon. Similarly, in Greater Kailash-II strict measures were taken after an elderly person was killed and stuffed inside a refrigerator last year. Currently, 3,768 senior citizens from south Delhi are registered with police. Chetan Sharma, chairman of GK-II Complex RWAs, said, “To ensure that senior citizens didn’t face any problems during the lockdown, the RWA came up with the concept of self-help groups. While many were added in WhatsApp groups, there were a few who didn’t use smartphones. They were asked to approach their neighbours for any need.” “During the lockdown, the area was barricaded and there was a single entry and exit point. However, now the colony has become porous for movement, which is a cause for concern,” added Sharma. The murder of an 80-year-old man in east Delhi has prompted people to start thinking about their safety. “Not just senior citizens, but even the general public is vulnerable as jobless people are committing crimes for basic survival. We have spoken to police regarding this fear, especially since Unlock 1.0 began,” said BS Vohra of East Delhi RWAs Joint Forum. Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Randhawa said over 2.55 lakh calls were made by cops to the registered senior citizens during the lockdown. “Each police station was instructed to check on senior citizens living alone once a week. From medicines to grocery, vegetables and even general repair work, police helped the elderly in many ways. We request people to get the police verification done of new household workers and security guards for their own safety,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/report-suspicious-movement-police-and-rwas-tell-the-elderly/articleshow/76539466.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Eight female inmates join others quarantined at Kalyan school||MUMBAI: Don Bosco School (Kalyan) has been turned into a quarantine centre for prisoners in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). It was started for male prisoners but eight women have now been sent there for the 14-day quarantine before they are moved to a women’s cell. The school, said a senior prison official, can accommodate 300 prisoners. “Two prisoners at Byculla women’s jail had other ailments. They were sent from jail to JJ Hospital. When they returned to the jail, they had doctors’ Covid-19 negative certification. They were taken in,” said Deepak Pandey, inspector general (prisons). But jail officials seem to be in no mood to deal with an agitation by prisoners over admission of new inmates. Earlier, five women arrested in Thane for crimes were sent to Ratnagiri jail. Any new inmate’s entry could be a potential health threat, said an officer. Now it has been decided to keep women prisoners from MMR at Kalyan and later send them to their jails. The quarantine centre houses eight females and 74 male. “Once the prisoners are sent to judicial custody, they are brought to the quarantine facility, kept here under observation and shifted to jail after the quarantine period,” said an officer. Among 158 prisoners who tested positive at Arthur Road jail, 128 are now Covid-19 negative. “Over 100 who recovered have been sent to barracks, while some are quarantined. Thirty inmates are under treatment. Of the 28 jail staff who tested positive 26 recovered,” said Pandey. Six of the recovered prisoners are out on bail. Some JJ Hospital doctors visit Arthur Road jail daily. A 50-year-old jail guard who had accompanied a prisoner to JJ was found positive last month. He was quarantined at Byculla jail’s administrative building. The report of his wife, a cancer patient, came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-female-inmates-join-others-quarantined-at-kalyan-school/articleshow/76539463.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pending cases from last three days push Pune metropolitan region tally up by 820||PUNE: The Covid-19 case tally shot up by 820 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, just three shy of highest 823 cases recorded on June 20, on pending cases. With this, the total caseload in PMR has gone up to 16,851. The PCMC authorities, areas under which showed an addition of 300 cases on Tuesday, said all the 300 cases were not recorded in the last 24 hours and the tally shot up due to pending cases of previous three days that were added by the district health office (DHO) in its report released on Tuesday night. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said the number of cases on Tuesday were 174 as per their records. “But we will verify where the communication was lacking with DHO and why the figures were getting inflated,” he said. The areas under the Pune municipal limits added 469 patients, while rural parts and Cantonment areas added 51 cases on Tuesday. The total active cases in PMR surged to 5,946 on Tuesday. Over 320 patients were at critical stage and were being treated at various hospitals, health officials said, adding 497 patients were discharged after they were declared cured in last 24 hours. With this, the total count of cured patients in PMR stands at 10,288, including 7,945 from PMC limits and 1,193 from PCMC areas. Meanwhile, an analysis of the district health office data has revealed that over 9,000 cases have been recorded in PMR in June alone. The total tally till Tuesday (June 23) stands at 9,101. So far, 16,851 cases have been recorded in PMR, of which 48 were recorded in March, 1,652 in April, 6,050 in May and 9,101 in June so far. When it comes to casualties, no Covid-19 deaths were recorded in PMR in March. The toll jumped to 92 in April and 245 patients succumbed to the contagion in May, while 280 have died of the infection in June so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pending-cases-from-last-three-days-push-pmr-tally-up-by-820/articleshow/76539458.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Micro-finance firms under siege as virus stalls SHGs’ march||Bathinda: The micro-finance sector in Punjab, which has been offering credit to underprivileged low-income households, has been hit hard by poor loan recovery rate due to the nearly three-month lockdown in most parts of India. Dwindling sources of income and job losses have led to piling up of defaults in loan and interest payment. While the repayment status had been encouraging till now, things have deteriorated over the past three months due to lockdown. There have been several instances over the past few days of women gheraoing Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) agents trying to make recoveries. Incensed women cite the directions of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) giving moratorium on recoveries for three months. The NBFCs are approved by RBI. The women claim that the micro finance companies charge anything between 26% and 48% as interest. The self-help group (SHG) is responsible if any member defaults. On an average, SHG members take loans of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 and sometimes they have to sell household articles to repay these. There have even been cases of agents collecting household articles. A report, ‘‘Status of Microfinance in India 2018-19,’’ prepared by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Punjab states that 44,397 SHGs with 4,93,501 members had savings of Rs 42.87 crore in public sector, commercial, regional rural and cooperative banks as on March 31, 2019. A total of 2,278 SHGs availed loans of Rs 18.64 crore in 2018-19 and outstanding dues against 7,199 SHGs is Rs 106.19 crore. These SHGs also have NPAs of Rs 19.22 crore. Besides, NBFCs have provided loans to nearly 6 lakh families in Punjab but there is no data on this. In the last few days, women at Bhucho village in Bathinda, Bhai ki Pishor and Dhindsa villages in Sangrur stopped agents of NBFCs and made them apologise for coming for recoveries when household income sources have dried up. "We are passing through tough times. We have availed small loans and had been repaying interest on these and even the principal in monthly instalments but we have lost our jobs and have been left with no source of income since the lockdown started. Under such circumstances, we have no means to repay loans and have asked NBFCs to wait for some time," said Paramjit Kaur and Kulwant Kaur of Bhai Ki Pishor village, who have availed micro-finance loans. Shinder Kaur of Bhucho said, "We have asked micro-finance companies to wait for some time for the situation to normalise and people to start earning. We will not allow any agent to indulge in high-handedness." The agent who was gheraoed left after the company assured that they would not send anyone for recovery for three months in the presence of policemen. A manager in a micro-finance company said, "We are not working illegally, we have to make recoveries to keep the business going." Another functionary said that they have to tread with care as they don’t want to annoy the borrowers. FUND PICTURE SHGs savings in public sector banks – Rs 42.87 cr Loans availed in 2018-19 - Rs 18.64 cr Outstanding March 31, 2019 - Rs 106.19 cr NPAs as on March 31, 2019 - Rs 19.22 cr||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/micro-finance-firms-under-siege-as-virus-stalls-shgs-march/articleshow/76539459.cms||Neel Kamal
June 24, 2020||Pune||Home isolation alternative for asymptomatic patients in Pune||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to keep patients, who have tested positive for Covid-19 but have mild or no symptoms, in home quarantine to free crucial resources at hospitals. “PCMC has introduced home isolation policy for Covid-19 patients. Any person clinically diagnosed as asymptotic or mildly symptomatic, having completed mandatory five-day institutional quarantine, will be given an option of home isolation for the next 12 days. The provision of home isolation will not be allowed if the facility of separate bathroom and bedroom is not available at the patient’s home. PCMC’s field workers will visit the patient’s home to verify suitability of home isolation,” the civic body stated on Twitter. PCMC civic chief Shravan Hardikar said that the move is in line with the union and state government policies. “We have the capacity for now and we will not push it aggressively until people insist on home isolation. Even if they insist, the parameters will be checked to verify if they may become vulnerable in future,” he said. BCG vaccine trialHardikar also confirmed that YCM Hospital is participating in Serum Institute’s BCG vaccine trial. “The aim is to see if the BCG vaccine can reduce infection, incidence and disease severity. Our doctors, nurses and health care workers will be the initial beneficiaries of the vaccine,” PCMC tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-isolation-alternative-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76539469.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Martyr cremated with state honours in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: The body of 37-year-old martyred soldier Havaldar Dipak Karki of 3/5 Gorkha Rifles was cremated on Tuesday evening at Rajghat in Gorakhpur amid full state honours. Karki was a resident of Bhutwal, Rupendehi, Pradesh-5 of Nepal. The soldier’s body was brought to Gorakhpur by air. As per Jammu-based army PRO, Lt Col Devender Anand, Pakistan army indulged in unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri in Jammu & Kashmir, causing critical injuries to Karki who later succumbed to his injuries. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. His nine relatives including wife and children were present at his funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/martyr-cremated-with-state-honours-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/76540104.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCB directs shopowners to bar customers without masks||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has directed the associations of traders and shopkeepers to ensure all customers enter their shops only if they wear face masks. The move comes after a PCB squad entrusted with the implementation of social distancing norms, noticed a general indiscipline and total disregard among people in following the norms. “Over the last fortnight, 178 people have been fined Rs100 each for not wearing masks in public places,” the PCB’s chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, adding action was also taken against those crowding and spitting in public places. “We have been urging people to adhere to social distancing norms. At some places, we have seen people wearing masks in their homes, but ignoring the same in public places or market areas. Ignoring the norms will not only be risky for them, but also for their family members,” he said. Most violators were caught on the busy East Street and MG Road, which are known for shopping zones and eateries. “We have told all shopkeepers to not allow persons into the establishments if they were not wearing masks. Shopkeepers can be fined up to Rs1,000 for violating this directive and can also be told to shut down their stores,” Kumar said. Member shopkeepers and traders of Poona Camp Merchant Association said they had been following PCB’s directives. “No customer was permitted to enter without a mask,” Husain Gazibo, apparel shopowner on MG Road, said. Sunil Athwani, owner of a sweet mart, said they were not allowing even the customers they knew to have food at their shop if they did not wear masks. Activist Sanjay Kawade said despite being at risk, people were seen without a mask at bazaar places. Activist-lawyer Netraprakash Bhog said everybody needed to be responsible and completely adhere to the government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-directs-shopowners-to-bar-customers-without-masks/articleshow/76539476.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corpus boost: IIM- Ahmedabad launches Rs 1,000 crore endowment fund||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, on Tuesday announced the launch of the ‘IIM-A Endowment Fund’, which aims to raise Rs 1,000 crore over five years. The premier B-school’s officials said that the fund will enable the institute to make a larger impact in the fields of education, entrepreneurial leadership, management practice, and public policy. Officials said that 10 alumni who founded the fund have together pledged Rs 100 crore to kick-start the initiative. They added that IIM-A is the first B-school in India to set up such a fund. IIM-A currently has about 33,000 alumni across the globe. Kumar Mangalam Birla, the chairperson of the IIM-A board of governors, said that endowment funds ensure the financial health of institutes and encourage growth and self-sufficiency. “These funds will play a significant role in realizing the long-term goals of the institute,” he said. Alumni are a source of pride and strength for the institute, said Prof Errol D’Souza, the director of IIM-A. “The endowment corpus will be impactful as we expect it to emerge as an important source to support key strategic initiatives,” D’Souza said. The funds will be managed by an independent committee under the guidance of the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corpus-boost-iim-a-launches-rs-1000-cr-endowment-fund/articleshow/76539733.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Two held with heroin worth Rs 50 crore in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell has busted an international drug cartel and arrested two of its key members with 10kg of heroin, worth around Rs 50 crore. The accused were identified as Mohammad Samiul and Mohammad Mukhtar, both residents of Darjeeling in West Bengal. The accused were arrested after cops received a tip-off about them travelling to Nigambodh Ghat in north Delhi on June 22. Four mobile phones were seized from the duo, apart from the tempo, which was used to ferry the contraband. According to DCP Sanjeev Yadav, the growing demand of illicit drug trade in India is now dependent to a large extent on the newly emerged smuggling route, involving neighboring countries of Nepal, Bangladesh and Myanmar. The cartels are exploiting the topographic advantage of porous land borders with the Indian Territory. “It has been learnt that bulk consignments of illegal drugs, including opium, heroin and methamphetamine, sourced from the three countries are sent to border States of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, West Bengal, Mizoram and Nagaland, through their respective common, porous land borders,” DCP Yadav explained. These drugs are thereafter trans-located through Siliguri and Malda in WB to other parts of the country, including West Uttar Pradesh, NCR, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab, he added. Police have noticed a shift from the traditional routes of drug trafficking in India like the ‘Golden Crescent’, involving smuggling from Afghanistan via Pakistan into India and the “Golden Triangle”, involving smuggling contraband from Thailand, Laos and Myanmar into porous land borders of North-Eastern states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-50-crore/articleshow/76539473.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||‘Body art’: Rehana Fathima booked||KOTTAYAM: Thiruvalla police have registered a case against activist Rehana Fathima after a video, purportedly of her lying half-naked on a bed, and allowing her children to draw pictures on her body, started circulating on social media. Police registered the case, under Section 67 (electronically transmitting sexually explicit content) of IT Act, and Section 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) of Juvenile Justice Act, based on a complaint by a Thiruvalla-based lawyer, Arun Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/body-art-rehana-fathima-booked/articleshow/76538438.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||No symptoms in 80% cases in PCMC areas||Pimpri Chinchwad: Around 80% of the active Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits were asymptomatic, stated the civic body’s live dashboard data on Tuesday evening. It stated that of the 807 active cases, 645 were asymptomatic. The remaining 134 cases were symptomatic and 28 patients were in a critical stage. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “Having asymptomatic patients will be easier to treat, as they can be treated in Covid Care Centre or be self-quarantined at home,” he said. Santosh Patil, PCMC’s additional commissioner, said at present CCCs had intake capacity of over 1,000 patients. Leader of opposition in the state Devendra Fadnavis visited Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital on Tuesday. He said dashboard will help in proper management of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-symptoms-in-80-cases-in-pcmc-areas/articleshow/76539472.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid fear keeping patients away from OPD of SMS hosp||Jaipur: Even though the SMS Hospital has been declared a non-Covid facility, the non-coronavirus patients are still staying away from it.The hospital is now working on building the patients’ trust and saying that it is not taking Covid cases anymore. Those with the symptoms of Covid are being treated at a separate portion of the hospital. People, though, are worried that more than 30 healthcare workers in the hospital have tested positive for coronavirus.The SMS Hospital, which used to witness more than 8,000 registrations at its Out-patient Department (OPD) daily before Covid pandemic, has now been affected with low turnout of the patients. The state government has shifted all the Covid-19 patients to RUHS College from SMS Hospital and declared SMS Hospital as Covid-free hospital from June 1. Despite of that, the patients are avoiding to the hospital for treatment. “We are registering around 2,500 to 3,000 patients daily at our outpatient department. All our services, including indoor admissions and surgeries, have also been started just like in normal days,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital.The SMS Hospital is taking all the preventive and precautionary measures to keep the hospital safe from Covid-19. One healthcare staff remained positioned at OPD registration and measure temperature of the patients with thermal scanner before he gets registered at the OPD. “If the patient has influenza like illness (ILI), he is immediately taken to a separate OPD dedicated for ILI cases. Also, strict measures have been taken to ensure social distancing at the hospital,” said an official.SMS Hospital is the biggest government-run hospital in the state which has attended over 1,000 Covid-19 patients since March till May 31, before it turned into a non-Covid-19 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-fear-keeping-patients-away-from-opd-of-sms-hosp/articleshow/76540098.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Marine Drive cop is 50th in Maharashtra to die of Covid-19||MUMBAI: A 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to Marine Drive station is the 50th policeman in Maharashtra to die of Covid-19. With his death the number of city personnel dead has gone up to 34. He had no previous ailment and was being treatment for coronavirus at Bandra’s Guru Nanak hospital for 10 days. “He was healthy and had been at the station for a year. He stayed with his family at Naigaum quarters,” said senior inspector Mrutunjay Hiremath. He had breathing problems few days back and was put on a ventilator, said an officer. He was at home as the city police chief had in April exempted personnel aged above 55 from office duty. Two personnel from protection and security branch and State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) died on Sunday without comorbidities. A total of 750 personnel in Mumbai are being treated and 1,715 have recovered till June 21; 1,016 are being treatment in Maharashtra, of which 73% are from Mumbai. Eight hundred Mumbai personnel have resumed duty till Sunday after recovery; 1,715 have recovered so far, while 448 are being treated at Covid care centres, 228 are in hospital, 38 home quarantined, 236 are at home after discharge and 679 have recovered but have not resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/marine-drive-cop-is-50th-in-state-to-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/76539484.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 7,000 oximeters given to people in home isolation||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has started giving pulse oximeters to Covid-19 patients with mild and no symptoms who have been advised home quarantine by doctors. District officials have already distributed 6,000-7,000 pieces, a senior government official said. Pulse Oximeter is a clip-on device that is attached to the fingertip to measure the oxygen level in the body of a patient infected by novel coronavirus. The oxygen concentration in blood is supposed to be between 95% and 100%. If it falls to 90% or below, the person requires immediate hospitalisation. The coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, and if the infection becomes severe, a patient starts feeling breathless. Hence, doctors advise that patients should keep measuring the oxygen level every one-two hours and immediately contact district health teams if it falls below the acceptable level. According to a senior official, Delhi government has ordered 75,000 pulse oximeters and around 46,000 have already come. “The devices are being distributed through chief district medical officers (CDMOs). A family with more than one patients will get one device,” said an official. The CDMOs have been given 29,000 oximeters and the rest will be available by the end of the week, said the official. Once the patient recuperates, the device will have to be returned through Asha workers for sanitisation and further distribution. Each pulse oximeter is costing the government Rs 1,300, said an official. Senior IAS officer Sanjay Goel, who is the nodal officer for procurement and supplies, said the government had also bought oxygen concentrators and ventilators to upgrade health facilities in the capital. Goel said 4,600 oxygen concentrators were being procured, out of which 2,000 had already been received and distributed among district officials. If a patient in home isolation notices a fall in oxygen level, he will call up a centralised number and the district authorities will send a medical team with the device. A portable oxygen concentrator is used to provide oxygen therapy to the people who require greater oxygen concentrations than the levels of ambient air. “Once the therapy is given, it will be returned to the district authorities. It is a reusable device and will be sanitised thoroughly before sending it to another patient,” Goel said. However, the patient will immediately be hospitalised if the oxygen level does not come back to normal despite the use of the concentrator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7000-oximeters-given-to-people-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76539486.cms||Atul Mathur
June 24, 2020||Pune||100 staffers from education department, PMPML roped in for coronavirus work||Pune: The PMC has roped in 100 staffers from the primary education department and the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahmandal Limited (PMPML) for coronavirus-related work at Covid centres, isolation wards and quarantine centres. The move follows sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the PMC limits. Civic officials said the deployment of additional staffers would lead to better management of the centres in terms of extending basic services to the patients. All the staffers who are assigned Covid work have been told to report on duty with immediate effect. “All the staffers from the primary education department are working as peons. More staffers will be pulled in from other departments as per requirements,” a senior civic official said. — Sarang Dastane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-staffers-from-education-department-pmpml-roped-in-for-coronavirus-work/articleshow/76539487.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Cabinet min says textbook changes won’t be tolerated||Jaipur: Cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Tuesday said downsizing and changes made to a textbook chapter on Maharana Pratap would not be tolerated.In a series of four tweets, Khachariyawas said Pratap’s greatness is unquestionable. The state education department has downsized a chapter on Pratap by 40% and called him a king who lacked moderation, control and patience.Taking cognisance of the changes made in the textbook, the minister tweeted, “Veer Shiromani Maharana Pratap is the symbol of India’s culture, history, principles, patriotism and honour. The sacrifice made by Pratap for the nation is an exemplary and guiding light for the nation to date.” In his other tweet, he said Pratap is great and nobody is required to stamp his great.Though the minister did not target the state government or the education minister, he expressed his displeasure on his cabinet colleague Govind Singh Dotasra over the way textbooks have been re-written. This is not for the first time that Khachariyawas has slammed his government. Soon after, the government was formed, the transport minister had warned the government to do not tamper with Pratap’s history.DP Jaroli, chairman of the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education said that the issue has come to his attention and it will follow an appropriate action. “So far, I can say that the matter will be directed to the committee who will examine the content. If anything objectionable is found it will be removed following a due process,” said Jaroli. The RBSE is the governing authority which decides the content of the textbooks from class IX to XIIBJP state president Satish Poonia said at a time when the battle of Haldighati has already completed 444 years, the Congress government’s move to remove important facets of Maharana Pratap proved its mental retardedness. “I am not shocked because this is what happens when Congress comes to the power,” said Poonia.Taking on the Congress government, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari said historians have insulted Maharana Udai Singh, Maharana Pratap and Haldighati. “By manipulating the personality of an ideal man like Maharana Udai Singh, the government is bent on ruining the image of its great personalities. The act of tampering with history only takes place under the Congress rule. What kind of a message does the government want to give to the younger generation? asked Kumari. She added that Maharana Udai Singh of Mewar called as Vanvir’s killer in the revised textbook is a sheer attempt to tweak history. Not only this, it has also been written in these books that in the Haldighati war, newlywed women donned men’s clothing and fought the war is a shameful act based on false information. Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said revised textbooks by Gehlot government are unacceptable. The minister said Congress government had made an attempt to please a particular community by hiding the courage and valour of our rulers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cabinet-min-says-textbook-changes-wont-be-tolerated/articleshow/76540109.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri presses pause button as Raths roll down Grand Road||Puri: Under the glare of a raging Covid-19 pandemic, the pilgrim town of Puri hosted the Rath Yatra on Tuesday, armed with a Supreme Court order that kept devotees at bay and muted the collective outpouring of emotions which accompany the chariots on their journey down the Grand Road. As servitors and the police provided the muscles, the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra covered the three-kilometre stretch from Jagannath Temple to Gundicha Temple, their birthplace, without much hiccup. With curfew in Puri, as per the Supreme Court guidelines, devotees had to be satisfied by watching the proceedings on television. Even chief minister Naveen Patnaik, a regular visitor to Puri during the Rath Yatra, stayed at home in Bhubaneswar and saw the events live on TV. Later, he expressed happiness at the smooth and disciplined conduct of the Rath Yatra amid the challenging situation. “I am thankful to the servitors, Puri administration, health department and police for the smooth conduct of the Rath Yatra. I am also thankful to the citizens of Puri for staying indoors and watching the festival on TV,” Naveen was quoted in a statement released by the chief minister’s office said. Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, who performed the hereditary Chhera Pahanra (sweeping of the chariot decks with a golden broom), empathized with the devotees who were barred from attending the festival, and extended his gratitude for their cooperation. It needed a last-ditch effort in the Supreme Court to get its permission to hold the Yatra after the top court had banned the festival due to rising cases of novel coronavirus in the country. The state government, which had initially decided to comply with the apex court’s decision, was forced to change its stand owing to public sentiment. Hours before the start of the rituals, the Puri district administration received news that a servitor had tested positive for novel coronavirus. In accordance with the Supreme Court order, a total of 1143 servitors had undergone Covid-19 test on Monday. “We received positive report of only one servitor while the others tested negative. The servitor was shifted to a Covid-19 hospital before the start of the rituals,” Puri district collector Balwant Singh said. “We complied with the Supreme Court order and engaged only around 500 people to pull each of the three chariots. Servitors, who tested negative, were allowed to perform rituals by wearing masks. All chariots reached Gundicha temple by 5.15 pm,” a senior temple official said. While the Supreme Court had asked the government to engage only police personnel and officials to pull the chariots, a number of servitors was seen pulling the chariots. When asked about it, the temple administration said, “Servitors were allowed to pull the chariots as they had already tested negative for Covid-19. Since the police personnel were mobilized at the last moment on Monday evening, the test could not be conducted on them.” EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-presses-pause-button-as-raths-roll-down-grand-road/articleshow/76538472.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 24, 2020||Goa||GCCI asks Centre to tweak norms of credit scheme for MSMEs to include more units||PANAJI: Pointing out that quite a few MSMEs find it difficult to avail the benefits of the Rs 3 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has written to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman suggesting that the cut-off date for the scheme be extended to March 31 from February 29. GCCI has also asked the finance minister to bring MSMEs that bank with urban cooperative banks under the scheme. “We are informed that there are quite a few MSMEs which are finding it difficult to avail of the benefits of additional financial assistance due to the stipulation that only those loan accounts categorised as standard, or Special Mention Accounts (SMA)-0 and -1, as on February 29 are eligible,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo said. SMA-0 and SMA-1 are loan account classifications adopted by banks to indicate that the principal and interest is overdue by less than 30 days and less than 60 days, respectively. “It is a standard practice across the country that most accounts that are slightly out of order are generally regularised by the end of every quarter. Hence, many of the accounts which might have been out of order or not qualifying as standard or SMA-0 or SMA-1 as on February 29 would have been regularised by March 31,” Caculo said. By extending the cut-off date to March 31, more MSMEs could be covered under the Centre’s scheme. Caculo also said that traditionally many MSMEs have banked with urban cooperative banks. “Under the ECLGS, such cooperative banks are not eligible for guarantee cover from the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company and thus MSMEs cannot take benefit of the scheme,” he said. GCCI has recommended that the NCGTC guarantee cover could be extended to urban cooperative banks so that urban cooperative banks could offer emergency credit line to MSME borrowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-asks-centre-to-tweak-norms-of-credit-scheme-for-msmes-to-include-more-units/articleshow/76520196.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Building bylaws may be relaxed for MLA apartments||Jaipur: Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) has proposed to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of legislative assembly to accommodate 160 MLAs. Considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building height has been proposed against the 15 metre mentioned in the building bylaws. Although, the design has received in-principle approval, the final nod to provide relaxation in the bylaws will be received by the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal, as for the assembly’s structural dominance, in the 100-metre periphery, the height of the buildings is restricted up to 15 metre. At present, RHB has proposed to construct the apartment till the base height of the dome. After the work was awarded to RHB, a design of the apartments has been prepared. The flat would measure 3,200 square feet and comprise of four bedrooms, one drawing room, a kitchen and one room for domestic help. On Tuesday, commissioner RHB, Pawan Arora gave a presentation of the design to ministers including UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal.As per the previous design, the JDA has proposed 176 flats. However, the idea did not go well with the committee which is overseeing the project, as the open area was less. Now, 16 flats have been reduced in the project to develop central lawn measuring 36,000 square meter. In the project, the RHB has earmarked parking for 1,200 vehicles and a 12-room guest house. RHB has been appointed as the nodal agency for constructing MLA apartments. An official said, the revenue earned after selling the land at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments. “The MLAs have to vacate the houses within 15 days. The RHB has also invited tenders to dismantle these houses,” he said. The MLAs who will vacate the houses will be given the option either to purchase or rent apartments at concessional rates in three RHB schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/building-bylaws-may-be-relaxed-for-mla-apartments/articleshow/76540100.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||New case in Raj Bhavan; city Covid count 2,663||Bhopal: One more COVID-19 positive case was diagnosed from Raj Bhawan here on Tuesday. The total number of new cases in the city was 37. The tally in the state capital has now reached 2,663. There are indications of a decline in COVID-19 in the state capital, according to health department officials. Raj Bhawan, which reported its first case in May end, has now reported 14 COVID-19 infections. The high-security zone reported three positive cases on Monday. A day later, one more person has been diagnosed. The new positive case is of a security personnel. The area along Roshanpura adjacent to Raj Bhawan is once again under the health department scanner. According to reports, four teams were to carry out health screening in the area. Health screening of the people in the slum area could not be undertaken on Tuesday. By evening, police vehicles began restricting movement of people, after complaints of people playing cards on the streets. Among the new cases detected, eight members of a family in Lambakheda, who were quarantined a few days ago, have tested positive. Tilajamalpura, Nehru Nagar, Chunna Bhatti, Archarya Nagar and Kalyan Nagar have once again reported coronavirus infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-case-in-raj-bhavan-city-covid-count-2663/articleshow/76538467.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Monsoon cheer may finally hit Lucknow today||LUCKNOW: After remaining stationed over Fatehpur-Bahraich for seven days, the monsoon currents started moving on Tuesday and inched towards Lucknow, but stopped short of entering the city after reaching Barabanki. It is, however, expected to touch the state capital on Wednesday as conditions are now favourable for further advancement. State Met director JP Gupta said the currents over north UP moved more rapidly, covering areas bordering Nepal and moving till Rudraprayag in Uttarakhand. In comparison, he added, the currents over central and southern parts of the state are slow, hence nearly half of UP, including Bundelkhand, Awadh and western UP, is still waiting for first monsoon showers. The wait will be over soon as the monsoon is now expected to move at a faster rate and cover the entire UP by the weekend. “Lucknow received pre-monsoon showers on Monday and would most likely get monsoon rains on Wednesday. Thereafter, light to moderate rainfall is expected till the end of the week,” said Gupta. The monsoon arrived in UP five days ahead of the normal date on June 15 and covered most of the eastern parts, but further advancement stopped a day after as the cyclonic circulation powering it lost steam. The currents remained stationed over Fatehpur and Bahariach for a week. “The advancement resumed after getting push from two fresh cyclonic circulations that have developed over Odisha and southeast UP respectively,” said the Met director. On Tuesday, the sky remained cloudy in the city all day with intermittent light rains. The Met observatory at Amausi recorded 13.7 mm rains, while maximum and minimum temperatures were 35.1 and 28.6 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-cheer-may-finally-hit-home-today/articleshow/76540117.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Karwar man trapped in Saudi sends video SOS||KARWAR: Balakrishna Kotarkar, a 34-year-old man from Kotar village in Karwar taluk has sent an SOS to the government of India, the Uttara Kannada DC and Karwar MLA Roopali Naik, requesting them to save him from his employer in Saudi Arabia. Balakrishna has sent two videos from Khasim Sanaih, a place in Riyadh, and has stated that he was deceived by his employer and is trapped in Saudi Arabia. Balakrishna said that he was appointed as a driver in a company called Mulaka-Asr-Ar Corporation, and left for Saudi Arabia about eight months ago. He said that his employer had taken his passport. The company he is working for is in the recycling business. When he went there, he was not given a driver’s post as promised, but forced to collect cardboard from dustbins beside the road. He has alleged that he has not been compensated properly, and that only three months salary has been received by him. “I have no money to buy food and am in a very bad condition,” Balakrishna said in the video. ‘When I tried to meet the owner of the company, he refused to meet me. I don’t know how to return, as my passport is with my company and I have no money to buy an air ticket,” he said. “I don’t know the roads in Riyadh, and am also facing a language problem. My wife and children are in trouble in Karwar, as they have no money,” Balakrishna said in the video. While narrating his story, he broke down several times, and was found pleading for help from MLA Roopali Naik, stating that he had worked for the BJP as a booth committee member, when he was in Karwar. Meanwhile Roopali Naik has tweeted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign minister S Jaishankar, and requested them to help bring Balakrishna back to Karwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karwar-man-trapped-in-saudi-sends-video-sos/articleshow/76539215.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||After claiming insult, Mundhe attends NMC GB meet; support grows outside Bhat hall||Nagpur: After the recent acrimony between mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the NMC’s general body meeting on Tuesday at Suresh Bhat hall saw Mundhe back in attendance, and corporators speaking in guarded tones. Joshi claimed to have thanked Mundhe for attending the meeting, and added all corporators and Mundhe would work collectively. Mundhe had walked out of the House during Saturday’s meeting over personal remarks directed at him. On Tuesday, there was an outpouring of popular support for him outside the meeting venue. NGO Prahaar, Youth Congress (led by Congress corporator Bunty Shelke), and the Shiv Sena youth wing held demonstrations in his support. The House began with a discussion on two adjournment motions submitted by Mangala Gaware (Shiv Sena) and Nitin Sathawane (Congress). Corporators across party lines supported the motion by Sathawane, seeking withdrawal of a police complaint filed by civic administration against him. Even as Congress corporators insisted on allowing debate only on Sathawane’s motion, ruling party corporators forced a poll on the issue, which led to the mayor clubbing both motions. However, Gaware, who was absent, submitted a letter requesting withdrawal of her adjournment motion on getting ‘an assurance of resolving pending civic issues in her prabhag’. “So, she sought withdrawal letter of adjournment motion against the municipal commissioner,” NMC secretary Ranjana Lade informed the House. This led to an uproar, with BJP corporators demanding to know who had assured to resolve pending development works in her ward. Standing committee chairman Vinay Zalke, who shares a prabhag with Gaware, also asked the same question. Former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke said, “If she is allowed, other corporators may follow suit.” Senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari alleged elected representatives remain absent from the House ‘after accepting bribe not only in cash but in kind’. Congress corporator Darshani Dhawad objected to corporators speaking about Gaware in her absence. On his adjournment motion, Sathawane said he had never opposed NMC’s moves in the containment zone at Satranjipura though NMC did nothing for people for 81 days. “I faced public wrath. But NMC lodged an FIR against me,” he said, demanding withdrawal of the police plaint against him. The general refrain from corporators was that development work has taken a back seat, including emergency works like choked drains, while complaints on NMC app are given preference. Corporators are directly answerable to voters, so the civic chief should not ignore them, said over 25 corporators from various parties. The mayor finally adjourned the house till Wednesday, 12 noon. Harish Gwalbanshi, who is facing public ire for criticizing Mundhe (terming him opposite of saint Tukaram), said he never intended to hurt the civic chief. “When he had first attended the house on February 20, I had compared him to saint Tukaram, and said the city was lucky to get an upright officer,” he said. Gwalbanshi seemed unapologetic though, clarifying that “since Mundhe didn’t stop me then, I could not stop myself from making a personal comment against Mundhe”. Later, addressing the media, the mayor said they thanked municipal commissioner for attending the meeting. “Together, the civic chief and we (corporators) will work for development of the city,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-claiming-insult-mundhe-attends-nmc-gb-meet-support-grows-outside-bhat-hall/articleshow/76539494.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to identify migrant kids for admission in schools||JAIPUR: The state education department has directed its teachers to resume non-teaching activities, especially the work related to admissions. The teachers will run a special drive this year to identify children, in the age group of 4-16, of migrant families that have returned from other states to admit these kids in government schools. The drive will start from the first week of July. The state has asked its teachers carrying out the distribution of grains for the mid-day meal programme in villages and in the neighbourhood to identify the families and inform them of the admission drive they will be starting. “Our aim is not to leave a single child in the school-going age,” said Saurabh Swami, director of the School education, state education department. The official informed that these children will be given admission in the classes as per their age and their learning outcomes. The state is working on a mechanism to make an assessment of the children’s learning outcomes like reading, comprehension and mathematics in order to allocate them standard. The state has seen an inflow of 8.37 lakh inbound migrants in the state from other states. There are lakhs others who have migrated without registration with the government. Officials said that they have good number of schools and can accommodate additional children. Majority of them were engaged in low-income jobs and government education which is free is the only medium. The state is expecting that around 50,000-70,000 migrants will be among the school-going age. Some districts have already taken a lead by starting the survey of those who had arrived from other states. Deepak Yadav, a district collector of Nagaur says that the teachers in the district have already made the database of those who came from outside. “The counselling of these families who had lost their means of livelihood is very important which is being done by the teachers. Secondly, they have to counsel families to send their wards to our schools,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-identify-migrant-kids-for-admission-in-schools/articleshow/76540125.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic body poll reveals 10% still spit in public places||BHUBANESWAR: At least 10% people in the city admitted to spitting in public places despite the government in April introducing penalty of Rs 200 on it in view of the Covid-19 situation. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) had carried out a poll over twitter in which people responded to some questions related to safety aspects of Covid-19. Altogether 2,400 people took part in the poll. To the question on spitting in public places, 90% people said no but 10% said that they spit. Spitting might be contributing to the spread of coronavirus as droplets coming out of the mouth of an infected person while spitting can lead to more infections. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said spitting in public has reduced to a great extent but there is still lack of consciousness among people. “We went for a twitter poll to engage people in it so that those spitting will feel guilty while ticking yes. I don’t say this will bring an overnight change. This engagement will make people realise their role to keep the city clean and stay safe and make others safe as well,” he told TOI. He added enforcement activities have been intensified as the squads are penalising people found spitting in public places. “Every day around Rs 40,000 in collected as penalty from people violating social distancing norms, for spitting and not wearing masks,” Chaudhury added. Other questions that BMC put out are whether people wear masks and maintain social distancing. At least 94.2% people said that they maintain social distancing. Only 3% people said that they don’t wear masks while 92% of the people said that they take care of the elderly. Till June 19, the BMC collected close to Rs 5 lakh penalty from shop owners and people for violating social distancing norms and for not wearing masks ever since lockdown was imposed. More violations were reported after June 1 when unlock 1.0 began. The civic body had come up with a rule that the onus of ensuring social distancing will lie with the shop owners and if they fail to comply, they will be liable to pay the penalty. On Tuesday, the capital city reported two more Covid-19 positive cases, one in home quarantine and another local. The home quarantined case is a returnee from Mumbai. The city’s total jumped to 198 cases. With three deaths and 97 recovering, there are 98 active cases now. Five patients in city recovered on Tuesday and they are between the age group of 22 and 37 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-body-poll-reveals-10-still-spit-in-public-places/articleshow/76538489.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: PMC seals zones in Shinde Chhatri & Kedarinagar||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Wanowrie police have barricaded some localities in the Kedarinagar and Shinde Chhatri areas to arrest Covid-19 spread following sharp rise in cases. The areas under the Wanowrie civic ward office have recorded 754 positive cases since March 30. “The cases have increased due to the opening of all commercial establishments, increase in traffic flow, people from containment zones visiting Wanowrie for shopping, residents not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance, among other reasons,” assistant municipal commissioner Kunjan Jadhav from the Wanowrie ward office said on Tuesday. Jadhav said the authorities have barricaded ABC Farm Chowk and Badhai Chowk in Kedarinagar on Salunke Vihar Road and places behind Shinde Chhatri, Inamdar Hospital and Bhairoba nullah as a preventive measure. The ward office medical officer Irfan Lohare said as many as 350 positive cases were reported in places like Wanowrie, Ramtekdi, Vaiduwadi, Meethanagar and Bhagyodayanagar between June 1 and 18. “For controlling the spread of the virus, our health workers are conducting door-to-door survey, besides screening people for detecting positive cases. We have identified contacts of people testing positive. Individuals experiencing symptoms akin to coronavirus have been reported to the mobile clinics run by the civic body,” Lohare said. PMC corporator Prashant Jagtap said, “We had less number of positive cases when compared to other ward offices in the city till recently. But the cases started increasing after the PMC relaxed the lockdown norms.” Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Suhas Bawache said, “We have assessed the situation on the sudden rise in positive cases in new areas under the Wanowrie ward office. The Wanowrie police and the PMC then took a call to barricade certain places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-seals-zones-in-shinde-chhatri-kedarinagar/articleshow/76539482.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases in Vadodara nears 2,000-mark||VADODARA: Covid-19 testing continued to remain high in the city and district for the second consecutive day with 255 tests being conducted since Monday evening. But the number of positive cases has now shown any significant rise with 42 of the 255 samples being found positive. The case tally was 1,953 on Tuesday evening. Since Saturday, the number of tests has consistently remained over 200 and peaked at 265 on Monday. The high testing is being attributed to tests being prescribed by private hospitals for admitting patients or for surgeries. The highest number of new cases in the city were reported from the north zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) where 11 Covid-19 cases were detected. This was followed by the east zone where 10 cases were reported. In the south zone, eight persons were found infected while only three cases came to light in the west zone. The areas where cases were reported in the city include Warasiya, Baranpura, Waghodiya Road, Fatehpura, Yakutpura, Navapura, Hathikhana, Wadi, Patthargate, Sama, Harni Road, Danteshwar, Ajwa Road and others. Ten samples also tested positive in the rural areas of Vadodara district outside VMC limits. The fresh cases in the rural areas were reported from Padra, Desar and Sokhda. In all, 48 persons were discharged from various hospitals or home isolation in the city on Tuesday. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 1,303. As many as 600 persons remained under treatment in the city. These include 426 in a stable condition, 142 breathing with oxygen support and 32 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-in-vadodara-nears-2k-mark/articleshow/76537225.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||Governor’s health showing signs of improvement||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh governor, Lalji Tandon’s health is showing signs of improvement. The medical bulletin of governor on Tuesday stated there is improvement in the condition of the 85-year-old governor of MP Lalji Tandon. He is now getting food through the ryles tube. His liver, kidney and heart are now functioning without support, his ventilator support in being given through tracheostomy. But due to diabetes and multiple comorbidities, his body muscles are not able to support for self breathing, due to which he still needs pressure mode ventilator support. Team of medical experts at Medanta Lucknow is tirelessly working for best medical treatment, the medical bulletin stated. Tandon on June 9 left MP on 10-day leave till June 19 to visit his hometown Lucknow. He became unwell there and has been admitted in Medanta Lucknow since June 11. The much-awaited expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, which came to power on March 23, was expected after Tandon’s return. But expansion may be conducted by appointing governor of any other state as acting governor of MP, if it takes place before Tandon recovers. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan went to Lucknow on June 16 afternoon and inquired about the health of the Governor Tandon at the Medanta hospital. He discussed about the health of the Governor and treatment with the medical specialists. The ones inquired about the health of governor over phone included prime minister, Narendra Modi, president Ramnath Kovind, Home minister, Amit Shah, Defense minister Rajnath Singh, UP governor Anandiben Patel, former MP CM and senior Congress leaders, Kamal Nath, former LS speaker, Sumitra Mahajan, MP health minister, Narottam Mishra, union minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, Congress leader, Suresh Pachouri among others. While senior BJP leader, Uma Bharti, former minister and Congress leader, Sukhdev Panse among others tweeted praying speedy recovery of the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/governors-health-showing-signs-of-improvement/articleshow/76538488.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 27 of 70 missing positive patients from Malad found with police aid||MUMBAI: After civic chief I S Chahal requested police to trace 70 missing Covid-19 positive patients of P-North (Malad) ward, 27 of them have been found. Surprisingly, many of them were not missing but were shown as untraceable on BMC records without verification. Other wards too may have untraceable patients and Chahal has told staff to take police help to trace them through call data records (CDR). “BMC gave us a list of persons (P-North ward), of which we have traced 27. We are looking for the rest,” additional commissioner Dilip Sawant said. Police officers have been hitting the ground and talking to residents and checking CDRs of those missing. “Most of the people we tracked have got themselves admitted to hospitals,” an officer said, adding that some names may have erroneously cropped up in the list. “Some people could have given wrong mobile numbers or addresses to BMC so that their families will not be quarantined or face social stigma,” said the officer. On glaring inconsistencies in the list, BJP Malad corporator Vinod Mishra said, “We have been calling up people mentioned in the list. The phone number of a civic medical health officer (MHO) features against the name of a positive patient who had died.” MHOs look after Covid-19 related arrangements in the ward. “One person in the list is a constable from Malwani, while another is a nun from a convent. Both are at home, recovered after treatment, but have featured in the ‘missing’ list. How can such a blunder happen?” said Mishra. He added that civic staff seem to have shown people as untraceable without making an effort to reach out to them, and action should be taken against such staff. P-North ward MHO told TOI the list of people tested came from the lab, and they tried to contact all on the list. “Many had switched off their phones and were unreachable,” he said. Chahal said, “Earlier, there was similar issues about unreported deaths. We approached hospitals and nursing homes. We insisted they submit accurate details and account for each Covid-19 death. Similarly, we want to account for each untraceable patient.” BMC sources said Chahal encouraged officials to report such cases fearlessly. Meanwhile former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya wrote to Chahal demanding that the total number of untraceable patients in the city must be made public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/27-of-70-missing-positive-patients-from-malad-found-with-police-aid/articleshow/76539502.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: More women choose government hospitals for delivery||CHENNAI: Four out of every five women in Chennai walked into maternity wards of government hospitals to give birth in April and May when Covid-19 began to spread in Tamil Nadu. During the same time, the percentage of women opting for C-sections in private hospitals also increased. While many private maternity centres had closed down or referred patients to government hospitals, those that were working had revised tariffs to cover PPE and disinfection cost, officials said. The state health department is still auditing reports to find reasons for increase in C sections, but suspect that many doctors would have opted for C-sections because they did not want to keep women in the labour room for longer hours. During those two months there were 7,709 deliveries compared to 10,967 deliveries in April and May 2019, according to Pregnancy and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation (PICME) data maintained by the state wing of the National Health Mission. This year, between April and May, 6,414 women walked into the labour rooms of government hospitals in the city compared to 6,919 during the same period last year. Yet, 83% of the deliveries in the city have been in GHs compared to 63% last year. Across the state, 73% of women delivered in government institutions between April and May compared to 67% during the same period. "Usually, around 40% of women in Chennai opt for deliveries in private hospital," said NHM mission director K Senthil Raj. "This year, when Covid-19 cases began to increase, smaller hospitals and nursing referred pregnant women to bigger centres for deliveries. In corporate hospitals, tariffs were higher than usual as doctors and nurses had to be in PPEs and follow extensive disinfection protocols. This probably pushed many women to GHs," he said. In districts such as Villupuram and Theni, more than 90% of women delivered at state-run hospitals. Though some private clinics were shut, and doctors and nurses were quarantined in some other clinics after patients tested positive, the state had ensured that all the hospitals and clinics stocked up enough medicines, blood and PPEs to deal with the situation, said director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam. More than 250 women who were tested positive delivered at the Woman and Children Hospital in Egmore. "The count is more if you include all other hospitals," said hospital director Dr Vijaya. Several corporate hospitals refused to release official figures on tariffs for normal and C-section deliveries, but women who went there for enquires said it could cost them up to Rs 2.3 lakh. "I was told that they would have charged me Rs 1.5 lakh if I opted for package under my corporate insurance scheme. This is a three-day stay in a private room after C-section. But they said because of Covid I was told I may have to pay at least Rs 70,000 more. The insurance company turned it down," said a 24-year-old techie, who later delivered at the Woman and Children Hospital in Egmore. Although the total number of deliveries went down in private hospitals, there was a 2% increase in C-section deliveries from 60% in April –May 2019 to 62% in April-May 2020. In districts such as Vellore, Virudhunagar, Perambalur and Pudukottai the increase was significant, officials said. "We are still investigating the reasons for increase. It will be audited soon," said a senior official in charge of maternal and child health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-women-choose-government-hospitals-for-delivery/articleshow/76539496.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Finance minister launches KSFE schemes||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac here on Tuesday announced the details of two schemes being rolled out by Kerala State Financial Enterprises as part of contributing towards bridging the digital divide among students urgently as online classrooms have become the new normal for education. Unveiling the schemes, which were earlier announced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Isaac said KSFE would fund local bodies 75% of expenses for setting up online study classes for weaker sections. Also, KSFE would join hands with Kudumbashree for a micro-finance scheme to fund students for purchasing laptops. KSFE would contribute 75% of the expenses for setting up study centres, provided the respective local bodies are willing to spend the remaining 25%. After purchasing the necessary items, including TV, local bodies should submit utility certificate to KSFE. Once local bodies identify a public place for setting up the online study facility and identify beneficiary students, KSFE would issue the cheque in two or three days, the minister said. KSFE would fund Kudumbashree to microfinance students to purchase laptops for Rs 15,000 from companies empanelled by IT department. Loanees should repay in 30 instalments of Rs 500 per month. Three months into the scheme, the members would get Rs 14,250 for the purchase of laptops. Those who repay instalments on time, KSFE would pay their last three instalments. Apart from local bodies, other agencies are also free to set up such common facility centres. The minister handed over to Mathsyafed the financial help for setting up such centres for students in coastal areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fin-min-launches-ksfe-schemes/articleshow/76538477.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||Over 60% claims under forest rights Act rejected||Bhopal: More than 60% of claims for land received under forest rights Act by forest dwellers were rejected in Madhya Pradesh. Forest dwellers who were living in forest areas were provided right to land under the forest rights Act 2006. However, for this they had to make claim which were to be approved by the government. The matter surfaced in February 2019, when apex court ruled that those people who are living on forest lands and whose claims were rejected by the government should be evicted. Later the court had stayed it’s order and ordered to examine whether due process was followed for rejection of these claims. Last year in June, different tribal rights organisations had organised a rally and marched the to state capital demanding that the government should intervene and take appropriate measures. As per the information available with TOI as on January 31, 2020—5.85 lakh claims were received from individuals and of it 3.85 lakh were rejected. Sources said that these rejected claims are being examined and it is also being done using technology as well as other means. The government had set a deadline of June 30 for decision over these claims. An app Van Mitra was also developed for the purpose, said sources. When contacted, director, directorate of tribal area development and planning, Shailbala Martin said, “The work on verification of the claims is constantly going on”. When asked, about the current status, she said, “I could only talk about it during office hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-60-claims-under-forest-rights-act-rejected/articleshow/76538497.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Hospital staff refuse to discharge patient in AP's Nellore over payment issue||VIJAYAWADA: Tension prevailed after a private hospital refused to discharge an accident victim in Nellore on Monday. The victim, identified as G Venkatesh (30), a private company employee, suffered a grievous head injury in a two-wheeler accident on the evening of June 21 at NH 16, according to Nellore town police. Following the accident, he was taken to a local government hospital and later shifted to a private one for better treatment. Officials said the hospital conducted the preliminary debridement surgery and produced a bill of Rs 95,000. Shocked by the initial cost, Venkatesh’s family members paid the bill and decided to shift him to an affordable hospital. But then the hospital handed over the bill for pending dues totalling to another Rs 75,000. Venkatesh’s family this time informed the hospital authorities that they cannot pay the dues. Soon, a quarrel broke out between Venkatesh’s family members and hospital staff over the issue. It was found out that eventually, the staff members refused to discharge Venkatesh and allegedly even threatened to withhold his remains if he were to pass away or goes brain dead. Vexed over the incident, the family members staged a protest demanding that Venkatesh be discharged immediately. Soon, cops intervened and mediated between the hospital staff and family members before shifting Venkatesh to another private hospital. Cops said that Venkatesh comes from a poor family and neither had health insurance nor sufficient cash to undergo the required surgery at an exorbitant price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospital-staff-refuse-to-discharge-patient-over-payment-issue/articleshow/76516740.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||ZP readies CCCs in 13 tehsils for asymptomatic +ve patients||Nagpur: With rise in cases in Nagpur Rural, the zilla parishad (ZP) has identified and readied Covid Care Centres (CCCs) at each of the 13 tehsil headquarters, to admit and treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. On Tuesday, Military Hospital, Kamptee, started to admit and treat positive patients from Army, Air Force and Navy, becoming the fourth Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in the district. Since lockdown was eased, cases in Nagpur Rural have started to increase. A 27-year-old man from Umred was admitted at IGGMCH in suspected ward and tested positive on Tuesday. It is the first case in Umred tehsil. The number of cases from Nagpur Rural have increased to 167. ZP chief executive officer Yogesh Kumbhejkar, civil surgeon VD Paturkar, district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar, additional district health officer Dr Asim Inamdar and team identified places for CCC in 13 tehsils. CCCs have been readied at government and ZP-run hostels and accommodation facilities of trust-run pilgrimage places. A ZP official told TOI, “Since beginning, till today, positive patients from Nagpur Rural are being admitted and treated at IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. It becomes very difficult to transport positive persons from remote areas of the district to city. Also, relatives have to face serious inconvenience. Government had come up with new policy to treat asymptomatic in CCCs. Therefore, CCCs have been readied. It will also reduce some load on IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. At present, swab samples of suspect persons and contacts of positive patients are being collected at these CCCs. Asymptomatic positive patients will be admitted and treated after final approval from higher authorities.” Hingna tehsil has registered highest 76 cases, followed by Kalmeshwar 13, Kamptee 19, SRPF 14, Katol 12, Nagpur 17, Saoner 8, Narkhed 5, Parsheoni 2 and Umred 1. Four tehsils — Ramtek, Bhivapur, Mauda and Kuhi do not have any case till date. TOI had on June 18 highlighted Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had started the process to convert MLA Hostel Institutional Quarantine Centre into CCC for asymptomatic positive patients of city. Defence PRO BB Pande told TOI, “A 55-bedded Covid-19 hospital has been set up at Military Hospital, Kamptee, where admission and treatment of suspected as well as positive patients has been started. This facility is only for those eligible for medical facility at Military Hospital, like staff of Army, Air Force, Navy, and their family members.” As per information available from District Information Office, seven persons who tested positive are undergoing treatment at Military Hospital. Also, defence establishment has reportedly set up quarantine centres at Kamptee Cantonment and Vayu Sena Nagar, where all persons coming from other districts or states are compulsorily quarantined for 14 days. NMC has also readied two of the proposed five Dedicated Covid Health Centres, but is yet to start admission and treatment of positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zp-readies-cccs-in-13-tehsils-for-asymptomatic-ve-patients/articleshow/76539511.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||State grants NOC, but stalls deputation of IFS officers||Nagpur: The state government has put on hold relieving of IFS officers from Maharashtra for central government deputation, even as one of the posts has gained significance due to the situation on Indo-China border. The cadre strength of IFS in Maharashtra is 206, out of which 25 posts are meant for Central Deputation Reserve (CDR), which means 25 officers can apply for central posting anywhere in the country. Of this, seven posts are already occupied and 18 IFS officers can still apply. However, the state government has put on hold relieving four IFS officers heading for deputation, even after granting NOC to the central government. Earlier, based on state’s NOC, the Centre’s Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) headed by the Prime Minister had cleared names of these officials. One of the officials includes 1992 batch APCCF rank IFS officer Imtienla Ao, who is currently posted as chief general manager (CGM) with FDCM. Her posting as deputy director general (DDG) of forests, Shillong, was cleared by MoEFCC after Maharashtra government issued NOC on January 21. Based on this NOC, her posting order was issued on March 17 by the Centre, and state forest department was asked to relieve her immediately. However, the forest ministry is not relieving her. The post of DDG in Shillong looks after forest clearances in seven states in north-east. It also includes forest clearances for roads by BRO on Indo-Tibetan and Indo-Myanmar borders. This posting is especially crucial in the context of present tension between India and China, and the thrust of central government on accelerating crucial border road infrastructure for quick deployment of the Indian Army. “At a time building border infra is critical, keeping post of DDG, Shillong, vacant is not in nation’s interest. Currently, the Shillong MoEFCC regional office is headless. Of the four IFS posts, only one has been filled,” officials from Shillong told TOI. Sources close to forest minister Sanjay Rathod say, “The minister wants to know why IFS officials are moving out on deputation and don’t want to work in the state, especially after he took over. He is going to discuss the issue with PCCF (HoFF) and minimum number of officials will be allowed to go on deputation.” The number of IFS officials proceeding on deputation is still within the prescribed limit of 25, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-grants-noc-but-stalls-deputation-of-ifs-officers/articleshow/76539513.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Doubts & suspicions spread earlier found baseless: Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday the doubts created during the Rajya Sabha elections in the state have been proved baseless as all Congress and supporting MLAs voted for the party's candidates on June 19. Political appointments would be done on the recommendations of a coordination committee, Pilot told reporters after paying homage to the late Sanjay Gandhi on his death anniversary at the PCC HQ here. According to sources, Pilot is not in favour of rewarding those who had joined the party later, especially the six BSP MLAs who joined Congress overnight at chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s behest and without keeping the PCC chief in the loop. "Both our candidates have received cent per cent votes from our MLAs who stood together during the polls. I have been saying that both our candidates will win and it has turned out true. All kinds of doubts and suspicions spread earlier were found baseless," he added. CM Ashok Gehlot had claimed in the run-up to the Rajya Sabha polls that BJP had been indulging in horse-trading and luring Congress MLAs by allegedly offering them Rs 25-35 crore each. The CM even took his party MLAs and some independents to a posh resort on the city’s outskirts 10 days before the polls to counter BJP’s alleged poaching attempts. Party whip Mahesh Joshi had submitted a complaint to the ACB saying unaccounted money had reached Rajasthan during the lockdown. The matter was later handed over to the SOG and has now been transferred to the ATS. In response to a question on the delay in making political appointments in the state, Pilot said he would ensure that party workers got the respect and rewards they deserved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doubts-suspicions-spread-earlier-found-baseless-pilot/articleshow/76540126.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||FCI clarifies allegation on delay in wheat delivery||Jaipur: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) on Tuesday rebutted UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal’s allegation that there was a delay in delivering wheat to the state government resulting in late distribution of ration to the non-NFSA beneficiaries, stating that “state government made the first payment (date of release order issued) for purchase of 18,148 MT wheat (in June) only on June 12, the scheduled date for distribution of ration as announced by government earlier. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday had blamed FCI, a government of India body, for the delay in distribution of ration to non-NFSA beneficiaries including migrant workers and those belonging to 37 special categories. “They (state government) fixed the date, June 12, for distribution of ration even before receiving wheat from the FCI or having sufficient stock. But, they were not able to deposit the amount by June 12 and take release orders. They delayed in making the payment. Now, if they make the payment on June 12 (for 18,148 MT wheat), how will they distribute it on the same day? Wheat was delivered immediately upon issuance of release order (or making the payment)...It takes at least 2-3 days for lifting food grains from the godowns,” said I K Choudhary, DGM, FCI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fci-clarifies-allegation-on-delay-in-wheat-delivery/articleshow/76540127.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||Tankha tells Centre to invoke EPA on Chinese investments||Bhopal: Amid persisting tension between India and China, Congress Rajya Sabha MP and eminent lawyer Vivek Tankha on Tuesday appealed to the Union government to invoke the Enemy Property Act 1968 on Chinese investments in the country. In a letter to the Centre on Tuesday, Tankha argued that China and Pakistan are “two enemy states”, as per the website of Custodian of Enemy Property. Tankha suggested that the Union government take it a step forward and include investments made in the last few decades. “It’s time to take decisive and swift action,” Tankha urged the Centre.Speaking to TOI, Tankha explained, “I have written to the Union government and said China was always an enemy state. There are thousands of cases still pending, post 1962. It has been protecting and supporting Pakistan and ISI in its terrorist activities against India. China is not a friendly country an we should not do trade with enemies.” The Rajya Sabha MP’s letter says, “Decisive action on Chinese investment in Indian entities can be carried out by taking recourse of the Enemy Property Act 1968.” The Act defines “enemy” in terms of the Defence of India Act 1962 and includes “any person or country committing external aggression against India and any person belonging to such country”, he says.Tankha believes that the recent Chinese aggression in Galwan Valley alone would be enough to invoke the Act. “Also, China’s open support to Pakistan at the United Nations on the Kashmir issue, supplying them with modern armaments and so on, equally qualifies to invoke the Act,” he said.Tankha’s letter says: “Chinese investments are deep-rooted in the Indian economy with an estimated $ 6.2 billion across myriad sectors. The value of Chinese investment holding in listed Indian companies stood at Rs 3,257 crore in March 2020. Between April 2019 and February 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $46.8 billion. It is time to close this gap and protect our domestic business interests.”Tankha suggested that the Custodian of Enemy Property for India can be appointed by virtue of section 3 of the Act. “The custodian has far-reaching powers under section 5A of the Act, to conduct inquiry and declare vesting of enemy property in him and to deal with it under section 8 of the Act,” Tankha’s letter said.Tankha said the website of Custodian for Enemy Properties lists 9,406 such properties, including 9,280 belonging to Pakistan nationals and 126 to Chinese nationals. Verification is pending for another 5,866 such properties.The MP reasoned that section 10 of the Enemy Property Act “confers upon the custodian, the power to sell any security issued by a company and belonging to an enemy.” He added that the 2010 ordinance and 2017 amendment have “further tilted scales” in favour of the custodian.Tankha recalled that in April 2019, the government sold assets worth Rs 1,874 crore through the Custodian for Enemy property for India, of which Rs 1,100 crore came from sale of enemy shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tankha-tells-centre-to-invoke-epa-on-chinese-investments/articleshow/76538517.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lok Nayak Hospital gets nod for plasma therapy on 200 patients||NEW DELHI: Lok Nayak Hospital has administered plasma therapy to more than 20 Covid-19 patients till date. Few more are in queue to get the therapy over the coming week, an official said on Tuesday. According to the hospital’s medical director, Dr Suresh Kumar, they have received approval from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct plasma therapy on 200 patients. Plasma therapy was permitted on a trial basis by ICMR recently but then it was put on hold. After the fresh nod from ICMR last week, Lok Nayak and Max Hospital, Saket have done plasma therapy on coronavirus patients. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain (55) was on Saturday administered plasma therapy at Max Hospital, where he is admitted for Covid-19 treatment.  “Twenty recipients were administered the therapy before ICMR halted it. With the fresh nod, we have received permission for 200 patients,” Dr Kumar said. According to him, each donor, a person who has recently recovered from Covid-19, develops antibodies, which is transferred to the recipient through plasma. “Each person can donate 250-500ml of plasma. We give the first dosage of 250ml to the recipient, and if needed, a second dosage of 250ml after 24 hours,” he said. If a donor gives only 250ml once, he or she can donate again after a few days, the medical director of Delhi government’s largest facility said. Asked what are the preconditions for a donor to be considered fit for plasma donation, Dr Kumar said, the donor should not have any comorbidities and should not be suffering from HIV or hepatitis or renal problems. “We then conduct the antibody titer test, and once the donor clears it, we seek their consent in writing before going forward with it. Then his pulse and BP rates are tested. The best time to donate is two-three weeks from the date of recovery,” he added. Asked if there are chances of any side-effects, he said one in a thousand might display some sort of allergy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lnjp-gets-nod-for-plasma-therapy-on-200-patients/articleshow/76539514.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Other temples follow Puri, keep festivities quiet||BHUBANESWAr: With Puri celebrating the Rath Yatra under tight restrictions on Tuesday, Jagannath shrines in other parts of the country observed the day in an even more subdued manner. All the rituals were followed at the Jagannath Temple in Hauz Khas, New Delhi, but no devotee was allowed inside. “Only 20 to 25 sevayats executed the rituals,” said temple manager Rashmi Ranjan Behera. At the Jagannath Temple in Pune, the organisers constructed three mini-chariots instead of the usual single chariot and pulled them within the temple premises. “This year, we did not organise a feast because of the pandemic; neither did we allow people to congregate,” said K Samal, one of the organisers. The festival was a slightly bigger affair at the Jagannath Temple in Kharagpur. Senior divisional manager of LIC, Debakanta Padhi, did the ‘chhenra pahanra’. The chariot was parked outside the temple premises, barricaded, and people in batches of 20 were allowed darshan by maintaining social distance. “We did not allow people to come near the temple or the chariot without masks,” said R K Panda, senior DGM (finance), ECoR, who is one of the organisers of the temple’s Rath Yatra. Celebrities, too, stayed indoors and marked the day at home. Danseuse Aruna Mohanty watched the chariot festival on TV and rustled up Odia vegetarian fare for lunch. Jnanpith awardee Prativa Ray also stayed home. “I got darshan of the deities in the chariots, as there were fewer people in Puri,” said Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/other-temples-follow-puri-keep-festivities-quiet/articleshow/76538528.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rath shorn of pomp as devotees miss action||PURI: The state’s reigning deities — siblings Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra — embarked on their annual nine-day sojourn from the Jagannath Temple to their birthplace at the Gundicha Temple, 3km away, on Tuesday, but missing in action were the lakhs of devotees who transform the religious event into a mega spectacle every monsoon. Chants of ‘Jai Jagannath’ were heard but they did not ring out loud as they do every year. The iconic chariots rolled down the Grand Road but the frenzy of cymbals, chants and religious fervour that accompanies their journey was missing, replaced by a sense of resignation. “I still cannot believe the pandemic has kept devotees out of Puri. The Lord’s annual sojourn is incomplete without them. But, what to do, this was the wish of the Lord,” shrugged Umarani Swain, a Puri local. For those watching the proceedings live on TV, the decked out but curfewed Grand Road presented a strange sight. The thousands of hands that would spontaneously rise towards the sky the moment the deities emerged from the temple were missing, as was the sea of heads that would make TV viewing of the Yatra an impossible task. Rupashree Mohapatra broke down while offering bhog to the Lord from within her house on Grand Road as the chariot-laden deities passed by. “For decades, we have been offering bhog outside our house when the chariots moved past. Today, we dared not step out,” she said. The lack of crowds affected servitors too. “We would feel that the deities were smiling on seeing people jostling for space in front of their chariots. Today, we felt sad at the silence around the chariots and on Grand Road,” said Jagannath Swain Mohapatra, a servitor. Troupes singing devotional songs (sankirtan) and Odissi and Gotipua dancers who would perform in processions in front of chariots were also conspicuous by their absence. “Watching the festival on TV is no match for the real thing,” said Sandhya Mishra, an Odissi student. While most rued the lack of crowds, police were somewhat relieved. “People voluntarily complied with the curfew and stayed indoors across Puri district. We did not come across any violations. People cooperated with us for smooth conduct of the festival,” DGP Abhay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rath-shorn-of-pomp-as-devotees-miss-action/articleshow/76538518.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 24, 2020||Pune||Kharadi residents helped PMC staff get critical gear||PUNE: A shortage of protective equipment during the Covid-19 lockdown had sanitation and health inspectors of Kharadi turn to local residents for help. Immediately, the Kharadi Residents Association swung into action. Within days, they secured donations from housing societies in the area to buy PPE for the PMC staff. Secretary of the association, Narauttam Das said, “Health department officials from the local ward office approached us saying they were in need of protective equipment. We procured PPE sets that had masks, face shields and gloves.” According to Das, 50 such sets were also handed to personnel from the Kharadi police chowky. “We found out that they had no mechanism for sanitisation. That police unit was getting a lot of visitors daily, mainly migrant workers. We provided them PPEs and about 10 litres of sanitizer along with a foot-operated dispensing stand,” Das said. President of the association, Nitin Memane, said members kept up a range of initiatives during the lockdown. He said, “When migrant workers were leaving the city, we helped the police manage crowds. We distributed food packets too among the travellers.” Sanitation inspector of the area, Sushma Munde said, “All our workers used the PPEs provided by the citizens. Some sets were given away to people who had money to purchase masks and other gear. We were very happy to receive this help during such trying times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kharadi-residents-helped-pmc-staff-get-critical-gear/articleshow/76539509.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Groom, kin found infected in Bhilwara||Thirteen people including the groom were found Covid-19 positive among over 300 people who attended a marriage ceremony in Bhilwara district. All of them have been quarantined. The health department has also placed around 110 suspects, who attended the ceremony, under home quarantine. The district administration has lodged a case against the family that organised the marriage ceremony by allegedly violating the corona protocol. District collector Rajendra Bhatt directed police to register a case against the bride’s family that violated the Covid-19 guidelines. Police have registered a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of IPC and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/groom-kin-found-infected-in-bhilwara/articleshow/76540128.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Virtual darshan and FB aarti mark Jagannath rath yatra||LUCKNOW: The celebration of Lord Jagannath’s rath yatra on Tuesday was a subdued one as city temples resorted to virtual ‘aarti’ for devotees via social media. For the first time in its history, the chariot festival of Lord Jagannath and his siblings began in the absence of devotees and large processions due to the coronavirus pandemic. Priests and a couple of members from the temple management gathered early morning to perform ‘maha-aarti’ inside temples. Shri Radha Madhav Sewa Sansthan of Daliganj’s Madhav Mandir began the celebration at the temple with a Facebook Live. More than 500 devotees joined in to offer prayers online. Later, members of the management committee distributed face masks and dry ration among the needy. “Though devotees couldn’t physically visit the temple, many joined us for virtual ‘darshan’. The celebration was of a different kind, but we all prayed for the safety and well-being of our country in our fight against Covid-19,” said Anurag Sahu, spokesperson of Shri Radha Madhav Sewa Sansthan of Daliganj’s Madhav Mandir. Aminabad’s rath yatra, among the city’s oldest and organised by Shri Mahant Shatrughan Das Rath Yatra Samiti, also live-streamed the rituals on their official Facebook page and sent out a message of social distancing. In Chowk, Shri Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra and Navratra Mela Samiti, which have been organising the rath yatra at Badi Kaliji temple for more than 100 years, had an intimate affair with only 10 people from the samiti taking part in the rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-darshan-fb-aarti-mark-jagannath-rath-yatra/articleshow/76540132.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Youth drowns while trying to shoot video for TikTok||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 23-year-old youth drowned in a quarry pond at Kallayam under Mannanthala police station limits on Monday evening. The deceased, Syamkumar of Mavuvila, was an aluminium fabrication worker. His friends, who were with him at the time of the incident, told police that he drowned while attempting to shoot a video to upload on ‘TikTok’ after stepping into the pond. Mannanthala sub inspector O V Gopichandran said Syamkumar often used to visit the quarry which is not operational. The incident took place around 5.30pm. His friends raised alarm and alerted residents, who informed the fire and rescue services personnel. Units from Thiruvananthapuram and Nedumangad stations, including scuba divers attached to the Thiruvananthapuram station, rushed to the spot. The body was fished out around 9.30pm. The SI further said even though his friends claimed that he was trying to shoot a video, police did not entirely buy their claims initially. On Tuesday, police checked the mobile phones of his friends and confirmed that they were in the habit of regularly shooting videos and uploading them on social media. “ Among the four youths only one of them knew swimming and that person dozed off on the bank of the pond when Syamkumar stepped into the river. By the time the others woke him up, the deceased had drowned in the pond,” the SI said. A postmortem would be done only after receiving result of Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-drowns-while-tryingto-shoot-video-for-tiktok/articleshow/76538524.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: After Koyambedu, is this a cluster of Rs 1,000 dole?||CHENNAI: There is an intense lockdown in force, all people on the roads have been urged to follow distancing norms, but when special ‘camps’ opened across the city on Monday to disburse Rs 1,000 to each ration card (rice) holder, the crowds that gathered stoked fears that a fresh Covid-19 cluster could be emerging. After the scheme was announced, many urged the government to either deposit the money into beneficiaries’ bank accounts or distribute them at their doorsteps. The government said it would prefer the second option, but the civil supplies department has set up camps at street corners to hand over cash. This was because officials found they would not be able to complete the exercise within the deadline of one week. When the camps were opened, however, all hell broke loose. In several places, officials and police struggled to regulate the crowd as hundreds of people queued up without masks and stood very close to each other. A constable at Basin Bridge had to plead with more than 20 women to stand back as they jostled for space to reach the desk where cash was being handed over. At Pallakumanagar in Mylapore, a huge crowd gathered at the money distribution spot but there were no police personnel to control it. "It is tough and risky, but we have to implement it since the government has announced it. People are assembled at one location so all ration card holders can be covered," a civil supplies department official, who preferred anonymity, said. Another official said that only those who had shifted from the residential address mentioned in the card were alone asked to assemble at the camps. Social activists have questioned the need for such ‘camps’ when the DBT (direct bank transfer) could be adopted. A V S Marimuthu, co-convenor of North Chennai People Rights Federation, said at least 90% of ration card holders had cooking gas connections and access to the subsidy for LPG cylinders through banks. "These account numbers can be used for distribution of doles. For the rest, money can be distributed after the intense lockdown ends." Police have been advised to avoid talking to people. A police officer said they had assigned four to six police personnel led by a sub-inspector of police at each ration shop as per the requirements of the civil supplies department officials. "As we are focused on providing safety and security at ration shops to prevent and law and order issues, it is difficult for us to concentrate on regular corona-related issues," said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-koyambedu-is-this-a-cluster-of-1000-dole/articleshow/76539516.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Finger on pulse of market, cheap foreign substitutes make a killing in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A sudden rise in the demand for fingertip pulse oximeters occasioned by the Covid crisis has allowed cheap foreign products to saturate the markets. Traders at Bhagirath Palace, the hub for medical devices, said that around 65% of the oximeters being sold both in wholesale and retail are of Chinese origin. They cost half as much as the regular item and can be ordered in large numbers, unlike branded products. Though of suspect quality with no company guarantee, desperate people have no choice because a branded oximeter costs Rs 1,900-Rs 4,500 in the retail market, while the Chinese products start from as low as Rs 750. “The recently arrived Chinese products sell at erratic prices, depending on demand,” said Ashish Grover, a store owner at Bhagirath Palace. “Six months ago, thermal scanners cost Rs 900-1,000 in the wholesale market. With the sudden rise in demand, the prices went up to Rs 10,000 and now have come down to Rs 1,200. Likewise, an oxygen concentrator of Chinese brand is available at Rs 35,000, with an Indian brand retailing at Rs 1 lakh.” Oximeters check the amount of oxygen being absorbed by the blood. One sign of Covid infection is a sudden drop in oxygen levels, so experts, and now Delhi Government, have recommended the use of oximeters at home to log oxygen saturation. Current Covid guidelines say that people should be taken to hospitals if oxygen saturation drops to 90 or below (normal is 95 and above). Oximeters at present aren’t under price control and Delhi government will have to invoke special provisions to fix its price. Traders themselves says there is a need to cap the maximum retail price and the margin at which they are sold. “While the MRP of an imported product is fixed by the weight and measurement department, we have noted that surgical products with even the minimum features are priced very high,” said Vinay Pangasa, general secretary, All India Surgical Dealers Association. He also pointed out that the surge in demand for medical items in the pandemic has led people from other trades to jump into the business. “They pursue manufacturers in foreign countries producing low quality products to record big profits without concern for the standards to be followed,” Pangasa said. “We had pursued the Centre to implement guidelines and create departments, as suggested by Niti Ayog, to verify the quality of import.” Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of Association of Indian Medical Devices Industry, said that ideally no imports should be allowed without verification of MRP and country of origin on the labels. “Importers are not revealing these details, but appending their own labels with prices,” Nath alleged. “Our forum has been insisting on filing of these details for a database to be used by government agencies and the department of pharmaceuticals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/finger-on-pulse-of-market-cheap-foreign-substitutes-make-a-killing/articleshow/76539506.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rajgurunagar shows how to be Covid-19 free||PUNE: Rajgurunanagar, about 45km from Pune, off the Nashik highway, is the only municipal town in Pune district without a single Covid-19 case reported since the outbreak of the pandemic, a Pune Zilla Parishad report has stated. The town falls in Khed taluka, which has had 54 nCoV cases so far, mostly people with a travel history either to or from Pune city or Mumbai. The rural parts and the municipal council towns across Pune district have so far recorded total 682 Covid-19 cases. Of these, 395 have been discharged while 30 patients have succumbed to the contagion and 257 are active cases, the report stated. Lonavla and Jejuri municipal town limits now have no active cases after initial reports of three cases and one case, respectively. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI on Monday that these municipal councils took timely measures. “ They sealed their boundaries effectively to restrict movement in and out of the towns for a limited purpose. They quarantined people in a systematic manner and hence were able to contain the spread of the virus,” he added. Khed tehsil officials said about 35,000 people returned to their native villages in the tehsil from Mumbai in April. “But Rajgurunanagar Municipal Council, which has a population of 50,000, took measures towards creating awareness, quarantining people in their homes and avoiding crowding of people at public places. All bazaar lanes and vegetable markets were closed in time and social distancing norms were followed strictly,” B B Gadve, Khed tehsil’s health officer. Many villages near Rajgurunagar have recorded positive cases. But the entry and exit points of the town closed and monitored strictly. “Most importantly, people have supported all our steps. As such, we were able to avoid crowding of people in markets, bazaar lanes, shopkeepers etc,” he added. Zilla Parishad’s deputy chief executive officer Sandeep Kohinkar said, “Lonavla had three cases, Shirur and Jejuri each had one. These places are main bazaar towns of their tehsils. But, they managed to contain the spread by shutting down all bazaar activities and shops in time and restricting movement from outside areas. Those who had come from other places were put under quarantine for 14 days in April.” Daund Municipal Council has recorded the highest positive cases followed by Wadgaon Maval (16) and Indapur (13) in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masks-closed-markets-keeping-distance-no-cases-rajgurunagar-shows-the-way/articleshow/76539519.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts report 353 +ve cases, 150 in central region||Madurai/ Trichy: In a record single day spike, Covid-19 cases in the southern districts touched 353 on Monday, taking the tally to 3,747. Tuticorin also reported its fourth Covid-19 death, which took the death toll in the region to 27. Meanwhile, the central region reported 150 new cases for the second consecutive day taking the tally to 1,856 on Monday. A 60-year-old man from Tuticorin with co-morbidities of diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension, and chronic kidney disease died on June 19 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The patient died within 12 hours of admission due to acute pulmonary edema, Covid-19 and other co-morbidities. Tuticorin saw as many as 62 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, including five imported cases. Tuticorin also became the third district in the region to cross 600 Covid-19 cases as its total tally has touched 639. The district administration, taking note of the rising cases said that ward-level micro plans and separate street-wise teams in containment zones have been set up for intensive search of cases. Meanwhile, Madurai district reported the most number of Covid-19 cases on Monday. Cases skyrocketed to 849 in the district with 157 testing positive on Monday. The district now has the highest number total Covid-19 cases and total active cases in south Tamil Nadu, making it a Covid-19 hotspot. Theni district reported its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 36 Monday. Trichy topped the list with 51 cases. The total number of cases in the district has climbed to 310. The district recorded 36 cases on Sunday. Among them a patient was an employee of a major commercial establishment on NSB Road in Trichy city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-report-353-ve-cases-150-in-central-region/articleshow/76519837.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Over 300 cases for 4 days in a row||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday recorded 395 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the overall infection count to 15,627. It was also the fourth day in the row that the state registered more than 300 cases in a day. Jaipur reported 107 fresh cases and breached the 3,000 mark. On June 21, the state had recorded 393 cases tumbling the previous day record of 381. On the casualty count, the virus claimed nine lives taking the toll to 365. Increasing numbers of migrants and foreign returnees under Vande Bharat mission have tested positive. “In Jaipur, 107 persons tested positive. Out of those, 76 are foreign returnees presently in institutional quarantine facilities,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The institutional quarantine facilities in which the foreign returnees staying are city’s hotels. The health department has made it mandatory for foreign returnees to stay in an institutional quarantine for seven days after landing. In another order, the health department made it mandatory to get the foreign returnees tested for Covid-19 before allowing them to go to their homes after completing mandatory institutional quarantine duration. Jaipur has become the first district of the state reported more than 3,000 cases. As many as 107 new cases brought Jaipur’s tally to 3006. Other districts which reported new cases are Dholpur (53), Jodhpur (40), Sirohi (24), Barmer (21), Jalore (19), Bharatpur (18), Pali (15), Ajmer (13), Bhilwara (12), Sawai Madhopur (11), Alwar (10), Rajsamand (7), Hanumangarh (6), Udaipur (5), Churu (5), Sikar (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Karauli (4), Kota (3), Nagaur (3), Jhalawar (3), Dausa (3), Bikaner (2) and two from other state. In Jaipur, other than institutional quarantine facilities for foreign returnees, 20 different places reported 31 cases including Bhrampuri (5), Chaksu (4), Chetak Vihar (3), Kotputli (2), Ghat Gate (2), while one each case was reported from Dhani Rawaton Wali, Chhoti Kotdi, Dev Gaon, Bhakari Paota, Shahpura, Kailashpuri Ajmer Road, Govind Nagar, Krishna Nagar Tonk Road, Mansarovar, Murlipura, Panchyawala, Jagatpura, Sitawali Phatak, Dhahr Ke Balaji, Bad Wali Bagariya Ki Khani. Besides, 76 more were reported from institutional quarantine facility for foreign returnees. In Dholpur, situation is not encouraging for health authorities. Health director Dr KK Sharma rushed to Dholpur to assess the situation and to chalk out strategies with health officials to prevent its spread further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-300-cases-for-4-days-in-a-row/articleshow/76540140.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress asks EC to probe BJP MLA’s poll expenses||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Tuesday complained to the Election Commission against BJP MLA from Mhow, Usha Thakur, and demanded an investigation into her election expenditure in the 2018 assembly polls. Congress’ complaint comes in the wake of a statement given by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya during a TV interview that he spent money in Mhow to help Usha Thakur win the election. Congress legal cell chief J P Dhanopia on Tuesday took the complaint to the EC. “A major revelation was made on June 22, 2020, when BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s comment went viral. The BJP leader admitted that he spent a sizable amount of money and engaged in election management till 2am to make the candidate win,” the Congress letter says. Congress claims Thakur has not provided to EC details of the expenditure claimed by Vijayvargiya. “It seems much more money was spent in the constituency for elections, which was against the rules,” Congress said, urging EC to ask Kailash Vijayvargiya and Usha Thakur for “complete details of expenditure”. If it’s found to be more than the permitted limit, Thakur’s membership as legislator should be annulled and she should be disqualified from contesting polls in the future, Congress demands. Vijayvargiya has represented Mhow assembly seat twice (2008 and 2013). Thakur earlier represented Indore-3. In 2018, Vijayvargiya wanted his son Akash to contest from Indore-3, which Thakur reportedly opposed. She was shifted to Mhow, which she won by around 7,100 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-asks-ec-to-probe-bjp-mlas-poll-expenses/articleshow/76538530.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Greens to document biodiverstity in Charachira pond||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With a mission to protect the flora and fauna, environmentalists and residents have taken up a mission to document the natural biodiversity of Charachira pond. Balachandran V, founding member of society for odonate studies, visited the pond recently and made some interesting observations.  According to Balachandran, he was surprised to notice the absence of ditch jewel (brachythemis contaminata), a species of dragonfly which he said is commonly found near stagnant and polluted water bodies. He also recorded a list of 17 odonates, including 12 dragonflies and 5 damselflies, from Charachira. "When I went to the pond, the climate was cloudy. I think we could 15 more species of odonates in the pond. Odonates are connected to water bodies, however, their lives are often ignored. Absence of ditch jewel indicates that the quality of water could be relatively potable. I recommend that water samples from the tank be collected and analysed. Such resources could be utilised when city faces acute water shortage. Officials could have opted for more environmentally-friendly options by preserving the natural ambience of the space and consulted conservation architects before implementing the project," said Balachandran. He said some of the grass and shrubs along the bank should be left as is to prevent erosion. "Several small channels are linked to the tank. It seems to me that the proposed construction around the tank would destroy the plant life around the tank and may also block the flow of clean water flowing in through the channels," he added. A citizens group has been formed by a group of environmentalists to protect the pond. "We have been working for the revival of ponds and water bodies. The renovation work is destroying the pond. It was noticed that in spite of rain, the pond is not filled as the natural source to the pond has been blocked by a structure constructed around it. Officials should take measures to link the spring and other natural sources to the pond," said Veena M, a member. The group is also planning to visit the pond again to record varieties of butterflies. After documenting these, they have planned to approach authorities with demand for eco-friendly development of the space without destroying its natural diversity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/greens-to-document-biodiverstity-in-charachira-pond/articleshow/76538551.cms||Anasooya.S
June 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist admin seeks 25k rapid antigen test kits for high-risk contacts, sr citizens||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration has sought 25,000 rapid antigen test kits from the state government to carry out testing of the high-risk contacts and senior citizens with comorbid conditions. The kits will be supplied by the government through centralised procurement process. The test kits help detect Covid infection within 20 minutes. The test kits will be given to the trained health staff who will reach to the persons identified as high risk contacts wherever the persons are residing. Yogesh Sale, district health officer, said, “First the test kits will be used for the high contacts in containment zones. We have found over 9 lakh senior citizens of which around 30% have co-morbid conditions. We have categorised the senior citizens further depending on type of morbidity. Those with severe morbidity will be tested first.” Severe morbidity includes people suffering from multiple diseases at one time and those having grave diseases like cancer. Also, the test kits will be used for the testing frontline workers such as doctors and nurses involved in treating covid patients. Currently, the administration has a capacity of carrying out 900 tests per day in the government and private labs, but only 100 to 120 tests are being conducted. In the labs, RT-PCR technique is used which is time consuming. “The influx of people from red zones has been reduced significantly for the last couple of weeks. However, we will ensure that those coming from red zones are tested for Covid-19,” added Sale. Less time for detection and analysis is the advantage of the rapid antigen test kits. However, the Indian Council of Medical Research, which has approved use of rapid test kits two weeks ago, has maintained that the positive testings require no confirmation. But those testing negative should go for RT-PCR testing for confirmation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-admin-seeks-25k-rapid-antigen-test-kits-for-high-risk-contacts-sr-citizens/articleshow/76696699.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||Unpaid since 3 months, nurses strike work||Amravati: There was commotion at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial Medical College & Hospital on Tuesday morning when nurses struck work to protest non-payment of salaries for the last three months. The nurses, some on contract, some trainees and some permanent, alleged that despite lack of facilities, they have been working at the hospital since March in adverse conditions. They alleged that despite rendering their services at the quarantine section of the hospital without PPE kits, they weren’t provided the 14-day facility meant for the staff. The nurses also alleged that the management made them render round-the-clock services without even bothering to offer them food. The nurses further alleged that though they were assured of a salary of Rs11,000 per month in their appointment letters, they are actually paid only Rs. 8000. Dean of the college, Dr Padmakar Somwanshi, told TOI that the college and the society which runs the hospital are facing a financial crunch due to the pandemic. “The April-May admissions of students have stopped. The government has not released scholarship funds. As a result, the salaries of the other staff members as well as the nurses, too, have got stuck. A solution will soon be found,” said Somwanshi. The management of Shri Shivaji Education Society will discuss the issue at 10am on Wednesday morning after holding talks with the agitating nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unpaid-since-3-months-nurses-strike-work/articleshow/76539526.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘No compromise with quality in PWD projects’||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said there would be no compromise with the quality of departmental construction work. Pilot on Tuesday inspected the widening and strengthening work of Bassi to Tunga Road (State Highway 24) at Bassi in Jaipur district and checked the quality of road work tested with mobile quality check lab on the spot. He directed that quality control checks of projects should be a regular feature. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-compromise-with-quality-in-pwd-projects/articleshow/76540138.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: OPD at AIIMS to resume tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Almost three months after it closed down its OPD services, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has decided to resume the operations from June 25 for its follow-up patients. Initially, each department will see not more than 15 patients a day, officials said on Tuesday. The outpatient department (OPD) services will be available for follow-up patients as of now, but requisite appointments for limited number of new patients will also be given for those departments which wish to start physical OPD consultation, they said. For the first time in its history, AIIMS had shut down its OPD services, including specialty services, as well as new and follow-up registrations from March 24 as part of its effort towards redirecting its resources to control the Covid-19 outbreak. “AIIMS to restart physical OPD services from June 25. It is informed that the Director AIIMS has approved the resumption of physical appointments for old/follow-up patients, not to exceed 15 per day for any department initially which will be enhanced in a few days,” an official circular issued to all departments on Tuesday said. In addition, requisite appointments for limited number of new patients will also be given for those departments which wish to start physical OPD consultation, the circular stated. However, no appointments will be given for evening specialty clinics in the first phase of OPD reopening. “It will be the prerogative of the departments to call patients directly or screen them through tele-consultation before giving a physical appointment,” the circular said. Patients can be given appointment for OPD consultation directly by the department or through the computer facility as decided by the department concerned. However, if an appointment is given from the department, the departmental appointment list will have to be intimated to the computer facility and faculty in-charge of the OPD 48 hours in advance, it said. All heads of clinical departments in AIIMS have been requested to provide information on the date of resumption of physical OPD for patients of the department concerned and daily list of patients along with their telephone numbers who have been given appointment for physical consultation, the circular added. Doctors at AIIMS are currently providing tele-consultancy services to all patients undergoing treatment at the hospital in an effort to reduce the need for them to visit the facility during the lockdown. In addition, emergency procedures are being conducted on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opd-at-aiims-to-resume-tomorrow/articleshow/76539532.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid test must for bodies found on tracks||Ludhiana: Taking a crucial step for the safety of Government Railway Police (GRP) officials who have to indulge in the work of lifting unidentified bodies from different spots under the jurisdictions of Northern Railway, the high command of GRP has given latest directions to local officials for conducting Covid-19 test of such bodies before disposing these. Moreover, they have also given directions to cleanliness department officials for not coming in contact with these unidentified bodies found near railway tracks. The authorities also called up the health department team with regard to related medical treatment to ensure the safety of the railway staff. The matter had come to the notice of the higher authorities of GRP after the cleanliness department of the railways had found a body of a senior citizen lying near a railway track crossing near the Ladhowal railway bridge a few days back, after which they informed the health team for conducting the related proceedings. Following this, the railway staff conveyed a message to the control room of GRP for initiating the legal proceedings in the case and sent it to the civil hospital for further identification. Higher authorities have instructed the local officials to adopt modern safety measures while conducting preliminary investigation at accidental spots and avoid touching any substantial evidence without wearing gloves to ensure their safety. Earlier, officials of GRP had to conduct the preliminary investigation by inspecting the evidence lying near the body and keep these in the mortuary room of the civil hospital for the next 72 hours without conducting the specified Covid-19 test. Balbir Singh Ghuman, station house inspector of GRP ( Ludhiana),said, “There are several cases in which GRP have to remove several unidentified bodies found lying around the station premises and then carry out long hours of investigation by collection several evidence. But now we have received latest directions from the higher command of GRP to conduct Covid-19 test of these bodies.” He further said, “After conducting the test the GRP will have to send the body to the mortuary of the civil hospital to be kept there for further identification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-test-must-for-bodies-found-on-tracks/articleshow/76538582.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 24, 2020||Pune||Rural aspirants of MPSC want nearby test centres||Pune: Rahul Kawthekar from Beed came to Pune where he would spend at least 10 hours a day, preparing for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams. He has gone back home but can hardly study four hours a day on the small family farm where he helps his parents. Kawthekar is angry about the Covid-19 situation which has been particularly tough for rural students.MPSC students from rural areas are in a fix as the examination dates have been announced but they have no study resources. Many students from Marathwada and Vidarbha come to Pune for the coaching. They register in library-cum-reading-rooms (abhyasikas) where they spend the entire day studying. They left when the lockdown was announced without the study material and have realised that their villages do not have the library facilities or book stores to source the study materials, or English newspapers to update their general knowledge. “The situation is bad for all students who have returned to their villages. The farming sector is suffering. Many of us are either working on our own fields or as labourers in some other area. In Pune, everything was available and we could study with a focus. Here, we have nothing. Half the time, there is no cellphone range to look at educational content, and no study groups for preparation,” Kawthekar said.Akshay Nargade from Amravati used to study in Pune and hopes there is a change of centre option. “My centre is in Pune. The same is the case with everyone from remote villages who go to Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Latur to study. Most of our study notes are in Pune. The economic condition is really bad and some of my friends have quit the preparation and gone back to farming or other work. On the top of it, the change of centre is not being allowed. We really will not be able to travel due to the risk of Covid-19 or afford to rent rooms,” Nargode said.Many said they have sent requests to the chief minister , but a change of centre will not be feasible due to administrative reasons, said Sunil Autade, MPSC deputy secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-aspirants-of-mpsc-want-nearby-test-centres/articleshow/76539529.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||Attempts to reunite tiger cub with mother put on hold in Chandrapur||Nagpur/Chandrapur: Efforts to reunite a rescued tiger cub with its mother in Chandrapur have come a cropper despite serious attempts by the forest officials. On Tuesday there were reports that the reunion has been called off as mother failed to take away the cub. This is perhaps first such attempt to reunite a tiger cub with its mother in the wild. State’s chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar told TOI, “The cub’s reunion effort has not been called off but put on hold to relieve stress. Continuous rain in the area is another reason.” Two months ago then three-month-old cub was rescued by foresters from Sushi Dabgaon in Chichpalli range. The cub was found abandoned near a cattle shed by the villagers on April 24 morning. “Our staff tried to reunite the cub by taking it to the spot for three consecutive days post capture but was unsuccessful as mother did not turn up. Camera trap survey showed there were two tigresses in the area - one with two cubs and another with three. Hence, it made reunion a bit risky. We went for DNA analysis from Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, to ascertain which one was cub’s mother,” says SV Ramarao, CCF of Chandrapur. According to sources, a camera trap survey of two forest compartments found four tigresses in the area, two with cubs, and a male tiger too. Divisional forest officer (DFO) AL Sonkusre said, “On the night of June 18 and 19 and morning of 20, we attempted to reunite the cub by deploying a trap cage near a water body where the mother of the cub frequented.” “Hopes of reunion went up when on June 18 night, around 12.30am, cub and mother exchanged calls for more than 20 minutes. We saw the mother tigress 50 metres from the cage where she had killed the bait. However, she did not come near the cage and the motherhood feeling was missing. We were there for more than 48 hours but as the cub was under stress, we gave up and brought the cub to transit treatment centre (TTC) on June 20 morning,” said Sonkusre. “We took all precautions and forest team that conducted the operation had donned PPE kits owing to Covid-19 scare. On June 20, morning we found the cub had not consumed chicken kept in the cage and was under severe stress. Secondly, due to rains we have taken a break for few days but will make one more attempt,” said Sonkusre. Wildlife experts said, “Being a maiden attempt one cannot predict behaviour of the tigers in such situations. One of the reasons mother did not accept the cub is time lag. Two months have passed, which is a long time. The forest department has done many successful reunions of leopards when done within eight days.” Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “It is possible the mother may not have come to take the cub as it was in a cage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attempts-to-reunite-tiger-cub-with-mother-put-on-hold-in-chandrapur/articleshow/76539561.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nephew threatens Bopal doctor||Ahmedabad: A doctor from Ambli on Monday filed a complaint of criminal intimidation against his nephew. The nephew is apparently aggrieved with the doctor for filing multiple civil cases against him. In his FIR filed with Sarkhej police, Dr Nagesh Bhandari, a resident of Ambli, who runs Gujarat Spine Clinic in Satellite, said that he is also a shareholder in Electrotherm in Palodia village. He said that there was a dispute between his siblings over the company and various civil cases were filed in local courts. Bhandari alleged that his nephew and the accused in the case, Siddharth alias Toshi Bhandari, had begun threatening him in May, pressuring him to withdraw his claim over the company and the civil cases he filed in local courts. Recently, he began getting calls from another number and a person threatened him to kill him if he did not withdraw the court cases. After this, Bhandari approached Sarkhej police and filed a case of criminal intimidation against his nephew and an unknown man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nephew-threatens-bopal-doctor/articleshow/76539752.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers speed up sowing as monsoon approaches Punjab, Haryana||CHANDIGARH: With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stating on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon is expected to advance to parts of Punjab and Haryana over the next 48 hours, farmers of both the states are looking to speed up sowing of the key kharif (summer-sown) crops like paddy, basmati, maize and bajra (pearl millet), anticipating good rainfall in the next few weeks. They are pinning hopes on bountiful rainfall to complete their sowing even as monsoons have been erratic in the past two decades in the two major paddy-growing states. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana are transplanting paddy — the biggest kharif crop in both the states — amid labour crunch due to non-availability of migrant workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who are not travelling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab director of agriculture Sutantar Kumar Airi said paddy, including basmati, has so far been transplanted over 10 lakh hectares of the targeted 27 lakh hectares. He said the basmati acreage is expected to be around 7 lakh hectares. “Sowing of maize has been completed over 1.35 lakh hectares while cotton has covered 5.01 lakh hectares this year, a jump of over 25% from 2019,” Airi said. Haryana farm department officials said the farmers in the state were awaiting first monsoon showers to step up the pace of paddy transplantation and bajra sowing. They said paddy has been planted over about 2-2.5 lakh hectares of the estimated 12 lakh hectares so far while bajra has been sown over 5% of the estimated 4.25 lakh hectares under the coarse cereal crop. India had the wettest monsoon (June-September) in 25 years in 2019. However, Haryana received 42% rainfall below the normal in the same period. Rainfall up to 19% above or below the average is taken as normal and rainfall 20-59% below the average is classified as deficient by the IMD. As per data compiled by the IMD’s Chandigarh Meteorological Centre, Haryana recorded only 256.3 mm rainfall as against the normal of 444 mm in the four-month period last year. Punjab had 444.2 mm, which is 5% below the normal of 467.3 mm, in the same period. Himachal Pradesh had 684.2 mm, which is 10% below the normal of 763.5 mm in the last monsoon. In 2018, both Punjab and Haryana had normal monsoon rainfall. Punjab received 527.4 mm, or 7% over the normal of 491.5 mm and Haryana had 415.2 mm against the normal of 460.4 mm, a deficit of 10%. Deficient monsoon rainfall puts strain on groundwater in both the states, which are the biggest contributors of rice to the national buffer stock. Warning of farm experts to reduce the area under paddy and make judicious use of groundwater in Punjab and Haryana can be substantiated by monsoon rainfall data of both states from 1901 till 2019. In the given period, Punjab has had 35 and Haryana 37 deficient monsoon rainfall years deficient monsoon rainfall years. The situation is grimmer if the data for the 2010-2019 period is taken into account as both the states recorded deficient monsoon rainfall for five years or more. Punjab had deficient monsoon rainfall in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. In the same period, monsoon failed in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-speed-up-sowing-as-monsoon-approaches-punjab-haryana/articleshow/76543790.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
June 24, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers speed up sowing as monsoon approaches Punjab, Haryana||CHANDIGARH: With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stating on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon is expected to advance to parts of Punjab and Haryana over the next 48 hours, farmers of both the states are looking to speed up sowing of the key kharif (summer-sown) crops like paddy, basmati, maize and bajra (pearl millet), anticipating good rainfall in the next few weeks. They are pinning hopes on bountiful rainfall to complete their sowing even as monsoons have been erratic in the past two decades in the two major paddy-growing states. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana are transplanting paddy — the biggest kharif crop in both the states — amid labour crunch due to non-availability of migrant workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who are not travelling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab director of agriculture Sutantar Kumar Airi said paddy, including basmati, has so far been transplanted over 10 lakh hectares of the targeted 27 lakh hectares. He said the basmati acreage is expected to be around 7 lakh hectares. “Sowing of maize has been completed over 1.35 lakh hectares while cotton has covered 5.01 lakh hectares this year, a jump of over 25% from 2019,” Airi said. Haryana farm department officials said the farmers in the state were awaiting first monsoon showers to step up the pace of paddy transplantation and bajra sowing. They said paddy has been planted over about 2-2.5 lakh hectares of the estimated 12 lakh hectares so far while bajra has been sown over 5% of the estimated 4.25 lakh hectares under the coarse cereal crop. India had the wettest monsoon (June-September) in 25 years in 2019. However, Haryana received 42% rainfall below the normal in the same period. Rainfall up to 19% above or below the average is taken as normal and rainfall 20-59% below the average is classified as deficient by the IMD. As per data compiled by the IMD’s Chandigarh Meteorological Centre, Haryana recorded only 256.3 mm rainfall as against the normal of 444 mm in the four-month period last year. Punjab had 444.2 mm, which is 5% below the normal of 467.3 mm, in the same period. Himachal Pradesh had 684.2 mm, which is 10% below the normal of 763.5 mm in the last monsoon. In 2018, both Punjab and Haryana had normal monsoon rainfall. Punjab received 527.4 mm, or 7% over the normal of 491.5 mm and Haryana had 415.2 mm against the normal of 460.4 mm, a deficit of 10%. Deficient monsoon rainfall puts strain on groundwater in both the states, which are the biggest contributors of rice to the national buffer stock. Warning of farm experts to reduce the area under paddy and make judicious use of groundwater in Punjab and Haryana can be substantiated by monsoon rainfall data of both states from 1901 till 2019. In the given period, Punjab has had 35 and Haryana 37 deficient monsoon rainfall years deficient monsoon rainfall years. The situation is grimmer if the data for the 2010-2019 period is taken into account as both the states recorded deficient monsoon rainfall for five years or more. Punjab had deficient monsoon rainfall in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. In the same period, monsoon failed in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-speed-up-sowing-as-monsoon-approaches-punjab-haryana/articleshow/76543791.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
June 24, 2020||Pune||Man cites EMI heat for wife’s suicide in Pune||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police are investigating an autorickshaw driver’s FIR accusing a woman, who previously owned his flat, of driving his 30-year-old wife to end her life by hanging self at Ambegaon Khurd on June 16. The 33-year-old complainant alleged in his FIR on Monday evening that the woman was pestering his wife for payment of instalments against purchase of the flat from her. The couple was unable to pay the instalments for the last three months due to the lockdown, the FIR stated. Inspector Vishnu Tamhane of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “The complainant’s wife requested her to put off the recovery of instalment for some time and this enraged the woman as she hurled abuses at the couple. The complainant’s wife then went to her house and hanged herself from a ceiling fan with a dupatta.” He said, “We are yet to record the statement of the woman against whom the FIR has been lodged. For now, an offence of abetment to suicide has been registered against the woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-accuses-woman-of-driving-wife-to-end-life-over-repayment-of-flat-instalments/articleshow/76539549.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||NU seeks higher education dept’s clarification on backlog students||Nagpur: Though the government resolution issued last week states that results of final year students from non-professional courses would be declared based on average marking, Nagpur University, like the other universities, finds itself clueless in the case of those with backlogs from previous semesters. The GR categorically states that students willing to opt for average grading need to have all subjects cleared. Apart from final year exams, students couldn’t appear for backlog papers too. Their fate now hangs in the balance due to the Covid pandemic. Officiating ProVC SR Chaudhari confirmed to TOI that the university is awaiting clarification from the department of higher education regarding students with backlog. The unending suspense over the exams has evoked a mixed response from student organizations. Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) city president Amit Patle reiterated that all exams for final year students must be held. “Students feel let down by the government. Our stand since the very beginning has been very clear, but the government is totally confused. It has exempted non-professional courses and left it to the apex bodies to decide about professional courses. What will happen if the bodies ask the universities to hold the exams? The backlog issue is another confusion,” said Patle. Ajit Singh of the state Youth Congress said backlog students must be treated equally. “They must be having valid reasons for not clearing their previous exams. This is an emergency situation and they too must be given exemption,” said Singh. Working city president of Nationalist Students’ Congress Rudra Dhakde said all students face the same health risk. “The danger posed by the virus will not be different for ATKT students. I request the government and the university to cancel the ATKT exams too. Students can be evaluated on the basis of other assignments,” said Dhakde and demanded that in case the chancellor insists on holding the exams, then each examinee must be insured for Rs50lakh. NU officials said the government may not have a ready reply regarding backlog students. “The university can start seeking an undertaking/affidavit to know if a student wants to appear for the exam or not,” they said. Final year LLB student Sandeep Pandey said not giving ATKT students the option to skip final exams is unfair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-seeks-higher-education-depts-clarification-on-backlog-students/articleshow/76539556.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers speed up sowing as monsoon approaches Punjab, Haryana||CHANDIGARH: With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stating on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon is expected to advance to parts of Punjab and Haryana over the next 48 hours, farmers of both the states are looking to speed up sowing of the key kharif (summer-sown) crops like paddy, basmati, maize and bajra (pearl millet), anticipating good rainfall in the next few weeks. They are pinning hopes on bountiful rainfall to complete their sowing even as monsoons have been erratic in the past two decades in the two major paddy-growing states. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana are transplanting paddy — the biggest kharif crop in both the states — amid labour crunch due to non-availability of migrant workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who are not travelling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab director of agriculture Sutantar Kumar Airi said paddy, including basmati, has so far been transplanted over 10 lakh hectares of the targeted 27 lakh hectares. He said the basmati acreage is expected to be around 7 lakh hectares. “Sowing of maize has been completed over 1.35 lakh hectares while cotton has covered 5.01 lakh hectares this year, a jump of over 25% from 2019,” Airi said. Haryana farm department officials said the farmers in the state were awaiting first monsoon showers to step up the pace of paddy transplantation and bajra sowing. They said paddy has been planted over about 2-2.5 lakh hectares of the estimated 12 lakh hectares so far while bajra has been sown over 5% of the estimated 4.25 lakh hectares under the coarse cereal crop. India had the wettest monsoon (June-September) in 25 years in 2019. However, Haryana received 42% rainfall below the normal in the same period. Rainfall up to 19% above or below the average is taken as normal and rainfall 20-59% below the average is classified as deficient by the IMD. As per data compiled by the IMD’s Chandigarh Meteorological Centre, Haryana recorded only 256.3 mm rainfall as against the normal of 444 mm in the four-month period last year. Punjab had 444.2 mm, which is 5% below the normal of 467.3 mm, in the same period. Himachal Pradesh had 684.2 mm, which is 10% below the normal of 763.5 mm in the last monsoon. In 2018, both Punjab and Haryana had normal monsoon rainfall. Punjab received 527.4 mm, or 7% over the normal of 491.5 mm and Haryana had 415.2 mm against the normal of 460.4 mm, a deficit of 10%. Deficient monsoon rainfall puts strain on groundwater in both the states, which are the biggest contributors of rice to the national buffer stock. Warning of farm experts to reduce the area under paddy and make judicious use of groundwater in Punjab and Haryana can be substantiated by monsoon rainfall data of both states from 1901 till 2019. In the given period, Punjab has had 35 and Haryana 37 deficient monsoon rainfall years deficient monsoon rainfall years. The situation is grimmer if the data for the 2010-2019 period is taken into account as both the states recorded deficient monsoon rainfall for five years or more. Punjab had deficient monsoon rainfall in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. In the same period, monsoon failed in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-speed-up-sowing-as-monsoon-approaches-punjab-haryana/articleshow/76539536.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
June 24, 2020||Delhi||ITIHAS system to help improve surveillance, contact tracing in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a bid to improve its contact tracing and surveillance of corona positive cases, Delhi will soon be using ITIHAS system, coupled with Arogya Setu app. As per the recommendations from the ministry of health and family welfare, a new plan has been put in place to strengthen the Covid-19 surveillance response. As per the orders issued by Dr Nutan Mundeja, the director general of health services in Delhi on Monday, all the chief district medical officers and surveillance officers of all eleven districts have received a revised response plan under which use of Arogya Setu and ITIHAS system for cluster projection forms a key component. A senior official said that Arogya Setu app and ITIHAS system will be used together to monitor the corona cases. “As per the recommendation of the committee headed by Niti Ayog member Prof VK Paul, Arogya Setu, app coupled with ITIHAS system anchored by the ministry of electronics and information technology, is capable of tracking the movement of the cases and their contacts. The system is capable of projecting a cluster development in 300 metre geography,” the plan states. The directions point out that the surveillance system will be guided by an IT-driven tool at district and state-level hubs. A senior corporation official said that they are yet to receive the detailed plan, but municipal epidemiologists will be part of teams to guide the surveillance at district-level hubs. Identified teams of epidemiologists, district surveillance officers and IT personnel will be trained to utilise this twin system for cluster projection. “ITIHAS system is app-based and we are working on its implementation at the district-level. This is expected to significantly improve containment zone management,” said a senior government official. At present, containment of Covid is monitored by the district task force under the chairmanship of the district magistrate. “Now, the committee will also include DCP, DC from corporation, epidemiologists, surveillance officer and IT professional for Arogya setu-ITIHAS solution,” the order states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/itihas-system-to-help-improve-surveillance-contact-tracing/articleshow/76539577.cms||Paras Singh
June 24, 2020||Pune||Devendra Fadnavis takes dig at Maharashtra govt for ‘low’ Covid-19 tests||PUNE: Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday held the state government responsible for the “Covid-19 test stagnation”, and said aggressive testing should be the correct strategy to curb the spread of the virus. “The testing capacity in Pune is less. Not having additional testing capacity in a city like Pune, to some extent, reflects the state government’s ignorance,” Fadnavis told a news conference here. He said testing was the only solution when the positive cases were reported from the non-containment zones. “The infection rate has gone up to around 18%. If the state has to reduce deaths, then more and more tests are a must. The central committee that visited Pune had recommended more tests. Arrangements for additional beds and ICU centres should be done,” Fadnavis said. “In a city like Mumbai, we have the capacity to conduct 10,000-12,000 tests a day. But only 4,000 tests are being done. The strategy to limit tests is not the right approach. The state government should ensure that more tests are conducted,” he said. Fadnavis accused the state government of not devising a proper testing protocol to show less number of patients. “The protocol should be to trace maximum patients and isolate people with no symptoms,” he said. He added that a government resolution should be issued with updated guidelines for treatment charges in private hospitals. Fadnavis said the BJP was not working towards upsetting the state government. “This is not the right time to analyse the performance of the state leadership. Removing the chief minister from the post is not our agenda,” he said. To a query on reports related to talks about an NCP-BJP alliance in the past, Fadnavis replied, “The NCP and the BJP could have joined hands two years ago. But the BJP’s central leadership had taken the idea with a pinch of salt. It wanted the Shiv Sena also to be in the alliance. But things did not work out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fadnavis-takes-dig-at-state-govt-for-low-covid-19-tests/articleshow/76539534.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Delhi||In a soup, Delhi eateries want use of terraces for starters||NEW DELHI: Restaurateur Rahul Bhambri has five outlets of Rooh, his fine-dine restaurant. While he has reopened two of them in San Francisco and is about to reopen the ones in Chicago and Columbus, Ohio, all in the US, he isn’t sure about the one in Mehrauli resuming operations. In America, the authorities allowed him to serve in the open areas, set tables on the sideways and supported him financially, ensuring he reopened after just days of getting permissions and grants. In Delhi, he says he would be enthused if he was permitted to have extra seating on terraces and serve food and alcohol till late into the night. Mohan Singh Chauhan, owner of Rangoli restaurant in Milan, Italy, too was allowed to use public space to serve food by the municipal officials. Chauhan, who was in India during the lockdown and returned to Milan in June first week, expressed relief about starting his business abroad rather than in Delhi. Sachin Mahajan, who runs fine-dine Karma Modern Indian in Washington DC, was similarly allowed alcohol and food takeaway, and when the US capital reopened, he was able to use his patio to serve guests. Such support from the local authorities and income support for his staff facilitated the resumption of Karma Modern as soon as business was allowed. In contrast, Mahajan’s partner Navneet Kalra, owner of Town Hall and Khan Chacha in Khan Market, is busy raising capital to tide a difficult period for the restaurant industry. Kalra misses the help that Bhambri and Mahajan got in the US and found it ironic that restaurateurs who were inspired by Delhi restaurants to set up shop abroad are better placed to survive and their Indian partners. Even allowing terraces to be used would help in the era of social distancing, Kalra said. Terraces in areas under the New Delhi Municipal Council were ordered closed in 2017 for so-called security reasons. Restaurateurs feel this is the ideal time to reconsider that decision to help eateries survive. Chauhan, Mahajan and Bhambri corroborated that latitude and quick official response to permits had saved the day for them. That is why Anshu Tandon, president of Khan Market Association, suggests that Delhi government should open up terraces attached to restaurants. In the absence of any financial support, the authorities should at least allow a restaurateur to use his entire premises, extending the operating hours beyond the current curfew of 9pm and permit serving of alcohol at the eateries. Priyank Sukhija, who runs multiple outlets in Delhi, feels that extraordinary times such as these requires ‘an out of the box’ thinking on the part of the authorities. With people fearing dining in an airconditioned setting, open-air seating would be ideal to allay worries. He also pointed out that entire cities abroad are being converted into open air restaurants to boost economic activity. Another restaurant owner was emphatic that if the government did not allow eateries to put out additional seats on the terraces, many outlets would not reopen due to the dismal prospects of financial losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-soup-city-eateries-want-use-of-terraces-for-starters/articleshow/76539542.cms||Amin Ali
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS Rishikesh and IIT-R successfully test low-cost ventilator ‘Prana-Vayu’||Dehradun: The doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh announced on Tuesday that they successfully conducted the trial of ‘Prana-Vayu’, a low-cost portable ventilator. The ventilator, made in collaboration with IIT Roorkee, can be used for Covid-19 patients. The ventilator is equipped with state-of-the-art technology and facilities to manage a wide range of critical illnesses. The controlling and monitoring of the ventilator can be done wirelessly. The ventilator is designed in such a way that it can be used even in a makeshift ICU without a compressed air supply. The team has built the ventilator using Made in India components, thus substantially reducing the cost of the ventilator. The closed-loop ventilator machine can be built with just Rs 25,000. “The ‘Prana Vayu’ ventilator can be used for various life-threatening medical conditions requiring a life-support system. After testing the ventilator, by the team of 5 doctors, for various simulated medical conditions, AIIMS Rishikesh described this ventilator as beneficial for use in serious diseases,” said Dr UB Mishra, dean hospital affairs at AIIMS-Rishikesh who added that the team of inventors includes Dr Debendra Tripathy from the department of anaesthesiology, AIIMS Rishikesh and Professor Akshay Dwivedi and Professor Arup Kumar Das from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, IIT Roorkee. Elaborating the functions of the ventilator, Professor Akshay Dwivedi from IIT R said that the automated process of the machine controls the pressure and flow rates in the inhalation and exhalation lines. Besides, the ventilator has feedback that can control tidal volume and breathe per minute. “Prana-Vayu has been designed especially for COVID-19 pandemic. It is low-cost, safe, reliable, and can be quickly manufactured. We have successfully achieved the ventilatory requirement on a test lung, and it can be used for both infants and even overweight adults,” said Dwivedi. AIIMS Director Padmashree Professor Ravikant pointed out that this ventilator has been developed at a time when the global pandemic is underway, and when there are not enough ventilators available for the treatment of Corona patients and this collaborative achievement of AIIMS Rishikesh with IIT Roorkee will undoubtedly prove to be a boon in saving the lives of patients with severe conditions. “This ventilator uses only indigenous components and can become a torchbearer for the government’s Make in India campaign,” said Prof Ajit K Chaturvedi, Director, IIT Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-and-iit-r-successfully-test-low-cost-ventilator-prana-vayu/articleshow/76537154.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Covid dents decorative wedding material business in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: The coronavirus pandemic has not only forced many couples to postpone their weddings after September or opt for ‘virtual wedding’ or wedding with limited guests during unlock-1, but it has severely dent the business of traders selling wedding turbans, designer, sherwanis, garlands with currency notes, lehengas etc. Traders selling bride and groom material in Chowk, Mutthiganj, Katra and Civil Lines areas said that corona pandemic has affected their business up to 30 percent to 40 percent as compared to the previous year. Dabbu, owner of a shop in Chowk, selling designer turbans and other groom decorative materials told TOI “Though there are several auspicious wedding dates in the month of June, the sale of safas, pagris, turbans, sherwanis, malas (garlands), lehengas and other items has not picked up. “Now only five auspicious dates left in this month June 24, 25, 27, 28 and 30 but markets selling decorative materials of groom and bride have registered at least 30 percent to 40 percent decline as compared to the previous year”, he added. He claimed that the prime reason behind low sale of decorative material is that people have postponed marriages till September. Another trader Kamal said, “Hardly two or four customers are coming to my shop to buy designer safa, sherwani and other groom materials. Last year, we had at least 15 to 25 customers daily who would buy decorative material”. Those who come to buy it do not ask for special currency mala which was a tradition till February last, he added. Priests, who solemnise marriages are of the opinion that most of the weddings which had to be held next month, have been postponed to later part of the year. A city based priest Pandit AK Tiwari, said, “Around 40 percent couples who have got married or going to marry in the second quarter of the year, are of the view that as things are not going to get better in near future therefore there will be no change to their plans while the remaining 60 per cent have postponed or cancelled their wedding for now”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-dents-decorative-wedding-material-business-in-prayagraj/articleshow/76536155.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||CM holds first virtual rally||Dehradun: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday held his first virtual rally for the completion of one year of Modi government at the Centre. From talking about the Modi government’s management of Covid situation, to getting approval for Ram Mandir, Rawat highlighted the achievement of the BJP government at the Centre. He also elaborated how the Uttarakhand government managed to get nod for three new medical colleges in the past four months of the pandemic. "We got the approval to make medical colleges in Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Pithoragarh apart from purchasing ventilators, hiring over 1,500 new healthcare staff and managing proper treatment and isolation of Covid cases," Rawat said, while speaking to the party members and public of Chakrata block via Zoom meeting and Facebook live. He also maintained that the Uttarakhand government is trying its best to ensure that all the returnees get proper employment in hills so that migrations can be checked to maximum level. He also claimed that there is a list of 150-odd jobs that would be made available to returnees to make them earn their livelihood. "Over 2 lakh people have returned to Uttarakhand and if all of them get themselves engaged in small medium scale industries and hire others to work in their venture and convert those products into Himalyan brands, we will be able to fulfill the ‘atmanirbhar bharat’ dream of the PM," Rawat said, adding that each member of BJP must ensure that they buy at least one cloth in a year made from Uttarakhand and it will give a major boast to small scale industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-holds-first-virtual-rally/articleshow/76537175.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Upload details of govt welfare schemes on website: HC||Madurai: The member-secretary of the Tamil Nadu state legal services authority has been directed by the Madras high court to upload details of welfare schemes implemented by the state government in their website. The court also directed to sensitize the taluk and district legal services authority in the state about these schemes. A division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi further directed the taluk legal services authority and district legal services authority to help redress the grievances of the public, who are denied benefits under these schemes.The judges observed that the government departments must mark a copy of the new welfare schemes in the future and also amendments to the existing schemes to the member-secretary of the Tamil Nadu state legal services authority.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by N Malaikannu, founder of an NGO named Association for Rural Development and Upliftment of Humanity to Virtual Integrity based at Ramanathapuram district. The petitioner moved the Madurai bench seeking to provide Covid-19 relief to unregistered unorganised sector workers in Ramanathapuram district.During the previous hearing, the court had directed to collect all the welfare schemes including the ones that were announced during the Covid-19 pandemic and submit the same as soft a copy to the court to place it under public domain.After the state government submitted details, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi observed: “We place on record our profound appreciation to the state government for having made these schemes public so that the benefit of it will reach the poor and needy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/upload-details-of-govt-welfare-schemes-on-website-hc/articleshow/76540157.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Monsoon may worsen infection rate, say experts||Lucknow: The flattening of the novel coronavirus infection curve is still far away and negligence of people is largely responsible for it. Top virologists and epidemiologists believe that the spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths caused by it in June in the city mean the virus is here to stay. According to them, while people are ignoring safety protocol, authorities too are not putting in desired effort to strictly implement precautionary measures. The facts seem to support the belief. Sample this: It took 80 days since the outbreak on March 11 in the city for number of cases to touch 400. But, the next 400 patients were added in one-fourth of that duration—21 days. Now, the city records 100 cases every three days and mass outbreaks have been reported from PAC, GRP and call centres where people assemble in big numbers. The high rate of transmission has made contact tracing an arduous job for health authorities. Moreover, while April saw only one Covid-19 death, three were recorded in May, but 11 people have lost their lives between June 5 and 22. This means one casualty every 27 hours. “What you are seeing today is the tip of the iceberg. It is a pre-monsoon spike because of rise in humidity level. In monsoon, the numbers will rise at a steady pace since viruses tend to remain alive for longer periods in humid conditions. A post-monsoon and pre-winter peak may also occur as dry cold winds also aid viruses,” said veteran virologist and former head of SGPGI microbiology department Prof TN Dhole. “If social distancing is not happening, people must at least make it a priority to not touch anybody or a surface and not touch their faces without washing hands,” said Prof Dhole. Authorities also need to enforce safety protocol. Agreeing with Prof Dhole, former head of the infectious diseases control unit of Lucknow Dr SK Rawat said that the trend shows possibility of rise in cases in July. “We are still better placed since death rate here is low but people need to strictly follow the norms of distancing,” he said. Clinical immunologist at SGPGI Dr Able Lawrence added that the rate of positive cases could be reduced with two basic methods until a vaccine or cure is developed. “We should decrease the probability of transmission by wearing a proper N95 mask and meet lesser number of people and to reduce the amount of time spent with them. Transmission of the virus is both through droplets and aerosols. Wearing masks protects you against droplets, and better quality masks protect against aerosols which are finer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-may-worsen-infection-rate-say-experts/articleshow/76540149.cms||Yusra Husain
June 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Partial lockdowns in vogue to contain district hotspots in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Amid the surge in number of Covid-19 cases, district administrations have been voluntarily imposing a partial lockdown in areas with a high infection rate. Partial lockdowns are currently in force in parts of Anantapur, Prakasam, West Godavari and Srikakulam districts. In the temple city of Tirupati, 36 out of 50 wards have already been declared as containment zones, with partial restrictions in place. In imposing a lockdown in their respective districts, officials exercise powers conferred under the provisions in the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Now, officials in East Godavari district have also decided to reintroduce lockdown measures in the district from June 25, in view of the unabated rise in the infections in a majority of the mandals. East Godavari district collector Muralidhar Reddy, in an official order released on Tuesday, said restrictions will be imposed in addition to the existing ones in the entire district. “This is in view of steep increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and containment zones,” said the collector. Official Covid-19 numbers point to the coincidence of a sharp spike in cases and number of deaths since the beginning of Unlock 1.0 on June 1. From just 3,571 novel coronavirus cases detected till May, the state tally had increased to 9,834 by Tuesday, that is, nearly 63 per cent of all cases were detected this month. To contain this spread and break the chain of transmission, officials are opting for localised lockdowns in places that have reported an outbreak. The extend of containment and buffer zones is also being extended as cases increase in an area. Free public movement following easing of restrictions since the beginning of June, disregard for social distancing and wearing masks by some sections, cases emerging from congested localities and return of migrants have together contributed to the rapid rise in case load. Another grey area in the containment of the virus has been the influx of devotees to temples after they reopened this month. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) had earlier proposed to carry out random sampling and testing of 200 devotees in a bid to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/partial-lockdowns-in-vogue-to-contain-district-hotspots/articleshow/76538596.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Second in state with Covid cases, tops in testing||Ludhiana: While the district continues to remain second in the state after Amritsar in reporting Covid-19 cases, it tops the districts in terms of conducting maximum number of tests in the state. The case doubling rate, which means the number of days it will take to double the number of cases (as per the past one week), is 11.9 days against the national average of 19.5. However in Jalandhar, it is 10 days. But Ludhiana’s recovery rate is 41%, which is 15% less as compared with the national average of 67%. In the number of positive cases reported, the state is seventeenth in the country and Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are the top rankers. Till date, 222 patients have been admitted to the three levels of facilities in the district, which is the highest in the state. They include 109 patients admitted at level-I Covid care centres, 60 at level-II and 53 at level-III. Out of 222 patients in Ludhiana, six are from outside the district, including three from Jalandhar and one each from Pathankot, Faridkot and Ferozepur. After Amritsar, Ludhiana is second in the state in case load. Till now, 623 cases have been reported, of which 432 were confirmed till June. There are 207 active cases, 395 cured and 18 deaths, of which eight were reported in the past nine days. With this, the recovery rate is 41 % and fatality rate 3%. As on June 22, testing data showed Ludhiana topped the state with 27,397 samples tested, of which 623 were positive. It was revealed that over the past week, the cumulative samples collected and tested were increasing at a daily average rate of 3.9% and 4.9%, respectively, in the district. Punjab has a testing capacity of 6,810, with 2,000 each in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot, 100 at CSIR-Imtech, Chandigarh, 60 at PGI, 150 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and 500 at core labs. Punjab uses 88% of state government facilities, 2% of government of India facilities and 10% of private labs for testing. According to ICMR’s positive case analysis, 64.3% of men and 35.7% of women tested positive with 5% (198) of positives falling in the age group of 0-10 years, 9% (350) in 11-20 years, 21% (791) in 21-30 years, 20% ( 756) in 31-40 years, 16% ( 608) in 41-50 years and 15% (573) in 50-60 years, and 11% (419) and 3% (119 ) in 61-70 years and 70-80 years, respectively, and 1% falls under 81-90 category. It was also revealed in the state’s Covid-19 response status report that most of the cases were asymptomatic direct high-risk contacts of confirmed cases. In the district, 12.4% cases were symptomatic and 58.5% asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/second-in-state-with-covid-cases-tops-in-testing/articleshow/76538605.cms||Mehak Jain
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Female foetus, woman’s limbs found in Sector 17||CHANDIGARH: A female foetus and limbs of a woman wrapped in a newspaper were found near a cycle track on Madhya Marg in Sector 17 on Tuesday, sparking panic. Police said an employee of State Bank of India noticed the body parts when he was going to his office at 3 pm. When cops arrived, they found the foetus in a polythene bag a few meters away. Police suspect someone had chopped the body parts and the foetus could be of the woman. Police said there were no blood stains on the limbs and they appeared to have been frozen for the last few days. Cops are checking death and birth records of girl child at private and government hospitals in the city as well as Panchkula and Mohali. Footage from CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene is being scanned to identify the accused. A Central Forensic Science Laboratory team collected evidence. Police would get an autopsy conducted at the mortuary of Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Krishan Kumar, DSP, central division, said a case was registered under Section 318 (Whoever, by secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the death body of a child whether such child die before or after or during its birth) of the IPC against unknown persons at the Sector 17 police station. On May 21, Sector 31 police had arrested a couple for dumping the body of a newborn baby girl in a garbage bin at Ram Darbar on May 13. The man had claimed that his wife had given birth to a stillborn and he dumped the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/female-foetus-womans-limbs-found-in-sec-17/articleshow/76539548.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 24, 2020||Chennai||No lockdown across Tamil Nadu, but strict curbs in Madurai, Theni||CHENNAI: Despite concerns over fresh spike in Covid cases in the districts, the government has decided not to impose intense lockdown in the state, barring Chennai, Madurai and Theni. Theni has been a surprise decision with the district collector announcing the lockdown, while there was no government order issued under Disaster Management Act until Tuesday night. While a few district collectors requested additional restrictions to contain the spread, the government has conveyed in strictest terms that it cannot roll back the relaxations, and that the economy has to be opened up, official sources said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is scheduled to hold a video conference with the district collectors on Wednesday to review the status. The rise in Covid positive cases in certain districts are being attributed to Chennai-returnees, migrant workers and stranded people arriving from other states, countries and movement from other districts and zones. The districts have reported 1,788 imported cases until Tuesday, the majority arriving in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tiruvannamalai, Salem and Kallakurichi, besides people arriving at airports (430) and railway stations (401). A sudden spurt in ILI/SARI cases are also reported in certain districts due to "accumulated accidental spread." A section in the government is opposed to intense lockdown arguing that livelihood and economy have been severely hit. "The stand of the government is not to impose intense lockdown in any district. The CM’s conference is to review the progress of Covid management measures. As of now, there is no plan to impose additional restrictions even though a few district collectors have asked for it. They are being told that the government has to open up economic activities and cannot roll back the relaxations," a senior government official said. Sources say the government has also taken serious note of the industries expressing strong concerns over intense lockdown. "A global industry leader said the Chennai lockdown was unfortunate. If it is not allowed to function it will lose whatever attention it has received an investment destination. There were a series of requests to allow plants and offices to continue with the permitted strength given that the industry is limping back to normalcy," said another official. There were apprehensions in the industry that if Japanese investors start de-risking the suppliers, most of them in and around Chennai, by developing alternative vendors elsewhere, it would damage prospects of groups headquartered in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-lockdown-across-state-but-strict-curbs-in-madurai-theni/articleshow/76539565.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 7.5 crore for Sector 9 liquor vend at which shots were fired||CHANDIGARH: The liquor vend at Sector 9 internal market at which were shots were fired in the first week of June went for the highest bid of Rs 7.56 crore against a reserve price of Rs 4.12 crore in the auction of vends by the UT excise and taxation department on Tuesday. As the auction was for nine months (July 1 to March 31), the department did not get bids as compared comparison to previous years. In the last year’s auction, a liquor vend at Dhanas had gone for Rs 10.78 crore. In 2017, a liquor vend in Sector 42 had fetched Rs 9.51 crore. The department earned a revenue of Rs 265.32 crore from the auction of 78 of the total 94 vends. The department had received 157 bids. There were no takers for 16 vends. The vend at Sector 9 internal market went to Bajaj group. This is for the second time, there was e-auctioning of liquor vends in Chandigarh. The new excise policy will come into effect from July 1. The opening of e-tenders/ financial bids were held at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18, in the presence of Mandip Singh Brar, excise and taxation commissioner-cum-deputy commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-7-5cr-for-sec-9-liquor-vend-at-which-shots-were-fired/articleshow/76539571.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fitness test of transport vehicles shifted||PUNE: Fitness tests of all transport vehicles were shifted to a facility in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits from Tuesday after residents of Dive village raised concerns over tests resuming in their area amidst rise in Covid-19 cases. “The fitness tests resumed at the RTO facility at Dive Ghat. However, the residents of the village expressed concerns over crowding in the area. They said their village was untouched by the contagion and they didn’t want to take any risk. We tried to reason with them but they requested us to conduct these tests at a different place. Hence, we have decided to shift the tests to a track located near the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office,” an RTO official told TOI. Both fitness tests as well as tests for driving licences were initiated by the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office from Monday, apart from other vehicle-related work. In Pune, 25 appointments are being given per day for autorickshaws and cabs. Also,40 and 20 daily appointments are approved for trucks and buses, respectively. “We are presently not decreasing the number of daily appointments for vehicles coming for fitness tests. Additional safety features are in place apart from sanitisation of vehicles. However, if we see any problems the number of daily appointments can come down,” the official said. Sources said that first day of operation at the RTO office went off smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fitness-test-of-transport-vehicles-shifted/articleshow/76539573.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Vendors’ business hit hard without Rath crowd||PURI: The Rath Yatra always brought a windfall for Bhagaban Sahoo, a beach vendor. His conch shells, photographs of Lord Jagannath, tiny idols of the deities and chains made of seashells used to be sold in quick time during the Rath Yatra every year. This year, Covid-19 has kept tourists away, dealing a body blow to his business. Ramakanta Pradhan, who owns a small toy shop on the Grand Road, would have done brisk business during the nine-day mega festival that draws millions of people from across the country and abroad. This Rath Yatra, however, meant only despair and financial loss for a number of small vendors like Sahoo and Pradhan in Puri. The blanket ban on the congregation of devotees and imposition of curfew in view of Covid-19 pandemic has robbed the happiness and economy of the small vendors. For many, the nine-day Rath Yatra is the only bulk source of income annually. “Rath Yatra is synonymous with heavy footfall. And crowds mean brisk business. But, fate ordained the worst for us this time. Ban on public congregation and curfew forced us to stay indoors,” Sahoo said. He said he used to earn around Rs 40,000 during the festival. Padmanabh Behera, who sells sweets and khaja near the temple, wore a dejected look. “We are happy that the Supreme Court allowed the Rath Yatra. But, we have been left high and dry. I used to earn about Rs 4,000 or Rs 5,000 every day during the festival,” he said. Sources said business of at least 600 vendors on the beach and 2,000 vendors on the three-km Grand Road, facing the Jagannath Temple, has been affected this Rath. Hoteliers and restaurateurs also echoed the same sentiment. As the government banned movement of trains, buses and other modes of public transport to Puri to avoid congregation, the hotels are empty. Although the exact volume of loss was not ascertained by the hospitality industry, they said it would run into lakhs. It is not that the Rath Yatra used to boost to the economy of small vendors alone, the district administration too had been generating handsome revenue during the festival. Different government agencies like Puri municipality, handloom and textiles and panchayati raj departments would earn profits by selling stalls and products. “We used to earn over Rs 3 crore by giving stalls on rent and space for advertisements,” said an officer of Puri municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/vendors-biz-hit-hard-without-rath-crowd/articleshow/76538614.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Isolation coaches to be used when Covid cases rise’||The continuous rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has thrown up new challenges for Northern Railway, which has been operating long-route passengers trains on different routes. The death of a senior railway official from the carriage and wagon department some time back has also raised serious concerns about the safety of field officers and others who have to directly deal with passengers. Rahul Tawar spoke to Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar about new measures being taken to strengthen the safety cover of railway officials, along with passengers who have now started travelling, and about the preparedness to deal with the emergency scenario What are your plans to boost up the morale of local railway officials, who have to deal with thousands of passengers, after the death of a senior railway official a few days back? Railway authorities have taken several preventive measures to keep the morale of railway officials high, particularly after the death of the senior railway official. The health department team has stepped up the process of conducting random sampling of officials from several departments, along with doing contact tracing of carriage and wagon department officials, who came in touch with the deceased senior official. What about the proposal of providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to ticket checking staff, which are dealing with passengers and are prone to get affected with the virus? Northern Railway has begun the procurement process from the headquarters and it will be delivered from the railway board house to all ticket checking staff after getting proper sanction from high command officials. Although, railway authorities have already started delivery of the same to the ticket checking staff deputed in Delhi and Mumbai railway stations, wherein cases are on the rise at a much greater rate. How long will the Railways take to install the automated ticket checking and managing access system at the Ludhiana railway station? It’s a step by step process to complete the installing of the automated ticket checking and managing access system at the city railway station. The ministry has taken this initiative to restrict the impact of Covid-19 virus among ticket checking staff of major station in cities like Mumbai and Delhi. Once the work of installing these machines in major stations is completed, the facility would be made available to stations like Ludhiana. The railway station here witnesses far lesser rush of passengers as compared to the two abovesaid stations due to lesser number of regular trains. What happened to the plan of having isolation coaches at the city railway station for Covid patients? Northern Railway authorities have built more than 317 isolation coaches to strengthen the medical service in various cities of the northern region of the country. Although the Railways has identified the city station as a potential emergency hospital for stationing the modern isolation coaches but dates are yet to decided. The coaches will be positioned when the cases increase to a great extent and authorities find the need for for advanced medical infrastructure to safeguard the life of affected people. What kind of patients will be admitted in these Covid-19 coaches? The Railways will make the use of special coaches for mild/very mild patients that can be assigned to clinically basic Covid-19 care centres as per the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. The coaches may be used in the areas where the state has exhausted the facilities and is looking to augment the capacity for isolation of both suspected and confirmed csases. Is there any plan to appoint an officer from the Railways for coordinating with the state government or hospital? The authorities concerned have appointed two officers for coordinating with the state government around the clock for better services to railway officials who will get affected with the virus during duty hours. One officer is for maintenance and support service and another for keeping in touch with doctors. There will be a mini control room at the station, which will be connected to the headquarters for fulfilling the emergency needs of passengers and railway officials during travelling. Are the Railways upgrading their regional centre for providing better healthcare service to railway colony employees who are also affected with the virus? Railway authorities have tied up with some of big private hospital in cities for catering to the health to railway employees and their families residing in railway colony. They have done so as spending time on re-developing health infrastructure will not prove beneficial at this stage. So, they have taken the help of professional medical staff of some of big hospital of cities for providing better healthcare service to all officials who will get affected with virus during their duty hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/isolation-coaches-to-be-used-when-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/76538635.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||No lockdown across Tamil Nadu, but strict curbs in Madurai, Theni||CHENNAI: Despite concerns over fresh spike in Covid cases in the districts, the government has decided not to impose intense lockdown in the state, barring Chennai, Madurai and Theni. Theni has been a surprise decision with the district collector announcing the lockdown, while there was no government order issued under Disaster Management Act until Tuesday night. While a few district collectors requested additional restrictions to contain the spread, the government has conveyed in strictest terms that it cannot roll back the relaxations, and that the economy has to be opened up, official sources said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is scheduled to hold a video conference with the district collectors on Wednesday to review the status. The rise in Covid positive cases in certain districts are being attributed to Chennai-returnees, migrant workers and stranded people arriving from other states, countries and movement from other districts and zones. The districts have reported 1,788 imported cases until Tuesday, the majority arriving in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tiruvannamalai, Salem and Kallakurichi, besides people arriving at airports (430) and railway stations (401). A sudden spurt in ILI/SARI cases are also reported in certain districts due to "accumulated accidental spread." A section in the government is opposed to intense lockdown arguing that livelihood and economy have been severely hit. "The stand of the government is not to impose intense lockdown in any district. The CM’s conference is to review the progress of Covid management measures. As of now, there is no plan to impose additional restrictions even though a few district collectors have asked for it. They are being told that the government has to open up economic activities and cannot roll back the relaxations," a senior government official said. Sources say the government has also taken serious note of the industries expressing strong concerns over intense lockdown. "A global industry leader said the Chennai lockdown was unfortunate. If it is not allowed to function it will lose whatever attention it has received an investment destination. There were a series of requests to allow plants and offices to continue with the permitted strength given that the industry is limping back to normalcy," said another official. There were apprehensions in the industry that if Japanese investors start de-risking the suppliers, most of them in and around Chennai, by developing alternative vendors elsewhere, it would damage prospects of groups headquartered in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-lockdown-across-state-but-strict-curbs-in-madurai-theni/articleshow/76541587.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 5 RJD MLCs join JD(U), Raghuvansh Prasad Singh quits party post||PATNA: Bihar’s main opposition party RJD plunged into turmoil on Tuesday with two back-to-back blows — first, five of its MLCs formed a separate group and merged with the ruling JD(U), then party stalwart and one of its founder leaders, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, resigned as RJD national vice-president. “Five RJD MLCs have joined JD(U) and verification of their signature has been done. As per the 10th Schedule of Constitution, their membership will remain as it is because all five have left the party together,” Bihar Vidhan Parishad acting chairperson Awdhesh Naraian Singh told TOI on Tuesday evening. Vidhan Parishad officials said the anti-defection law does not apply if two-thirds of members from a party leave together. RJD, which had eight members in the Upper House, is now left with three, including Rabri, Ram Chandra Purbey and Subodh Kumar. Just a week ago, former JD (U) MLC Iqbal Ansari whose tenure had ended the previous month had joined RJD. Vidhan Parishad acting secretary Vinod Kumar said the five MLCs submitted a letter to JD(U)’s chief whip Reena Devi informing her of their decision to join JD(U). She then referred the letter to Council’s acting chairman Awdhesh Narayan Singh for necessary formalities. All five MLCs also met the acting chairman along with Reena on Tuesday morning. The five MLCs, Sanjay Prasad, Radha Charan Sah, Dillip Rai, Qamar Alam and Ranvijay Kumar Singh have now been recognised by the acting chairman as JD (U) members. Their tenure is supposed to end next year. After meeting the acting chairman, they met JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar at the latter’s residence, where senior JD(U) leader Rajeev Ranjan Singh, alias Lallan Singh was also present. After meeting the JD (U) chief, Sanjay Prasad told reporters that they took the decision to join JD(U) owing to the development works undertaken by Nitish over the past 15 years. “Bihar has witnessed all- round development under Nitish’s regime over the last 15 years. We want to contribute to the development of the state that is why we decided to join JD(U),” he said. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, accused Nitish of luring RJD’s MLCs. “I want to give good wishes to Nitish Kumar Ji. He has done constructive work while seating inside CM’s residence for 90 days. This will not help the people of Bihar in any way but yes, it may help Nitish at individual level. Nitish has always done politics of self-interest rather than any ideology or policy,” Tejashwi said. Political experts say this is a well-planned strategy of JD(U) just ahead of the election. The party has not only succeeded in breaking RJD, it has also made Reena Devi its chief whip to woo Yadavs, who are considered as their main vote. Now with five new entrants, JD(U) has 20 members in the Council, followed by BJP which has 17 members, RJD has three members, Congress has two and LJP has one member. Two MLCs, Reetlal Rai and Ashok Kumar Agarwal are Independent members, while 29 seats are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-rjd-mlcs-join-jdu-raghuvansh-quits-party-post/articleshow/76538629.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 9 days later, crocodile rescued from 70ft deep crumbling well||VADODARA: In what may be one of longest crocodile rescue operations in the Banyan City, a three-and-half-foot long crocodile that had been dodging 15 youths’ relentless efforts, day and night, to pull it out from a 70-foot well in Waghodiya since June 14, finally ended successfully after nine days. TOI had reported on June 17 about the group, led by Hemant Vadhwana, an animal activist, that had been waging a war to rescue the reptile in Narshipura village of Waghodia taluka. The group toiled daily for 10 to 12 hours but it kept evading ‘arrest’. Finally, with help of volunteers from Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA), the reptile was captured on Monday night after a seven-hour-long effort. “It was a difficult task as there was little space, the well was very old and its walls were crumbling,” Raj Bhavsar of GSPCA told TOI, adding that curiosity made the task even more difficult as people gathered above the well thereby causing further damage to the dilapidated wall. “We were informed of the group’s rescue operation that was on for last few days, so we decided to help. Our volunteers went inside the well and managed to catch the reptile,” Bhavsar said. “It was also another challenge to keep people away from the spot, especially amid the social distancing norms. By 8 pm, we managed to trap the reptile and rescue it ending the operation that began at around 1pm on Monday. We first emptied a portion of water in the well. Three volunteers then entered the depths with an automatic grab stick, but the crocodile was too quick. Finally, we managed to hold on to it. Considering the efforts made by the group earlier, this was the longest ever crocodile rescue operation,” he added. Vadhwana, whose team had been toiling hard all these days said that they too had been using the same techniques to rescue the reptile. “But luck was on their (GSPCA) side as the crocodile surfaced a few times on Monday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/9-days-later-crocodile-rescued-from-70ft-deep-crumbling-well/articleshow/76537386.cms||Tushar Tere
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Man charges double parking fee from LMC boss, booked||Lucknow: For three months, it was an almost perfect system of con under the nose of municipal authorities until the offender’s luck ran out and how! A contractor illegally occupying a parking lot a stone’s throw away from the building of Lucknow Municipal Corporation in Lalbagh was caught on Monday after an attendant charged double the prescribed parking fee from none other than the municipal commissioner himself. LMC chief Indramani Tripathi had gone for an inspection of Janpath market while his driver parked the vehicle. Within seconds, a man appeared, issued a parking coupon and asked the driver to pay Rs 40. The driver told him that it was the municipal commissioner’s vehicle but the attendant insisted on payment. The driver paid the amount and narrated the incident to Tripathi on phone. The commissioner, alarmed at the amount, called the zonal in charge whose team found that the contract of the parking lot operator had expired on March 31 but he was still working without applying for renewal. Besides, against Rs 10 for two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers for four hours as fixed by LMC, the operator had been charging double. The parking lot has now been closed and a complaint filed against the contractor for illegally occupying public space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-charges-double-parking-fee-from-lmc-boss-booked/articleshow/76540163.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Nagpur||No order placed for 6 def items named in short supply list||Nagpur: The army had not placed an order before the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) for production of six of the 45 products that have been flagged as being in short supply by the department of defence production (DDP) in a recent communication, said sources. DDP had send the letter in wake of the indefinite strike call by the unions against government’s move to corporatize the ordnance factories and threat on the Chinese front. Sources at the OF organization told TOI that after a review it was found indent for six items had not been placed by the army. Unless an order is placed, the factories cannot go ahead with production. The items to be produced in each financial year depend on the orders placed by the armed forces, said a source privy to the matter. “The army has not placed any order for four types of ammunition and two fuses named in the list attached to the DPP’s letter to OFB,” said a source in the factories’ top management. These are shells used in various artillery weapon systems. A fuse is also part of the shell. Lately, the army also cut down on the orders for the shells of another type of artillery. The metal part of the shell is made at the ordnance factory Katni. The order was halved which led to unions in Katni protesting the move, said a source. The general secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) C Srikumar said the government is depending on imports for the supply of these items too. OFB may have not got the order because the items are being imported instead. However, Covid has impacted the overseas supplies also, he said. Srikumar said he has written to the prime minister saying the OFs were the pioneers of ammunition manufacturing and hence should be given preference over private sector. However, the government has been giving licences to the private sector units that do not have the required technical knowhow. Lately, some units were disqualified in the tender process which will have to be started afresh now. Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), said he would like to know the fact of the matter. Singh said as a member of the apex productivity council of the factories, he will be raising the issue of indents before the OFB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-order-placed-for-6-def-items-named-in-short-supply-list/articleshow/76539618.cms||Shishir Arya
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||UT excise policy under HC lens||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the UT administration on a plea alleging its excise policy has led to complete cartelisation and monopoly, giving the authorities 10 days to submit a reply. The court made it clear that the “allotments which have been made, meanwhile, shall be subject to the final outcome of this writ petition”. A division bench comprising Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh passed the orders while hearing a petition filed by Rajbir Singh, 52, a resident of Sector 8. He sought directions to quash the excise policy for 2020-21, calling it arbitrary and beyond the provisions of law. Anand Chhibbar, the counsel for the petitioner, said the policy is leading to complete cartelisation and monopoly of certain individuals through their firms. Submitting that the policy is arbitrary, the counsel pointed out that certain internal departmental stores were given the licence at Rs 20 lakh to sell foreign liquor while L-2 retailers had to pay Rs 4 crore as licence fee. Chibbar mainly challenged clauses 7, 10, 11, 13, 19, 36 (i, iii, iv), 41, 45, 57, 63, 69, 71, 68, 72 of the policy, highlighting the alleged colourable exercise aimed to benefit certain individuals. Because there being only five wholesalers of a particular brand, it creates an unfair advantage to them as they may choose to sell or make brands available only to their own retail vends or vends of their friends and family, making it difficult for independent non-cartel retail vend owners to lift their stock of IFL, the counsel argued, highlighting one of the arbitrariness in the policy. The petitioner, who owns and operates a retail liquor vend in Sector 17, told the HC that he had entered into the liquor business in 2019-20 and tried to make his vend profitable in accordance with the rules governing the same. “While pursuing for profit business venture, the petitioner has been very vocal about the challenges of cartelisation existing in the liquor trade in Chandigarh due to which there are no profits for any licencee who wishes to operate the vend in a legitimate manner, and has always tried to suggest inputs to the excise department in a bid to stop cartelisation and prevent loss to independent liquor vend like his...,” the counsel for the petitioner argued. The matter would come up for hearing on July 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-excise-policy-under-hc-lens/articleshow/76539595.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Gang dealing in cloning of ATM cards busted||Prayagraj: A joint team of crime branch and Kotwali police of Pratapgarh on Tuesday busted an inter-state gang involved in cloning of ATM cards and arrested four of its key members near Bada Purwa Nahar pulia. The police also recovered an ATM cloning machine, MSR machine, RFID device, 38 ATM card readers, a laptop, 12 cheque books, seven passbooks, car, scooty, two country made pistols of 0.315 bore along with 20 live cartridges, four mobile phones, charging cable, mouse, 1350 cash and other valuables from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Nem Chandra Saroj of Jethwara, Kapil Verma of Badni, Rajendra Singh alias Kalloo Don of Mohanganj and Krishnaveer Singh Yadav alias Krishna of Sariyapur. Pratapgarh SP Abhishek Singh said, “Acting upon a specific tip off that four members of an inter-state gang involved in cloning of ATM cards were moving on Mohanganj road with an intention to dupe customers, a joint team of crime branch and Kotwali police cordoned the road and nabbed four of the members along with a car and a scooty.” “The gang members were operating in different states for the past seven years and one-Nem Chandra is the kingpin of the gang,” he added. SP said the police had also been looking for other gang members, including Ankit Singh alias Shivendra Singh, a resident of Jethwara. The gang used to target customers who were not well aware about the functioning of ATMs at crowded ATM kiosks. The gang members in a bid to offer help to such persons used to scan their ATM card with the help of Device DX 3 and another gang member used to decode the code. Later they connected the device with their laptop to make a clone of the ATM card. The miscreants had obtained the card cloning machine through an online website and other parts from Chandauli district. The gang was operating since 2013 and claimed to have duped over 600 customers in states like Delhi, Maharastra, MP and Bihar. The prime accused Nem Chandra had completed his post graduate diploma in computer application and worked in marketing division of an MNC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gang-dealing-in-cloning-of-atm-cards-busted/articleshow/76536194.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, RSS to officially participate in Harela festival||Dehradun: In a first, the members of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will officially participate in the Harela (tree plantation) festival of Uttarakhand. The festival will be held in July. Last week, the body sought permission from the state forest department for the same and Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) Jairaj gave the go ahead. RBS Rawat, Prant Sanyojak (environment wing head) of RSS, expressed his delight after receiving the government’s approval. Incidentally, Rawat has served as PCCF Uttarakhand between 2008-13. “We are elated that the government agreed to take our “shram daan” (voluntary contribution) for environment conservation. We have around 2,500 “Pryavaran Prahries” (environment conservationist) in the 13 districts of Uttarakhand. They will not just plant saplings but will also ensure their maintenance,” said Rawat while adding that the RSS will focus more on plantation of medicinal plants — like Tulsi, Giloy — so that people have readily available medicines for coronavirus treatment. “We will plant 1.25 lakh saplings across the state and these will be of indigenous species and not the exotic ones,” he added. The RSS will also focus on water conservation and creating awareness about preservation of the environment. The letter issued by PCCF Jairaj — marked to all the District Forest officers (DFOs) — directs the forest department to ensure active participation of RSS members in the Harela festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-rss-to-officially-participate-in-harela-festival/articleshow/76537194.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 24, 2020||Pune||Four more trainee sailors test Covid-19 positive at INS Shivaji||PUNE: Four more trainee sailors at the Indian Navy’s premier marine engineering institute, INS Shivaji, at Lonavla have tested positive for Covid-19 virus, Wadgaon Maval tehsil administration officials said on Tuesday. With this, the number of positive cases at the institute to 12. The TOI had in its issue dated June 23 reported eight positive cases at INS Shivaji. The naval institute on Tuesday released a statement through the defence public relations officer (PRO) stating that 12 trainee sailors out of 157 have been found Covid-19 positive as on date. The statement read: “A batch of 157 trainee sailors, who were undergoing training at this establishment and were on extended leave view lockdown, reported back with the easing of lockdown as per Unlock 1.0 in the first week of June. In accordance with the extant orders, the batch of trainee sailors on reporting from outstation was also put through a series of mandatory screening procedures upon their entry into the establishment and thereafter quarantined for 14 days in one of the institutional quarantine facilities at the institute.” It added, “Subsequently, one of the trainee sailors of the batch under quarantine was found to be symptomatic during the quarantine period and found positive for COVID-19 on June 18. Further, all the other high risk contacts, who are staying in that particular quarantine facility are being tested.” The statement read, “Since the infection is contained to one particular quarantine block, the possibility of spread of infection to other areas/personnel of the establishment is negligible. All precautions, instruction, directions issued with respect to Covid-19 by the Government of India and Indian Navy, from time to time, are being strictly adhered to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-more-trainee-sailors-test-ncov-positive-at-ins-shivaji/articleshow/76539604.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation mock drill to check Covid-19 preparedness||PUNE: The civic administration on Tuesday conducted mock drill at two places—Khandujibaba Chowk at Deccan Gymkhana and Balgandharv Chowk — to check its preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak and also diseases such as dengue and malaria. Nitin Udas, deputy commissioner of Zone-2, said the mock drill was conducted by the insect control wing of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward office. “Two places were identified for the drill. PMC staffers from the insect control department took part in the drill to check their response time during an emergency situation,” he said. At the mock drill held at the Deccan Gymkhana, a person was found to be laying on the traffic island at the Khandujibaba crossing and shifted to an ambulance. The video clip of the mock drill went viral on various social networking sites. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said it was routine mock drill to check the PMC’s response time and what kind of challenges the administration could face in handling such situations. “The department will prepare its response plan based on the findings of the mock drill,” he said, adding that there was no need to panic. Mohol also used his official Twitter handle to clarify that the entire exercise was a mock drill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-mock-drill-to-check-covid-19-preparedness/articleshow/76539593.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Silk City to soon get doorstep delivery of milk||BERHAMPUR: After getting good response from its two ATMs dispensing milk in Silk City, Greater Ganjam Gajapati Cooperative Milk Producers Union Limited (GGGCMPUL), a cooperative of milk suppliers, on Tuesday set up two more milk ATMs, including a mobile one. MLA (Berhampur) Bikram Kumar Panda and Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange inaugurated the milk ATMs on the premises of MKCG Medical College and Hospital here. One more milk ATM will start functioning soon at Chhatrapur, said general manager (GM), GGGCMPUL, Dillip Kumar Patnaik. While the mobile ATM will dispense milk on the doorstep of the people in different streets, the patients in the medical college can get hot milk from the ATM established on its campus. “We have made facilities for providing hot milk for persons on request at the medical college,” he said. At the time of the lockdown, imposed by the district administration to contain the Covid-19, people were facing difficulty to get milk. The mobile milk ATM, will solve their problem by dispensing quality milk on their doorstep, said the MLA. “We aim to provide customers pure milk without adding any preservatives or additives. When the ATMs need more milk than our dairy can supply, we source the extra milk from farmers,” said the GM. As fresh milk is taken directly from the farmers, the profit from the ATM goes to them and they are benefited, he said. Claiming they have received good response from the ATMs, which were established near the office of the union and Tulasi Nagar, he said on an average each ATM dispenses around 500 litres of milk per day. To ensure hygiene, the machines are cleaned and maintained by the staff, he said. He said the cost of each ATM is around Rs 12 crore. While NDDB (National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) provided Rs 40.85 lakh loan for processing raw milk and supplying it through ATMs, Tata Steel Rural Development Society constructed the ATM kiosks, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/silk-city-to-soon-get-doorstep-delivery-of-milk/articleshow/76538664.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Hosp saves more lives by on-arrival oxygen supply||Chennai: As more patients come to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with breathing difficulties, the hospital authorities have procured additional oxygen cylinders to stabilise them on arrival. These cylinders have been installed at the corridor outside the out-patient (OP) ward so patients, whose oxygen saturation levels are low, can be stabilised before being moved to other wards for further treatment. With this, the hospital has been able to reduce the number of deaths reported within the first 24 hours of admission. According to official data, as many as 86 deaths were reported at RGGGH in the last one week and of this only 12 were reported within 24 hours of admission. On an average, 300-400 patients arrive at the OP ward everyday and at least one-third among them get admitted. The increase in people with breathing difficulties reaching hospital on time could be attributed to use of pulse oximeters by public and local authorities while surveying people for symptoms. Hospital dean K Narayanaswamy said many among them come with breathing difficulties and can’t be made to wait for 15-20 minutes to start oxygen supply. Since the OP ward is in the new block, centralised oxygen supply network is yet to be installed. So, five cylinders and supply systems have been made available round the clock to stabilise them immediately. A total of 100 B-type and D-type (larger-sized) cylinders are in stock and if patients continue to have breathing difficulties, they are moved to wards on the first floor for longer oxygen supply treatment. For in-patients in other wards, oxygen is supplied through a central piping system and there has been no shortage so far, Narayanaswamy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hosp-saves-more-lives-by-on-arrival-oxygen-supply/articleshow/76539552.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Change in visa rules leaves Telugus stranded||Vijayawada: With US President Donald Trump suspending H1B, H2B and L1 visas till December this year, non-resident Telugus are concerned about the fallout of the order. While the H1B suspension does not affect people who already possess them, several start-ups and IT companies who subcontract work through these popular visas are left in a dilemma. Speaking to TOI, N Rama Murthy, who completed his masters in IT at University of California said he had received an offer from a private MNC. “I scored 8.5 band score in my TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) and achieved a good GRE score. There are almost 23 others from my batch across India who have landed a job and returned to India only to get stranded with no return,” Murthy told TOI. Vamsi Krishna (34) who returned to his native Guntur had recently applied for an H1B visa after 12 years of required work experience when the pandemic took away his job. “I have been working as an application developer for stock market. I even got my eligibility and decided to marry next year, but within days lost my job and opportunity for the visa, “ Vamsi told TOI. Meanwhile, Telugu diaspora organisations have been flooded with calls seeking clarification on the suspension order. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/change-in-visa-rules-leaves-telugus-stranded/articleshow/76538652.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Strike work, face arrest: HC to PGI union||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that in case members of employees’ union or association of PGI proceed on strike, they should be immediately arrested. “Deputy commissioner-cum-district magistrate, and senior superintendent of police are directed to take necessary and preventive steps to ensure there is no violation of the orders passed by this court. It is made clear that in case the respondents or any of the office-bearers of the union proceed on strike/hunger strike, they may be immediately arrested and sent in civil imprisonment,” the court has ordered. The court has also issued notice to office-bearers of the employees’ union of PGI, seeking their reply by July 13. Justice Arvind Sangwan of the high court has passed the orders while hearing a petition filed by PGI against Tarandeep Singh Grewal and Harbhajan Singh Bhatti, general secretary, and president, Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union, PGI. PGI has submitted that the court, in its order dated August 27, 2019, in a public interest litigation, Vijay Bansal versus Union of India, had passed an order restraining employees’ union of PGI from proceeding on strike or disrupting the functioning of any of the activities of the institute in any manner. It was further stated that to bypass and violate the orders, the members have formed a new union, Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union, PGI, and started threatening PGI as well as the UT of going on a hunger strike. The counsel for PGI also referred to a communication dated April 15 sent by employees’ union of PGI, in which Grewal is shown to be the senior vice president of Employees’ Union (Non-Faculty). In one of the communications, they have sought permission from the deputy commissioner to go on indefinite hunger strike. PGI had submitted that this action is against the court orders and they should be restrained from proceeding on strike or disrupting or disturbing the functions of any of the activities of the institute/hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/strike-work-face-arrest-hc-to-pgi-union/articleshow/76539600.cms||Ajay Sura
June 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Civil society slams rule tweak on beds||NEW DELHI: Civil society groups have termed the Delhi government order allowing government prescribed rates for only a certain percentage of beds in private hospitals as “arbitrary and incomprehensible”. To make matters worse, they pointed out, while the original government order said the rate caps would be applicable on up to 60% of a hospital’s total beds, a subsequent circular reduced the number to 60% of the Covid-designated beds. The circular has effectively reduced the numbers of beds available under fixed charges and added to the confusion, said 27 civil society organisations in a letter to the lieutenant governor and the chief minister. The letter pointed out that the circular, which provides further details and a hospital-wise list of the number of beds covered by the rate caps, did not provide the specific number of beds to be available in a hospital under each category — isolation, ICU without ventilator and ICU with ventilator. “This provides leeway for private hospitals to reserve the more expensive and profitable beds, i.e. the ICU beds with and without ventilator support, to charge patients as per their schedule of charges,” stated the letter. The public health groups appreciated the government for ensuring that the prescribed rates include the cost of personal protective equipment (PPE), medicines and investigations, which have “contributed majorly to exorbitant bills from private hospitals”. However, they said, for many who need extended treatment, even the capped costs over several days could make the treatment unaffordable. They alleged that the government had not made provisions to protect people from financial adversity. The order directs hospitals to take a written consent from patients or families before admitting them to beds for which the hospital’s scheduled rates would apply. “We have seen in the past that private hospitals use the desperation of patients to exploit them... We, therefore, apprehend that the consent given by patients/attendants in such circumstances would be out of coercion rather than free will, and, therefore, serves no purpose,” the letter stated. The civil society groups have demanded that the government makes the capped rates applicable to everybody getting treated in private hospitals who are not covered under any law or scheme guaranteeing free treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civil-society-slams-rule-tweak-on-beds/articleshow/76539608.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen welcome govt move on changing large unit definition||Ludhiana: Businessmen are welcoming Punjab government’s move to change the definition of large factories by raising the threshold limit of more than 500 workers to more than 1,000 workers for the same. According to the businessmen, the move will encourage several of them to consider upgrading their units and increasing their operations, which earlier they feared to do so, because several complex formalities are required to be fulfilled by the factories which come under the definition of large units. However, they are also of the view that the state government should also introduce a relief package for the industry in the wake of the ongoing situation. Rajinder Singh Sarhali, propaganda secretary of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “The decision to change the definition of large factory by the state government is really appreciable. Now more entrepreneurs will come forward to expand their industrial units as earlier majority of them were afraid that if they get covered under the large factory category then they will have to comply with more complex formalities as against the category of a small factory. Moreover, the large category factories would also have to bear more expenditure due to conditions like setting up of ambulance room on the premises. Therefore, the enterprises where already close to 500 workers were working were always trying not to increase the workers’ number so that the category of their factory is not changed to large.” Sarhali added, “However, it is our request to the state government that besides reforms like this it should also consider giving relief package to the industry in the wake of the current scenario, where every factory owner has suffered losses worth several lakhs due to the lockdown. It is need of the hour that the industry is given relief in terms of waiver of interest on loans, waiver of power charges during the lockdown period and assistance in paying salaries to workers.” According to Vishal Sachdeva, a nut bolt manufacturer, “The decision to change the definition of factories is indeed a good move but all such decisions will benefit the industry only when the other needs of the industry are also considered. Therefore, the state government should immediately introduce a financial package for the industry as without such a support the industry will not be able to come out of the mess created by the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-welcome-govt-move-on-changing-large-unit-definition/articleshow/76538658.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Patna||3 more Covid-19 deaths in Bihar, tally 8,050||PATNA: Covid-19 tally in Bihar crossed the 8,000 mark on Tuesday with 157 new cases taking the total number of patients to 8,050 in the state. Three coronavirus-related deaths, including in Patna district, were also reported in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 55. As many as 6,027 patients have recovered so far, while 1,969 active cases remain in the state. Altogether 260 people have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours. Bihar’s recovery rate is now 74.86 per cent. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar on Tuesday confirmed two deaths, one each from Saran and Samastipur. “A 45-year-old man from Saran district died after testing positive for Covid-19 virus. The man was suffering from cancer. The second death was reported in Samastipur district where a 45-year-old woman who recently returned from Mumbai, died,” Kumar said in his daily Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday evening. The third Covid death was reported from Muradpur in the state capital. Patna DM Kumar Ravi confirmed the death of a 49-year-old man, who tested positive on Monday evening. Doctors at Patna Medical College and Hospital said the man died on Sunday evening. His sample was collected after his death on June 21, which came positive for Covid-19 on Monday. However, the state health department bulletin released on Tuesday only mentioned two deaths. Meanwhile, Saran civil surgeon Madhaveshwar Jha told this newspaper that the person who died on Tuesday due to Covid-19 had recently returned from Dariyapur block and diagnosed with gallbladder carcinoma and was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)- Patna for treatment for the past 22 days. “He had no travel history,” he said. AIIMS-Patna director P K Singh said the man from Saran died on Sunday due to co-morbidity. “His samples of swab were collected last week and he tested positive for Covid,” Singh said. As per information shared by the health department, cases were reported from 25 districts with maximum from Patna where 35 people tested positive. The cases were reported from Masaurhi (12), Kamla Nehru Nagar (9), Naubatpur (2), Bikram (2), Barh (2), Kankerbagh, Phulwari and Muradpur. Altogether 1,69,401 testing of samples have been done in the state so far and 5,925 samples were tested in the past 24 hours in which 166 samples tested positive for Covid-19. The health secretary said in his daily briefing that 5,098 migrants, who returned from other states, have tested positive since May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-covid-deaths-in-bihar-tally-8050/articleshow/76538704.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Guardians get notice for fee protest||Kolkata: In a first, a school in central Kolkata on Tuesday issued a showcause notice to 15 guardians for staging a demonstration in groups, demanding a revision of the fee structure.A day earlier, the institute —St Augustine’s Day School, Kolkata—deferred the payment of a percentage of the fees for parents facing financial constraint in 9lockdown.The notice, which was sent to the 15 guardians, stated they had submitted a representation to the school on June 16, violating an undertaking they gave during their wards’ admission to the school. “In this connection, your attention is drawn to Clauses 4 and 5 in the Declaration Form, which you have executed at the time of admission of your ward(s) in school, whereby you have undertaken to cooperate with the school at all times and not to agitate or demonstrate or join other person or agitate with them. Violation of any of the clauses you have undertaken to observe entails serious and penal consequences,” read the showcause notice. It further stated, “You are hereby directed to show cause in writing within 7 days from receipt hereof, to be submitted at the school office, as to why legal action for breach of the terms of the undertaking committed by you on 16th June 2020 for resorting to violent demonstrations, manhandling the school personnel and forming gatherings in and around the school premises should not be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guardians-get-notice-for-fee-protest/articleshow/76539645.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||IMA observes complete bandh against CEA||Ludhiana: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ludhiana chapter, doctors observed a complete bandh on Tuesday against the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) and hike in fee of medical students. There was a complete bandh in Ludhiana. All private nursing homes, charitable and corporate hospitals and institutes were closed except the DMCH and CMCH. Though people were at the receiving end due to the strike but IMA officials said, “We were forced to take this action because the government did not take into confidence primary stakeholders before issuing this ordinance. All hospitals of Doraha, Khanna, Samrala, Raikot, Mullanpur, Jagraon and Ahmedgarh had a full shutdown. If the government does not take the ordinance back then the agitation will gain momentum.” Dr Sunil Katyal, president, IMA, Ludhiana, said, “The Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) is not required at all as it is anti-people and anti-poor. If this bill is implemented then most of the small nursing homes will close and a few remaining ones will have to increase their charges, which will be difficult for the patients to pay.” “It is not the time to bring the ordinance because the doctors are already under stress. We had so many meetings with the government officials, health minister and health secretary, but the government wants to control private doctors by proxy through the introduction of this ordinance in this pandemic times,” he added. Dr Dheeraj Aggarwal, secretary, IMA, Ludhiana, said, “This Bill has been passed in the Assembly of 15 states but has been implement in 11 states only. Data from Niti Aayog, Delhi, has shown that there has been no improvement in healthcare in the states where it has been implemented. The doctors are already regulated by more than 35 bills and if the government wants anything more, they can involve Punjab Medical Council (PMC), which is a regulatory body of doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ima-observes-complete-bandh-against-cea/articleshow/76538686.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||CM to open state’s first e-collectorate today||Dehradun: The state is all set to get its first e-collectorate in Dehradun after its inauguration by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday. Talking to TOI, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “We have already completed the preparations for implementation of e-collectorate system. The staff has been equipped with new computer system, scanners and internet facilities for smooth functioning of paper-less transactions. However, the old files will be processed manually and only the new files will be completely digital. The district administration has run a successful trial of e-collectorate system with hands on training for all employees. “The e-collectorate system will not only help us in carrying out work but will also help us follow social distancing norms while ensuring implementation of e-governance practices. At the click of a button the files would be processed without any delay” said a district magistrate official. The move comes after the DM had asked the officials to make the human resource management system a part of the e-office system which includes record management, field inspection online management and e-filing system. The DM said, “During the initial phase of the lockdown, we had started making preparations to implement the e-collectorate system. The new system will promote transparency and the people will also be aware of the progress of their applications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-open-states-first-e-collectorate-today/articleshow/76537215.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Auto driver ends life over contagion fear||A 54-year-old autorickshaw driver from Dhayari ended his life by taking a plunge into the Mutha right bank canal on Monday. The police recovered a driving licence and a note from his trousers’ pocket. “In the note, he wrote he feared that he might get infected with coronavirus. This thought caused unrest in his mind and hence, he ended his life,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-ends-life-over-contagion-fear/articleshow/76539625.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Examine efficacy of medicine formulated by siddha practitioner, high court tells IMH||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy (IMH) at Chennai to constitute a committee of experts to examine the efficacy of the herbal medicine formulated by a siddha practitioner as a solution for Covid-19. A division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi, which was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Subramanian, a resident of Madurai, also directed him to appear before the committee on June 26 and submit the medicine prepared by him with all the supportive information about the ingredients and the method of preparation, in writing, without any suppression. The judges observed that if the committee is of the opinion that the medicine would be efficacious, they may refer it to the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha at New Delhi. The judges also made it clear that the petitioner cannot claim any exclusive right for this medicine in public interest. The judges observed, “Under normal circumstances, we would not have entertained this writ petition at all for the simple reason that it will open the floodgate for all and sundry to come up with their own formulations and seek court intervention for its promotion. As an exception, we took this PIL on file on the sole ground that Subramanian is a qualified siddha doctor and is himself working in the government siddha hospital.” Subramanian, who is working as medical officer in the Government Siddha Medical College at Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli district, in his petition, had sought the ministry of Ayush to conduct a virology study and publish the results after testing the herbal medicine formulated by him. Subramanian had stated that he has formulated a mixture of 66 herbs called IMPRO which could be a cure for Covid-19. He stated that IMPRO would not only prevent but cure the disease. The powder should be boiled in water and taken twice a day before food. The case was adjourned to June 30 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/examine-efficacy-of-medicine-formulated-by-siddha-practitioner-high-court-tells-imh/articleshow/76540172.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Labour shortage: Industrialists seek admn help in finding workers||Ludhiana: Facing severe shortage of skilled and unskilled labour after exodus of migrant workers from city, industrialists have now approached the district administration for help. According to businessmen, there is a shortage of approximately 6 lakh workers (both skilled and unskilled combined). They have provided a complete data of their requirements to the district administration during a meeting organised on Tuesday. The representatives claimed that they have been assured of help by the authorities in arranging the workers from within Punjab. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) said, “Industry is facing very tough time right now and this is probably first time ever that such a problem has occurred where workers have gone back home in such huge numbers and that too with no firm commitment to return. Moreover year after year the number of workers was already reducing in Punjab. In order to address this problem our delegation organised a meeting with ADC Amrit Singh. During the meeting it was highlighted that industry is passing through crucial time and requires skilled manpower urgently. In total there is shortage of approximately 6 lakh workers and CICU has also provided data of workers immediately required by Ludhiana industry” Ahuja also added, “There is huge shortage of workers like Mig Welders, Press Man, CNC operator fitters, Painter, Electrician, Tailor, Overlock operator, flat operator etc. Besides these there are large number of other type of workers which are required in large numbers by the industry of Ludhiana. After listening to our problem ADC has assured her full support to Industry and said that the data shared by industry will be analyzed and problem of manpower will be sorted out by arranging labour locally. She also asked the BDPOs to collect data from villages about the skilled and unskilled youth and unemployed so that they can be given an opportunity to work in the local factories. ADC also advised the lead banks to speed up loans for unemployed youths and also asked ITIs for holding virtual job fairs from which Industry can be benefitted” Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU added, “If we are able to overcome the problem of skilled and unskilled workers locally from Punjab villages it will be a win win situation for everyone including businessmen, unemployed youth and the government as well. Our dependence on the migrant labour has hurt us the most during this lockdown and industry badly needs the support of local youth in running the factories. We are thankful to the local administration for already lent support during lockdown and we are sure that the problem of labour too will be solved by the authorities”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labour-shortage-industrialists-seek-admn-help-in-finding-workers/articleshow/76538674.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Allow serving of food till 9.30pm: Mohali eatery owners||Mohali: Restaurant and hotel owners on Tuesday welcomed the Punjab government’s move to allow dine-in facility but demanded food be served till 9.30pm instead of 8pm The state government allowed restaurants to have dine-in facility with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Mohali Hotel Association president D K Arora said closing a restaurant by 8pm is not feasible. “People do not come for having dinner by 6 pm or 7 pm. The closing time of 8 pm means that the last order must be taken by 6.30 pm, so that the hotel staff can wind up before 8 pm. This is unreasonable from a business point of view. We will think before opening dine-in under such a scenario,” said Arora, who is the owner of a hotel. Similarly, Malkeet Singh Khalsa, the owner of a popular restaurant in Phase V market, said, “We generally get customers by 7.30 pm for dinner. The closing time of 8pm is not practical. The government must do a rethink.” Restaurant owners also said re-employing cooks and waiters only for lunch will not be viable. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said sub-divisional magistrates and station house officers will be directed to carry out random checks at restaurants to ensure standard operating protocols are being maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/allow-serving-of-food-till-9-30pm-mohali-eatery-owners/articleshow/76539627.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Calamity-hit cars sitting ducks for pan-India auto con||Lucknow: Investigation into the modus operandi of the gang of auto-lifters busted on Sunday revealed that the members used to steal the registration number of vehicles damaged in natural calamities and use it for another vehicle of the same make in other states. Police had arrested five members of a pan-India gang from Chinhat and recovered 50 high-end cars from their possession. Later, on their identification, 30 more cars were recovered from Kanpur, Moradabad and Sitapur districts on Tuesday. Talking to TOI, commissioner of police, Lucknow, Sujeet Pandey said, “The forensic department has traced 12 vehicles of Kashmir and Odisha out of 80 cars recovered so far. Six cars from Kashmir were originally purchased in 2013 but were partially damaged in 2014 floods.” “These vehicles were either auctioned or crushed. But Rizwan, one of the auto-lifters, immediately got in touch with his operatives who stole the registration number and engine chassis numbers of the cars,” Pandey said. Cars of similar make were stolen from Bangalore and their original registration numbers were replaced with those stolen from Kashmir. “The gang also contacted their operatives in Odisha during floods in 2019. They used the registration numbers of vehicles damaged in Odisha for cars stolen from Lucknow and Kanpur,” he said. Lucknow police is also contacting cops from other states and will start an operation to nab other members of the gang. Pandey said the police would launch a manhunt to nab Abrar and Afzal of Meerut, Raju Sharma of Agra, Arif of Moradabad, Shibhu of Kheri, Satyapal of Fazalganj and Romi Pal of Delhi. They all have been working for the gang for last 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/calamity-hit-cars-sitting-ducks-for-pan-india-auto-con/articleshow/76540176.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Tricity Covid count mounts to 741||Chandigarh: The Tricity Covid-19 count moved to 741, with the maximum number of eight cases reported from the city on Tuesday. The total count now is 418, with 90 active cases. Five of them are a 29-year-old woman from Sector 38, a 48-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran, a 36-year-old man from Dadumajra and two residents of Sector 29 — a 53-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman from a family. All of them are family contacts of old cases. The sixth patient is a 27-year-old man from Sector 29. He has three family contacts, out of which two are in isolation in PGI. The other two are a 26-year-old woman from Sector 38 (West) and a 30-year-old resident of Sector 22. While the woman has three family contacts, the man has seven family contacts. In Mohali, four people tested positive, taking the count to 226, with 52 active cases. Three of them are a 43-year-old man, a 16-year-old girl and a 15-year-old boy, all members of a family residing in Sector 91. They had returned from Delhi recently. The fourth patient is a 36-year-old resident of Sector 91. He had returned from Himachal Pradesh recently. At the same time, three people were cured and discharged on Tuesday In Panchkula, a 67-year-old resident of Sector 7 tested positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total count to 97, with 54 active cases. The woman was undergoing dialysis regularly at a private hospital. Nine Covid-19 cases were detected in Ambala on Tuesday, pushing the total count to 292. At the same time, 17 patients were cured and discharged from a hospital. A total of 13,516 samples have been collected out of which 12,971 tested negative. As many as 253 reports are awaited, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricity-covid-count-mounts-to-741/articleshow/76539648.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Sainik School to hold diamond jubilee festivities from July 15||Lucknow: The year-long diamond jubilee celebrations of the Captain Manoj Pandey UP Sainik School in Lucknow will begin on July 15. Reviewing arrangements for the event, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said programmes should showcase important dates and events for the armed forces. He said the programmes should be held for a year to mark the anniversary and they should focus on making children aware of the country’s culture, inheritance and show of courage. Due to Covid-19, debates and other programmes should be organised via video-conferencing and webinars. The school’s annual function in November should also host diamond jubilee programmes, the CM said. The Captain Manoj Pandey Sainik School is the country’s first sainik school and was inaugurated by the then CM Dr Sampurnanand on Juyl 15, 1960. The CM has asked the school to submit proposals for setting up his statue. He also directed the administration to ensure that work on the school’s boundary wall and residential area should be completed within a set time frame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sainik-school-to-hold-diamond-jubilee-festivities-from-july-15/articleshow/76540182.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Dhaba owner booked for defying curbs||Khuldabad police on Monday night booked the owner of a local dhaba (eatery) located at station chauraha, Khuldabad on the charges of violating social distancing norms. The owner was booked under section 188 of IPC by the police. Khuldabad police said an FIR has been lodged against one-Sharad Gupta, owner of Shudh Shakahari Bhojanalaya, Station chauraha, Khuldabad for violating social distancing norms. On Monday night, when a police team led by sub-inspector Keshav Ram checked the local dhaba, it noticed that there was a crowd of customers present on the spot and none of them was maintaining social distancing. The employees of the dhaba were also seen deying the social distancing orders. Moreover, the customers sitting at the dhaba were not wearing a mask. When police quizzed the dhaba authorities in this regard, they were not able to give a proper reply, following which, a case under section 188 of IPC was registered against the owner at Khuldabad police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dhaba-owner-booked-for-defying-curbs/articleshow/76536253.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Flight with 176 Indian nationals from Jeddah lands at Pune airport||PUNE: A total of 176 Indian nationals, who were stranded in Jeddah, returned to Pune in the early hours of Tuesday on an IndiGo aircraft under phase-3 of the Vande Bharat Mission. “One of the passengers showed symptoms of flu and cough and has been sent for tests. The IndiGo flight (6E-9773) arrived at the Pune airport at 1.15am. As per standard protocol, all passengers were screened and their details were noted down before they were sent on 14-day quarantine. In the near future, we expect more flights to Pune from foreign countries,” an airport official told TOI. Sources said that another flight carrying Indian nationals was expected to arrive in Pune from Qatar later this month. “Pune airport has recorded many flights from different countries carrying stranded passengers. On Sunday, an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah landed in Pune with 168 passengers while another Yemenia Airways flight ferried 151 Yemeni nationals from different parts of the state back home. Earlier, there have been flights from Dubai, Afghanistan and Bahrain,” the official added. The ministry of civil aviation has said that under the Vande Bharat Mission over 1.20 lakh Indians have returned to country until now and 4,500 foreign nationals have been able to get back to their respective countries. “The company, where I was employed, said that it will not be able to pay me salary for the next few months. I was stuck there with insufficient funds. Even after returning home, I am worried about earning a living as there is no guarantee that the company will call me back. I had gone to Jeddah just eight months ago,” said a passenger, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flight-with-176-indian-nationals-from-jeddah-lands-at-pune-airport/articleshow/76539640.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Private hospital sealed after nurse found Covid-19 positive||Rudrapur: The Udham Singh Nagar district administration on Tuesday sealed Rudrapur-based Futela Hospital, located at Nainital Road, after a staff nurse was found Covid-19 positive. The entire staff of the hospital has now been quarantined. The nurse reportedly got infected after she came in contact with a person living in her neighborhood who was tested Covid-19 positive after returning from Delhi. The health department has taken the swabs of all the staffers and the patients who were admitted to the hospital for the Covid-19 test. The hospital has been put under police watch and no movement is allowed there. KC Bhatt, SHO of the city police station, said, "We have prohibited any movement to and from Futela Hospital. The status quo will be maintained until the test reports of all the suspected cases arrive. We are also finding out the travel history of the patients and the staff. CCTV footage is being scanned to identify people who visited the hospital in the past week. We may declare this hospital a containment zone once testing samples are collected." Dr Avinash Khanna, assistant chief medical officer (ACMO) of the district, said that the Covid-19 positive nurse has been admitted to the isolation ward. "The doctors and the staff have been quarantined. We have screened them all and are also using the true net machine for testing before sending the swab samples to Delhi-based laboratory," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/private-hospital-sealed-after-nurse-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76537229.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In 24 hours, 462 fresh cases in AP; toll rises to 119 with 8 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 462 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 9,834. The state also witnessed the highest number of deaths in a single day on Tuesday, with eight people succumbing to the pandemic virus, as the novel coronavirus toll surged to 119. AP has now registered 400-plus cases for the sixth consecutive day. On the positive side, as many as 157 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. There are currently 5,123 active cases in the state, with 4,592 cumulative recoveries and 119 deaths. Meanwhile, AP has reached another milestone by clocking the 7-lakh mark in Covid-19 testing. It took only six days for the state to conduct the last one lakh tests, against the 58 days taken for conducting the first one lakh tests. As many as 24,500 people were screened on June 21, the highest number of tests done in a single day. Now, the government wants to further increase the strength of the existing labs to 30,000 tests per day to check the recent surge in number of positive cases. The unabated spurt in local infections continues in East Godavari district, with 87 news cases detected, the highest number of infections for any district, on Tuesday. Srikakulam registered only one new local case. Altogether, 55 cases were detected among foreign returnees and people from other states. The cumulative caseload of these two categories rose to 1,976. After a woman employee working in Vizianagaram collectorate tested positive, district health officials screened about 100 colleagues of the patient. West Godavari officials too have started setting up Covid-19 care centres in three different towns of the district to treat mild cases. Anticipating a surge in cases in the coming days, the government has decided to add more Covid-19 care centres in the districts to decrease pressure on the hospitals. These centres are expected to help the mild cases, who cannot avail of home isolation facility due to varied reasons, receive treatment without necessarily being admitted to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/462-fresh-cases-in-ap-toll-rises-to-119-with-8-deaths/articleshow/76538694.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Bareilly||Newly-weds attempt suicide after tiff over cooking meat at home, woman dies||Bareilly: A newly-married couple allegedly consumed poison after a tiff over cooking of meat in the house in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Isanagar on Monday night. While the woman died during treatment, the husband is critical. Gurudayal, 22, got married to Reshma, 19, a resident of Sitapur district on June 12. Reshma was a vegetarian and didn’t like her husband cooking meat in the kitchen. When Gurudayal brought meat for dinner at home, Reshma asked him to cook it somewhere elsewhere. “But Gurudayal asked his mother to cook the meat inside the house. Soon the couple entered into an argument over it. And later in the evening, Gurudayal and Reshma consumed poisonous substance and fell unconscious. Gurudayal’s father Shivnath took them to a private hospital where the doctor referred them to the district hospital. Reshma died late on Sunday while Gurudayal is still critical and under observation of doctors,” a police officer said. Station house officer (SHO) of Isanagar police station, Suneel Singh, said, “The couple attempted suicide over cooking of non-veg dish in kitchen. The wife died during treatment while the husband is serious. We are yet to record the statement of the survivor and waiting for the reaction of the woman’s parents. No FIR is registered in this case yet.” In another incident, a 26-year-man, who got married nearly a year ago, ended his life after having an argument with his wife in the Hyderabad area of the district. Avdhesh Awasthi, a resident of Bareilly district, had come to his in-laws in Devaria village of Hyderabad along with his wife Anshu on Sunday. He consumed poison after having a tiff with his wife over an unidentified reason on Monday evening. He was immediately rushed to the hospital by his brother-in-law Himanshu but he died during treatment. Police have sent the body for autopsy. No complaint has been lodged by Avdhesh’s family. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/newly-weds-attempt-suicide-after-tiff-over-cooking-meat-at-home-woman-dies/articleshow/76537234.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune rail division operates 140th Shramik Special train||Pune: A Shramik Special train rolled out from the Pune railway station on Tuesday carrying passengers to Odisha and Jharkhand, after more than a fortnight. According to officials, this was the 140th Shramik train plied by the Pune railway division since May 7. “Of the 140 trains, 79 plied from the Pune station and 23 started from Kolhapur,” the Pune division’s public relations officer, Manoj Jhawar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-rail-division-operates-140th-shramik-special-train/articleshow/76539650.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Parents of nCoV patient evicted||Howrah: A landlord allegedly evicted the parents of a 30-year-old coronavirus patient, who is undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 hospital in Howrah. The incident took place in Howrah’s Domjur on Monday morning. On Tuesday, the youth’s parents staged a demonstration on Howrah-Amta Road, demanding the administration’s intervention and action against the landlord, Srikanta Adhikary. Soon, around 20 Asha workers joined the protest. They blocked traffic on both directions on Howrah-Amta Road for about one-and-a-half hours from 9.30am.Later, when cops from Domjur police station reached the spot, the Asha workers said that while neither the husband nor the wife had any symptom of Covid-19, it was unfair to evict them for the illness of a family member. Informed about the incident, Domjur BDO Raja Bhowmik told Adhikary to allow the couple to stay on. Adhikary, however, said he would not let them in till their swab test was conducted and the reports confirmed they were negative.The BDO later took the couple to a quarantine centre in Domjur, where arrangements were made for their stay. The youth’s father said: “We were driven out by the landlord on Monday morning. We spent the last 24 hours on the Domjur hospital campus.” Bhowmik said, “The couple is in a quarantine centre. Their swab sample will be collected soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-of-ncov-patient-evicted/articleshow/76539667.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Railways introduces contactless ticket checking in four stations||Madurai: The Madurai railway division has introduced contactless ticket checking system in four stations to avoid direct contact between passengers and railway personnel. It was first introduced at the Madurai Junction 10 days ago as a pilot project, and now extended to Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli stations. An official in the signal and telecommunication department said the contactless checking system was introduced in Madurai to check its efficiency in preventing the spread of Covid-19 from passengers to railway personnel and vice-versa. In this system, a web camera is affixed for passengers to display their tickets. This gets displayed on the screen at the ticket checking personnel’s end.As it proved to be effective, it was introduced in three stations on Tuesday. Officials said it was introduced with minimal expenses by procuring cameras and fixing them to the systems that are in use by the railways.Railway officials said that there have been instances of passengers testing positive for Covid-19 in the special trains plying from Villupuram to Madurai and from Trichy to Nagercoil. The passengers hide their travel history and tested positive only when the samples were collected from them at their destinations. This poses a threat to community spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railways-introduces-contactless-ticket-checking-in-four-stations/articleshow/76540180.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Skipping home quarantine can lead to arrest in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: People not isolating themselves at home for 14 days will be fined Rs 2,000 and can end up spending six months in jail or pay another fine of up to Rs 1,000, the UT administration announced on Tuesday after issuing the orders for mandatory home quarantine for city visitors. The mandatory home quarantine will not be applicable on those staying in Chandigarh for less than three days (72 hours). Violators will be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). UT adviser Manoj Parida issued the orders under Section 24 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, to come into force with immediate effect. The order stated, “People coming to Chandigarh from areas outside the Tricity and staying here for more than three days shall mandatorily register themselves on Chandigarh administration website: http://admser.chd.nic.in/visitregis/. They will have to download Arogya Setu application and regularly update their health status. There will be random screening/checking at entry points/check posts as well as railway stations and bus stands.” “It shall be mandatory for the person hosting the visitors to register their details on the portal immediately on the day of their arrival. The management of hotels/guest houses/corporate guest houses/resthouses/dharamshalas shall register the details of visitors from outside Chandigarh staying with them on the portal as soon as they check-in,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/skipping-home-quarantine-can-land-visitors-in-jail/articleshow/76539671.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite surge in cases, most students want to appear for ICSE, ISC boards||Hyderabad: Despite rising Covid-19 cases, many students are keen on appearing for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Indian School Certificate (ISC) board exams, scheduled to be held in July first week. Every year, close to 5,000 students from 55 schools appear for the ICSE and ISC exams in Hyderabad. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) recently offered two options to students — either appear for pending board exams or be graded based on their internal assessments or pre-board exams. A day before the last date of submitting choices, city schools said that most students are willing to appear for the examination. “A very small percentage of students want to be graded based on the pre-board exams or internal assessments. Considering the large number of students who have submitted their choice of appearing for the boards, we are set to commence online revision classes from Wednesday to ensure students are prepared,” said Maya Sukumaran, principal, Gitanjali Senior School. For those willing to appear for the examination, the CISCE will be conducting geography, computer, economic applications and biology exams between July 2 and July 10 and ISC’s biology exam will be held on July 1. “Since students aim for the final board exams more, their performance in pre-boards is weaker. So those who aspire for better marks are the ones willing to appear for the exam,” said Hafeezuddin, principal, Nasr Boys School. According to officials, students will appear for the board exams at their respective schools. However, teachers from other schools will be present as invigilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-surge-in-cases-most-students-want-to-appear-for-icse-isc-boards/articleshow/76539677.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Tenure of PGI senior resident docs to be extended for month||CHANDIGARH: An unprecedented decision has been taken at PGI to counter the shortage of manpower. The tenure of senior residents will be extended for a month on the lines of AIIMS, Delhi. If junior residents do not join by next month, the old batch will be retained for a while. The result of the MD/MS entrance examination was declared on Tuesday. The order issued at AIIMS on June 18, a copy of which is with TOI, states, “In view of evolving situation due to Covid-19 outbreak and communication from the academic section, AIIMS, the date of completion of requisite qualification degree and tenure has been revised.” The extension is for junior and senior residents for three months at AIIMS. “Residents may seek relief from their extension if a new appointee has joined, or for joining another academic course for which they have been selected,” the order said. “We are considering this extension for senior residents here. In case junior residents do not join by next month, we have a viable option for their extension on the lines of AIIMS,” said PGI director Prof Jagat Ram. There are around 150 junior residents and 100 senior residents in the present batch. “Residents have been serving PGI for the last three years. Most are senior residents who have been here for more than six years, so this extension will be highly appreciable,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, president, Association of Resident Doctors, PGI. He added, “Due to travel restrictions and partial lockdown, the administration should consider extension of a minimum three months for those who cannot move or find a job due to Covid.” Resident doctors are main workers of the institute and are responsible for most patient care services. PGI conducted an entrance examination for MD/MS on June 14. “Around 30 junior resident doctors are interested in being retained while the remaining want to graduate at the level of senior resident and also leave for home to prepare for certain examinations. So, for the junior residents, it has to be voluntary unless the administration decides to make it mandatory,” said a resident doctor at PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tenure-of-pgi-senior-resident-docs-to-be-extended-for-month/articleshow/76539661.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 134 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Dehradun: With 134 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 2,535 on Tuesday. On the day, two more deaths of novel coronavirus patients were also reported, taking the toll in the state to 30. With the surge in cases, the infection rate increased to 4.88% in the past one month. The state’s infection rate was 1.08 % on May 23. Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 control room at the state health directorate, said that of the 134 new cases, maximum 26 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 25 in Dehradun. "We also recorded 20 fresh cases in Pauri on Tuesday, followed by 15 in Tehri and 14 in Almora. Chamoli and Bageshwar district reported four new cases each while five fresh cases were reported from Uttarkashi. While Champawat and Rudraprayag reported two cases each on Tuesday, Haridwar and Nainital reported eight cases each on the same day," Tripathi said. Of the two deaths, one was a 29-year-old man from US Nagar. His sample was collected after his death by LD Bhatt Government hospital. The actual cause of death is awaited. "A Covid death was reported from Doon hospital where a 52-year-old man from Saharanpur died on Tuesday afternoon. He was referred to Doon hospital from a private hospital in morbid condition. Patient was shifted to ICU and put on ventilator support. Later on, he suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away," Tripath added. Another patient died at the bench of Prem Nagar district hospital on Tuesday. He was brought to the hospital by his friend’s son who left him outside the hospital. "Some people informed us that the man sitting on the bench wasn’t moving. When we reached, he had collapsed. We got to know that he was chronic alcoholic and had complained of chest pain but he died before he could reach the OPD," said Dr Umashankar Kandwal, who added that it looks that he died of heart attack but his sample has been collected for tests. Also, with the discharge of 81 patients, the total number of recoveries reached 1,541 in the hill state which has around 1,000 active cases at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-134-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/76537263.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Ex-SSP, two others recover, discharged from Covid hosp||Prayagraj: Two persons including the former senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Prayagraj were cured and discharged from SRN hospital and their reports came out negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a 58-year-old man and resident of Attarsuiya tested positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday. Doctors said that the man who tested positive by a private lab, is symptomatic and has been taken to SRN hospital for treatment. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer, Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI that former SSP of Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, was discharged from SRN hospital on Tuesday afternoon after testing negative after treatment. Dr. Sahai said that the ex-SSP, whose sample was taken on June 12, had tested positive for Covid-19 on night of June 15. Dr. Sahai also claimed that there was only one positive case reported in the district till Tuesday evening. He said a total of 425 health teams have been engaged to conduct door-to-door survey in 80 wards of the city. Under the survey, the teams of health department on Tuesday visited 18,088 houses and examined over 75,000 people. During survey, it was found that as many as 278 people were suffering from illness for long period while 44 others were diagnosed with influenza-like illness. Till now, the district has reported 206 cases and 141 of them have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Also, seven people have died due to coronavirus infection so far in the district, there are only 58 active cases. Meanwhile, with the rise in the Covid-19 cases in the district, the number of hotspots has also increased. Currently, there were a total of 62 hotspots and 23 of them have been declared inactive after patients of areas concerned recovered. The areas included in the new hotspot list are GRP colony, Railway colony (Subedarganj), Ramanand Nagar (Allahapur) and Police line gate no. 7. Police on Tuesday intensified checking in the city to ensure that social distancing norms are followed in markets and other places. Separate police teams have also been engaged to take stringent action against people not using masks while visiting markets and other public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ex-ssp-two-others-recover-discharged-from-covid-hosp/articleshow/76536266.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Over 2cr beneficiaries get free foodgrain in 3 days||Lucknow: At least 66% of over 3.5 crore beneficiaries have received free food grain in three days since the distribution under the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana started on June 20. Special schemes started during Covid-19 lockdown, including the state government’s free food grain programme for Antyodaya cardholders and daily wagers, are expected to come to an end on June 30. At present, the last phase of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and the second and final phase of Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme, meant for migrant workers and their families, are underway and both will end by June 30. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said out of 3,56,28,696 beneficiaries in the sixth phase of food distribution in UP, food grain had been distributed among 2,39,36,517 people (66% of the beneficiaries). Under the central government scheme, 5 kg rice per person and 1 kg chana per family is being distributed free among all cardholders. Till Tuesday afternoon, the government distributed 5,07,554 tonnes rice and 23,734 tonnes chana. A senior government official said, “The CM had announced that free food grains should be distributed till June 30 and it does not seem likely that the scheme will be extended as the lockdown has been eased significantly and people are returning for work.” “The demand for cooked food has also come down drastically,” he said, adding that out of about 12 lakh cooked food packets that were being distributed during the lockdown, only 30,000 are currently being given out. Meanwhile, government sources said during lockdown, 2.67 lakh temporary ration cards had been issued under which 5.85 lakh people have been given free ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-2cr-beneficiaries-get-free-foodgrain-in-3-days/articleshow/76540185.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||HC circular on jud officers’ CoV treatment||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court last week issued a notification, asking all subordinate courts to arrange for disbursement of 80% of the estimated treatment cost, if any judicial official is found to be Covid-positive after two Alipore court judges tested positive.A high court circular stated that any judicial official, if tested positive, should be paid 80% of the estimated cost of the treatment in advance on information from the officer or any reliable source over telephone and should not wait for a written prayer. All the district judges had been asked to act in this regard.Siddhartha Chattapadhyay, president of West Bengal Judicial Officers’ Democratic Association, said: “We are happy by the decision of the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-circular-on-jud-officers-cov-treatment/articleshow/76539681.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid positive boy from AP's Tekkali undergoes surgery||VISAKHAPATNAM: A four-year-old Covid-19 positive boy from Tekkali, who had a zipper pulling button stuck to his throat, underwent a successful surgery at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) after a few hospitals in Srikakulam refused him admission. The child had accidentally ingested a metallic zipper button which got stuck at the junction of his food and wind pipe. As a result, the child was unable to swallow food and his throat had got infected and swollen. The parents took the child to Srikakulam Town, where the Covid-19 test was done. The child and his mother were found to be positive. They went to a few other hospitals, but nobody admitted the child either due to his Covid-19 positive status or due to lack of infrastructure to conduct the surgery. Finally, on June 20 evening, he was brought to VIMS and admitted. Director of VIMS Dr K Satyavaraprasad said, “On June 21 morning, our medical team consisting of ENT surgeon Dr Annapurna Rao and anaesthetist Dr TSN Prakash removed the zipper button from the throat. The infection was controlled and now the child is stable and improving in the Covid-19 ward. Further delay in bringing the child would have worsened his condition.” In the last week, the state Covid-19 hospital VIMS has carried out a Caesarian operation successfully and, in another case, a four-month-old Covid-19 positive infant (the youngest Covid-19 positive case in the state) was discharged after treatment. Currently, the hospital has 117 active Covid-19 cases with serious complications, comorbidities and pregnant women from four north coastal AP districts, said Dr Satyavaraprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-ve-boy-undergoes-surgery/articleshow/76538730.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district administration to go ahead with exam centre in containment zone||MYSURU: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Chamarajanagar district administration is taking all necessary precautions as per the standard operating procedure issued by the government to conduct the SSLC examinations. According to the authorities, examination centres will be well connected with buses — both state-run and private — plying on the routes. According to the DPI authorities, officials in each district will collect information on each student’s mode of travel. “Reserve vehicles will be arranged at each taluk level to help the students if required. N95 masks will also be supplied to all examination centres. Students will be allowed to enter the examination centres only after hand sanitisation and thermal check up. Special halls have been reserved for students with fever,” informed authorities Centre inside containment zone After an examination centre (Avila school) in Mysuru was found to be inside a containment zone, district authorities decided to go ahead as per health department’s recommendation. “Parents of all students who are allocated centre here agreed to send their wards,” said DDPI Panduranga. Mock drill to be held today A mock drill on conducting SSLC examination will be held between 10am and 2pm in Mysuru and Chikkamagaluru today. “All the students will arrive at their respective examination centres and check their rooms and confirm the facilities. The drill is planned to ensure that all the arrangements are in place,” said DDPI Panduranga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-district-administration-to-go-ahead-with-exam-centre-in-containment-zone/articleshow/76539465.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Row over mobile phone prompts teen to end life||MYSURU: A 14-year-old boy who drank pesticide in an attempted suicide on June 19, allegedly upset over being given a cheaper mobile handset than the one that his sister received from their father, succumbed on Monday morning. The boy, a student of class IX, was a resident of Belaganahalli Kaval in HD Kote taluk, roughly 50km from Mysuru. The boy was very upset when he found that the mobile handset his father had got his sister cost Rs 500 more than the one he had been given, which cost Rs 15,000. This allegedly compelled him to attempt suicide by drinking pesticide, HD Kote police said. “He was rushed to a local hospital in HD Kote and subsequently taken to a hospital in Mysuru, where he breathed his last on Monday morning,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/row-over-mobile-phone-prompts-teen-to-end-life/articleshow/76538925.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Home alone woman killed, gold stolen||MANDYA: A 70-year-old home alone woman was allegedly murdered in Karikyatanahalli village of Pandavapura taluk on Monday night. Police said Jayamma, the victim, was found murdered and her ornaments were missing. Someone entered her house on Monday night by breaking open the door and allegedly smothered Jayamma to death. The miscreants have taken gold ornaments weighing around 75 grams. Senior police officers visited the spot and assured villagers they will soon nab the killers. A case has been registered in Nagamangala rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/home-alone-woman-killed-gold-stolen/articleshow/76538669.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Residents crowd mkts to stock up supplies||Madurai: The market places in Madurai city was seen overcrowded on Tuesday as a large number of people thronged to stock vegetables for the next week, throwing the social distancing norms to the winds. Expecting the crowd Madurai district administration had ensured thermal scanning at the entry points and allowed only those wearing marks inside Farmers Markets located at Anna Nagar and Bibikulam. People gathered in a large number at East Masi Street since Monday evening to purchase groceries, soon after the lockdown announcement for Madurai city. They purchased groceries in bulk quantities. Traffic snarls were unavoidable due to sudden rush in the narrow road, which has become even narrower due to smart city works. Rice stores and grocery stores located in various parts of the city too witnessed an increased crowd. At many rice stores, people stood in a queue to stock rice required for at least a month. All the city roads were crowded than usual due to people movement. Even retail liquor units witnessed brisk business. “There is a sense of impatience among people as they competed with each other in purchasing vegetables as it gets sold out quickly. As a result, social distancing norms were thrown in the wind,” said P Vijayaraja, a resident of Managiri. P S Radhakrishnan, a resident of Balarangapuram said “people are purchasing grocery items as if the lockdown is going to be implemented for a month. Although the government has announced that grocery shops will continue to function every day till 2 pm, people are in no mood to wait,” he said. L Sengodi a customer said that the price of grocery has increased steeply when the government announced earlier lockdowns. So I thought of purchasing groceries required for a month, so that we need not be worried about the price, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-crowd-mkts-to-stock-up-supplies/articleshow/76540190.cms||V Devanathan
June 24, 2020||Vadodara||Rift surfaces among BCA management over Bedade issue||VADODARA: A major rift has surfaced among the top management of the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) over the withdrawal of former India cricketer Atul Bedade’s suspension as Baroda women’s cricket coach. BCA president Pranav Amin on Tuesday wrote an email to all apex council members and urged that a letter stating that Bedade’s suspension has been revoked be issued immediately. But BCA secretary, Ajit Lele has refused to sign the letter and demanded that the inquiry against Bedade be completed with proper procedure. “I had signed the suspension letter of Bedade that also stated the allegations of harassment against him would be inquired. But majority members of the apex council decided to revoke his suspension even when the inquiry wasn’t over. I had objected to the revocation in the council meet too,” Lele told TOI. “I refused to sign the letter revoking his suspension as the inquiry against him hasn’t been completed. The BCA should complete the inquiry into allegations against Bedade and prepare a report,” Lele added. Apart from Lele, BCA joint secretary, Parag Patel and two other apex council members had also voted against revoking Bedade’s suspension while eight members agreed to revocation earlier this month. “Amin has stated in his email that if the secretary doesn’t sign the letter of suspension revocation then the BCA president or CEO would sign it,” Lele said. “Lele had dissented against revocation of Bedade’s suspension in the apex council. But the apex council had by majority decided to withdraw suspension of Bedade and it is abiding on the BCA,” said Sheetal Mehta, vice-president, BCA. “Lele’s signing the letter doesn’t mean he is supporting the revocation. He has to sign it as a protocol as he is the secretary,” Mehta added. Fiftytwo-year-old Bedade, who was coach of Baroda women’s cricket team, was suspended by BCA in March this year after a senior woman cricketer filed a complaint of harassment against him. The association had initiated inquiry into the matter but earlier this month the management said that the complainant decided not to pursue the complaint and hence Bedade’s suspension was revoked. Decision, however, was taken to not continue him as women’s cricket team coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rift-surfaces-among-bca-management-over-bedade-issue/articleshow/76537102.cms||Tushar Tere
June 24, 2020||Bengaluru||In sign of apathy, Karnataka government shelves daily briefing||BENGALURU: Resentment is growing in the bureaucracy over priorities of political leaders with a pandemic raging. They say that with none from the top echelons present to give out an actual picture at the daily briefing -- as is being done in most other states -- the situation is rife for rumour and panic to reign. When the pandemic first broke in the state, a minister would address reporters – an consequently the public – on a daily basis. Then, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar, who was appointed Covid-19 spokesperson, stopped holding the briefings in late May citing his responsibilities in conducting SSLC and II PUC exams. Ministers contradicting each other too has not helped. In neighbouring Kerala, daily briefings that began in January, continues to this day with the CM and the chief secretary attending. Health and family welfare department officials say managing the contagion involves multiple agencies across various tiers and only ministerial interventions can fix glitches. While the department is the point person, some Covid-19 hospitals come under the medical education department, while revenue and district/BBMP officials are in charge of surveillance operations. Bureaucrats say that a top minister fielding questions daily will not only lend cohesion to government efforts, but also make it responsive to criticism and enable course correction. “It’s not only about releasing a bulletin on the number of new cases, but also about answering questions on various issues. Major decisions of the government need to be communicated better,” a senior official said. Officials point out that the lack of coordination between district administrations, medical education department and the health and family welfare department’s core team is hindering even routine responsibilities like keeping people in the loop on the pandemic situation. “In Victoria Hospital, Bengaluru’s largest Covid-19 centre, a minimum 15-18 patients get discharged every day, but that is not reported in the bulletin,” an official said. “The Palike does not inform the health department of this. This skews official recovery statistics.” On Monday, when the health department bulletin was issued Bengaluru had zero discharge cases. “Health department officials have brought this to my notice. I will speak to the chief minister about it,” Suresh Kumar told TOI. Incidentally, Kumar himself was make spokesperson following reports of a turf war between health minister B Sriramulu and medical education minister K Sudhakar. When contacted, Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department said he would look into the matter. Sudhakar was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-sign-of-apathy-karnataka-govt-shelves-daily-briefing/articleshow/76539122.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 24, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad district administration all set to conduct SSLC exams||DHARWAD: Arrangements are in place for smooth and fair conduct of SSLC examination in the district from June 25 to July 4, said deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan here on Tuesday. No examination centre in the district is in containment zone, she added. Preparations for the examination are as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) prescribed by the department of public instruction, the DC said. As many as 200 buses of NWKRTC will ferry students to the examination centres and back. Steps have been taken to ensure sanitisation, thermal screening, social distancing and prevention of malpractice at the examination centre. Deepa said the authorities have collected information about the mode of transport of students to the examination centres. While over 6,000 students are expected to come by NWKRTC buses, more than 7,000 students will be ferried by school buses and 3,000 students will come by cycle/ auto rickshaws. The others will either walk down or will be dropped by parents, she said. The candidates may visit their respective centres on June 24 between 10.30am and 2pm and find out their seats, she said. In all, 27,841 candidates will appear for the examination in the district. Para-medical staff will be present to conduct sanitisation and thermal screening at the centres. For information regarding transport arrangements parents/students may call the helpline — 1077.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-dist-admin-all-set-to-conduct-sslc-exams/articleshow/76539328.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Covid cases spike in Kashi,21 more found infected||Varanasi: The district recorded a big jump in figures of Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday as 21 persons were found infected. Azamgarh also registered 18 new cases while eight infected persons were detected in Ballia on Tuesday. Ghazipur crossed 300 nark with 21 new cases while Chandauli recorded 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday late night. Chief medical officer Varanasi Dr VB Singh said, “Altogether, 162 test reports were received from BHU lab in which 21 were shown as positive. Now, total figure of the Covid-19 positive cases in the district is 364. Of these, 242 have been cured while 13 have died. Now, active cases in the district are 109.” The CMO said that among new 21 cases, 18 were detected during contact tracing of already infected persons. Following detection of new cases, four new hotspots have been created after which total number of hotspots in the district has reached to 184. He said that 72 hotspots are in active category. Azamgarh CMO Dr. AK Mishra said, “With the detection of 18 new positive cases, the tally of Covid-19 in the district has reached 198. Of these, 158 have been cured while six had died.” “Now, 34 active cases are being treated. Among among new 19 patients three are from the villages of Haraiyya, four from Rani ki Sarai, one from Sanjarpur, one from Mortinganj, three from Tarva, one from Lalganj, Gambhirpur, Pavai, Atraulia and Bhimkola each and two from Sahnudih,” he added. In Ballia, the tally of Covid-19 cases reached 98 with the detection of eight new infected persons, including a Delhi-returned couple, said DM Hari Pratap Shahi, adding that 61 patients have been cured so far. Earlier, on Mondat late night Chandauli received lab test reports in which 14 persons including two women and two children were found positive. DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal said that eight of them had returned from Maharashtra, two from Delhi and Noida each, one from Haryana and Gujarat each. Now, total figures of positive cases in Chandauli has reached 84 in which 36 have become cured while one had died. Active cases in the district are 46. Ghazipur crossed the mark of 300 in Covid-19 tally with the testing of 21 more positive cases on Tuesday. Deputy chief medical officer Dr Umesh Kumar said that four new cases were reported in morning while 17 more cases came to light with the arrival of lab test reports in the evening. With it, total figure of Covid-19 cases in the district reached to 311. Of them, 206 have been cured while one had died. Now, 104 patients are in active category, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-cases-spike-in-kashi21-more-found-infected/articleshow/76537296.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid Care Centres in Bengaluru: Six in a room, one loo between them||BENGALURU: With the number of asymptomatic cases surging, the state government will on Wednesday, make available 2,500 beds to house patients at designated Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, the first of these CCCs were made operational at Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru. The facility has around 500 beds, of which 432 beds will be earmarked for asymptomatic patients and the rest for medical personnel. The other two CCCs that will be launched include a 400-bed centre at Sri Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda hospital on Kanakapura Road and a 200-bed Medsol hospital in Kengeri. These are part of the 20,000 beds under CCC to be established in Bengaluru. Speaking to TOI, IAS officer and task leader of CCCs Rajender Kumar Kataria said: "CCCs will operate under standard operating protocols laid out by the government. These CCCs have been established to contain the spread of the virus. Apart from these three centres, we will also convert paid institutional quarantine facilities (hotels) into CCCs and add another 1,500 beds." However, senior government officials say CCCs will have just one bathroom for six patients in a room raising concerns over hygiene. “Accommodating asymptomatic patients with available resources is a tough ask. However, with proper hygiene and maintenance, it should not be a concern,” said a senior official. Health department guidelines in fact suggest one toilet for every 10 people. But as per guidelines issued by the health and family welfare department, there should be only one person for every 50 patients every 12 hours to clean rooms and bathrooms. Nonetheless, the government in the same guideline has said it will provide regular three-course meals. While breakfast will be at 7am, lunch will be at 1pm and dinner at 7pm. The government will also arrange mid-morning fruits at 10am and a late night cup of flavoured milk, besides biscuits, bananas and nutri bars with evening tea/coffee. It has even issued a directive on what should be the menu each day, complete with nutrition. All meals will be outsourced to catering services. Meanwhile, in the second phase, the state government has identified seven engineering colleges and hostels with a capacity of 3,200 beds in the city. A taskforce has been created specifically to manage CCCs in Bengaluru. Finally, in the third phase, if required, the government has given the leeway to officials to identify bigger open spaces like Palace Grounds, BIEC and the indoor stadiums in Koramangala and Kanteerava. “We have urged the officials to ensure that these stadiums and large spaces are the last resort, with cases spiking exponentially. Till then, we have directed them to hire hotels and lodges at the taluk and hobli levels,” said one minister on the Covid-19 taskforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-care-centres-six-in-a-room-one-loo-between-them/articleshow/76539052.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Failed Inter students may get breather too||Hyderabad: In the wake of surge in coronavirus cases, parents, activists and college managements are demanding cancellation of Intermediate advanced supplementary examinations and pass all failed students. In the second year, 1,28,169 (31.14%) of 4,11,631 candidates failed, while 1,92,172 (40%) of 4,80,555 candidates were unsuccessful in the first year Intermediate.  Although the results were announced on June 18, advanced supplementary examination schedule is yet to be released. “About three lakh students failed in the Intermediate examinations and at least one lakh first year students might be willing to appear for improvement examinations. In the current scenario, it is not safe to conduct examinations for about four lakh students. So, it will be better if the state cancels supplementary examinations for this academic year,” Telangana Parents Association ‘president N Narayana told TOI. With the clamour for cancelling examinations increasing by the day, the state too is inclined towards passing failed candidates without holding exams. Speaking to TOI, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education secretary and commissioner Syed Omer Jaleel said the board has already sent its report to the state on the issue. “We came up with with two ways on how students who failed in the exams can be promoted without supplementary examinations and submitted a report. The state will take the final call and will make an announcement,” Jaleel said, adding the state was aware about mechanisms other states and boards were using to pass students without conducting examinations. Activists said Telangana should take a cue fromAP, which cancelled Intermediate supplementary exam on June 20. Likewise, college managements said that as there was no internal assessment in Intermediate, all failed candidates irrespective of the marks they secured in the exams should be awarded pass marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/failed-inter-students-may-get-breather-too/articleshow/76539688.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Khadi to be given modern look: Minister||Lucknow: In a bid to push sales further up, Khadi & Village Industries Board minister Sidharth Nath Singh said khadi needs to be promoted more and given a modern look and professionals must be roped in for the makeover. In a meeting of Khadi Gramodyog Board on Tuesday, the minister and members considered 26 proposals. The department is paying special emphasis on promoting the use of technology. The board has also decided to tie up with Quality Council of India to assess the quality of khadi clothing items.  The board also decided to develop the Kasturba Emporium in Kaiserbagh as Khadi Plaza. Additional chief secretary, khadi, Navneet Sehgal said, “UP’s Khadi Gramodyog Board has been nominated for the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) Yojana under which the Centre will allocate Rs 9 crore for common facility centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khadi-to-be-given-modern-look-minister/articleshow/76540189.cms||---
June 24, 2020||India||PLA Gen ordered Galwan assault: US intel report||Senior PLA officer Gen Zhao Zongqi, in charge of China’s western theatre command, approved the assault on Indian troops at Galwan Valley on June 15, according to a report in the US News.  The US intelligence assessment does not see the incident as a spontaneous clash and sees the Ladakh intrusions and Galwan being driven by a desire to signal that China isn’t vulnerable to “opportunistic” pressure tactics by India in the post-Covid situation. The US News previously reported the PLA had sustained significant casualties in the Galwan clash. If China’s idea was to remind India of its frailty, the gambit may have backfired, with a strong backlash building up against China in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pla-gen-ordered-galwan-assault-us-intel-report/articleshow/76541263.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Government staff to get full pay for June||HYDERABAD: In what could come as a huge relief, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday announced that the government would pay full salary and pension to the employees for this month. The CM said since the state economy was improving, the government has decided to pay full salaries and pensions to the retired. He instructed the officials to make arrangement for the same. While a press release by the CMO said full salary and pension would be paid “for this month,” there is no clarity whether the government would continue to make full payment in subsequent months or take a decision after reviewing the financial situation every month. The government has not taken any decision on payment of deferred salaries and pension amount. Owing to the financial crisis and poor revenues accruing to the government departments due to the lockdown, Telangana had imposed deferment of salaries and pension for the last three months. While 50% cut in salaries of all government employees except police, doctors and sanitation workers was implemented, there was 75% cut for elected representatives like CM, ministers, MLAs and MLCs, 60% salary deferment to IAS, IPS and IFS officers. Even outsourcing and contract employees had to endure a 10% cut in salaries. Initially, retired government employees were also slapped with 50% cut in their pensions and later, it was revised to 25% cut. The employees’ unions have been requesting the government to review its decision and make full salary payments. Some unions, a couple of days ago, had threatened to protest if they are not paid full salary in June. Since there were court cases on salary cut, the government has recently promulgated an ordinance empowering it to make part payment of salaries and pensions in wake of a health emergency declared by the government such as Covid-19. Meanwhile, Telangana employees’ JAC leaders Karam Ravinder Reddy and V Mamata expressed happiness over the decision and urged the CM to make payment of the balance to the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-staff-to-get-full-pay-for-june/articleshow/76539693.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Parties seek murder charges against cops for custody deaths||TUTICORIN: Political parties have strongly reacted to the death of a man and his son due to suspected police brutality in Sathankulam. They sought murder charges to be pressed against the police personnel concerned and put an end to custodial deaths. The state government must answer how they died after being arrested by the police, DMK president M K Stalin said on Tuesday. In a statement, Stalin accused the police of brutality which eventually led to the death of Bennix and his father Jayaraj of Sathankulam. “Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who takes care of the home department must answer how the duo died under police custody. DMK condemns these custodial deaths and seeks justice to the family of the father-son duo,” Stalin said. Tuticorin MP and DMK women’s wing president Kanimozhi Karunanidhi petitioned DGP J K Tripathy seeking criminal action against the policemen at the Sathankulam police station. She also forwarded a complaint from Jayaraj’s wife J Selvarani. “The people who were assaulted by the police did not even get medical assistance and the same was hidden from the magistrate when they were produced for taking them into custody,” she said. PMK president S Ramadoss said that the actions of Sathankulam police is strongly condemnable at a time when thousands of police personnel across the state are risking their lives to prevent spread of Covid-19. He said they should be booked for murder. MDMK general secretary Vaiko accused the judicial magistrate concerned of sending the father and son duo for remand without seeing them. He also accused the police of murdering the duo and demanded immediate arrest of the police personnel responsible for their deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/parties-seek-murder-charges-against-cops-for-custody-deaths/articleshow/76540196.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||Civic body resumes civil work on Pashan-Sus Link Road flyover||PUNE: After a gap of three months, the Pune Municipal Corporation has resumed the work on a flyover on the Pashan-Sus Link Road, on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The new structure was aimed at streamlining traffic flow in the area, especially on the link road. The existing flyover, which is being used by vehicles to cross the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, has two narrow lanes and has proved insufficient to cater to the increasing volume of traffic. As a part of the new plan, two flyovers with wider carriageways have been proposed, in addition to two ramps landing on both sides of the bypass. To facilitate the ongoing work, traffic diversions have been imposed for vehicles crossing the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass — vehicles will now have to use an underpass for the purpose. “The project had received the nod from the PMC’s standing committee and general body at the start of the year. The requisite machinery was put in lace, but the work had to be suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” an official said. The estimated cost of the project is Rs45 core. It is expected to be completed in 24 months. As per the plan, each flyover will be around 452 metres long and nine metres wide. There will be two ramps on each side for vehicles to join the bypass. Service roads will also be available. “There will be no issue about the availability of land for the project, as most of the construction will be on existing land,” AN official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-resumes-civil-work-on-pashan-sus-link-road-flyover/articleshow/76539695.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Muted Rath Yatra festivities amid pandemic in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra at the Sri Jagannadha Swamy Temple at Town Kotha Road in Vizag city was celebrated on Tuesday without a chariot procession. The festival was also celebrated in the rest of the region without crowds, yatra, and troupes, keeping in view Covid-19 precautions. Executive officer of Sri Jagannadha Swamy Temple K Sirisha said the annual chariot festival was a low-key affair this time. The festival was celebrated within the temple premises where the deities were placed on a chariot and the priests performed pujas. The devotees were allowed for darshan from 12 noon to 6.30 pm. From June 24 to July 3, devotees will be allowed for darshan between 6.30 am and 6.30 pm, the executive officer added. The Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj, a socio-cultural organisation of natives of Odisha, also skipped celebrations. The deities were taken out from the sanctum sanctorum in a chariot and the rituals were carried out inside the temple. The International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) also performed pujas inside its temple premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/muted-rath-yatra-festivities-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76538756.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Man, son die in custody: Relatives, traders complain of police torture in Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: In a suspected case of custodial murder, two men who were incarcerated at the Sathankulam police lock-up for the entire night on Friday died within hours of each other on Monday night. They were held for keeping their shop open beyond permitted hours during the virus curfew in Tuticorin district Relatives and friends of the father-son duo, P Jayaraj, 58, and J Bennix, 31, alleged they were brutally assaulted by the Sathankulam police overnight before they were sent to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on Saturday. Jail sources said Bennix had injuries on his buttocks and knees and Jayaraj had injuries to his knees when they were brought there. At the jail, Bennix complained of chest pain around 7.30pm on Monday and was taken to the Kovilpatti general hospital where he died soon after admission. His father developed fever around 10.30pm and was taken to the same hospital, where he died early on Tuesday. Agitated traders of Sathankulam town downed shutters and staged a protest accusing the police of custodial brutality. Two sub-inspectors have been placed under suspension and an autopsy will be held on Wednesday The trouble started on Friday night, when police told Jayaraj who was manning his son’s shop that sells mobile phones and accessories to shut and asked the crowd to disperse. The victims’ realtives said Jayaraj picked an argument with the cops, one of whom hit him. Bennix who had arrived on the scene by then got into a scuffle with the police when his father was assaulted, they said. The two were then taken to the police station where, the relatives alleged, the two were assaulted all night before being produced before the local magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody. They were then taken to Kovilpatti sub-jail The First Information Report (FIR) in Sathankulam police station against the father and son says they rolled on the ground and injured themselves and shows the time of occurrence of this incident as well as time of lodging the complaint in the police station 1 km away as 9.15 pm. The complaint lodged by head constable S Murugan stated that he and constable Muthuraj were on rounds to prevent the spread of Covid-19 when they saw the shop of the accused was open beyond the permitted time. There were a few others with the father and son but they left the place after the police told them to avoid crowding. “The father and son used abusive language and also rolled on the ground, in which they were injured. They threatened to kill us as we insisted they leave,” Murugan’s complaint stated and added that the duo was brought to the station. After their death, police said the two had a history of heart ailments and were under medication. Their kin denied this and said the two men had no health problems. On Jayaraj’s widow Selvarani’s plea, the Madras high court has ordered directed that a team of three doctors perform the post-mortem at the Tirunelveli GH,, and that the procedure be videographed and a report submitted in court. “Autopsy will be conducted in the presence of the judicial magistrate on Wednesday and it will be videographed. Only after autopsy the cause of death will be known,” Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tuticorin district Arun Balagopalan told TOI. Police presence was stepped up at Sathankulam and Kovilpatti. Tiruchendur MLA and DMK south district secretary Anitha R Radhakrishnan and other elected representatives took part in the protest, following which collector Sandeep Nanduri and the SP conducted talks with the protesters in the afternoon. The collector said two sub inspectors against whom the protesters made allegations were placed under suspension. Traders ShutdownPresident of the Tamil Nadu Vaingar Sangangalin Peravai (federation of traders' associations) T Vellaiyan announced complete closure of shops across Tamil Nadu on Wednesday to condemn the police atrocity that claimed the lives of two traders at Sathankulam. Political leaders and rights activists too condemned the brutal incident and sought justice for the victims and stringent action against the police personnel concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-son-die-in-custody-relatives-traders-complain-of-police-torture/articleshow/76539691.cms||M K Ananth
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Cabinet given detailed info on govt’s Covid-19 welfare measures||BHOPAL: Cabinet members were given a detailed information about the economic benefits and relief given to different sections of society under various schemes during Covid -19 crisis in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday. The CM said that the economic sector has been badly affected due to Coronavirus pandemic. In order to reduce the difficulties of the people, the state government made timely arrangements for online payment of funds for the welfare of each class. This has directly benefited the common man during the Covid 19 crisis. Payment was made to various sections of the society in the lockdown period for relief. Prominently, 24 departments have done the work of providing Rs. 38 thousand crore in scholarship, pension, labour and farmer welfare schemes. He himself interacted with migrant labourers, students and other beneficiaries of various schemes including Saharia, Baiga, Bharia tribesmen on certain occasions through video conferences and got the amounts deposited in their accounts. A significant decision was taken in a major relief to the electricity consumers of the state during Covid-19 crisis. In this, the work of extending benefits various categories of power consumers has started. Chouhan said that during the lockdown period, relief has been provided to the people by saving them from the burden of electricity bills. He said that the information about this decision should be provided to consumers through a campaign. If any consumer faces any problem, it should be resolved. According to this, 30.68 lakh Sambal Yojana beneficiaries, whose electricity bill for April amounts to Rs 100, will have to pay only Rs 50 per month in the months of May, June and July. This exemption amounts to Rs 46 crore. Principal secretary, energy, informed that the number of consumers benefited from all categories is 95 lakh and the exemption amount is Rs 623 crore. The work of giving relief information by sending SMS to consumers has also been started. Ministers including Narottam Mishra, Tulsi Silawat, Kamal Patel, Govind Singh Rajput and Meena Singh were present in the meeting. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains was also present in the meeting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cabinet-given-detailed-info-on-govts-covid-19-welfare-measures/articleshow/76538757.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Maya for probe into shelter home case||Lucknow:BSP chief Mayawati on Tuesday accused the government of trying to whitewash the Kanpur incident in which several inmates of a state run women’s shelter home have been found to be Covid-19 positive and some of them even pregnant. “This incident has once again proved that the government continues to remain unconcerned and irresponsible about women safety. Before this, when a Dalit girl was harassed in Azamgarh, the government had taken strict action and it had appeared that even if delayed it had taken decisive action. However, the spate of crime against women has proved that in the Azamgarh case the government action was only an exception and not part of any policy,” she said. Mayawati demanded a high level inquiry into the matter and said strict action be taken against the guilty. She said the government should take steps to improve the functioning of shelter homes for women and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-for-probe-into-shelter-home-case/articleshow/76540195.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown blues: Prayagraj witnesses spurt in suicides||Prayagraj: Incidents of suicides have been on the rise in Sangam city since Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown with two cases being reported last Friday. As many as 30 suicides were reported in the city lockdown. Clinical psychology and psychiatry experts told TOI that fear, loneliness, anxiety and depression have been driving people to take the extreme step. “According to a report compiled by a group of activists, suicide was the leading cause in 338 ‘non-coronavirus deaths’ in the country from March 19 to May 2. In Prayagraj alone, 30 cases of suicides took place between March 23 and May 28,” said Dr Ishanya Raj, clinical psychologist at Motilal Nehru Divisional hospital. “Covid-19 is causing concern, stress, depression, anxiety and suicidal tendency among people all over the world. It is also impacting the psychological well-being of general public. Elders, students, healthcare professionals, females, labourers, people living in stress and those with chronic conditions are at higher risk,” she added. “Studies conducted to find out reasons for people taking this extreme step during pandemic show that unpredictability, fear of getting infected, physical distancing, break in normal routine, lack of mental stimulation from social interaction, restrictions on movement are some of the main contributory factors,” said Dr Raj. People must stay positive in this time and should find ways to ward off negativity. There are several tips one can follow. “Everyone should practice yoga, meditation, do physical exercises like aerobics, walking or jogging at home, spend time with family, take care of children and elders, connect with relatives and friends, read, learn something new, pursue a hobby, finish pending work, schedule activities, and involve themselves in household responsibilities, she added. “Writing down feelings or using any other creative form to express feelings, instead of focusing on fear are good ways. People should get good sleep, limit watching news, limit internet time,” Dr Raj added. “One should not hesitate in seeking professional help. Experts can help handle such situations,” said Dr Rajesh Paswan of the hospital. Dr Jayanath BP, consultant psychiatrist, district hospital, Kaushambi said, “The loss of jobs, reduced income and uncertainty about future are causing anxiety and distress. The immediate future plans of youth and budding professionals have been upset. Expert help is available for free in government hospitals and people facing depression or having suicidal thoughts should not hesitate to reach out to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-blues-prayagraj-witnesses-spurt-in-suicides/articleshow/76536289.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||67 shelter homes in UP overcrowded, admits minister||Lucknow: After 57 inmates of a state-run shelter home in Kanpur were found infected with coronavirus, the woman and child development department admitted overcrowding in 67 shelters. Against a total capacity of 3,675, currently 3,963 inmates stay huddled. Of these, 20 women and girls at 17 shelter homes, housing mostly victims under POSCO Act, were pregnant at time of admission, said director, Manoj Kumar Rai. On Tuesday, women and child development minister Swati Singh directed officials to inspect shelter homes and identify alternate buildings to accommodate additional inmates. District magistrates have also been instructed to test all inmates for Covid-19. Singh also directed officials to dispel “misinformation” around the Kanpur incident. To counter accusation that women inmates found pregnant at the Kanpur shelter home may have been sexually abused in the premises, the department clarified that victims under POSCO Act may be pregnant at the time of admission and there are currently 20 such inmates in 17 shelters. Guards vet every visitor and CCTVs are installed for round-the-clock vigil at these home, the department said. Rai said one inmate was found to be infected during random sampling of five at the Kanpur shelter home. Later, a test on all inmates was conducted and 57 turned out to be positive. “District magistrates have been asked to ensure samples are collected at the protection home and inmates don’t travel to hospitals,” a senior officer said. Earlier, the state health department initiated targeted random sampling exercise in vulnerable pockets, including protection homes across UP. “Many homes have accommodated more inmates than their capacity raising the risk of infection,” said a health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/67-shelter-homes-in-up-overcrowded-admits-minister/articleshow/76540197.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TV actor tests +ve, shooting stalled||Hyderabad: The shooting of a serial was called off and the other cast and crew members were sent for Covid-19 tests on Tuesday after a television actor tested positive for the disease. As the actor was also part of at least two other serials, the artistes and crew members involved in the shooting of those serials were also asked to get the test done. Further, a voice message went viral about the Telugu actor testing positive. In the message, a person can be heard urging everyone to take precautions while shooting. Telugu Television Producers Council treasurer K Ramesh Babu said the shootings of all other serials were taking place without any hitch as several measures including wearing of masks and following social distancing norms were put in place. According to sources, the artiste who tested positive had reportedly travelled from Tirupati to Hyderabad by train recently. This is the first case of Covid-19 in the television industry as no shootings took place after the lockdown was announced on March 24 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Permission for film shootings with safety guidelines was given by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tv-actor-tests-ve-shooting-stalled/articleshow/76539696.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online friend cons political worker of Rs 5,000||PUNE: A political party worker from the Dandekar bridge slum on Monday lodged a complaint against an Aurangabad resident of posing as a personal assistant (PA) of an MLA from Pune district on a social media site and duping him of Rs 5,500 in May on the pretext of sending dry food packets for distribution among the slum dwellers on May 16. Police said the complainant, Sandeep Shashikant Kale (30), met the suspect on a social media site. “The suspect asked for Rs5,500 for transportation of dry fruit packets. Kale transferred the money but the tempo never arrived,” an officer from the Dattawadi police said. Kale told TOI, “I believed him as he had uploaded his pictures with many politicians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-friend-cons-political-worker-of-rs-5k/articleshow/76539698.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chennai||New Tamil Nadu cases cross 2,500 again, tests down by 6,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu logged 2,516 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, but the number of people tested for the viral infection dropped by at least 6,000 compared to Sunday. The case tally rose to 64,603, and the official toll in the state reached 833 with 39 more deaths registered. The number of people tested for the viral infection came down to 23,921 on Tuesday from 29,963 on Sunday and 25,234 on Monday. “With the intense lockdown and solar eclipse, many people did not come for tests. Chennai has a capacity of doing 14,000 tests daily. We will be doing at least 10,000 from tomorrow,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. While Chennai added 1,380 positive cases, Chengalpet reported 146 cases, Tiruvallur 156 and Kancheepuram 59 cases. On the eve of a complete lockdown, Madurai, reported 137 cases. Theni reported 48 cases, Dindigul 44 and Sivaganga 20. In the north, Tiruvannamalai reported 110 cases and Cuddalore 29. “Chennai remains our worst-hit district. Experts say testing and isolating positive people is the only effective tool for prevention. We are using it extensively during lockdown,” the health secretary said. While health workers and mobile clinics will fan out to different parts of Chennai to screen people, all government labs have been told to run three shifts. “We have even promised cash incentives for staff who work late night shifts,” the health secretary said. Private labs have also been asked to ramp up screening. Patients with at least one of symptom for the viral infection are taken up for screening across all labs. As cases are increasing, the state is ramping up testing facilities in districts such as Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Ranipet. On Tuesday, all districts, barring Tirupur and Ariyalur, recorded fresh cases. The state is also seeking assistance from central government institutions such as JIPMER in Puducherry so more people in Cuddalore district can be tested. At present, Cuddalore district uses the testing facility in Government Rajah Muthiah Medical College. Nine of the 39 deceased succumbed to the infection within 24 hours of admission and three of them did not have any comorbidities. There were 29 people above the age of 60 and the other ten were in the 40-60 age group. So far 2,643 people who returned to Tamil Nadu by air, sea, road and rail have tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 28 people who returned from other states, four each from UAE and Russia, and one each from Congo and Maldives, tested positive. At the end of the day, after 1,227 patients were discharged, the state had 28,428 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-tn-cases-cross-2500-again-tests-down-by-6000/articleshow/76539702.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Aurangabad||DHS suggests prescribing meds to comorbid patients||AURANGABAD: To ensure that people with comorbidities do not have to visit hospitals frequently, state directorate of health services, Pune, has asked health officials to prescribe three months of medications to such patients. The directive is part of the communication aimed at bringing down the Case Fatality Rate/Ratio (CFR) to below 3% in Covid-19 cases. As on date, more than 50% of municipal corporations and districts in Maharashtra have CFR higher than 3%. As per the statistics cited in a recent communication issued by the directorate of health services (DHS), Pune, to deputy directors of health services, district health officers, civil surgeons and health officers with civic bodies across the state, 16 of the 27 municipal corporations and 19 of the 34 districts in the state have CFR above 3%. The communication by Dr. Archana Patil from DHS has expressed that the possibility of Covid-19 patients registering a surge due to relaxation in lockdown cannot be ruled out. The communication has asked the health authorities from across the states to come together for bringing CFR in every civic body and district to below 3%. The 16 municipal corporations above the prescribed CFR of 3% are Solapur (8.07), Malegaon (7.52), Dhule (7.30), Sangli (6.67), Jalgaon (6.06), Aurangabad (5.64), Bhivandi Nijampur (5.54), MCGM (5.45), Akola (5), Nanded (4.89), Amaravati (4.71), Mira Bhayandar (4.39), Panvel (3.98), PMC (3.96), Nashik 93.890 and Ulhasnagar (3.79). While the districts with above 3% CFR include Dhule (12.44), Jalgaon (8.95), Amravati (8.82), Parbhani and Wardha (7.14), Solapur (6.04), Nandurbar (6.02), Nashik (5.93), Latur (5.84), Akola (5.65), Ahmednagar (4.78), Satara (4.62), Pune (4.42), Beed (3.57), Osmanabad (3.55), Ratnagiri (3.53), Raigad (3.39), Buldhana (3.21), Jalna (3.06) and Yavatmal (3.04). The communication citing the availability of health services including health infrastructure and medical experts stated that all the civic bodies as well as the districts are expected to have CFR lesser than 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dhs-suggests-prescribing-meds-to-comorbid-patients/articleshow/76537345.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six motorcycles stolen in three days||PUNE: Six two-wheelers, including three power bikes worth Rs2 lakh, were stolen from various areas of Pimpri Chinchwad in the last three days. A Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch officer said CCTV footage were being collected from the spots to identify the thieves. Another officer said power bikes were mainly used for robberies like chain snatching. “We have started investigating chain snatchers, currently out on bail,” the officer said. Hrishikesh Thombare (23) of Maheshnagar in Pimpri on Monday lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police stating that some thieves stole his and his friend’s power bikes from the parking lot of a building on Sunday. On Monday, Ashish Kumar Das of Udyamnagar in Pimpri lodged an FIR about the theft of his power bike. Three more two-wheelers — two from Bhosari and one from Chakan — were stolen in the last three days, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-motorcycles-stolen-in-three-days/articleshow/76539701.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||6 more Shramik Spls send migrants home||Prayagraj: Six more Shramik Special trains were operated from the NCR for migrants on Tuesday. Of these, one each was operated from Etah to Patna, Etah to Lakhisarai, Hathras to Nawada and three trains from Aligarh to Gaya ferrying approximately 10,500 migrants to their home state. With this total 172 Shramik specials have been operated by NCR till June 22 and over 2.11 lakh migrants have been ferried to their destinations. Of these, 84 trains operated by Prayagraj, 63 by Jhansi and 17 trains by Agra division, said NCR CPRO Ajeet Kumar Singh. Till Monday total 202 Shramik specials from different parts of the country have terminated at various stations over NCR. Of total 202 terminating trains, Prayagraj, Jhansi and Agra have handled 122, 71 and 9 trains respectively. Through these terminating and passing trains with scheduled de-boarding at NCR’s stations, more than 3 lakh persons were brought back from different part of the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/6-more-shramik-spls-send-migrants-home/articleshow/76536307.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Spurious seed gang busted||Hyderabad: Nalgonda police busted an inter-state spurious seeds racket and arrested 23 offenders. Police seized 15 quintals of spurious cotton seeds and packaging equipment worth Rs 30 lakh from the accused’s possession. Recently, Munugode police of Nalgonda district found four packets of spurious cotton seeds and launched a probe. The enquiry found the gang was operating from the two Telugu states. Police arrested two offenders from Chandur in Nalgonda district and based on their confession, arrested 21 others from Gadwal and Nagarkurnool districts, and various places in Nalgonda district and Nandyal in AP. “We are planning to initiate proceedings against the offenders under the PD Act,” Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spurious-seed-gang-busted/articleshow/76539700.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Fake fertilizer racket busted in AP, six arrested||VIJAYAWADA: Six persons were arrested by the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) for allegedly manufacturing and distributing fake fertilizer products near Nethaji Bridge under Krishna Lanka Police Station limits on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said they had received a complaint from Syngenta Agrochemicals Private Limited that unlicensed traders were illegally replicating their fertilizer and plant growth products. Upon receiving credible information, Srinivasulu said the CTF intercepted a car transporting the fertilizers and arrested two persons, K Praveen Kumar and K Nageswara Rao who are distributers and promoters of the fake goods. Further interrogation revealed that they have been running a full-fledged manufacturing unit in Guntur. Upon raiding the premises of the unit, another four persons were arrested. Srinivasulu said the main accused is one Nagulram Ramu who heads the manufacturing unit and his brother Nagulram Lakshmi Narayanamurthy worked as a warehouse manager with Syngenta. Police also arrested Abdul Karim and G Venkata Sivarama Krishna who manufactured labels and plastic bottles. Srinivasulu said Narayanamurthy who was in charge of the warehouse had picked up the process of packaging Syngenta’s product before he quit his job. Later, he decided to start his own venture with the help of Nagulram Ramu. “They procured the chemicals from another private company in LB Nagar in Hyderabad,” Srinivasulu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fake-fertilizer-racket-busted-six-arrested/articleshow/76538799.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 24, 2020||Bhopal||After gas-victim death shocker, Narottam Mishra orders ward-wise Covid survey in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh health and home minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday took note of a report released by NGOs that 75% Covid-19 deaths in Bhopal are gas victims, and announced extensive ward-wise survey to identify Covid suspects. The door-to-door survey will begin next week. Activists have welcomed it, but want it taken a step further in areas housing gas victims. They want extensive tests in the vulnerable community. “We want to make Bhopal a model and later carry out similar exercises in other big cities. Survey teams will go door-to-door in all the wards on the same day and our aim would be to uproot Coronavirus from cities,” Mishra said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had asked for such a survey in Bhopal during a recent review meeting, and there was a plan to conduct a two-day survey last week, said sources. In the meanwhile, the Bhopal collector changed and the plan was put on hold to train survey teams adequately before they set out on the massive exercise. The Covid-19 death data analysis by a group of four NGOs, reported by TOI on Tuesday, has some worrying findings: 75% of gas victims died within five days of admission, 81% of them had co-morbidities attributed to exposure to deadly MIC gas, and 85% of those aged below 60 who died of Covid-19 were gas survivors. The NGOs studied 60 Covid deaths in Bhopal and found 45 of them were gas victims. Bhopal chief medical & health officer Dr Prabhakar Riwari told TOI that surveyors will go to 500 densely-populated colonies and slums, followed closely by screening teams. “If someone is suspected of Coronavirus infection, their swab sample will be taken for test. And if someone is found seriously ill, they would be sent to hospital immediately,” he said. Officials said 1,500 teams, mainly comprising Asha and Anganwadi workers, will carry out the survey. They were trained for a day at Samanvay Bhawan last week but it was felt that they should be given further training in use of ‘Sarthak’ app of the state government, which would be used in the survey. The chief minister was scheduled to address them that day but his programme was cancelled at the last minute as he had to visit Rewa to attend the funeral of soldier Deepak Singh who was martyred fighting off the Chinese aggression in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. The NGOs, however, say a health survey would be of no help in preventing gas victims falling prey to Covid-19. Co-convener of Bhopal Group for Action & Information, one of the four NGOs, said 19 centres were opened in May for survey of gas victims after 20-odd Covid deaths but it “made no difference as gas victims continue to die of the infection”. “They already have a list of ‘high risk’ gas victims, so don’t need any further survey. They should test this group to identify whether they are infected and treat them in time,” she said. Champa Devi of Bhopal Gas Peedit Stationary Karmachari Sangh pointed out that gas victims constitute 32% of the population of Bhopal, yet 75% of the Covid fatalities. “It shows they are extremely vulnerable to Covid-19 and there’s an urgent need to save them from the virus,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-gas-victim-death-shocker-mishra-orders-ward-wise-covid-survey-in-bhopal/articleshow/76539704.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Aged couple seek help to raise 4 grandkids||MADURAI: An aged couple looking after four young grandchildren without their parents has sought help from district administration as the meagre wage they eke out by taking odd jobs is not adequate run their family of six. They visited collector’s office looking for help on Tuesday. Kathapattu, in his 60’s, and Manthaiammal, 53, from Narasingampatti village near Melur, are looking after three granddaughters (aged 12, 8 and 6) and one grandson aged 3. The responsibility of raising children fell on their shoulders as Kathapattu’s daughter M Pootchi died soon after giving birth to her last child. Manikandan, her husband from Chinnakarpoorampatti village, remarried and abandoned all the four children with their grandparents. “The children’s names are not in our ration card, as a result we get limited ration. We came to the district collector to seek an ankanwadi job for myself and free livestock allocated by the state government,” Manthaiammal said. B Pandiarajan, member of Child Welfare Committee, Madurai spoke to the couple and assured of taking care of the children by admitting them in a home and ensuring good education. They left the premises without meeting the collector to give themselves time to think about admission of children in home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aged-couple-seek-help-to-raise-4-grandkids/articleshow/76540199.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Pune||PCMC to start student intake process from Wednesday||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The admission process under the Right to Education (RTE) will resume from Wednesday across 177 schools in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limit. The process had been on hold since March, when the lockdown was announced. According to the education department, the first lottery was drawn in March and the document verification process will resume from Wednesday. Parents of the children shortlisted in the first lottery, who had received an SMS, will be called for document verification in the respective schools. Officials from the department said that if the parents remain absent on the stipulated date they could be called at a later date. The education department has told schools not to call parents from the containment zones. They could be called later, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-start-student-intake-process-today/articleshow/76539706.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports another 163 Covid cases||AURANGABAD: The number of Covid-19 patients in Aurangabad district on Tuesday increased by 163 along with three deaths being reported in the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). As many as 30 rural pockets recorded positive cases on Tuesday while 72 areas in Aurangabad city reported such cases. “Currently, 1,570 patients are being treated at different facilities in the district, including the dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility at the GMCH. A 66-year-old man from Vanjargaon in Vaijapur taluka, 86-year-old man from Peer Bazaar and 60-year-old from Khangaon in Phulamri taluka were the three casualties reported on Tuesday,” a health department official said. “Different private hospitals have recorded 54 deaths while 148 succumbed to the Covid-19 at the GMCH and one death was also reported at civil hospital, taking the total deaths to 203. The number of patients who have recovered and discharged from the hospitals stands at 2,046,” he added. Meanwhile, a GMCH officials said that presently 182 Covid-19 patients are being treated at the dedicated facility on the hospital premises and of them 54 are improving while condition of 128 is critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-another-163-covid-cases/articleshow/76537360.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||35-year-old run over by tractor-trolley in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: A 35-year-old man was killed after the bicycle he was riding was hit by a tractor-trolley in Gadarpur town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Babu Ram Prajapati, a resident of village Pipaliya number 1. “The accident took place near Axis bank in the main market of the city. The tractor trolley was coming from the opposite direction and hit Prajapati’s bicycle head-on. A case has been registered and search for the trolley’s driver is on,” said Jaswinder Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Gadarpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/35-year-old-run-over-by-tractor-trolley-in-us-nagar/articleshow/76537371.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||Boating resumes on Ganga after3 months, DM takes a boat ride||Varanasi: After a three-month-break due to the Covid-19 lockdown, boating resumed on the holy waters of Ganga on Tuesday with a boat ride given to Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma. Giving relaxation in restrictions, the district administration has allowed only those boatmen to resume boating, who have registered themselves on a web link activated by Varanasi Municipal Corporation under the smart city project. “Those boatmen who have filled in their details on the web link provided by VMC are allowed to operate their boats,” said the DM, who took a ride from Dashashwamedh ghat on Shambhu Sahni’s boat for inspection. Under the smart city project, VMC has recently activated a portal: https://varanasismartcity.gov.in/#/e-services/boating. On this portal, the process of registration of boats in all categories has been initiated. As of now, only basic data such as name, size and capacity of boats, operating mode (manual or motorboat) and a few other details are required. Once the boatmen have furnished these details, they can operate their boats. Since the boatmen earned nothing during the lockdown, they are not being charged any fee in the initial phase of registration. Further registration with prescribed fee for different categories of boats will begin after monsoon. So far, the boats were operating without any registration due to which it was not possible to monitor their operations. After the registration, the boatmen are bound to follow the safety guidelines strictly. Relaxation in restrictions came as a big respite to the people of the Nishad community who form the major population of boatmen and are solely dependent on the Ganga for their livelihoods. “There are about 4,000 families of boatmen in Varanasi, and they have faced acute hardships in the past three months of lockdown. The boatmen are relieved to resume work,” said Pradeep Sahani, president of Varanasi Nishad Raj Kalyan Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/boating-resumes-on-ganga-after3-months-dm-takes-a-boat-ride/articleshow/76537354.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Ivan completes tenure as MLC; vows to continue helping poor||Mangaluru: Congress leader and MLC Ivan D’Souza, who completed six years of tenure as a member of Karnataka legislative council, on Tuesday said that he will continue to practice as a lawyer in the city, serve the poor in his individual capacity and also strive to build the party in the state. Ivan told TOI that he has successfully fulfilled his duties as the chief whip of the government in the council and also as the parliamentary secretary to revenue department in Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy governments, respectively. “I’m one among the three MLCs who have 100% attendance in the council. Meanwhile, I’m the only council member to utilise the privilege of raising five questions in each session. I brought several major issues to the government through the questions and succeeded in finding solutions to the problems of people. During my six years of tenure as a council member, I could bring sanctions to the tune of Rs 46 crore through various departments. Meanwhile, financial aid to the tune of Rs 13.24 crore has been distributed through Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to nearly 1,600 beneficiaries. I will continue to serve the poor on my own as an individual. For this, I have set up an office in the premises of my house,” Ivan said, adding that he has distributed grocery kits and other essential items to over 18,000 families during the lockdown period. Ivan said his office in the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) building will be handed over to JD(S) MLC S L Boje Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ivan-completes-tenure-as-mlc-vows-to-continue-helping-poor/articleshow/76530688.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||NCR improves signalling system||Prayagraj: In the bid to improve the state-of-the-art signalling system, electronic interlocking of Gaipura station of Prayagraj-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay section has been upgraded from warm standby to hot standby by the S&T department of the NCR. Now, in case of any malfunction in any one of the two systems, the signal system will continue to operate without any interruptions, whereas earlier it used to take three minutes and all the signals of the station were red and the trains in up and down direction used to stop. The move will not only improve movement of trains in this section, but will also reduce the failure of the EI system, informed NCR PRO (Prayagraj) Sunil Kumar Gupta. Explaining the concept, Gupta informed TOI that since Gaipura station is in the lightning zone and in order to protect the EI system from lightning, the system communication between EI room and station master room has been changed. In addition, all types of manual switches for integrated operation of the signaling system and soft switches have been provided in the computer panel for MCB itself. Not only this, the computer panel is now monitoring the state of axle counter as well as the failure of integrated power supply (IPS), Earth Leakage Detector (ELD), etc., he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ncr-improves-signalling-system/articleshow/76536319.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Single screen theatres face Covid heat||Hyderabad/Visakhapatnam: With theatres having been shut for more than three months due to Covid-19 pandemic, the fate of single screen theatres in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh hangs in the balance. While the shutdown has directly affected the livelihood of nearly 12,000 staff in nearly 800 theatres in AP, it’s more or less the same for workers in 400 single screen theatres in Telangana, including 100 in GHMC area alone, in addition to 200 screens in multiplexes. Perla Sambamurthy, joint secretary of AP Film Chamber of Commerce (APFCC), sums up the mood among the workers. “The situation will go out of the control if we do not work out some solution soon. Both governments should be sympathetic towards the condition of workers as film business is affected like any other sector,” Sambamurthy, who is managing partner of a theatre in Visakhapatnam, told TOI. This is mainly true of families whose only source of income is film theatre. The situation has come to such a pass that some theatre owners have been sounded by superbazar managements to lease out their premises or sell them. “No offers of money have been discussed because the owners will first see how business will run as and when theatres are opened and take a call,” said M Vijendar Reddy, treasurer, Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce. Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce president K Murali Mohan said if there are no crowds owing to Covid-19, some owners may look for options to sell the premises or give it on lease. TP Anantam, manager of Leela Mahal theatre in Visakhapatnam, said regular employees of theatres are helpless as they don’t know any other work. K Sriniva Rao, a theatre worker in Vijayawada, said that apart from regular staff several others also suffered from the financial losses due to the closure of the theatres. P Ram Mohan Rao, chairman of Telangana State Film Development Corporation, felt theatres should be given concessions like industrial power tariff, flexible ticket rates with concessions in tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/single-screen-theatres-face-covid-heat/articleshow/76539711.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Rent dues: Woman, 75, thrown out by landlord||Madurai: Ejected by her landlord due to her inability to pay Rs 2,400 in rent dues, a 75-year-old woman had to spend a night in the district collectorate here before she got help. A volunteer for Indian Red Cross which helped Solaiveerammal of Kaadupatti village in Sholavandan on being alerted by the collector’s office, said her husband had died 28 years ago. Apart from the government dole for the aged, she earned her living by collecting and selling neem seeds and as domestic help in the locality despite her difficulty to walk. She lived alone in the rented house as her daughter is married. With no dole from the government for nearly six months, the lockdown had crippled her livelihood. Since she could not pay rent for three months (800 x 3), the landlord asked her to vacate the house, leaving her with a small bundle of clothes and a walking stick. On Monday an autorickshaw driver dropped her at the collectorate. As it was late, she spent the night there and waited to meet the collector on Tuesday. Assisted by Red Cross, she conveyed her grievance to an official who in turn helped her reach the One Stop Centre for women in distress under the social welfare department at K K Nagar. The centre’s administrative officer P Premalatha said Solaiveerammal will be referred to a home for the aged and that they will also follow up the action taken against her landlord||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rent-dues-woman-75-thrown-out-by-landlord/articleshow/76540208.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Woman killed in leopard attack in Nainital||NAINITAL: A 54-year-old woman, identified as Bhagwati Devi, was killed by a leopard in Nainital’s Kathgodam police station area on Monday morning. This is the third death in a leopard attack in the Nainital district in just a month's time. According to locals, the attack took place in district's Sunkot village when Devi was going to a temple with her son Navin. “The entire area is surrounded by forests and leopards have been spotted around the village earlier as well. Devi was going to the village temple with her son when the leopard suddenly jumped out of the forest and attacked her,” said Manish Gauni, a panchayat member of the village. Gauni added that Navin tried to scare away the leopard but it mauled Devi and critically injured her. “He was throwing stones at the leopard and screaming to scare him away. But the leopard did not leave. It severely injured Devi and left only when the locals gathered after hearing Navin's scream. They threw stones and chased the animal into the forest. Devi was later taken to her home where she died,” Gauni added. The local officials have said that they have sent Devi’s body for post-mortem and are also trying to set up traps so that the leopard can be tracked. “We spoke to the locals who saw the leopard and are now planning to set up traps so that the animal can be tracked. We will also set up cameras to locate the animal,” said an official present at the spot. As reported by TOI earlier, a leopard had attacked and killed as many as 47 goats in a forest village named Jalal. Also, in the Okhalkand block, another leopard had killed a 12-year-old girl while she was washing clothes. While the forest department has said that it has deployed its teams and set up cameras at both locations in none of the cases has the leopards been traced yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-killed-in-leopard-attack-in-nainital/articleshow/76537397.cms||Prashant Jha
June 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra education department tells schools to stagger RTE admissions||PUNE: The state education department has allowed schools to process admissions for the 25% RTE seats by calling parents in batches. The schools will notify parents to report with the documents and confirm admission by following all precautionary measures. Parents residing in containment zones will be called to process their children’s admissions post-lockdown. The schools will be able to mark slots for parents after June 24. “Parents have been told not to report for admissions until they receive a message from the school,” director of primary education Dattatraya Jagtap said. The schools will have to send messages to parents batches, collect documents and if they comply with all the guidelines, then issue the allotment letter. Schools will have to put up a timetable for admissions on their gate. “If any parents have gone to their native place and are not in the city, then they will be given another date to report. Parents will be given three dates, and if they fail to report on all occasions, their admission would be cancelled,” Jagtap said. The education department has eliminated the step of document scrutiny by government officials and handed over the responsibility to the school authorities just for this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-dept-tells-schools-to-stagger-rte-admissions/articleshow/76539712.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 24, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH misses plasma therapy clinical trials deadline||AURANGABAD: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has missed the June 15 deadline set by the state government for starting clinical trails for plasma therapy. Stating that inevitable procedural delays proved to be a hurdle in adhering to the stipulated deadline, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar on Tuesday said that efforts were underway to start the clinical trails as soon as possible. Citing official directives aimed at maintaining confidentiality of the therapy, the dean refused to divulge further details including future course of action charted out by the GMCH. A senior GMCH official said a few donors, including a journalist and a male nurse, who have recovered from Covid-19, have been identified as plasma donors. “Their blood samples were collected on Monday for different mandatory tests,” he said. The state government had asked for the use of plasma therapy in Covid-affected areas with June 15 being set as the deadline for starting clinical trails after necessary approvals from the central and state-level authorities. The GMCH was among 21 state-run health facilities identified for the therapy. GMCH had submitted a proposal worth Rs 31 lakh for the purchase of necessary infrastructure and facilities to conduct plasma therapy . “We have received the Apherisis machine which is used for collection and separation of blood components for plasma therapy. We are hopeful of getting the remaining infrastructure shortly following which clinical, trails will be started may be within a week depending upon the approvals,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-misses-plasma-therapy-clinical-trials-deadline/articleshow/76537380.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||SIT registers fresh FIRs against private institutions in SC/ST scholarship scam||ROORKEE: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam has registered six FIRs against eight private educational institutions on Tuesday. It is alleged that these institutions fraudulently managed to receive Rs 3.18 crore in their accounts in the name of SC/ST scholarship from the social welfare department. These institutes are based in Haridwar and Dehradun districts of Uttarakhand and Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. The officials of these institutions allegedly used forged documents to get the scholarship fund between 2011 and 2017. “Prima facie, we have found irregularities in the records of alleged institutions in getting the government fund (scholarship),” said Manjunath TC, head of SIT (Dehradun and Haridwar).These institutes are based in Dehradun, Haridwar, Unnao, and Saharanpur (Uttar Pradesh). “We have arrested 17 persons from Dehradun and 49 people from Haridwar so far. More arrests will be made in the coming days,” added the IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sit-registers-fresh-firs-against-private-institutions-in-sc/st-scholarship-scam/articleshow/76537378.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Free meal scheme goes off menu, kids suffer||Hyderabad: Closure of anganwadi centres and missing midday meals has been a matter of concern for needy children during the lockdown period. At a webinar organised by Shramika Vikasa Kendram-Terre Des Hommes Girls Advocacy Alliance Telangana consortium, child rights activists in Telangana said that the pandemic is leading to malnourishment among these children. The problem continues despite the state government saying that the beneficiaries are being provided nutritious meals at their doorstep. “Anganwadi centres are organised in small rooms in urban slums. Now due to physical distancing norms, all these schools are closed,” said Srinivas Reddy of SRD NGO. Another child rights activist K Subhash of Nalgonda said, “Balamrutham food given to children at anganwadi centres is not reaching the kids properly in remote places.” Stressing that proper nutrition is important for children to improve immunity, the child rights activists said that the government should ensure that food is delivered properly at doorsteps of the poor families. Child rights activists also demanded the government to supply meals in tribals areas in Nallamala and Adilabad, which are the worst affected due to the lockdown. Union Ministry of Human Resource Development had in March instructed all state authorities to follow the modalities for midday meal scheme. A woman and child welfare officer said, “As per our information, there are no serious lapses in food delivery. There could be issues in remote and tribal areas which will be rectified as and when they come to our notice,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/free-meal-scheme-goes-off-menu-kids-suffer/articleshow/76539719.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 24, 2020||Allahabad||Final exams at all universities in state, BEd-2020 joint entrance after June 30||Prayagraj: Annual and final semester examinations for 2019-20 sessions at all state universities and affiliated colleges would be conducted after June 30. This was informed by chief secretary UP, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari. The instructions are for higher education institutes as well as BEd joint entrance exam-2020. In a letter, dated June 19, the chief secretary has asked all vice-chancellors of state universities, director (higher education) as well as all divisional commissioners and DMs besides all regional higher education officials to ensure necessary arrangements for these exams. The letter also states that BEd-2020 joint entrance exam would be conducted on any Sunday in July and no state or private university in UP should conduct any of its own exams on this particular day. “Institutions must be sanitized and should adequate alcohol-based hand sanitizer for students be made available on all days at entrances of exam halls so that they can disinfect their hands before entering the venue,” Tiwari said. Face cover or masks must for everyong on the campus. Thermal screening should be ensured, he added. Institutions can arrange more examination centres to ensure social distancing norm and the nearest centre should be allotted to candidates from their homes. For BEd Joint Entrance Exam-2020, the chief secretary has asked that possibility of having centres in other states as per need also be explored. Commenting on the issue, vice-chancellor, Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University of the city, Prof Sangita Srivastava, said a meeting of the varsity examination committee has been convened on June 26 to discuss all details regarding conducting exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/final-exams-at-all-universities-in-state-bed-2020-joint-entrance-after-june-30/articleshow/76536334.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC sus services unlikely to resume in Greater Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With coronavirus positive cases going up every day, the TSRTC is unlikely to resume bus services in Greater Hyderabad zone in near future. A TSRTC official told TOI that though they were expecting the city RTC bus services to resume after June 30, the possibility seems to be remote now. “It is up to the state government to take a call,” said the official. Meanwhile, the meet between TSRTC and APSRTC officials to discuss resumption of inter-state bus services will be held on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bus-services-unlikely-to-resume/articleshow/76539722.cms||Roushan Ali
June 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Adani Power signs pact to buy AES’s 49% stake in OPGC||AHMEDABAD: Adani Power Limited (APL), India’s largest private sector power producer, has signed a definitive agreement to acquire 49% stake in Odisha Power Generation Corporation (OPGC) from the affiliates of AES Corporation (AES), a US-based global energy company. Billionaire Gautam Adani controlled APL has entered into a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (SSPA) to acquire from AES OPGC Holding and ES India Private Limited 89,30,237 equity shares held in Odisha Power Generation Corporation Limited (OPGC) representing 49% of the total issued, paid-up and subscribed equity share capital of OPGC, the company announced on Tuesday. “The cost of acquisition is valued at about Rs 1,000 crore,” said sources close to the development. OPGC operates 1,740MW thermal power plant at Banharpalli in Jharsuguda district. The government of Odisha holds the balance 51% stake in OPGC. The acquisition marks APL’s foray into Odisha state and it demonstrates the Adani Group’s long term commitment to develop and operate high quality infrastructure in the state, said a company official. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals including compliance with applicable requirements in relation to the Government of Odisha and the receipt of regulatory approvals such as Competition Commission of India and Reserve Bank of India. This plant is the mainstay of the Odisha state for base load power supply and amongst the lowest cost power generated in the state. The supercritical capacity of 1,320MW is a recently commissioned modern plant with low carbon footprint. The plant has a long term power purchase agreement (PPA) valid for 25 years with the state owned off taker GRIDCO and sources fuel from a nearby captive mine. The turnover (total income) of OPGC during last 3 audited financial years 2019, 2018 and 2017 is Rs 887.71 crore, Rs 613.36 crore and Rs 758.09 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-power-signs-pact-to-buy-aess-49-stake-in-opgc/articleshow/76539726.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||16 Covid test machines to be set up across Uttarakhand, HC told||NAINITAL: The state government on Tuesday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that within 10 days at least 16 TrueNat machines will be established to conduct RT-PCR tests for novel coronavirus patients across the state. In an affidavit filed by health secretary Amit Negi, the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani was informed that while five of these machines have already been provided the rest 11 will be made available soon. "Each machine has a capacity of testing 20 samples per day… All machines will be installed within 10 days," read the affidavit. According to the affidavit, a copy of which is available with TOI, the state government added that till now it has released over Rs 150 crore to the village heads and additional money will be provided based on their needs. While over Rs 107 was given under the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, over Rs 28 crore has been given under the State Finance Commission Recommended Fund. The rest of the money was given under heads like the State Disaster Fund and CM Relief Fund. "At the cost of brevity it is reiterated that the sum provided by the district administration to the gram panchayat is the first installment only and subsequently more funds will be released if any need arises or demand comes from the gram panchayat," the affidavit said. The government has also informed the court that it will soon start a testing facility at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Mukteshwar to improve testing capacity of Uttarakhand. The government added that after the recommendations of the district legal services authority, it has directed the DMs to make sure that RO water as well as milk for infants and other essentials are made available to the people serving quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/16-covid-test-machines-to-be-set-up-across-state-hc-told/articleshow/76537427.cms||Prashant Jha
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||UPEIDA gets Rs 1,500 croreloan for e-way||Lucknow: The UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) signed an agreement with Bank of India and Central Bank of India on Tuesday for loans worth Rs 1,500 crore for construction of Purvanchal Expressway. With the new agreement, the total loan amount from various banks for the expressway project has crossed Rs 10,500 crore. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi, who is also additional chief secretary, home, told the banks that the loans are being used in a phase-wise manner in various civil works in the Purvanchal Expressway. The UPEIDA board also decided to appoint a consultant or town planner for a draft development plan of various nodes related to UP Defence Industrial Corridor. The board gave its nod to purchase land in Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Aligarh and Kanpur for the defence corridor project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-gets-rs-1500-croreloan-for-e-way/articleshow/76540214.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Mock drill at SSLC exam venues today||MANGALURU: The key SSLC examinations to be held in the state from Thursday will start at 10.30am, but students can start arriving at the venues a good three hours in advance. All centres have made the necessary arrangements to welcome students as early as 7.30am, so as to avoid crowding at the venues. All students are being sent a message specifying the room they will be seated in and their place, will have to undergo a mandatory health examination. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said that they were asking students to arrive early to the centres in order to prevent crowding, and safe distancing. “We will also have more notice boards put up at the examination centres, and we will make announcements on the PA system to guide students once they are inside the centres,” the minister said. In the Malnad region and coastal districts, where heavy rain is common during the monsoon, the medical examination will be conducted indoors, in the event of showers prior to the commencement of the examination. Meanwhile, students from neighbouring states, and those appearing for the exam from containment zones will be seated in separate rooms, as will those with cold, cough and fever. Kumar said that they had taken all steps to provide masks and sanitiser to all the students. The department of public instruction (DPI) has submitted the standard operating procedure (SOP) being followed to ensure safety of all students to both the high court and Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the department will hold a mock drill on Wednesday from 11am to 2pm at the examination centres to acquaint them with the procedure to be followed when the exam is held. More than eight lakh students will be writing the SSLC examination starting from Thursday. Additional examination centres have been identified in case of any exigencies. The minister said that there were no examination centres in containment zones, and should they be notified at a later stage, the venues would be shifted to the additional centres already identified. All set for the exam bell *Officials to be deputed to two centres in Goa *A jeep has been arranged for a student in Shivamogga, who lives 40km from the examination centre *Hostels arranged to house students in Belagavi, which is a flood-prone district *A student in Davanagere, members of whose family have tested positive for Covid-19, can appear for the supplementary as a fresher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mock-drill-at-sslc-exam-venues-today/articleshow/76539615.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Introduce Gharib Kalyan Rozgar campaign in Marathwada: MLC Chavan||AURANGABAD: NCP MLC Satish Chavan on Tuesday demanded the state government to recommend inclusion of Marathwada in central government’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar campaign that is being implemented in several northern states of the country. Chavan, who represents Marathwada Graduates’ constituency in the state legislative council, said that the Centre has started the scheme for the migrant workers who had to leave urban centres and go back to their native places on account of the lockdown. He said he has made a representation to this effect to the chief minister, deputy chief minister as well as the NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, drawing their attention towards Centre’s scheme and the need for getting it implemented in Marathwada as well. “Currently, the Rs 50,000 crore campaign is being implemented in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Jharkhand. For availing this scheme the Centre has earmarked that the district should have 25,000 or more migrant workers,” Chavan said. Chavan also pointed out that at least 10 lakh people from rural Marathwada work in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad and had to go back to their villages on account of the pandemic and eventual lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/introduce-gharib-kalyan-rozgar-campaign-in-mwada-mlc-chavan/articleshow/76537401.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Guv seeks report on tribal woman’s death||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has sought a report from the health authorities on the death of a pregnant tribal woman at RIMS in Adilabad on June 19. The woman, who was expecting twins, was brought to the hospital from Indravelli mandal and died while undergoing treatment. The twins had died in the womb. Family members alleged that she had died due to negligence of doctors and hospital management. District-level authorities visited the hospital, while another team of officials went to her village to gather more details. RIMS doctors told the authorities that the woman was brought with high BP. She was anaemic and could not respond to the treatment, they said. The authorities said after probing the matter, a final report would be submitted to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-seeks-report-on-tribal-womans-death/articleshow/76539739.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Al Qaida suspects wanted to fill Musa vacuum in Uttar Pradesh: ATS||LUCKNOW: Day after Qaeda suspect Salman Wani was nabbed from Ramban area of Kashmir by UP anti-terrorist squad, his interrogation revealed explosive details about a sleeper cell network straddling west Uttar Pradesh and Kashmir. Wani and his ideological mentor Inamul Haq, who was smoked out of his Bareilly hideout on June 18, were allegedly radicalizing jobless youths in Jammu and Kashmir and west UP to create a jihadist outfit and fill the vacuum of Zakir Musa, slain founder and commander of the Indian wing of the Al Qaeda. “The duo was planning to execute a big terror attack to draw attention of international jihad handlers for recruitment and funding,” said an ATS official privy to the investigation. Wani, 26, who was sent to five-day police custody by a local court on Tuesday, came in touch with Inamul Haq four years ago while pursuing an engineering diploma in Baghpat and was in a relationship with a girl student of the same college. After the girl died, a grief-struck Wani returned to Kashmir to carry out his clandestine activity from his home near the Pir Panjal range in Ramban. The Salman-Inamul collaboration began in 2016 over various social media platforms before both met in a west UP town. They duo displayed similar inclinations over posts relating to Qaeda and decided to form their own terror outfit. “We decoded some messages and retrieved conversations on social media, which displayed their motive to spread jihad,” the officer said. Wani’s father, Nazeer, was a retired forest ranger. Speaking to TOI, D K Thakur, additional director general of UPATS, said, both Haq and Wani had a stormy past. “Wani was a drug addict during his high-school days while Haq triggered communal tension in Haldwani when he desecrated a temple,” he said. We are trying to track down other individuals would interact with the duo on Telegram X app, said the officer. “Others have masked their numbers and deleted profiles on the app. Cyber experts are tracking these people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qaida-suspects-wanted-to-fill-musa-vacuum-ats/articleshow/76540227.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP urges CM to curb virus spread||Hyderabad: Ex-BJP state chief Dr K Laxman on Tuesday urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to take necessary steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city and state. In a two-page letter to the CM, he alleged that the TRS government failed on many fronts in containing the spread of the virus. He said the government was not working for the poor. “The TRS MLAs, who tested positive, are getting good treatment in private hospitals but the poor patients are left in the lurch as they have to go to government hospitals with no amenities. This shows the double standards of the CM, who is not including Covid-19 treatment under Aarogya Sri scheme nor implementing the Ayushman Bharat,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-urges-cm-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/76539729.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon hits Uttarakhand, alert sounded in six districts||DEHRADUN: The south-west monsoon entered Uttarakhand on Tuesday. It was earlier scheduled to arrive in the Himalayan state by the mid of June but was delayed by a few days. According to the meteorological department, the monsoon would cover the entire western Himalayan region in the next 48 hours. Heavy rainfall has been predicted in the state on June 25 and the spells are expected to continue for the next five days. The officials of the meteorological department have also sounded an alert for six districts — Pithoragarh, Champawat, Tehri, Pauri, Nainital and Dehradun — of Uttarakhand. Sharing the information, Bikram Singh, director of the meteorological centre in Dehradun, told TOI, “Monsoon has hit different parts of Uttarakhand and in the next 48 hours, it will cover the entire western Himalayan region.” The official pointed out that light-to-moderate rain spells will be witnessed for the next five days. “Heavy-to-very heavy rain spells at isolated locations are expected in Pithoragarh, Nainital, Dehradun, Tehri, Pauri and Champawat on June 25,” said Singh. He did not fail to mention that people travelling to the hills need to take precaution and plan their trip according to the forecast. On Tuesday, areas of both Garhwal and Kumaon received a good spell of rain. While rains lashed areas of Dehradun, Chamoli, and Uttarkashi in Garhwal, light-to-moderate rains were witnessed in Pithoragarh, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and Champawat districts of Kumaon region. Meanwhile, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik told TOI, “We have informed all the district magistrates and asked them to remain alert. Due preparations have been made and the situation is being monitored. Authorities have been asked to keep their teams ready.” Watch Monsoon hits Uttarakhand, IMD issues alert for six districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-hits-ukhand-alert-sounded-in-six-districts/articleshow/76537463.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre rejects Kerala’s demand on Covid negative proof for expats||Thiruvananthapuram: A final decision on Covid negative certificate for those returning to the state from abroad is expected on Wednesday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said discussions were on with the Centre in this regard and a solution would be evolved soon without causing any inconvenience for expatriates. The Centre had earlier rejected the state government’s request to conduct TrueNat tests for those returning at embassies before they board the flights. The external affairs ministry, in a communique to chief secretary Viswas Mehta, said it was impractical for embassies to organise such tests. Vijayan, however, said the Centre has informed it that several Gulf countries are conducting various tests. The embassies have communicated to the Union government that they are willing to carry out tests available in their countries. The UAE is doing rapid antibody tests while Kuwait conducts them at airports. In Oman, only RT-PCR tests are available while Qatar has a mobile app to screen passengers. Saudi Arabia has rapid antibody tests but they have not been approved by the government while Bahrain has reservations about conducting tests, he said. “A discussion is on and a final decision is expected tomorrow. There is a positive response from embassies and that is why they have responded about tests available there. However, certain embassies have responded that it is not practical to implement this from June 25,” the chief minister said. The state government had earlier extended the implementation of its decision to seek Covid negative certificates from returning expatriates till Wednesday. It had asserted that those boarding the flights to the state should take Covid tests and those testing positive for the virus could be brought in a separate flight if needed. The Centre has turned down the demand, saying it is not feasible to organise special flights for the infected. The chief minister said the Covid negative certificates should be made mandatory for all those returning from abroad to the state. “That is the policy of the state government and it has been communicated to the Centre,” he said. Asked why Covid negative certificates are not made mandatory for those travelling from other states, Vijayan said they were using multiple entry points and different modes of transport, hinting that the government considers such restrictions as impractical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-rejects-states-demand-on-covid-ve-proof-for-expats/articleshow/76538890.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Centre rejects Kerala’s demand on Covid negative proof for expats||Thiruvananthapuram: A final decision on Covid negative certificate for those returning to the state from abroad is expected on Wednesday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said discussions were on with the Centre in this regard and a solution would be evolved soon without causing any inconvenience for expatriates. The Centre had earlier rejected the state government’s request to conduct TrueNat tests for those returning at embassies before they board the flights. The external affairs ministry, in a communique to chief secretary Viswas Mehta, said it was impractical for embassies to organise such tests. Vijayan, however, said the Centre has informed it that several Gulf countries are conducting various tests. The embassies have communicated to the Union government that they are willing to carry out tests available in their countries. The UAE is doing rapid antibody tests while Kuwait conducts them at airports. In Oman, only RT-PCR tests are available while Qatar has a mobile app to screen passengers. Saudi Arabia has rapid antibody tests but they have not been approved by the government while Bahrain has reservations about conducting tests, he said. “A discussion is on and a final decision is expected tomorrow. There is a positive response from embassies and that is why they have responded about tests available there. However, certain embassies have responded that it is not practical to implement this from June 25,” the chief minister said. The state government had earlier extended the implementation of its decision to seek Covid negative certificates from returning expatriates till Wednesday. It had asserted that those boarding the flights to the state should take Covid tests and those testing positive for the virus could be brought in a separate flight if needed. The Centre has turned down the demand, saying it is not feasible to organise special flights for the infected. The chief minister said the Covid negative certificates should be made mandatory for all those returning from abroad to the state. “That is the policy of the state government and it has been communicated to the Centre,” he said. Asked why Covid negative certificates are not made mandatory for those travelling from other states, Vijayan said they were using multiple entry points and different modes of transport, hinting that the government considers such restrictions as impractical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/centre-rejects-states-demand-on-covid-ve-proof-for-expats/articleshow/76543570.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to widen road near Moula Ali Kamaan, work to begin in July||SECUNDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is all set to commence road-widening work around Moula Ali Kamaan as the government has completed land acquisition on both sides of the historic arch. As part of the project, GHMC has acquired 33 properties to take up widening of the road. In order to improve traffic conditions in the area, GHMC would be developing 30-feet two-lane slip road on both sides of the arch. GHMC would commence the road-widening work by July at a cost of Rs 2 crore. Principal secretary, municipal administration and urban development (MAUD), Arvind Kumar on Sunday visited the spot and took stock of the situation, officials said. Not just this, the civic body would also take up repair work of the damaged top portion of Moula Ali Kamaan. The MAUD official also visited the Moula Ali shrine (containing Moula Ali’s handprints branded on the rock) of Qutb Shahi dynasty to assess repairs and restoration required. “Will coordinate the same with Waqf Board, including approach road,” tweeted Arvind Kumar, post his visit to the shrine. The kamaan was built as a pathway to Moula Ali dargah during the reign of the Asaf Jahs (Nizams). The Nizams are known to have taken out processions through the archway while visiting the shrine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-widen-road-near-moula-ali-kamaan-work-to-begin-in-july/articleshow/76539755.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Crossing the line online||Chennai: Employee shows up shirtless to a virtual meeting with his manager, a woman. In another instance, an employee takes screenshots of his female colleague, at a third, a manager insists that his colleague, a woman, attend an impromptu 11pm meeting and insists on her turning her video on and then proceeds to berate her when she refuses. When she finally does, she realises he is intoxicated. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/work-from-home-brings-virtual-sexual-harassment-home-too/articleshow/76543669.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crossing-the-line-online/articleshow/76541013.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Centre rejects Kerala’s demand on Covid negative proof for expats||Thiruvananthapuram: A final decision on Covid negative certificate for those returning to the state from abroad is expected on Wednesday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said discussions were on with the Centre in this regard and a solution would be evolved soon without causing any inconvenience for expatriates. The Centre had earlier rejected the state government’s request to conduct TrueNat tests for those returning at embassies before they board the flights. The external affairs ministry, in a communique to chief secretary Viswas Mehta, said it was impractical for embassies to organise such tests. Vijayan, however, said the Centre has informed it that several Gulf countries are conducting various tests. The embassies have communicated to the Union government that they are willing to carry out tests available in their countries. The UAE is doing rapid antibody tests while Kuwait conducts them at airports. In Oman, only RT-PCR tests are available while Qatar has a mobile app to screen passengers. Saudi Arabia has rapid antibody tests but they have not been approved by the government while Bahrain has reservations about conducting tests, he said. “A discussion is on and a final decision is expected tomorrow. There is a positive response from embassies and that is why they have responded about tests available there. However, certain embassies have responded that it is not practical to implement this from June 25,” the chief minister said. The state government had earlier extended the implementation of its decision to seek Covid negative certificates from returning expatriates till Wednesday. It had asserted that those boarding the flights to the state should take Covid tests and those testing positive for the virus could be brought in a separate flight if needed. The Centre has turned down the demand, saying it is not feasible to organise special flights for the infected. The chief minister said the Covid negative certificates should be made mandatory for all those returning from abroad to the state. “That is the policy of the state government and it has been communicated to the Centre,” he said. Asked why Covid negative certificates are not made mandatory for those travelling from other states, Vijayan said they were using multiple entry points and different modes of transport, hinting that the government considers such restrictions as impractical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/centre-rejects-states-demand-on-covid-ve-proof-for-expats/articleshow/76543568.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||Ghaziabad 112 helpline office shut after 11 staff found +ve||Lucknow: The UP 112 helpline office of Ghaziabad was shut for 48 hours on Tuesday after three cops and eight other staff members working there tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. The office which is located inside the headquarters of 47 battalion of PAC in Govindpuram was closed at 10.00 pm on Tuesday for sanitization work. Earlier, 12 staff members of the Lucknow office of the helpline had already been detected with the infection, taking the total number of positive cases in UP 112 to 24. The headquarters of the statewide citizens’ emergency helpline in Lucknow has already been shut till further order after resuming operation on Monday after six more employees and three of their contacts were diagnosed with Covid-19. ADG UP 112 Asim Arun, told TOI that samples of as many 50 staffers of the Ghaziabad centre were taken on Sunday. “Eleven out of them tested positive. It includes three cops from the radio department while eight others are outsourced and work as system integrators,” said the officer. He also said that in the past one woman staff of the office had also tested positive.  Besides, those in need can contact UP112's Twitter, Facebook, and WhatsApp platforms, said ADG Asim Arun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ghaziabad-112-helpline-office-shut-after-11-staff-found-ve/articleshow/76540267.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Haritha Haram: Telangana government plans to increase green cover to 33%||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will plant a sapling at Narsapur in Medak on June 25 to kick off the sixth phase of the Haritha Haram programme. As many as 30 crore saplings will be planted in the state this year at a cost of Rs 29.86 crore. The effort is to increase green cover in the state from 24% to 33%. However, in view of the Covid-19 situation, instructions have been given to various departments to observe physical distancing while planting the saplings. According to forest department officials, the chief minister had said that tamarind trees should also be planted this year. Hence, 24.5 lakh saplings will be planted by the department and in the gram panchayat nurseries, another 81.69 lakh saplings will be ready to be planted. Forests and environment minister A Indrakaran Reddy on Tuesday said a comprehensive plan should be made and implemented to protect the saplings. He said ‘jungle bachao jungle badao’ was the slogan to protect forests and increase the forest cover and therefore, as per the norms, at least 85% survival rate should be ensured for the saplings. He wrote to all legislators to participate in the drive in their constituencies. Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy spelt out the details of planting saplings that would be undertaken on both sides of the national and state highways. Twenty places will be identified to develop nurseries on national highways. In addition, alongside the state highways maintained by R&B, another 25 places will be identified for setting up nurseries. The CM said that they be named ‘highway nurseries’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/haritha-haram-govt-plans-to-increase-green-cover-to-33/articleshow/76539760.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||Transplants start after Covid break||Kolkata: The Covid-19 pandemic had put all transplant surgeries across the country on hold over the last few months. With hospitals services in the city limping back to normality, a few of them have started conducting life-saving but risky kidney transplant surgeries to the relief of renal failure patients. This comes at a time when elective surgeries are yet to be resumed in full force. “We started resuming our transplant services on June 8 and have conducted nine surgeries since then. These transplant surgeries were put on hold since mid-May. The patients were put on dialysis during this period,” said nephrologist Deepak Shankar Ray, head of nephrology at RN Tagore Interntaional Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). Most of the nine patients are from other states or the neighbouring countries. They had arrived in the city before the lockdown. But just when all necessary permission and legal documents had been put in place, the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown came in between. Earlier, an advisory from the Union health ministry had said that transplant surgeries during the time of Covid-19 was risky and had issued a guideline to conduct such surgeries only in emergency cases. Now there is a new guideline on how to go about such surgeries. “There is much more clarity and we are following an SOP. We have to conduct a Covid test on both the donor and the recipient twice – eight days and three days — before the surgery,” said Ray. According to doctors, renal failure patients are at a high risk of getting infected by the virus with a high fatality rate. There have been a number of cases where such patients turned positive and died during treatment. “We did our first kidney transplant during this Covid-19 pandemic on June 18 when our transplant surgeons Pradip Chakraborty and Sandipan Haldar conducted the surgery on a 32-year-old woman from the Andamans. Covid is not going to go away anytime soon. So we have to start going again,” said nephrologist Avinandan Banerjee, under whom the patient was admitted at CMRI. Doctors said they had to be even more careful post-transplant as these patients are put on immunosuppressant drugs. Since these drugs lowers the immunity of the recipient to help their body accept the new organ, they are vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. “We are taking all precautions because if the kidney recipient gets infected post-transplant, it can go really bad,” said Ray. To ensure the patients do not contract the virus, the hospital has kept a fixed resident doctor for the transplant unit. One consultant is in charge of a specific recipient and as a precautionary measure,he will not attend to any other patient “We have resumed our living donor kidney transplant services,” said nephrologist Arpita Ray Chaudhury of SSKM Hospital, the only government hospital that has kidney transplant facility. But due to the protocol and SOP to be followed, transplant units said it will take some time to pick up pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transplants-start-after-covid-break/articleshow/76538883.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 24, 2020||Surat||Textile mills offer daily wages to lure migrants||SURAT: Yajuvendra Dubey, a textile mill worker hailing from Bihar, is among the few thousands of migrant workers who decided to stay back in Surat during the lockdown. After remaining unemployed for two-and-half months, Dubey, who lives in Udhna area with his wife and children, was faced with severe financial crisis. So when the textile mills reopened, he joined one in Pandesara GIDC only on the condition that he be paid wages daily. His employer, who is also faced with severe shortage of skilled workers, has agreed to this demand. “Whatever money I had, I spent it on arranging food for my family during the lockdown. When my seth (boss) called me to work, I told him to pay me daily so that I can take care of my family,” says Dubey, who works in the boiler department of a textile mill in Pandesara GIDC. Similar is the case in over 40 textile mills located in Sachin and Pandesara GIDC areas, that have resumed operations post-lockdown. There are about 300 textile mills in the city. This is a rare event when Surat textile processors switched to daily wage payment looking into the demand of workers who stayed back and are facing financial crunch. “At the end of the day, I am paying Rs 1.30 lakh as wages to 125 workers. There was no need to restart the mill, but this is for the sake of our workers who have not gone back to their home districts in anticipation of getting employment once the industry starts,” says Jitendra Vakharia, chairman of Narayan Textile Processors. According to industry estimate, out of its total 2 lakh workers, only 30,000 have decided to stay back in Surat. Industry sources said that the textile mills that have resumed work are running at less than 30% capacity. Most of them are engaged in completing pending orders only without any fresh orders. Pramod Chaudhary, managing director of Pratibha industries told TOI, “Workers are the backbone of our industry and in the times of crisis, we are paying them wages daily. We are not only paying them wages daily, but also giving them ration kits.” Another textile mill owner in Sachin GIDC, Binay Agarwal told TOI, “Till all our workers don’t return, we will have to pay daily wages to the workers who have stayed back. It is a huge financial burden for us, but at the same time we want to support them in crisis and not lose them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-mills-offer-daily-wages-to-lure-migrants/articleshow/76538903.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Source unknown in 73 Covid-19 cases, vigil key||KOCHI: The source of infection has not been traced in at least 73 Covid-19 cases reported in the state and these include six persons who succumbed to the virus. Healthcare experts maintain that identifying such cases and strictly implementing the precautionary measures is crucial in containing the infection spread. “There is some spillover that has led to infection in 73 persons whose source of infection is not known. This is a cause for worry and our immediate attention should be in identifying such cases,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, member of Kerala government's medical advisory panel on Covid management. The good news, however, is that there is no super spreader amongst them and most of these persons have mild to moderate symptoms. Kerala is reportedly in stage III of the pandemic, when according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) cases are detected in small clusters in the community. If not controlled, the pandemic can reach stage IV or community transmission. Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer (public emergency) and in-charge of anti-Covid efforts, said everyone should be on their guard at all times now. “Unfortunately, there are some who still ignore social distancing and wearing of masks,” he said. The present testing protocol of the state is focused on those travelling from abroad and their contacts besides those with symptoms of severe acute respiratory syndrome or influenza-like illness. Any mass community testing is not being done unlike in states like Andhra Pradesh where the government has decided to test every family for coronavirus in 90 days. “Identifying these clusters of cases soon is the key to infection control now,” said Dr Rakhal Gaitonde, professor, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology and member of the Kerala government's medical advisory panel. A recent paper from Hong Kong says around 80% of these cases will not contribute to any clusters but the remaining 20% cases can be worrisome. “The transmission of coronavirus infection in our community is very slow. The number of cases in which the source of infection is not known is comparatively low in Kerala, suggesting we are doing a good job in slowing down the infection spread,” said Dr Anish T S, associate professor of community medicine, Trivandrum Medical College and public health consultant with the state disaster management authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/source-unknown-in-73-cases-vigil-key/articleshow/76538906.cms||Preetu Nair
June 24, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao demands Bharat Ratna for ex-PM PV Narasimha Rao||HYDERABAD: The state government has decided to pass a resolution both in state cabinet and state legislative assembly urging the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao posthumously. At a high level meeting with PV Centenary Celebrations Committee members on Tuesday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and request him to confer the award on the former PM from Telangana. The TRS government would also request the Centre to erect a portrait of the late leader in Parliament central hall. The state government had earlierdeclared that PV Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebrations would be celebrated in a grand manner beginning from June 28. KCR said that the centenary celebrations would be conducted on behalf of the state for one year beginning on June 28, the birthday of PV Narasimha Rao. The government has also decided to celebrate the former PM’s centenary celebrations in 50 locations worldwide besides installing bronze statues of the former PM in five cities—Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar, Vangara (his hometown) and at Telangana Bhavan in Delhi. Minister KT Rama Rao has been directed to coordinate the programmes outside Hyderabad. KCR directed the officials to make arrangements for erecting a portrait of the leader in the state legislative assembly. The CM also sanctioned Rs 10 crore for the centenary celebrations. “The centenary celebrations should be organised locally, nationally and globally. Like a memorial set up for former President APJ Abdul Kalam in Rameswaram, a PV memorial should be constructed in Hyderabad. A team would visit Rameswaram soon,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-demands-bharat-ratna-for-ex-pm-pv/articleshow/76539767.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP tally crosses 19k-mark with 576 fresh cases||Lucknow: UP’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 19,000-mark with 576 new cases in 24 hours. With 19,064 cases, UP ranks number five on an overall scale in the country. Hapur recorded a maximum of 86 entries during the day. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that 515 patients were discharged from different hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,116. “This leaves UP with 6,189 active cases as of now,” he said adding that “the fresh discharges increased the state’s overall recovery rate to 64.13%.” In addition to this, 19 more persons succumbed to the pandemic infection, taking the total number of casualties to 588. According to the state bulletin, two deaths each were reported in Ghaziabad and Varanasi, while one death each was reported in Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Firozabad, Jaunpur, Basti, Aligarh, Ghazipur, Mathura, Muzaffarnagar, Deoria, Bareilly, Etawah, Jalaun, Etah and Mau. Of the new cases, double digit entries were recorded in Hapur (86), Gautam Budh Nagar (63), Ghaziabad (34), Aligarh (30), Etawah (27), Lucknow (26), Meerut (25), Kanpur (16), Prayagraj (16), Mathura (15), Chandauli (14), Bareilly (13), Firozabad (12), Varanasi (12), Siddharthnagar (10). Prasad said that continuing the efforts to assess the coronavirus situation in vulnerable pockets of UP, the samples of fruits and vegetable vendors and taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers would be collected in the next phase. About the status of migrant workers’ surveillance by ASHAs, Prasad said: “Over 18.18 lakh migrants workers have been screened so far. Of these 1,206 were segregated on the basis of flu-like symptoms. Upon testing, 212 were found positive.” Surveillance activities are underway in 20,753 areas, including 7,164 hotspots and 13,589 non-containment zones. He also said that as per instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Covid help desks have been set up in a large number of hospitals, while more surveillance teams are being formed to achieve the target of one lakh set by the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tally-crosses-19k-mark-with-576-fresh-cases/articleshow/76540274.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 24, 2020||Rajkot||Lawyers protest BCI rule by selling veggies outside court||RAJKOT: Outraged by the Bar Council of India’s (BCI) rule to allow advocates to engage in other professions or do business till December end, advocates in Junagadh town, including three who are more than 70-years-old, sold vegetables to highlight their plight outside the district court building on Tuesday. There are total 800 advocates in Junagadh who have been rendered jobless for more than three months now. The courts have remained closed or are functioning only to complete urgent businesses, and that too, through video conferencing owing to the pandemic. Secretary of Junagadh Bar Association, Jaydev Joshi said, “The BCI has no authority to give relaxation in the Advocates Act. This statement is nothing but merely to ridicule the advocates. Even if we are allowed to to do business, we don’t have money to start business and also there aren’t many opportunities available in the job market.” Protesting advocates had demanded the BCI to give them loans from the welfare fund. Joshi, however, said that their demand was rejected. “By selling veggies, we want to send across a message to the BCI that if they remain blind to our plight, we will have no option but to carry out such small businesses,” Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lawyers-protest-bci-rule-by-selling-veggies-outside-court/articleshow/76538916.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Mushrooming ideas for the plate and pocket||CHENNAI: Padmavati had always got store-bought mushrooms. She had not imagined that the high-protein shell shaped oyster mushroom could be grown indoors.Two days ago she started growing oyster mushrooms at home, thanks to a team of agriculture experts, who provided basic training to people like her on mushroom cultivation. At least 20 people, mostly farmers, in Morapakkam, a remote village in Madurantakam, learned the basics from S Williams, an expert in mushroom cultivation and honey extraction. The demo session was conducted mainly to attract farmers and housewives in and around the village who are having a tough time due to lockdown. Even though a lot of farming activities take place in and around Madurantakam, oyster mushrooms are new to the farmers in the village. Today, people like Padmavati are happy, as they look for generation of income through mushroom cultivation after their trial at home. "I have planted oyster mushroom spores carefully in plastic bags filled with layers of paddy straw. It was easy. I have planted the spores in four bags. I will sow more spores after my first harvest," said Padmavati, a housewife. If you want to grow oyster mushrooms in your house, you need only some simple material. A handful of dry hay, a plastic cover, mushroom spores, a pencil and a plastic rope. "When I first told the farmers about the demo session, they laughed at me, saying what are they going to get from it. I explained to them it can be an avenue of income. And many women showed interest. I think they are hopeful that they can continue oyster mushroom cultivation as a source of income in the future," said M J Prabhu, coordinator of Green Cause Foundation, an NGO which organised the mushroom demo session. The items are available in gardening shops or online. Three to four bags of mushroom sprouts could fetch up to `700 per month. And is in high demand in local shops or online. You don’t have to find an exclusive place for mushroom cultivation. It can be grown anywhere in a bag anywhere — on the terrace, balcony or bathroom. Even though many farmers and housewives attended the session, only a couple of them have begun cultivation so far. "I am interested in farming. I started it immediately because it’s so simple. I am now doing it inside my room, but I will expand production after a couple of months," said Padmavati. Prabhu said one can earn money if one can spend some time. "Oyster mushrooms are highly nutritious. It doesn’t cost you much, as the cost per bag is limited to just Rs 70. It’s good for your health as well as the pocket," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mushrooming-ideas-for-the-plate-and-pocket/articleshow/76541025.cms||M T Saju
June 24, 2020||Agra||40 brick kiln owners raise Rs 24L, book 3 spl trains to send labourers home to Bihar||Agra: Forty brick kiln owners from Aligarh got together and raised Rs 24 lakh to send back 5,350 of their labourers home to Bihar by three special trains on Tuesday.The three trains carrying the workers pulled out of Aligarh railway station at different times and all headed for Gaya in Bihar. The first train departed at 4 pm, the next one left Aligarh at 6 pm and the last one was scheduled to leave at 8 pm. Till now, over 13,000 labourers have left for their homes from Aligarh. About 1,756 labourers had gone on last Thursday and many had departed thereafter. However, 1,800 more are still stranded in the town. They will also leave for their homes on Wednesday, said officials. Rajendra Mahajan, who owns two brick kilns in Aligarh, said around 150 families are associated with his units. “The entire cost of Rs 24 lakh has been paid collectively by 40 brick kiln owners and trains hired exclusively for their workers,” he said. He added that all care has been taken while transporting the migrant labourers to their hometowns. All the labourers were provided masks, soap, food packets and water bottles before they left. “We just want them to reach home safely and with full dignity,” he added. According to the brick kiln owners, their business will not suffer as the kilns do not operate in the monsoon from June to September. “We are confident that they will come back when work begins at the units as we have treated them as our family members and not workers,” said another brick kiln owner. Kuldev Singh, additional city magistrate (I), said around 15,000 labourers are employed in the city’s 500 brick kilns. He said in view of Covid-19 pandemic, all precautions have been taken while transporting the labourers back to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/40-brick-kiln-owners-raise-rs-24l-book-3-spl-trains-to-send-labourers-home-to-bihar/articleshow/76536455.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Varanasi||CAA protests: AIMIM Mau chief, 11 others arrested||Varanasi: The Mau police has arrested Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) district unit president Asif Chandan and 11 others for indulging in violence and arson during anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest on December 16. Earlier, three AIMIM activists were booked under National Security Act (NSA) in connection with anti-CAA protests in Bhadohi. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, SP Mau Anurag Arya said 22 persons including Chandan and Peace Party’s district unit president Munavvar Murga, who were booked for indulging in violence and arson during anti-CAA protest in the district on December 16, have now been booked under Gangster Act. Chandan has been found as the leader of the gang of violent protesters. Chandan and three others had been arrested on Monday after 18 accused were declared absconders and cash reward of Rs 25,000 had been announced. By Tuesday afternoon, eight more accused were arrested while raids were continuing at possible hideouts of the remaining 10. When the anti-CAA protest was at its peak, hundreds had also gathered at Mirza Hadipura crossing under the limits of Dakshintola police station on December 16, 2019 to protest. Later, violence had ensued in which policemen were attacked with bricks and public property was damaged. Arya said the protesters who indulged in violence and arson were identified with the help of video footages and photographs of incident site. Five FIRs were lodged against them and they were also booked under Goonda Act. Process of booking them under Gangster Act had also been started, he said adding, during the process of identification the role of district unit presidents of AIMIM and Peace Party had also come to light.In east UP region, it is the second major action of police in which an AIMIM office-bearer has faced serious action. Before Mau, AIMIM’s Bhadohi district unit president Tavir Hayat Khan, its youth wing district president Tabish Ansari and one Khurram were booked under National Security Act (NSA) for their involvement in anti-CAA violent protest in Bhadohi district on December 19. According to Bhadohi police, in February the UP state advisory board approved slapping of NSA on them. On December 19, 2019 hundreds of people had indulged in violence after the end of Friday namaz at a mosque in Kazipur locality. Bhadohi police had lodged an FIR against 27 identified and 200 unidentified persons in this connection. The three AIMIM men were among the 15 who were initially arrested and sent to jail while Bhadohi district administration recommended their booking under NSA on January 13 as during investigation it surfaced that Tanvir had mobilised people to carry out protest and indulge in brick batting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/caa-protests-aimim-mau-chief-11-others-arrested/articleshow/76537539.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||8pm rule drowns: Liquor vends open beyond time limit in city||Ludhiana: The police seem to be selective in ensuring no shops are open after permissible time. The police on Monday night booked the owner of a sweet shop in New Madhopuri for opening his shop beyond 7pm, but turned a blind eye to liquor vends that do brisk business after permitted time limit. The Times of India did a reality check in the city and found several liquor vends open after the permissible time of 8pm. These vends were at Shingar Cinema Road, Kailash Nagar, Kakowal Road, Tajpur Road, Shimla Colony, Shakti Nagar and Tibba Road. Moreover, no social distancing was observed at most of them. A liquor vend in Kailash Nagar was open at 8.35pm and customers were seen without masks and not maintaining social distancing. Even as its shutters were down, the owner had found a way to deliver the product — through the iron grille (see picture). Similarly, at a vend in Shimla Colony, which was open at 8.45pm, customers stood too close for comfort. Outside a liquor vend on Tajpur Road, a group of about 10 men were standing closely without masks. On the other hand, the Division 8 police had booked the owner of a grocery store in Kailash Chowk on June 20 for keeping the shop open after permissible time. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “We will take action against all those violating norms. From now, we will become stricter. From Tuesday, 70 teams of Ludhiana Police will be on roads to check the violation and ensure no shop is open after permissible time. Each team will comprise 10 cops. The Ludhiana Police is also making people aware about seven commandants — wearing mask, maintaining physical distance of two metres, washing hands, following coughing protocol, early recognition of symptoms and testing, respect for Covid-19 warriors, and immunity boosting.” The ones who faced musicJune 21: Four residents of Mohalla Guru Nanak Pura booked for walking on roads without masks around 9.30pmJune 20: Four people booked for roaming at vegetable market, near Jalandhar Bypass, without wearing masksJune 15: Sarabha Nagar police booked three persons for opening shops in Dabbu market after permissible timeJune 11: The owner of Bhushan Grocery Store at Nimwala Chowk booked for opening shop after time limitJune 8: The owner of a fast-food shop in Ghumar Mandi booked for opening the outlet after 7pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8pm-rule-drowns-liquor-vends-open-beyond-time-limit-in-city/articleshow/76537545.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||39 test positive dor Covid-19||tnnLudhiana: As many as 39 patients, including five from outside Ludhiana, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district case count to 623. Besides them, 161 patients from outside Ludhiana have tested positive here to date. At present, 207 patients from the district and 57 from outside are admitted to city hospitals as active cases. On Tuesday, 632 samples were sent for test. “On Monday, 934 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, of which 884 are negative and reports of 50 are pending. Of other 115 pending samples, 87 are negative, one will be retested and 27 are positive. All belong to Ludhiana. Besides, eight reports from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and two (of a Ludhiana and a Hoshiarpur resident) from SPS Hospital are positive. Two Ludhianvis have tested positive in Moga, too,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Of eight patients who tested positive at DMCH, four are from Ludhiana and one each from Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur and Amritsar.Of the 27 Ludhiana cases, two are from Prem Nagar; three from Islam Ganj; two each from Police Lines, Sidhwan Bet, Dhuri Line and Pakhowal Road; one each from ESI Quarter; Giaspura; Preet Hospital Hostel; Gandhi Nagar; Basti Jodhewal; Rajguru Nagar; Jassian Road; and Chawni Mohalla; three each from Vishkarma Colony and Jamalpur. Meanwhile, 57 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals on Tuesday. Forty-two of them were admitted to Meritorious Covid Care Centre, five at MCH, Vardhman, four at civil hospital, four at CHC Khanna, one at DMCH and one at Mohandai Oswal Hospital. With them, 395 patients from the district have been cured so far, besides two from Delhi and one from Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/39-test-positive-dor-covid-19/articleshow/76537533.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Kolkata||5 in 66 days to 8 in 25 days: Fatal accidents return to haunt Kolkata as lockdown eases||KOLKATA: The lockdown period in Kolkata — from March 22 to May 26 — had offered the fatal squad of Lalbazar (the wing that investigates fatal accidents) a breather they had long wished for. For a city that witnesses 22 deaths in accidents per month, barely five fatal accidents got reported during these 66 days. There were two fatal accidents in April and three in May. Two of them were on the Prince Anwar Shah Road and its connector, the other three were reported from the accident-prone Central Garden Reach Road and Basanti Highway, along with Ballygunge Phari. TimesViewSome amount of disruption, and consequent problems, are to be expected when near-normal traffic movement resumes after such a long gap. Motorists need to be careful. There should be zero tolerance for unsafe driving practices.As autos resumed operations along with a few odd buses from the last week of May, accidents returned to Kolkata streets. In the next 25 days, till June 20, there have been eight fatal accidents — five of them in the past 10 days. Consecutive accidents took place on June 13 to June 15 at Kidderpore Bridge, JL Nehru Road-Theatre Road crossing and at Park Circus crossing. There was a 48-hour gap before three more major accidents took place between June 18 to June 20. While the accidents at Vidyasagar Setu and Aurobindo Sarani claimed two lives, one person continues to remain serious in the Netaji Nagar accident. This was also the period when a cyclist was seriously injured near Hastings and a private bus claimed another life. Even on Monday, around 6.30am, a bike skidded on APC Road near Rajabazar Science College. While the biker, Kabindra Roy, who was wearing a helmet, survived, his pillion rider Maran Saha (35) died at the spot as he was not wearing a helmet. The numbers are staggering given several lakhs are still working from home and only a fraction of private buses and autos are plying in the city right now. Traffic police has blamed the mixed vehicular use of roads (cycles and scooters have overrun every other form of transport), unsafe driving practices and speeding for the spike in accidents. A look at the accident spots show people were either careless or trying to speed in the no-signal zones, which allow comparatively higher average speeds in the city. Police said on at least two occasions, the accidents were completely avoidable (one victim was changing tyres at night on top of Vidyasagar Setu, in another a child died after a person opened his car door carelessly). In all others, speeding was an issue as also the affinity to break traffic rules. “Since the lockdown period began, vehicle movement has been restricted and heavy checking was there. No alcohol shops and bars were open and drink-driving was no more an issue. During the initial days of the lockdown, there were a few incidents of youngsters indulging in rash driving. “However we intensified checking and started seizing vehicles of those who were roaming around unnecessarily. Slowly, such incidents also reduced,” said a senior cop at Lalbazar. But all of these were back by the beginning of this month. “Add to it the fact that thousands of new cycles and bikes have hit the roads. A rough estimate puts the number of new two-wheelers on road at 32,000,” said an officer. According to a report by NGO Save Life Foundation, Bengal has reported barely nine lockdown accidents and is in the 15th spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-in-66-days-to-8-in-25-days-fatal-accidents-return-to-haunt-city-as-lockdown-eases/articleshow/76538897.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai central mkt divided again, but rules flouted||Madurai: The central vegetable market in Mattuthavani, has once again been divided and converted into temporary markets, in view of the seven-day intensive lockdown. However, social distancing went for a toss in the markets, which saw unusually large crowds for a Tuesday. With no monitoring mechanism, both traders and buyers were seen wearing their masks below the chin. The market, which is the biggest in Madurai city, has 1,000 shops, but to ensure physical distancing, the district administration reduced the number by half and shifted them to four different locations. The traders had moved back to the market complex only on June 3, after transport began in the MGR bus stand. President of the market, P S Murugan said only 326 shops have been allowed to function within the complex in Mattuthavani. These will function on alternate days, with 163 on one day, and the other 163 the next day. Apart from that, 80 shops were shifted to the Madurai Agricultural College grounds in Othakadai, 50 to the Amma thidal on the Inner Ring Road and 40 in the Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, near Thiruparankundram. Murugan said that this would affect their trade, as all vegetables cannot be sourced in one place. The other major market in Paravai, has already been shut after 11 people in the market, tested positive last week. Meanwhile, strict vigil was imposed at the temporary markets with police officials monitoring everyone for masks and testing their body temperature. A woman who had come to the Anna Nagar farmers market, was turned away by a policeman at the gate, after her temperature showed a marginal increase above the normal. “Your body temperature is one degree above the permitted limit. You should ensure your health is good, before coming out,” the policeman told her .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-central-mkt-divided-again-but-rules-flouted/articleshow/76540273.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Meerut||Indian student, an avid swimmer, ‘drowns’ in Latvia, kin allege murder by Russian girlfriend||MEERUT: A 26-year-old youth from Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district, who was pursuing a course in hospitality management in Latvian capital Riga for the last two years, allegedly drowned in a lake on June 21. Back home, the family of Vineet Kumar Rohilla is in a state of shock and disbelief. His elder brother, Vipin Rohilla, said that Vineet was a good swimmer and could not have drowned in a shallow lake. He suspected that Vineet was murdered by his Russian girlfriend. “We got a call from his girlfriend who told us Vineet died of drowning. In the photographs, Vineet’s entire body had turned blue which raises suspicion. Besides, he was an avid swimmer and it is highly unlikely he could have drowned in a swallow lake,” Vipin said. “She (the woman) was consistently asking for power of attorney to claim insurance money,” he said, adding that the girl is of Russian origin settled in Latvia. Son of a retired BSF officer Arvind Kumar, Vineet had left for Latvia in 2018 to pursue a course in hospitality management at ISMA University of Applied Sciences in Riga. The elder brother said that the family, which lives in Sarsawan area of Saharanpur, had spoken to Vineet over a video call on June 20. But, the next day, his phone was not reachable. Several videos of Vineet with his girlfriend, purportedly shot moments before the incident, were shared by the woman with the family of the deceased. The family has approached Indian embassy in Sweden to airlift the body to India for cremation but they are yet to hear from them. Latvia does not have an Indian embassy. The Indian mission in Sweden is concurrently accredited to Latvia. “We have contacted the Indian mission in Sweden and also posted tweets seeking help from Indian authorities to get the body. We are yet to get any response,” Vipin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/indian-student-an-avid-swimmer-drowns-in-latvia-kin-allege-murder-by-russian-girlfriend/articleshow/76537543.cms||Piyush Rai
June 24, 2020||Lucknow||AIMIM Mau unit chief, 11 others arrested for anti-CAA protests||Varanasi: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) district unit president Asif and 11 others were arrested by Mau police for indulging in violence and arson during anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest on December 16. Earlier, three AIMIM activists were booked under National Security Act (NSA) in connection with anti-CAA protests in Bhadohi. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, SP Mau Anurag Arya said 22 persons, including Asif and Peace Party’s district unit president Munavvar Murga, who were booked for indulging in violence and arson during anti-CAA protest in the district on December 16, have now been booked under Gangster Act. Asif has been found as the leader of the gang of violent protesters. Asif and three others were arrested on Monday after 18 accused were declared absconders and cash reward of Rs 25,000 had been announced. By Tuesday afternoon, eight more accused were arrested while raids were continuing at possible hideouts of the remaining 10. When the anti-CAA protest was at its peak, hundreds had also gathered at Mirza Hadipura crossing under the limits of Dakshintola police station on December 16, 2019 to protest. Later, violence had ensued in which policemen were attacked with bricks and public property was damaged. Arya said the protesters who indulged in violence and arson were identified with the help of video footage and photographs of the incident site. Five FIRs were lodged against them and they were also booked under Goonda Act. Process of booking them under Gangster Act had also been started, he said adding, during the process of identification the role of district unit presidents of AIMIM and Peace Party had also come to light. In the east UP region, it is the second major action of police in which an AIMIM office-bearer has faced serious action. Before Mau, AIMIM’s Bhadohi district unit president Tavir Hayat Khan, its youth wing district president Tabish Ansari and one Khurram were booked under National Security Act (NSA) for their involvement in anti-CAA violent protests in Bhadohi district on December 19. According to Bhadohi police, in February the UP state advisory board approved slapping of NSA on them. On December 19, 2019 hundreds of people had indulged in violence after the end of Friday namaz at a mosque in Kazipur locality. Bhadohi police had lodged an FIR against 27 identified and 200 unidentified persons in this connection. The three AIMIM men were among the 15 who were initially arrested and sent to jail while Bhadohi district administration recommended their booking under NSA on January 13 as during investigation it surfaced that Tanvir had mobilised people to carry out protest and indulge in brick batting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aimim-mau-unit-chief-11-others-arrested-for-anti-caa-protests/articleshow/76540275.cms||---
June 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops ‘lathicharge’ traffic marshals protesting ill-treatment of colleague||Ludhiana: Traffic marshals, who worked with the Ludhiana Police administration to enforce curfew and lockdown, were allegedly lathicharged by Division 4 cops in Daresi on Monday night. They included women marshals, too, who had gone to the police station after cops took away a traffic marshal, Rohit Kumar, 26, and his brother, Shubham Kumar, 23, and allegedly beat them up. On Tuesday, the traffic marshals did not report to duty in protest and alleged that the cops abused and misbehaved with Rohit’s mother too. Rohit has lodged a complaint with Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal. Speaking with the TOI, Rohit’s mother Pooja, 44, of Vishkarma Colony said, “I, along with my son Shubham, had gone to Daresi to collect payment of Rs 2 lakh. When we were on way home, three cops stopped us near old vegetable market and asked for bike documents around 7.45pm. As Shubham did not have the papers, he called up Rohit to bring them. When Rohit reached there with documents, the cop demanded Rs 200 to allow us to go. When Rohit said he was a traffic marshal, a cop got livid and started abusing him. And when I intervened, he used derogatory and vulgar language with me too. Arguments between my sons and the cop ensued and the area SHO reached there and took my sons along.” Rohit said, “Division 4 SHO inspector Satwant Singh Bains hurled abuses at us. At the police station, the cops slapped my brother at least 15 times and also beat me up with a stick.”As soon as the other traffic marshals received the information, about 30-35 of them reached the police station. Cops allegedly resorted to cane-charge to disperse them. Chandar Pal, who was heading the marshals in Daresi, said, “Is this the way to treat frontline workers, who slogged selflessly during pandemic? Police are thrashing marshals who worked in scorching heat during the lockdown without getting a single penny. Rohit spent a lot of money in organising langars, distributing water bottles, food and tea among cops and marshals. We will not tolerate such a behaviour. No traffic marshal will join duty till Rohit gets justice.” Inspector Satwant Singh said there was a minor misunderstanding which has been resolved and they did not lathicharge the marshals. Commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said, “An inquiry has been marked to ADCP-I Deepak Pareek and the issue will be resolved soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-lathicharge-traffic-marshals-protesting-ill-treatment-of-colleague/articleshow/76537559.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 24, 2020||Dehradun||Hills are heating up: 100-yr report paints bleak picture||DEHRADUN: The hills of Uttarakhand are getting warmer. The state’s pollution control board studied climate and rainfall data over a 100-year span, from 1912-2012, and found the mean annual temperature went up by 0.46°C. The change, which appears small in absolute terms, means a large amount of heat accumulating over a long period. And that has had a cascading effect, both ecological and economic. Before 1950, the report said, there were no notable changes in temperature. Between 1970 and 1990, it actually dipped. But since 1990, it has been on an upward spike. Within the state, Pithoragarh witnessed the highest spike (0.58°C), followed by Chamoli (0.54°C), Rudraprayag (0.53°C), Bageshwar (0.52°C) and Uttarkashi (0.51°C) — all hill districts. The plains fared better — Haridwar saw an increase of 0.34°C, the lowest, followed by Dehradun (0.37°C) and Udham Singh Nagar (0.42°C). As a point of reference, in 2019, the average global surface temperature was up by 0.98°C since 1880, according to NASA. Rainfall deficit over the past century, meanwhile, has been a significant 13.05cm. “The decrease in rainfall, especially during rainy months June-September, indicates that the climate of the state is changing notably,” the report said. The Satzlar (low-intensity continuous rain over seven days in mid-July, when the Harela festival is celebrated), has stopped entirely. “The most important change is very rare (occurrence) or absence of snowfall events in the lesser Himalayan region and complete absence of the Satzlar.” The ecological impact is evident. Uttarakhand is home to 968 glaciers — 407 in the Alaknanda basin, 271 in Kaliganga, 238 in Bhagirathi and 52 in Yamuna. With temperatures rising and the glaciers melting away, pro-glacial lakes have formed in these basins. The report refers to two such lakes — at Kamet glacier in Pithoragarh and at the Bhagirathi waterhead, at an elevation of 4,700m. “The imbalance in hydrological cycle has an adverse impact on water availability in streams and rivers,” said SP Subudhi, director of Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Climate Change. There are other dangers as well. “Series of extreme events like floods and droughts are likely,” said Sandipan Mukherjee, senior scientist at the GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment at Almora. At the same time, plant habitats are also shifting. Lichen, Royle’s splurge and palms have started moving higher up. That, and the rain deficit, has a significant impact on the local economy. “We are growing apples at higher elevations. Snow at lower levels is not enough and for too little time,” said Anoop Thapliyal, a horticulturalist from Sarnol in Uttarkashi. In Tehri and Champawat, farmers are abandoning water-intensive crops. “We used to grow kiwi but have switched to fruits like guava that do not require as much water,” said Dhan Singh, a farmer at Tehri. Besides, a warmer climate also means a new set of vector pathogens and crop diseases, Subrat Sharma, a senior scientist at the GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment, warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hills-are-heating-up-100-yr-report-paints-bleak-picture/articleshow/76537590.cms||Shivani Azad
June 24, 2020||Agra||Agra DM issues notice to Priyanka over ‘misleading’ Covid deaths tweet||Agra: Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has sent a notice to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday for allegedly sharing misleading information on social media regarding the death of Covid-19 patients in the Taj city. Terming it “baseless and false”, the DM has asked Gandhi to withdraw the tweet within 24 hours. Tagging a media report, Gandhi had on Monday tweeted that 28 novel coronavirus patients who were hospitalised have died within 48 hours in Agra. She had described it as a “matter of shame” for the Uttar Pradesh government, accusing it of suppressing the truth. “The Twitter post prima facie has created doubts and sent a message among people that 28 corona patients have died in 48 hours,” The DM said in the letter to Priyanka Gandhi, shared by the adviser to the chief minister, Mrityunjay Kumar.The DM said that such reports would “demoralise” corona warriors who work round the clock to check the spread of the virus. He added that it would also have an “adverse impact" on the common man.Singh said, “The reality is that in the past 109 days, Agra has reported 1,139 cases, of which 79 have succumbed to the virus. The report of 28 deaths in 48 hours is completely false.” Meanwhile in separate tweets on Tuesday, Gandhi accused the state government of lying about the ‘Agra model’ and asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to clarify about the real situation within 48 hours. She said that the CM should “create accountability on the condition and number of Covid patients”. She tweeted, “The death rate of Covid-19 in Agra is higher than in Delhi and Mumbai — at 6.8%. Of the 79 patients who lost their lives due to the infection in the district, a total of 35%, i.e. 28 people, died within 48 hours of hospitalisation. The CM should present an inquiry report to the public within 48 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dm-issues-notice-to-priyanka-over-misleading-covid-deaths-tweet/articleshow/76536461.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Traffic marshals close ranks for justice||tnnLudhiana: Monday’s incident in which traffic marshals accused policemen of lathicharging them, roughing up traffic marshal Rohit Kumar and misbehaving with his family members has affected the morale of other traffic marshals. Traffic marshals have refused to join duty till Rohit gets justice. A traffic marshal said, “For the past three months, we have been working on the road amid the pandemic, putting our lives at risk. Police repay us by thrashing a marshal and lathicharging us. We have always stood with police at checkpsosts and we don’t get any salary for this. We do it to serve society. But we never thought police would behave in such a bad manner. We are all disheartened after this incident.” Another traffic marshal said, “When Chhawni Mohalla was declared a containment zone, about 30 traffic marshals were deputed there. The area is a high-risk zone. Despite that, traffic marshals are doing their duty there. We are corona warriors too and deserve that respect.” Traffic marshals have also been at the forefront in cremation of bodies of people who died of Covid-19. However, on Tuesday, they refused to go for cremation of a Covid-19 fatality. A traffic marshal said, “The administration called us today saying a Covid-19 positive patient has died and marshals are needed for cremation. However, we refused to go as protest against the misbehaviour of police. No traffic marshal will join duty till Rohit gets justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traffic-marshals-close-ranks-for-justice/articleshow/76537552.cms||---
