June 25, 2020||World||Crowds tear down statues, attack Wisconsin state senator||MADISON: Governor Tony Evers said on Wednesday he was prepared to activate the National Guard to protect state properties after protesters outside the Wisconsin Capitol tore down statues commemorating an abolitionist and women's rights and threw a Molotov cocktail into a government building during a night of violence that also included an attack on a state senator. The violence broke out on Tuesday night as a group of 200 to 300 people protested the arrest of a Black man who shouted at restaurant customers through a megaphone while carrying a baseball bat. Officers inside the Capitol used pepper spray to repel protesters who were trying to break into the historic center of state government, Madison police said. "What happened in Madison last night presented a stark contrast from the peaceful protests we have seen across our state in recent weeks, including significant damage to state property," Evers said in a statement. The violence unfolded in a city long known as a liberal bastion with a long history of protest, dating back to student demonstrations on the University of Wisconsin campus in the 1960s. About 100,000 people protested in 2011 over then-governor Scott Walker's anti-union proposals. Smaller protests are almost a weekly, and sometimes daily, fixture at the Capitol on a host of issues. It also exposed simmering anger over the 2015 shooting by police of a 19-year-old Black man by an officer who was eventually cleared and remains on the force. That shooting has been referenced by protesters in recent weeks. The violence started on Tuesday after Madison police arrested a protester who came to a restaurant across the street from the Capitol with a bat on his shoulder. Video released by Madison police shows the man, Devenore Johnson, talking through a megaphone while walking around the restaurant's outdoor patio. He walks inside and paces through the restaurant with the bat on his shoulder, saying he's "disturbing" the restaurant and talking about God and the police before walking out. On another video released by police, as many as five officers can be seen taking Johnson to the sidewalk and carrying him to a police squad car after he resisted arrest. Police said the man briefly escaped from the squad car before being tackled. Johnson was charged in 2015 with being a passenger in a stolen car, resisting an officer and theft, according to online court records. He pleaded guilty to being a passenger and was sentenced to probation. The following year he was charged with being a party to armed robbery and theft. Under a plea deal, he was sentenced to probation after pleading guilty to theft. Police said on Tuesday night a group of 200 to 300 people gathered and entered a private condominium building where they surrounded a tow truck, forcing the driver to abandon it. The crowd broke windows in multiple buildings, threw a Molotov cocktail into the city-county building and brought down the statues on the grounds of the Capitol. Protesters chanting for Johnson's release also broke glass at the Tommy Thompson Center, named for the former Republican governor, and smashed windows and lights at the Capitol. Early Wednesday, police in riot gear worked to clear a crowd of about 100 people that remained in the area. One of the statues toppled, decapitated and dragged into a lake about a half-mile away was of Civil War Colonel Hans Christian Heg. He was an anti-slavery activist and leader of an anti-slave catcher militia in Wisconsin who fought for the Union and died from injuries suffered during the Battle of Chickamauga. The base of the Heg statue was defaced with graffiti on Wednesday morning that read "Fire Matt Kenny," a reference to a white Madison police officer who shot and killed 19-year-old Tony Robinson, a Black man, in 2015. Kenny said Robinson had attacked him and he feared he would take his gun. Dane County district attorney Ismael Ozanne, who is Black, cleared Kenny of any criminal wrongdoing and he remains a Madison officer. The other statue taken down represents Wisconsin's motto of "Forward." The statue had been vandalized in past protests with paint thrown on it and graffiti spray-painted on and around it. "Forward" was first installed 125 years ago but replaced with a bronze replica in 1998. It sat prominently outside the Capitol, facing the University of Wisconsin campus and the street lined with bars, restaurants and small businesses. That corridor has been the target of much of the vandalism since the death of George Floyd on May 25 in Minneapolis after a white police officer used his knee to pin the handcuffed black man's neck, even after Floyd stopped moving. The destruction followed similar unrest nationwide following Floyd's death, but in other cities statues of Confederate soldiers and other symbols of slavery were destroyed. Democratic state senator Tim Carpenter was assaulted after taking a cellphone video of protesters. "Punched/kicked in the head, neck, ribs," Carpenter tweeted around 4am. "Maybe concussion, socked in left eye is little blurry, sore neck & ribs. 8-10 people attacked me. Innocent people are going to get killed. Capitol locked- stuck in office.Stop violence nowPlz!" Protester Micah Le told The Associated Press in a text that the two statues paint a picture of Wisconsin as a racially progressive state when in reality slavery has continued in the form of a corrections system built around incarcerating blacks. "The fall of the statues is a huge gain for the movement, though I think that liberal and conservative media outlets will try to represent last night as senseless violence rather than the strategic political move it really was," Le wrote. The violence drew bipartisan outrage from Wisconsin politicians. Republicans called on Evers and Madison's Democratic mayor to do more to protect the Capitol. Republican assembly speaker Robin Vos branded the protesters as "thugs." Lt governor Mandela Barnes, the first Black person to hold that office, condemned the violence but said "far right provocateurs" had "fanned the flames of hate." "This includes influencing the most destructive policy decisions, to stirring up emotions with the most hateful one sided discourse, pitting communities against one another," Barnes tweeted. Madison Alderman Paul Skidmore said he's upset with mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway for not condemning the violence and showing more support for police. "They're destroying our public monuments," Skidmore said. "They're destroying our government fabric. They're crossing that line with impunity. The mob has become very bold. They see they can get away with a little and they inch forward more and more. (Downtown Madison) is a battle zone right now and I fear for my city." Rhodes-Conway issued a statement calling the latest protests "exceedingly dangerous" and promising police are investigating. She also cited efforts the city has undertaken since Floyd's death to better control police, including creating a police auditor and a civilian police oversight committee. "Everyone - police, protester, elected official, business owner, resident - everyone must find it within themselves to show compassion and kindness for each other, and to care about each other's safety and well-being," the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/crowds-tear-down-statues-attack-wisconsin-state-senator/articleshow/76592070.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Fake currency note gang busted, two held||YAMUNANAGAR: The crime investigation agency (CIA)-II of Yamunanagar police busted a gang involved in printing fake currency notes and arrested two people after recovering fake notes having face value of Rs 2.20 lakh from their possession on Tuesday, police said. Yamunanagar police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said those arrested have been identified as Gulbahar of Jivala village in Saharanpur district of UP and Pankaj of Mirjapur in UP. “The CIA-II of Yamunanagar police recovered fake currency worth Rs 2.20 lakh from their possession, a computer, and a printer used in the crime,” said Chamkaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-fake-currency-note-gang-busted-two-held/articleshow/76592664.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 25, 2020||Goa||Coronavirus in Goa: HSS teachers oppose being called to work||PANAJI: President of Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association of Goa (HISTAG) Anant Pissurlekar on Wednesday said chief minister Pramod Sawant should explain how online teaching will improve if done from school premises. “Was there a need to call teachers so abruptly when the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state and students are not called in schools?” said Pissurlekar. Directorate of education on Tuesday issued an order making it mandatory for school teachers to report to work as per normal working hours. “The government decision to call so many teachers to work without students being at school, in the absence of proper transport and other facilities, is very surprising and appears to have been taken without giving a second thought,” said Pissurlekar. He said teachers cannot be compared to other government servants whose work demands that they be physical present in office. Pissurlekar said teachers have worked hard during the last few months to carry out student assessment, supervision for Class XII exams, to conduct door-to-door health survey and attend training on e-learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coronavirus-in-goa-hss-teachers-oppose-being-called-to-work/articleshow/76592949.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 34 more Covid-19 patients: DC||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Wednesday said 15 more Covid-19 patients had been declared cured in the last 24 hours. He said that till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 410. Besides, 34 more positive cases have been reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-34-more-covid-19-patients-dc/articleshow/76593243.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 25, 2020||India||India-China standoff: Satellite images, reports indicate PLA’s set up camp at clash site||NEW DELHI: Latest commercial satellite images and ground reports indicate Chinese troops are back on Indian territory in the Galwan Valley region in eastern Ladakh, setting up a much larger camp with gun positions in place of the observation post that was destroyed by Indian troops in the bloody clash of June 15. The situation in several other sectors in eastern Ladakh remains very tense, with China reinforcing military positions in the Depsang Plains, while continuing to occupy Indian territory on the north bank of Pangong Tso. With the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) seemingly determined not to withdraw any time soon, despite the two sides broadly agreeing on Monday to gradually disengage from the troop confrontations, Army chief General M M Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh to take stock of the operational situation on Wednesday. The satellite images on Wednesday showed that Chinese troops have come back in larger numbers to the “Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14)” area in the Galwan Valley region, the site of the brutal skirmish on June 15. PLA opens new front with heavy troop build-up in Depsang BulgeThis time, PLA appears to have set up a large camp with gun positions at the site near the “Y-junction” of the Shyok and Galwan rivers, which is slightly over a kilometre below PP-14, a reference point that marks the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Though there was no direct corroboration of the satellite images from the defence ministry or the Army, sources did confirm the fresh developments and said that there “is a huge trust deficit with the PLA” now. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Diplomatic talks on, but government sceptical of ChinaWhile the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs met, there is no illusion in the highest levels of the Indian government about the Chinese disengaging in any meaningful manner. Senior figures in government regard the current crisis as more serious thanIndian forces have “matched” PLA’s additional deployments of troops, artillery guns and armoured vehicles in the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie, Galwan, Hot Springs, Pangong Tso, Chushul, Demchok and Chumar sectors that stretch from north to south along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Gen Naravane reviewed the situation with Northern Command chief Lt-General Y K Joshi and 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh, while also undertaking an aerial reconnaissance of the forward sectors in eastern Ladakh. India China standoff live updates“We hope that the gradual and verifiable disengagement, as was decided in the June 22 meeting between Lt-Gen Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin, will begin soon. But we are prepared for the worst,” said a senior officer. “The additional build-up by China has taken place between the June 15 clash and the June 22 corps commander-level talks,” said an officer. The situation is “serious” with the rival troops maintaining “stand-off distances” that vary from just a few meters to a couple of km in different sectors. “But there has been no violence since June 15,” he added. PLA has also virtually opened up a new front in the Depsang Bulge area, a table-top plateau to the north of Galwan, with a huge deployment of troops and heavy weapons there to threaten the Burtse camp and Raki Nala areas of India. “But our forces are present there in adequate strength to prevent any misadventure,” said another officer. Depsang is the same area which had seen a major 21-day face-off in April-May 2013 after PLA troops intruded 19km into Indian territory. The area is strategically important since it just about 30-35 km south of the strategic Karakoram Pass, which in turn is at the trijunction of the China-Pakistan-India borders and overlooks the Siachen Glacier-Saltoro Ridge to the west and the Indian observation post in the Chumar sector in the east. The Depsang Bulge is the only staging area in the region, a large open land between high ridges of the Karakoram range in the north and Ladakh range in the south, from where Indian forces can group men and heavy weaponry to launch any action. Watch Satellite images show massive Chinese build-up, PLA’s camp at clash site||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/satellite-images-reports-indicate-plas-set-up-camp-at-clash-site/articleshow/76597732.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 25, 2020||India||Coronavirus: India adds 17,000+ new cases, day’s toll remains above 400||NEW DELHI: In one of the biggest single-day jumps in Covid-19 infections, India added more than 17,000 new cases of the virus on Wednesday — the highest so far — and nearly 1,500 more than the previous peak of 15,689 recorded the previous day. Wednesday’s death toll remained above 400 for the second day running, at 422. Covid-19 cases surged in Maharashtra (3,890 fresh infections), Delhi (3,788), Tamil Nadu (2,865), Telangana (891), Uttar Pradesh (700), Gujarat (572), Andhra Pradesh (497), Haryana (490), Bengal (445) and Assam (429), among other states, taking the day’s total to 17,156, as per data collated from state governments. With this, India’s total caseload rose to over 4.73 lakh, just four days after crossing the 4 lakh mark. Maharashtra, which recorded its highest single-day jump in cases, also added its second-highest death toll of 208, accounting for nearly half of all coronavirus-related fatalities reported in India during the day. Delhi reported 64 deaths while Tamil Nadu and Gujarat recorded 33 and 25, respectively. Fatalities also rose sharply in Karnataka, where 14 deaths were reported. India’s total death toll from the virus was close to 15,000, at 14,896. On a day Delhi toppled Mumbai as the Covid capital of the country, Mumbai returned to registering 1000-plus positive cases after a marginal dip on Tuesday. The city recorded 1,118 positive cases on Wednesday following Tuesday’s 824. With 3890 cases, Maharashtra’s tally of positive cases reached 1,42,900. Mumbai added 120 deaths to its tally, taking the overall mortality numbers to 3,964. As many as 82 deaths were from previous days. Telangana will soon scale up Covid-19 tests to 10,000 per day in a bid to contain the rapidly spreading virus, the health minister Eatala Rajender said, as the state recorded 891 cases and five deaths. Daily cases in the state have touched a new high for five days in a row now. Telangana’s caseload stands at 10,444 and 225 fatalities so far. Telangana’s twin state, Andhra Pradesh, registered 10 deaths, the highest single-day toll, and 497 coronavirus cases as authorities stepped up the fight to contain the virus. Andhra’s Covid-19 caseload reached 10,331 in just 100 days after reporting the first case on March 12. Tamil Nadu recorded its highest spike in fresh infections with 2,865 cases, pushing the tally to 67,468, while the official toll went up to 866 with 33 more deaths. The number of people under treatment across the state was 28,836. With 1,654 fresh cases, Chennai remained the hotspot. As Gujarat’s Covid numbers continued to rise, there were signs that the virus’ spread were slowing in Ahmedabad, one of the major epicentres of the outbreak in the country. On Wednesday, Ahmedabad district hit the lowest daily tally of 215 in 57 days, according to data shared by the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-india-adds-17000-new-cases-days-toll-remains-above-400/articleshow/76599447.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Invest up to July, claim benefits in FY21 I-T returns||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday extended the deadline for several compliances under the direct tax and benami property laws, including allowing assessees to invest in public provident fund, NSC and other tax-saving instruments up to July 31 and claim credit in the income tax returns for the last financial year. In addition, the deadline for filing returns, original as well as revised, for financial year 2018-19 has been extended further to July 31. The return filing date for the last financial year, which was July 31 for salaried has already been extended to November 30. “The returns of income which are required to be filed by the 31 July, 2020 and 31 October, 2020 can be filed by 30 November, 2020. Consequently, the date for furnishing tax audit report has also been extended to 31 October, 2020,” the finance ministry said regarding returns for financial year 2019-20. TDS and TCS certificate for FY 2019-20 can also be issued up to 31 July and 15 August, respectively. The relaxations have been necessitated by Covid 19, which had resulted in a two-month lockdown with offices yet to return to full strength, hampering the issuance of Form 16 and other papers needed to file tax returns. For small taxpayers, with liability of up to Rs 1 lakh, the government has allowed for payment of self-assessment tax by 30th November, 2020, although there is no relief for those above the threshold. Further, the finance ministry said, for capital gains under section 54 to 54GB of the Income Tax Act, investment, construction or purchases made up to September 30 will be eligible claiming deduction for the last financial year. The move will benefit individuals or HUFs who had sold residential property and need to reinvest the gains to claim tax deduction. When it comes to action by tax authorities, the deadline for passing orders and issuing notices has been extended from December 31 to March 31, 2021 – which is also the deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN. Watch Covid-19 crisis: Invest up to July, claim benefits in FY21 I-T returns||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/invest-up-to-july-claim-benefits-in-fy21-i-t-returns/articleshow/76602000.cms||---
June 25, 2020||India||TB still a bigger killer than Covid in India||NEW DELHI: India recorded 24 lakh tuberculosis cases and over 79,000 deaths due to the disease in 2019. The numbers, while considerably lower than World Health Organisation estimates, translate into roughly 20,000 deaths every quarter. In comparison, Covid has killed around 15,000 people in India over the last three and a half months. The 24 lakh cases represent an 11% rise over the previous year and bring the official number closer to WHO’s estimate of 26.9 lakh cases. This gap between officially recorded and estimated cases, often referred to as the “missing millions”, narrowed from over 10 lakh in 2017 to 2.9 lakh in 2019, shows the annual TB report released on Wednesday by the health ministry. The report shows 79,144 deaths due to tuberculosis were reported in 2019, which is much lower than the WHO estimate of 4.4 lakh fatalities. Private sector notifications saw an increase of over 35%, compared to 2018. Around 6.8 lakh patients were notified from the private sector, accounting for roughly 28% of total case notifications in 2019. “The mandatory notification policy, launch of private provider support agency (PPSA) programmes, and incentives to private providers have been major contributing factors to the increase,” the report said. Expansion of TB treatment services has resulted in improvement in the treatment success rate with 81% of notified patients getting treated in 2019 as compared to 69% in 2018. The report highlighted that the provision of HIV testing for all notified TB patients increased from 67% in 2018 to 81% in 2019. Over half of the total notifications were from five states — Uttar Pradesh (20%), Maharashtra (9%), Madhya Pradesh (8%), Rajasthan (7%) and Bihar (7%). Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the country is on track to meeting the deadline of 2025 for eliminating TB. “The government is committed to achieving the SDG goal of eliminating TB in the country by 2025, five years ahead of the global target. To align with the ambitious goal, the programme has been renamed from Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP) to National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP),” Vardhan said during the release of the report. Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh were the three best-performing states for tuberculosis control among states with 50 lakh or more population in the state TB Index. Tripura and Nagaland were best-performing in the category of states having less than 50 lakh population. Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu were the best performing Union Territories. About the stigma attached to TB patients in the country, which is hampering the fight against the disease, Vardhan said, “We as a nation, need to come together to fight tuberculosis and the stigma surrounding it so that every TB patient can seek care with dignity and without discrimination. The community must act as a wellspring of support and comfort for a patient.” He underscored the crucial contribution the private sector can make to the national TB programme by mandatory tuberculosis notification and providing quality care. Watch Tuberculosis still a bigger killer than Covid-19 in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tb-still-a-bigger-killer-than-covid-in-india/articleshow/76602706.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 25, 2020||India||Bengal extends lockdown curbs till July 31 after all-party meet||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday extended the lockdown in the state for a month, till July 31, following an all-party meeting called here to deliberate on the spread of the Covid pandemic. The current lockdown was to end on June 30. Suburban train and metro services will remain suspended during the extended lockdown. Mamata also announced that private hospitals will be instructed to standardise fees and charges for Covid patients amid concern over the high cost of treatment. “The government had issued guidelines to private hospitals earlier. They haven’t complied with it. I would ask the chief secretary and the health department to issue fresh instructions asking private hospitals to standardise fees/charges for Covid treatment. I have reports that people are paying through the nose. This is the time to give service to people,” Mamata said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-extends-lockdown-curbs-till-july-31-after-all-party-meet/articleshow/76604027.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Hinduja brothers spar over letter on $11 billion wealth||NEW DELHI: A letter signed by the four Hinduja brothers is at the centre of a legal dispute over the future of the family’s $11.2 billion fortune. The 2014 document says that the assets held by one brother belong to all, and that each man will appoint the others as their executors. But now Srichand Hinduja, 84, the patriarch of the family, and his daughter, Vinoo, want the letter to be declared worthless. The dispute between the UK-based family came to light in a ruling delivered on Tuesday by a London judge, who said the three other brothers, Gopichand, Prakash and Ashok, tried to use the letter to take control of Hinduja Bank — an asset that was in Srichand’s sole name. Srichand and Vinoo want the London court to rule that the letter should have “no legal effect” and cannot be used as a will, the judge said. ‘Litigation will not impact business’Srichand Hinduja’s daughter Vinoo said that her father had insisted as early as 2016 that the July letter doesn’t reflect his wishes and that the family’s assets should be separated. A lawyer for Srichand didn’t respond to messages seeking comment. In a statement, the three brothers said that the litigation will have no impact on their businesses. “It will be apparent from the Judgment of the High Court in England, that Mr S P Hinduja’s health has been deteriorating for a number of years... Vinoo, his younger daughter, acting as his Litigation Friend is bringing these proceedings on his behalf. It is very unfortunate that these proceedings are taking place as they go against our founder’s and family’s values and principles that have stood for many decades, especially, ‘everything belongs to everyone and nothing belongs to anyone’. We intend to defend the claim to uphold these dearly held family values,” they said in an emailed statement. If the claim succeeds, then all assets in Srichand’s name would pass on to his daughter and her immediate family, including the entire shareholding in Hinduja Bank, the three brothers had said, according to the ruling. The judge noted that Srichand lacks capacity to give instructions to his lawyers and appointed Vinoo to act on his behalf. The Hinduja family are among the world’s richest. The bulk of their fortune derives from Hinduja Group, the closely held conglomerate whose origins trace back more than a century that today has investments spanning finance, media and healthcare in almost 40 countries, according to its website. The Bloomberg Billionaires Index values the family fortune at $11.2 billion. The four Hinduja siblings now help run the Mumbai-based group, which suffered in the economic turmoil stemming from the pandemic. Shares in Ashok Leyland Ltd, the Indian truck maker controlled by Hinduja Group’s automotive unit, fell more than a third in March. The global slowdown in travel also hurt the group’s Gulf Oil International. This month, the Reserve Bank of India pushed back on the brothers’ plan to raise their stake in IndusInd Bank Ltd, whose shares have lost 66% this year, according to people familiar with the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hinduja-brothers-spar-over-letter-on-11-billion-wealth/articleshow/76606194.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Assault inflicts severe mental trauma on cashier||SURAT: The hairline fracture in her lower back may heal within a few days, but the trauma of being assaulted by a policeman will take a long time for Santosh Kumari Purohit. When TOI visited her house, the bank cashier was writhing in pain and frequently breaking down even as her husband Jayantilal constantly tried to comfort her. “No one needs police like this. How can a policeman behave like this?,” moaned Purohit, who suffered multiple injuries, while talking to TOI. “He not only physically assaulted me, but the incident has put my family and my colleagues are under tremendous stress,” said the woman, who works as a cashier in Canara Bank. Purohit has been working with the bank for two years now. The images of police constable Ghanshyam Shyora attack are still flashing in her mind. “Not only me, but my husband was also threatened to keep quiet when he came to help me. Instead of helping me, the local police gave the accused cop time to try and force me into a settlement,” alleged Purohit. The victim also claimed that she and her colleagues had to wait at the Puna police station till 11pm on Monday to lodge the complaint even as the incident had happened at 4.30 pm. Purohit later went to SMIMER hospital for a medical examination where doctors told her that she did not have serious injury. “Later, we went to a private hospital where the doctors found that she had a hairline fracture in the lower back. She has been advised to rest for at least 10 days,” said Jayantilal, who works in a textile market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-assault-inflicts-severe-mental-trauma-on-cashier/articleshow/76587937.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 25, 2020||Business||Truck firms look for new export markets to sell BS6 range||Chennai: Truck exports have become critical given the sharp drop in sales in the domestic market due to the slowdown and the demand disruption caused by the Covid pandemic. Currently for Ashok Leyland core export markets includes Middle East, and Africa. “Our initial focus will be on non-emissioned markets where existing platforms will play but our new range will give us the potential to tap other global emissioned markets as well,” said Vipin Sondhi, MD of the company. One of the new markets the company wants to expand into, he said, was is CIS countries.Others like Daimler India Commercial Vehicles have already started shipments for some markets. “We export to over 50 markets in the world, including countries in the Middle East, Africa and South East Asia to name a few. Our exports will ramp up further as international shipping restrictions ease,” said.Satyakam Arya, MD & CEO, DICV. Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles is using its partner Volvo to create a presence in south east Asia. “We have been working with Volvo Group to develop our international distribution. South Africa, Middle East and Indonesia are some of the markets we are focussing on in a big way. We are targeting South East Asia in particular,” said Eicher Motors MD Siddhartha Lal. M&M sees exports to garner additional volumes. “The export market does offer opportunity to enable us to garner additional volumes.There are short term challenges to export growth like logistics and also Covid related challenges in many international markets. Introduction of products with latest BS6 technology will create new opportunities for Mahindra in the overseas markets,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, ED — auto & farm equipment sector, M&M.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/truck-firms-look-for-new-export-markets-to-sell-bs6-range/articleshow/76433161.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 25, 2020||Patna||BJP retains Mayukh, names Samrat for two Council seats||PATNA: BJP on Wednesday announced its two candidates for the Bihar legislative council election to be held for nine seats from the assembly constituency on July 6. But it was not a seamless exercise, as one outgoing MLC Krishna Kumar Singh resigned from all the party posts he held in protest against the denial of ticket to him for the second term. The two party candidates are former minister Samrat Choudhary and sitting MLC Sanjay Prakash Mayukh, who has been given ticket for the second term. Mayukh is the national secretary incharge of the party’s media wing at its national headquarters, Delhi. Otherwise, other than Mayukh, two other outgoing BJP MLCs are Singh and Radha Mohan Sharma. Choudhary and Mayukh would file their nomination papers on Thursday, the last day for it, the party’s state functionary Rakesh Kumar Singh said. “The party has given tickets to them (Choudhary and Mayukh) to cement social equations in view of the coming October-November assembly elections,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. Incidentally, in the last three years, the party’s two Kushwaha caste faces – Satyendra Singh Kushwaha and Surajnandan Kushwaha, both MLCs – had died and, therefore, it had become necessary to project Samrat, a Kushwaha by caste, who is already a well-known face in the state, party sources said. However, the denial of ticket to Singh has led to dissatisfaction in some sections of the Bhumihar upper caste people to which he belongs. Bhumihars, along with Brahmins, Rajputs and Kayasthas have remained loyal to the BJP. Singh has resigned from the post of the secretary of the party’s trust formed to commemorate former governor late Kailashpati Mishra, as well as from the state executive committee membership, besides a few other posts that he held. “I have resigned from party posts, but I am still in the party. People like us built it,” said Singh, who is 74 years old and had become active in the RSS circuit from the school days. Since the BJP has 54 MLAs in the state assembly, its two candidates would sail through, leaving four extra votes for its NDA ally JD(U) that has 70 MLAs and has fielded three candidates. One candidate requires at least 25 MLA votes to get elected to the legislative council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-retains-mayukh-names-samrat-for-two-council-seats/articleshow/76583697.cms||Abhay Singh
June 25, 2020||Patna||RJD candidates file nomination papers||PATNA: The three RJD candidates — Sunil Singh, Rambali Singh and Farukh Sheikh — on Wednesday filed their nomination papers for the Bihar Vidhan Parishad seats from the assembly constituency for which election is scheduled for July 6. There are total nine vacant seats from the assembly constituency quota. While Sunil is Biscomaun chairman, Rambali is a teacher at BN College. Farukh is a Mumbai-based businessman. Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s close aide and MLA Bhola Yadav were present when the trio filed their nomination papers before the Vidhan Sabha secretary, who is the returning officer. As per the party’s strength in the lower house, RJD and JD(U) will win three seats while BJP two and Congress one. Earlier, even the name of Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap was also being discussed, but Tejashwi made it clear that both the brothers will not go to the Upper House as their mother Rabri Devi is already an MLC. A senior RJD leader said the party opted for Rajput-EBC-Muslim combination. Sunil is a Rajput. He is close to Lalu and met him in Ranchi in February this year. “It is not merely my closeness to RJD first family that I have been selected by the party. I am also the Biscomaun chairman for the past 16 years and people associated with the cooperative society wanted me to be in the Council in order to raise their issues. We need a strong voice and now the ruling party cannot fool us by giving wrong data,” he told TOI. Rambali, on the other hand, belongs to the extremely backward caste. He also holds the charge of party’s EBC wing. He appreciated Lalu for working for his community and all those who had been suppressed. “Ever since my name appeared for the Council seat, chief minister Nitish Kumar has become restless. He had been projecting fake EBCs and did nothing for the community,” he said. The Mumbai-based businessman Farukh is a new name in the party and not recognized by several of its members. Though he claimed his association with RJD for a long time. When asked about his entry into politics after managing big business, he replied, “I am not a big businessman, rather a small RJD worker. Let opposition and media raise this issue, but I am associated with RJD since long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-candidates-file-nomination-papers/articleshow/76583623.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 25, 2020||Patna||WWO distributes bicycles at Danapur||PATNA: The Danapur branch of Women Welfare Association (WWO) distributed 208 bicycles among the daughters and dependants of railway employees of Danapur division under the PM’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ scheme at the DRM’s office building in Khagaul on Wednesday. Danapur WWO president Supriya distributed the bicycles in the presence of Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar. Speaking on the occasion, Supriya said the association members were counselling women employees and their dependants at a time when the country was passing through a critical stage due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Later, the association installed a sanitary pad machine at the women employees’ common room at the DRM’s office. Danapur ADRM Arvind Rajak, association members Ruchi Acharya, Anubha Maurya, Sikha and many others were present on the occasion. Danapur senior divisional personnel officer Surjit Singh proposed a vote of thanks. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, railways held a refresher training programme for the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of its central superspeciality hospital at Karbhighaiya in Patna. Dr Vimi Kumari discussed in detail about safety measures to be taken against corona patients, sources said. According to Danapur DRM, railways has kept in readiness its isolation wards and other medical requirements at its hospitals in Khagaul and Patna. Railway coaches have already been converted into facilities to quarantine the corona suspects. Sanitizing tunnels have been installed at important places like railway depot and coach maintenance yards in Patna and Danapur, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wwo-distributes-bicycles-at-danapur/articleshow/76583997.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Wheels India FY20 net profits drop to Rs 54cr||Steel wheels manufacturer Wheels India on Wednesday said its net profits for the year ended March 2020 was Rs 54.1 crore down from Rs 75.7 crore it earned last year. The board has proposed a final dividend of Rs 2.65 a share. Revenues were Rs 2,438.7crore, down from Rs 3,188.8 crore, as slowdown in auto market impacted operations. The total dividend for the fiscal adds up to Rs 5.65 a share from Rs 8 a year ago. Srivats Ram, MD of the company said , “The slowing economy resulted in a decline in sales of major industry segments, with the commercial vehicle segment being worst affected. The declining sales along with the covid lockdown impact in the last month affected sales and profits.” On the outlook for the year, he said , “While we have been adversely affected by the lockdown over the first two months of the year, and expect decline in the automotive industry, we expect sales of agricultural tractors and our windmill business to remain at around the previous year levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wheels-india-fy20-net-profits-drop-to-rs-54cr/articleshow/76433479.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||Ex-servicemen demand uniform ex gratia policy for martyrs’ kin||PATNA: The Bihar Ex-servicemen Association (officers) has demanded a uniform policy at the country level to grant ex gratia payment of equal amount to the next of kin of the martyrs in each state. “Prosperous states are known for paying handsome ex gratia amount to the Army martyrs while poor states like Bihar hardly affords that much,” association’s president Col (retd) V K Singh said on Wednesday. However, he praised Bihar government to pay ex gratia of Rs36 lakh and a job each to the families of five martyrs of the Galwan valley. He also hailed the Telangana state government for granting Rs5 crore to Col Santosh Babu, who was also martyred in the Galwan valley with other jawans of the 16th battalion Bihar Regiment. Col (retd) Singh said Punjab government has raised the ex gratia amount from Rs10 lakh to Rs50 lakh for each martyr with a job to the next of kin. The UP government has also raised the ex gratia from Rs25 lakh to Rs50 lakh to each martyr. Besides, the UP government is also providing facilities like petrol pump station and a job in state government to a family member of each martyr, he said. Bihar contributes about 11% manpower to the Indian armed forces. About 1.5 lakh soldiers are engaged in guarding borders of the country while about 2 lakh ex-servicemen are settled in Bihar after their superannuation. These jawans are contributing to the state’s development, he said. Singh said on an average 10 Army personnel from Bihar attain martyrdom every year. The state government had announced in 2011 to set up a grievance redressal cell for Army men in each district, but the cell was functional in 14 districts on paper only. As a result, the genuine grievances of Army men and ex-servicemen are not being addressed in most of the districts, he said. After creation of Jharkhand, Bihar has got only Danapur cantonment, which is not in a position to take care of about 1.5 lakh serving soldiers and two lakh ex-servicemen’s welfare in the state. Thus, Army has floated a concept for setting up composite facility centre scheme for jawans’ welfare in Bihar. The Southern Command, Jodhpur (Rajasthan), has recently set up a composite facility centre for Army personnel and their families’ welfare, known as ‘Sapta Shakti and Sainya Sahuliyat Kendra’, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-servicemen-demand-uniform-ex-gratia-policy-for-martyrs-kin/articleshow/76587014.cms||Kumod Verma
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Khader, with only mask on, fills grave of victim||Mangaluru: Mangaluru MLA U T Khader did not think twice about taking a pickaxe and filling the grave of Dakshina Kannada district’s ninth Covid victim at a graveyard here on Tuesday. Unlike other volunteers of Bolar jamath involved in conducting the final rites, who were fully covered in PPE suits, Khader only had a face mask for protection. “It was a voluntarily action,” Khader told TOI. Explaining his action, the former health minister said: “When Group D workers, who wheel the duly wrapped body of the patient on to the ambulance and those accompanying it to the final resting place or the ambulance driver who drives it to the graveyard (in this case) or a crematorium can do their work without fear, why should the near and dear ones of the person shy away from giving the deceased a dignified final send-off as per the person’s religious custom?” Magnanimity shown by Bolar jamath in allowing the burial in their graveyard is befitting the occasion, he said. Khader said doctors have, time and again, impressed on the fact that handling a Covid-19 victim’s body will not lead to infection as it is wrapped tightly in protective cover. After participating in the burial rituals, Khader went for a proper scrub as a precautionary measure. Chandrahas Pandithouse, president of the Mangaluru assembly constituency unit of BJP, took umbrage to Khader’s move. He also demanded that the former minister forthwith quarantines himself. Terming it carelessness, Chandrahas said Khader’s move to participate in the rituals without a PPE is a sad development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-with-only-mask-on-fills-grave-of-victim/articleshow/76590097.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 25, 2020||Surat||Over 90 patients chose home treatment packages||Surat: It was the most difficult decision that 54-year-old Reshma Mandlewala had to take — to stay at home or go to a hospital — after her Covid-19 test report shockingly turned positive on June 12. But fearing that her condition may deteriorate in a hospital, she chose to stay in the sanctuary of her own plush bungalow and battle the virus in isolation. Under home isolation care and continuous observation of her daughter-in-law, Dr Daizy Mandlewala, Reshma, wife of Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life, an organ donation NGO, will complete her 14 days isolation period on Friday.“I am perfectly doing fine without any health complications whatsoever and counting days to get myself out of the isolation room,” she told TOI.Thanks to the revised guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), about 93 Covid-19 positive patients, clinically categorised as having very mild or pre-symptomatic coronavirus disease, are under home isolation in the city. Majority of these Covid-19 positive patients are from the posh localities such as Athawalines, Vesu, Parle Point, Adajan and Pal. Reshma said, “I have not met my sons and husband for the past 13 days, but there is a sense of belongingness. I am staying locked up in a separate room and receiving medical treatment from my own daughter-in-law who is a doctor. She visits my room wearing the PPE suit twice a day. I, however, have to monitor my oxygen levels, blood pressure etc on my own.” “Home isolation has it own therapeutic value,” said Niket Agarwal (name changed), a textile entrepreneur from Vesu, who too chose home isolation after testing positive. “It is the best option to treat Covid-19, as the feeling of being with your family helps one fight and recover faster. I opted for a Covid care home treatment provided by a private hospital, which includes daily visits by a team of doctor and nurse, teleconsultation by senior doctor, besides thermometer, personal pulse oximeter, home delivery of medicines among others to monitor my progress,” he added.Many such patients in home isolation said that monitoring and surveillance by the health teams of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is rigorous. Patients have to update their health status on the Covid-19 tracker application of SMC every hour and upload their pictures twice a day. Also, health officials visit the house and check whether the treatment protocol is followed and for symptoms in other family members.“There are about 93 Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation. None of them has been moved to the hospital and their condition is normal. We are keeping daily track of these patients” says Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital)Naik added that a separate facility for collecting garbage from such households has been set-up where the waste is collected in bio-medical waste disposal bags provided to the patients and taken to the proper facility to be discharged as bio-medical waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-90-patients-chose-home-treatment-packages/articleshow/76587427.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||708 reach Gaya by 4 special flights||GAYA: More than 700 natives of Bihar and Jharkhand, who had been stranded in other countries during the Covid-19 lockdown, reached Gaya by four special flights on Wednesday. With this, the number of foreign returnees has crossed the 5,000-mark. The Gaya International Airport has been notified as the designated airport for Bihar-Jharkhand natives returning from abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission. Although the exact figure of such people, who have got themselves registered for evacuation, is unknown, sources claim that their number is nearly 25,000. This means that more than 75% of those registered under the Vande Bharat Mission are yet to arrive. Divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba, who is also the nodal officer of the Vande Bharat Mission, stonewalled queries on the actual number of registrations for evacuation. Other officials also said they were under strict instructions not to reveal any details. Confirming the return of 708 people, Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar said, “Altogether 198 people came by a SpiceJet flight from Ras Al Khaimah (UAE) while another group arrived from Ukraine by an AI flight. Air Arabia and SalamAir also operated special flights from Sharjah (UAE) and Muscat (Oman).” Asked about the resumption of domestic flights from the Gaya airport, Kumar replied, “No decision has yet been taken in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/708-reach-gaya-by-4-special-flights/articleshow/76585886.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 25, 2020||Patna||Haj cancellation disappoint people||BHAGALPUR: The Centre’s decision that no pilgrims from the country will travel to Mecca (Saudi Arabia) for haj this year has disappointed the 180 residents of the district, who had registered with the Bihar State Haj Committee and also paid requisite fee, travel and other expense charges. The central government’s decision came after the Saudi government’s announcement that ‘very limited number’ of people will be allowed for haj this year in order to check the spread of coronavirus. Maulana Ata-ur-Rehman, Habibia Madarsa of Puraini said they were very much disappointed by the cancellation of haj this year. The Maulana said they would look forward to haj next year. Md Abtullah Ansari of Narga Chowk (Nathnagar) said although it was disappointing for him and others who wanted to go for haj and had prepared for that, they would be going to Mecca next year. Md Habib Murshid and his wife, who had registered and paid the requisite fee for haj, said the Haj Committee should not cancel their registration and refund money, instead keep it for 2021. Md Shaheb Haji of Asanandpur locality said the haj committee perhaps has sought application from the registered applicants for refund of the registration and other charges, which come to about Rs3.25 lakh per head. No deduction will be made on the charges paid to the committee, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/haj-cancellation-disappoint-people/articleshow/76584081.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Gold nears record Rs 49k/10gm mark||Mumbai: Gold prices hit a record high on Wednesday as it closed at the Rs 48,700-per-10gm mark in the city’s spot market, while the July futures on MCX had hit a high of Rs 48,589 and the October futures at Rs 48,747. The recent rise in the price of the yellow metal has been helped by some pent-up demand from jewellery buyers after almost two consecutive months of near-total lockdown that hardly saw any physical trade. The day’s rise was also helped by a strong gain on Tuesday in the international markets that saw gold rally to above the $1,780-per-ounce mark, mainly on the back of safe haven demands. However, the strength of the rupee in the last couple of sessions is limiting rise of gold prices in India, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-nears-record-rs-49k/10gm-mark/articleshow/76592492.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||Textile markets to operate five days a week||Surat: The textile markets in Surat city will now operate for five days a week to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection. The decision was taken following meeting of textile industry players and Surat Municipal Corporation chief Banchhanidhi Pani on Wednesday.SMC data revealed that at least 80 Covid-19 cases have been reported from different textile markets of Surat in last three days. Those infected are either traders, labourers or people connected to the textile markets.In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the textile market areas, Pani along with Surat mayor Dr. Jagdish Patel held meeting with textile businessmen and members of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) to discuss the issue on Wednesday. “It has been decided to operate textile business between 9 am and 7 pm from Monday to Friday. If any trader has to open the shop other than this period, permission will have to be taken from the market's president or secretary,” said Pani.“Also, all traders will have to sanitise their shops daily. No one will be allowed into the market without wearing a face mask. Maintaining social distancing goes without saying,” FOSTTA said in a communiqué to its members. There are over 70,000 shops in 161 textile markets in the Surat city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-markets-to-operate-five-days-a-week/articleshow/76587499.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Wait for introduction of CBCS at UG level gets longer||PATNA: Universities in the state are unlikely to introduce choice based credit system (CBCS) at the undergraduate (UG) level from the 2020-2021 academic session. The chancellor’s secretariat had earlier announced that the system would be introduced at the UG stage in all the colleges from the next session and even started framing uniform ordinance and regulations of CBCS. It had also initiated steps for getting the syllabi of UG courses revised as per the new system. But, the task is yet to be completed. Introduction of CBCS seems improbable in view of the fact that the process of admission to UG courses in different universities has already started and students are submitting their applications. Since the universities have not yet announced the introduction of semester mode under CBCS at the UG stage, it cannot be implemented in the midst of the admission process. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper on Wednesday, “CBCS has already been introduced for self-financing courses at the UG stage. But the regular BA, BSc and BCom programmes of the university continue to run in the annual mode sans CBCS. Now that the process of admission has started, it cannot be implemented from the current academic session.” Universities had implemented CBCS at the postgraduate level from the 2018-2019 session, but could not do so at the UG level because most degree colleges were not prepared for it. However, now, universities as well as colleges under their jurisdiction have geared up to accept the challenge. Last year, the Raj Bhavan had initiated necessary steps for revision of curricula of all UG programmes in the light of CBCS. It was decided that the syllabus of a subject would be revised by a particular university with the help of all other universities where the subject was taught. Those entrusted with the job of revision of syllabi of different subjects included Patna University (physics, mathematics, geology, geography, personnel management and industrial relations, statistics, biochemistry, English, Urdu, Arabic, music and home science), Magadh University (economics, history, ancient Indian history, Magahi, chemistry, Buddhist studies and social work), Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (botany, Hindi, Persian and electronics), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (zoology, anthropology, computer science, sociology, Bengali and political science), Veer Kunwar Singh University (philosophy and Bhojpuri), Lalit Narayan Mithila University (psychology, commerce, Maithili), Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (biotechnology and industrial microbiology) and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (Sanskrit). According to Raj Bhavan sources, most universities have already revised the syllabi and sent them to the chancellor’s secretariat. Now, the Raj Bhavan will constitute subject-wise committees of experts and get the new syllabi vetted and modified. Once the revised syllabi based on CBCS are finalized and the uniform ordinance and regulations approved by the chancellor, they will be sent to all the universities for implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wait-for-introduction-of-cbcs-at-ug-level-gets-longer/articleshow/76585689.cms||B K Mishra
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Unfinished work puts Arts College students on edge||LUCKNOW: Unable to access equipment in the varsity’s studios, hundreds of students of College of Fine Arts and Crafts, Lucknow University, are having sleepless nights over their unfinished artwork which can be the deal-breaker for them in their exams in July. The university recently announced examinations which were deferred in March will be held in July. Most students are busy giving final touches to their artworks which constitute around 80% of their syllabus. With the labs and studios closed due to lockdown, they weren’t able to work on their projects for over two months. The studios are yet to reopen, though exam schedule has been announced. “One needs a studio for different tasks like stone carving, clay work, photography, grinding, textile designing, sculpture and iron and bronze work. These artworks can only be completed in studios and labs which have costly equipment, brick kilns, moulds, chemicals and other raw materials. Most students cannot afford such equipment and even if they could, there is not enough space at home to set them up,” said MFA student Ankita Kumari. “We give finishing touches to our projects under the supervision of experts, which itself is a learning process and not possible in online sessions. Moreover, I won’t be able to get the desired results in some projects which involve moulding of sculptures, metal work and painting if I leave them halfway and then resume working on them after a long gap,” said another student. “I don’t know how I’ll pass the examination, when the practical part accounts for 80% marks,” he added. Faculty member of the college’s sculpture department Vibhavari Singh said, “I been receiving multiple calls from students who weren’t able to buy raw material. Even if they did manage to buy them, it wasn’t possible for them to work on the project because they didn’t have the right equipment. Students were also worried about the damage to their artwork during lockdown.” “We can’t use chemicals without our teachers’ supervision. Using a brick kiln to mould a sculpture at the right temperature cannot be done online or at home,” said Prashant Tiwari of BFA. Admitting that the students were facing problems because of lockdown, dean of faculty of fine arts Alok Kumar said attempts were being made to resume practical session while following precautions so that students can complete their artwork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unfinished-work-puts-arts-college-students-on-edge/articleshow/76596944.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Teachers’ selection: Plea to transfer case to CBI to be heard on July 7||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court fixed July 7 for next hearing of the petition seeking transfer of the probe into anomalies in recruitment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers to CBI and cancellation of the selection process. A bench of Justice Alok Mathur passed the order on the plea moved by A K Ojha and another petitioner, who alleged after the written examination on January 6, 2019, STF and centre superintendents had lodged complaints at different places in the state. The probe should be conducted by a premier investigating agency like CBI since a fair probe cannot be expected from STF, which is under the state government, said petitioners. It was requested on behalf of the state government that Advocate General Raghvendra Singh would argue the matter and it should be listed after summer vacation, which starts from June 27. The bench later set July 7 as next date with the consent of counsel for petitioners and the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teachers-selection-plea-to-transfer-case-to-cbi-to-be-heard-on-july-7/articleshow/76597336.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||Nitish to officials: Convert Kamla weir into a barrage||PATNA: Amidst reports of unease in relationship between India and Nepal, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday visited Jayanagar in Madhubani district at the border to oversee the ongoing anti-erosion and flood protection works on the embankments of Kamla river. Accompanied by state’s water resources department (WRD) minister Sanjay Kumar Jha and senior officials, CM also inspected Jayanagar embankment, Kamla weir and Naruwar embankment. He asked the WRD officials to convert the weir into a barrage to create additional irrigation capacity. “The conversion of Kamla weir into a barrage will create an additional irrigation capacity for 23,788 acre land. Then, it will provide a guaranteed irrigation facility to the farmers of this area, leading to their economic growth,” Nitish said. While inspecting the Kamla river embankment at 1.3km and 1.4km points near the Indo-Nepal border at Jayanagar, the CM asked the officials to do iron sheet piling besides raising the height of the embankment to strengthen it before any flood situation. While inspecting the construction works at the Naruwar embankment, Nitish advised the officials to do steel sheet piling to strengthen the embankment to protect the nearby habitations from the onslaught of floods. He also asked them to do adequate earth filling near the embankments to strengthen them more. Madhubani DM informed the CM that the district administration had already provided necessary compensation to those whose houses were damaged after a breach in Naruwar embankment during the last year floods. Some local people present there thanked the CM for timely payment of compensation for their damaged houses. Nitish further asked the WRD officials to ensure timely completion of the embankment strengthening work. He asked the WRD engineers and officials to maintain vigil for protection of the embankments during the floods period. State chief secretary Deepak Kumar and development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh also accompanied the CM during the inspection of embankments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-officials-convert-kamla-weir-into-a-barrage/articleshow/76585311.cms||Madan Kumar
June 25, 2020||Surat||Katargam surpasses Limbayat in Covid-19 cases||Surat: Katargam zone, the Covid-19 hotspot in the city, has surpassed the Limbayat zone as far as number of Covid-19 cases are concerned. On Wednesday, it recorded 61 fresh Covid-19 cases. Now Katargam zone has 909 cases, the highest number of cases in Surat in any of is eight civic zones. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the spike in Covid-19 cases in Katargam zone is mainly due to diamond polishing units. “After June 1, industrial activity was resumed to bring back the economy on track. However, lack of social distancing and carelessness in following the Covid-19 norms spurred the spread of infections. Earlier, Limbayat zone was the hotspot. But now, Katargam has replaced it in terms of its sheer numbers,” said a senior SMC official. Out of the total 155 fresh cases, 61 were reported in Katargam, followed by 25 in Limbayat, 19 in Varachha (B), 17 in Varachha (A) and 11 in Rander zone in the city. Five more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 146 in the city till date. The deceased included a 44-year-old man from Katargam, a 72-year-old man from Varachha (A) zone, a 48-year-old woman from Katargam, a 73-year-old woman from Varachha (A) and a 73-year-old man from Limbayat zone in the city. Meanwhile, 43 patients were discharged in the city, taking the total number of the patients who have recovered to 2,330 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/katargam-surpasses-limbayat-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76587796.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Malpractices force RBI to crack down on loan apps||TNN Mumbai: Concerned over the practices adopted by some of the digital lending platforms, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cracked down on them and imposed several conditions for banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) that lend through them. Henceforth, any bank or NBFC that uses a digital lending platform has to provide the borrower a loan agreement on its letterhead. It must also disclose the names of the digital lending platforms it partners on its website. The digital lending platforms, whose services are used by banks, must also disclose upfront to the customer the name of the bank or NBFC on whose behalf they are interacting with them. Also, immediately after sanction, but before the execution of the loan agreement, the sanction letter must be issued to the borrower on the letterhead of the lender. “Of late, there are several complaints against the lending platforms, which primarily relate to exorbitant interest rates, non-transparent methods to calculate interest, harsh recovery measures, unauthorised use of personal data and bad behaviour,” said the RBI in its notification to all lenders. It added that banks and NBFCs, irrespective of whether they lend through their digital lending platform or an outsourced lending platform, must adhere to the Fair Practices Code guidelines in letter and spirit. The RBI’s guidelines come after reports that app-based lenders are using underhand methods for recovery of loans during the lockdown. Since most of the app-based lenders ask for full access to the phone contacts, some are using this information to reach out to those on the contact list of borrowers. There have also been instances where the defaulting borrower has been blackmailed by recovery agents threatening to use private information. In recent years, many banks and finance companies have started providing automated loans based on analytics and credit score. There is also a category of fintech that offers a platform for banks and finance companies. Some of these lending apps require access to messages as they use bank alerts to assess the borrower’s cash flows and diligence in bill payment. In some cases, the app-based lenders did not disclose the actual cost of the loan after including interest and other charges. Also, in many cases, the lending platforms did not divulge who the actual lender is, thereby denying the borrower an opportunity for grievance redressal. “The lending platforms tend to portray themselves as lenders without disclosing the name of the bank/NBFC at the backend, as a consequence of which, customers are not able to access grievance redressal avenues available under the regulatory framework,” RBI said in its circular. RBI-regulated lenders have been using the fintech platform under the central bank’s norms that allow outsourcing. “It must be noted that outsourcing of any activity by banks/NBFCs does not diminish their obligations, as the onus of compliance with regulatory instructions rests solely with them,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/malpractices-force-rbi-to-crack-down-on-loan-apps/articleshow/76591725.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||CCI clears $5.7bn Facebook-Jio deal||TNN Bengaluru: The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has cleared Facebook’s $5.7-billion investment in RIL-owned Jio Platforms, paving the way for closure of the deal. The application seeking the competition regulator’s nod was filed earlier in the month, as reported by TOI. Facebook’s investment in Jio Platforms, which was a part of massive deleveraging exercise by RIL’s promoter Mukesh Ambani, was announced in April. “@CCI_India approves acquisition of 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms by Jaadhu Holdings,” the regulatory body said in a tweet on Wednesday. Jaadhu is the US-based entity, floated by Facebook, which has invested in Jio Platforms. Both the parties in their application to CCI had said the deal is pro-competition, benefits consumers, kirana stores and other small and micro Indian businesses. Facebook-owned WhatsApp, which would play a key role in RIL’s e-commerce initiative, has 400 million monthly active users, while Jio has 370 million telecom subscribers. “The proposed transaction does not alter the competitive landscape in any potential relevant market. Facebook and Jio Platforms will continue to operate independently,” they had said in the application, which cited consumer communication applications and advertising services as relevant markets to consider in this deal. Since April, Jio Platforms, including Facebook deal, has got Rs 1.16 lakh crore from investors like KKR, Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF), Vista Equity Partners and Silver Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cci-clears-5-7bn-facebook-jio-deal/articleshow/76592013.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||Surat cop caught on camera thrashing woman bank cashier||SURAT: The city police were left deeply embarrassed after a constable with Sarthana police station was arrested for assaulting a woman cashier of Canara Bank, triggering massive outrage on social media and leaving Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman anguished. The video of the incident that took place in Saroli branch of the bank on June 22 went viral on Wednesday. Constable Ghanshyam Shyora (Ahir) is seen opening the latch of the restricted area and menacingly rushing towards the woman, Santosh Kumari Purohit. Shyora then slapped and pushed her to the ground. He also manhandled her colleague Harshad Tiwari and asked him to be seated, the CCTV footage of the bank showed. Shyora got enraged seeing Purohit taking the video of his altercation with Tiwari over making an entry in the passbook of one of his relatives. Tiwari had expressed inability to print the passbook due to technical reasons and dysfunctional printer, which angered Shyora. Medical report of the victim revealed that she suffered a hairline fracture in sacrococcyx (bottom of the spine). Will closely monitor the case: FMThe policeman’s relative had come to get an entry printed in the bank passbook a few days ago. When we refused citing a non-functional printer, he made me talk with the policeman who had even used abusive language with me over the phone,” alleged Purohit. Initially, the city police had only lodged a noncognizable offence on Monday and it was only after the social media uproar and Sitharaman’s tweets that senior officials acknowledged the gravity of the incident. It was only on Wednesday, two days after the incident, police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt suspended the constable and he was arrested. On Wednesday, Brahmbhatt also visited the branch and assured bank employees of security. “Will be closely following this matter. Wish to assure that the safety of all members of staff in banks is of importance for us. Amid challenges, banks are extending all services to our people. Nothing should threaten their safety and dignity,” Sitharaman tweeted. She also spoke to Surat collector Dr Dhaval Patel who assured of timely action. Shyora was booked under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 447 (criminal trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and sections of Epidemic Disease Act, said VU Gadariya, police inspector, Puna. When asked why an FIR was not lodged the same day, BR Pandor, deputy commissioner of police, zone II, claimed, ““We registered the offence as per the details provided by the complainant. A non-cognizable offence is equivalent to an FIR like in any other criminal case.” Watch Caught on cam: Man assaults woman in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cop-caught-on-camerathrashing-woman-bank-cashier/articleshow/76588654.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||43 posts created in govt agencies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The extreme financial crisis and the recommendation for streamlining the government’s employee strength by a high-level committee does not seem to have deterred the government to create newer posts. The cabinet on Wednesday decided to create 25 permanent posts and 18 temporary posts in various government bodies. These include 16 posts in Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL), six in Kerala Fibre Optic Network (KFON) and three posts in Kerala Institute of Local Governance (KILA). The cabinet also decided to set up 18 temporary posts in KSITL. In addition, the cabinet also decided to regularize the temporary appointments of 46 employees in taluk and district library councils. In the last three months, government had created 8,229 posts in health department, including 2,948 temporary posts under the National Health Mission, though the posts were cited as mandatory for fighting Covid-19 pandemic. While the cabinet is on post-creation-spree, a high-level committee appointed by the cabinet has asked the government to do away with the exercise. An interim report prepared by the team led by Centre for Development Studies director Sunil Mani, appointed by the government to rationalize revenue expenditure in the state, had made several recommendations including total freeze on new posts in the government. The state’s combined liabilities of salaries, pensions, and interest payments would touch Rs 73,845 crore in the ongoing financial year. As per the report, 29% of state’s increase in revenue expenditure from 2011-12 to 2018-19 was through salary component. The report recommended that no new posts should be created in the government or aided institutions for next two years. The committee had also recommended that no new temporary posts should be created and existing ones need not be regularized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/43-posts-created-in-govt-agencies/articleshow/76586398.cms||KP Saikiran
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Health panel warns hospitals against refusal of Covid patients||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has received at least 10 complaints of patient refusal by private hospitals during the Covid pandemic. Several such complaints against government hospitals, too, have reached the state secretariat at Nabanna, prompting the state health department to issue a warning to both public and private hospitals. “We have been continuously communicating with private hospitals, asking them not to refuse admission or treatment during this pandemic. Despite this, we have received 10 complaints, including those of patient refusals. We are planning to start hearing these cases online. If all technical arrangements are in place, we should be able to take up a few cases on June 30,” said justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of WBCERC. The health commission, a regulatory body of private hospitals, has been working closely with hospital administrators to augment the number of beds and other facilities from time to time. Most hospitals have increased their Covid bed strength. But with an increase in Covid positive cases, particularly in the city, a majority of these hospitals now have a bed occupancy rate ranging between 70% and 90%, with a few running out of beds. In two separate but similar orders, the state health department on Tuesday issued directives to private and government-run hospitals not to deny patient admission or services. While penal action will be taken against private hospitals, disciplinary action has been warned against government hospitals in case of any report of patient refusal. Sources said that among the private hospitals, one in south Kolkata has not treated a single Covid-19 positive patient despite having created a Covid ward. The hospital reportedly has been referring patients to other hospitals whenever a patient tests positive. “This particular hospital along with two-three others are under lens because we have been getting reports that they are not treating Covid patients though they have Covid beds on paper,” said a health department official. The license of a private hospital can be revoked or suspended under the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Act. “At AMRI Hospitals, we have not refused any patient because the person is Covid positive. In fact, we were the first private hospital in Kolkata to dedicate a whole building to Covid-19 positive patients. Sometimes, we are forced to refuse patients when we run out of beds. In that case, we first stabilize the patient before referring him/her to another hospital, where beds are available,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Group of hospitals. A senior health department official said several complaints have reached Nabanna, including that of a government doctor with Covid-19 symptoms who was allegedly refused by a Covid-designated hospital. He was later admitted to Beliaghata ID Hospital after the matter was reported to Swasthya Bhavan. Similarly, a senior Trinamool leader had also faced difficulty in getting a patient with fever admitted and mentioned it to health officials. TOI had earlier reported that Nasima Khatoon, a patient with kidney problems and diabetes, was allegedly denied admission at SSKM hospital and she died on May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-warns-hospitals-against-refusal-of-covid-patients/articleshow/76590884.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Buses scarce, auto fares weigh heavy on pockets||KOLKATA: Autos are burning big holes in commuters’ pocket at a time when buses are scarce due to the record successive rise of diesel price. However, auto LPG price saw a record dip at the same time, reducing the operating cost of the vehicles. But most auto drivers are charging double while carrying three passengers instead of four. With fewer buses on the roads, a large number of commuters are making break journeys. Autos bridge the most vital missing links in their daily trips. “Break journey always entails higher commuting cost. But auto fares are really weighing down on us. Between two bus trips, I have to take an auto to reach my workplace. This is costing me thrice my normal commuting price,” said Gautam Das, a courier company employee, who travels daily from Behala to Garia. But you can hardly argue with an auto operator ready with multiple excuses. “We are maintaining social distancing. There is a cost of sanitization of auto,” said Arup Pradhan, an auto operator. The dip in fuel cost, he argued, help them recover lockdown losses. Auto LPG price, significantly, dipped to Rs 35.71 per litre from Rs 43.98 in April. “But auto operators are the last persons to share the benefit with commuters, especially at a time when people are facing hardships with sudden dip in earning because of the long lockdown,” said Aurobindo Naskar, a hawker at Gariahat. Loss for buses seem to be gains for an auto. “We cannot revise fares on our own. But auto drivers do it at their whims. If we charge Re 1 per stage extra to recover the operating costs, an MVI team would conduct raids against us. But autos, thanks to their strong union support, cannot be touched by law enforcement agencies,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates (JCBS). Auto operators maintained that there has always been parity in the bus and auto fare hikes. If bus fare rises by Re 1, the auto fare, too, is hiked by Re , said Gour Naskar, who plies between Ruby and Gariahat. . He refused to listen to the fact that diesel price has risen by Rs 9 since June 6, but auto LPG price has always remained low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-scarce-auto-fares-weigh-heavy-on-pockets/articleshow/76590914.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Six-member VCs’ panel likely to meet on Friday||PATNA: A six-member committee of vice-chancellors (VCs) formed by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan is likely to meet on Friday to suggest ways for ensuring smooth conduct of examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the panel include Ranjit Kumar Verma (Munger University), Rajesh Singh (Purnea University), Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal (Patliputra University), H N Prasad (Nalanda Open University), Rajendra Prasad (Magadh University) and Hanuman Prasad Pandey (Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University). According to Raj Bhavan sources, the committee will discuss all the aspects related to the conduct of examinations under the existing circumstances, maintaining the norms of social distancing and ensuring proper sanitization of the exam centres. It will also consider the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) in this regard. Recently, the UGC had announced that the universities should hold only the final year examinations of different courses with all preventive measures and that the students of intermediary batches and semesters should be promoted to the next class on the basis of their internal assessment. The VCs of some universities had earlier suggested that exams of shorter duration with less number of questions should be conducted. Some others had also favoured the idea of holding objective-type tests on OMR sheets to ensure publication of results on time and regularization of delayed academic sessions. Although Patna University, Munger University and Aryabhatta Knowledge University have already announced the examination schedules of some courses, they are waiting for a go-ahead signal from the chancellor’s secretariat. This issue was raised at a meeting of the VCs with the chancellor on June 15 in which the latter had announced that an advisory committee of VCs would be constituted soon to recommend steps for bringing in uniformity in the examination system of all the universities in the state. He had directed the VCs to hold all the pending exams of the last academic sessions and publish their results in September-October. “The exam schedules and academic calendars of the universities should be reorganized in such a manner that the next academic session may commence right on time. The UGC guidelines related to Covid-19, which have already been sent to the universities on April 29, should be followed strictly,” the chancellor had told the VCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-member-vcs-panel-likely-to-meet-tomorrow/articleshow/76585568.cms||B K Mishra
June 25, 2020||Business||Aditya Puri took home Rs 180 crore in FY20||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank chief Aditya Puri took home a total remuneration of Rs 18.9 crore as against Rs 13.7 crore last year. During the year, which was last full year as CEO, Puri also exercised options of Rs 161 crore. Puri, who has led HDFC Bank since its inception in 1994, will be stepping down in October this year as he turns 70. During his term, the bank has grown from a one-branch operation in 1995 to become India’s largest private bank with a market cap of Rs 5.7 lakh crore. Last year, the lender increased its profits by 25% to Rs 26,257, which is more than rest of the sector. According to the bank’s annual report, Puri’s fixed remuneration was Rs 15.9 crore, perquisites Rs 2.2 crore and other benefits Rs 79.8 lakh. Stock options exercised this year at Rs 161 crore were almost four times last year’s Rs 42 crore. Puri owns nearly 78 lakh shares, which are currently worth Rs 804 crore. It may be recalled that he had sold part of his equity stake valued at Rs 156 crore from February 11-12. The stock options exercised during the year including those vested earlier but exercised during the previous fiscal. In his address to the bank’s shareholders, Puri said that the bank is well placed to ride out the Covid-19 storm and the best of the bank is yet to come. According to Puri, the bank is on a strong footing because of its strong balance sheet, high capital adequacy, reputation for delivery value and technology platform. “HDFC Bank has always been strong, growing consistently through multiple economic cycles. We have capitalised on opportunities without giving in to greed. We are well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and healthy liquidity. Our robust liability franchise continues to be the bedrock on which we will build our future,” said Puri in his address to shareholders in the bank’s annual report, which was released on Wednesday. Puri quoted S&P, which had said, “Overall, we believe HDFC Bank’s individual creditworthiness is significantly stronger than the average of the Indian banking sector, reflected in its SACP of BBB+.” Puri highlighted six areas — reimagining the branch as a financial service marketplace, leveraging semi-urban and rural footprint, using payments business to leverage the bank’s offerings, providing omnichannel service, using virtual relationship managers and growing its subsidiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/puri-took-home-rs-180-crore-in-fy20/articleshow/76592362.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||HUL in a spot as J&J exits fairness line||MUMBAI: As Johnson & Johnson (J&J) exits the fairness space globally, leading beauty players like Unilever and L’Oreal are facing criticism over their presence in skin lightening products. J&J’s exit from the fairness category comes as part of the global movement against racism gathering steam following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in Minnesota (US). When Unilever shared on social media its responsibility towards racial justice, it faced a barrage of comments from netizens over its fairness products. The company, while vocal about its ‘purpose-led’ growth mission, has so far been quiet on this front. Unilever’s Fair & Lovely is the largest selling skin cream in India. The brand was also extended to soaps last year. The category may be insignificant for J&J in India in terms of revenues, but for Unilever’s Indian subsidiary Hindustan Unilever (HUL), the stakes are quite high. Fair & Lovely is an over Rs 2,000-crore brand by revenue and is part of HUL’s beauty & personal care category, which clocks Rs 17,000 crore annually. Edelweiss Securities research analyst Abneesh Roy said, “HUL dominates fairness creams in India and it is also a high-margin business. In the past, HUL has maintained that they are fulfilling a consumer demand and not propelling any skin stereotype. In the short term, HUL would gain market share as J&J exits fairness creams in India.” Harish Bijoor, brand-strategy specialist & founder of Harish Bijoor Consults Inc, said, “J&J has let the cat among the pigeons with this decision. When a global player — albeit with very small shares and stakes in the segment — takes a call, the entire category sits up as do consumers.” Queries sent to HUL & L’Oreal India remained unanswered.For most consumers in India, a fairness product is said to be the first point of entry into the world of beauty. Over the years, as the debate grew louder on how fairness products could be promoting discrimination based on skin colour, marketers have adopted a new nomenclature and changed the semantics of fairness. Most products talk about “glowing”, “flawless”, “brightness” in their communication to consumers.The word “fair” exists only in the brand name. This, said industry experts, was a conscious effort on the part of marketers. Last year, Fair & Lovely combined the new facial glow trends to launch a “High Definition (HD) Glow” product line.In past interviews to TOI, Unilever’s leaders have maintained that Fair & Lovely is “a safe skincare product, which is not the case for many alternatives used by consumers… and that the product boosts the confidence of women”. Bijoor said he does not believe any product can promote racism. “Racism is in the eye of the beholder. An innocent looking Fair & Lovely that sits on retail shelves is hardly the promoter of racist sentiment in anyone. The link is rather tenuous and lives more in the imagination of those who want to search it out in the product,” said Bijoor. In its latest annual report, HUL said it continued to strengthen the core brands, one of which is Fair & Lovely, by driving penetration. The company further said, “In skin care, Fair & Lovely continues to deliver healthy growth.” A J&J spokesperson said, “Conversations over the past few weeks highlighted that some product names or claims on our dark spot reducer products represent fairness or white as better than your own unique skin tone. This was never our intention — healthy skin is beautiful skin. We’ve made the business decision to no longer sell the Neutrogena Fine Fairness and Clean & Clear Clear Fairness product line.” J&J’s website and retailer pages are being updated to remove links to purchase. “For a short while products may still appear on a limited number of in-store shelves as stock runs through. We will no longer produce or ship the product line,“ said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-in-a-spot-as-jj-exits-fairness-line/articleshow/76591386.cms||Namrata Singh
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Chief secretary to Delhi government departments: Bring all your services online||NEW DELHI: With people wary of visiting crowded places, especially public-dealing counters in government offices due to the fear of catching coronavirus infection, chief secretary Vijay Dev has asked Delhi government departments to bring all their services online.. In an order issued late Tuesday evening, Dev said providing online services to the public was pertinent to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. He directed the officials to take time-bound steps to provide offline services in online mode and send an action taken report in a week’s time. “Instructions have been issued from time to time to make all offline services online. In these times of Covid-19 pandemic, it is all the more crucial that citizens are facilitated for submitting applications or receiving government services,” Dev said in his order. Sources said lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had called an all-department meeting in the first week of February and issued similar instructions. While some departments managed to act on it, several others lagged behind. Several Delhi government departments such as women and child development, labour, tourism, home, DUSIB, DSIIDC, technical education and industries still require physical presence of applicants while submitting the documents. “Making all the services online will make the entire system transparent and ensure time-bound delivery of services. In case of any laxity, the accountability can be fixed on the official,” said an official. Sources, however, said that bringing services offered by autonomous bodies and central government departments such as corporations, NDMC and police would be difficult for the state administration to bring on its portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cs-to-govt-depts-bring-all-your-services-online/articleshow/76595206.cms||Atul Mathur
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara pharma units mint moolah during lockdown||Vadodara: Pharma companies in Vadodara district have clocked a turnover of Rs 1,426 crore in the three months from March to April when the country was under lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 virus. The pharma firms had recorded turnover of Rs Rs 4,840 crore during financial year 2019-20, according to a report submitted to the district collector. Majority of firms, mainly the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) had started functioning with nearly 95 % staff strength within five days of lockdown 1.0 which began on March 25. As many as 198 firms including those in the category of formulations, active pharmaceutical ingredient (APIs), and ayurvedic continued production after receiving approval through a single-window system that was set up by Vadodara district administration.  Out of the 300 plants approved of following World Health Organisation (WHO)’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) norms, 61 are in Vadodara. “We have witnessed 15-20% increase in turnover and our exports have also surged by 18% during these three months,” said Bharat Desai, chairman and managing director of Bharat Parenterals, a formulation firm that exports 60% of its production to Africa, South East Asia and Latin America. “Production had also increased as people had started stocking up medicines. There was a certain amount of panic buying and a majority of institutes were keeping minimum stock of medicines,” said Desai, former chairman of Gujarat state board of the Indian Drug Manufacturing Association (IDMA). Many manufacturers increased production of hydroxychloroquine sulphate, azithromycin, paracetamol and vitamin-C drugs which are currently given to Covid-19 patients based on clinical management protocols. “Initially, there were some problems in domestic distribution in the country but they got streamlined,” said Dushyant Patel, former chairman of Gujarat state board of IDMA. “By the time our domestic distribution improved, our export orders surged. In fact, compared to last April-May, we have seen 25 to 30% growth in exports,” said Patel, chairman and managing director of Astral Steritech Pvt Ltd., which runs USFDA-approved plant in Makarpura GIDC to manufacture antibiotic sterile injections. District collector Shalini Agrawal said, “Since medicines and pharma manufacturers were deemed as essential items, we had formed a committee with officers from District Industries Center, GIDC, Director of Industrial Safety and Health, FDCA and chief district health officer to process all the applications so that the units don’t faced problems during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-pharma-units-mint-moolah-during-lockdown/articleshow/76585702.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 25, 2020||Patna||‘70% mismatch in TrueNat, RT-PCR test results in Gaya’||GAYA: A WHO study conducted recently in the district found that 70% of the cases found Covid-19 positive by TrueNat test turned negative in the RT-PCR testing. According to Dr Debashis Majumdar, surveillance medical officer of the WHO in Gaya, the findings have been shared with district officials, including the Gaya civil surgeon, and discussed at a review meeting held at Gaya collectorate on Tuesday evening. Confirming the high rate of the mismatch, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said it was for the experts to explain the discrepancies. The DM conceded that the mismatch has sent wrong signals to the public at large. Singh claimed the test protocol was being religiously maintained in the district. According to a senior faculty of the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College (ANMMCH), TrueNat is only a screening test. Its findings have to be supported by the RT-PCR test. There is no harm in isolation and treatment of someone on the basis of TrueNat test result, he said, preferring anonymity. Health Minister Mangal Pandey could not be contacted for his comments. As per the information provided at the review meeting, pool testing was being done at the crowded points to identify Covid positive cases. Random testing of the more vulnerable groups, including vendors, salesmen and auto drivers is called pool testing. Till date, of the 2,462 samples collected under the pool testing programme, 59 were found positive. President of Gaya chapter of the IMA, Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, said there must be something seriously wrong with the process and urgent remedial measures were required to restore the credibility of the tests. Either the samples were not being properly collected or there was something wrong with the machines. The state government had ordered more than a month back to install RT-PCR machine at the ANMMCH for Covid testing. However, it has not been installed yet and the samples are sent to Patna for confirmatory test. Asked about the reasons, ADM-cum-nodal officer of the anti-Covid operations in the district, Naresh Jha, said it was for the hospital authorities to explain the delay. As per official figures released on Tuesday evening, altogether 8,111 samples were sent from Gaya district to Patna for lab testing so far and results of 5,783 had come. Reports of no less than 2,328 samples were still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-mismatch-in-truenat-rt-pcr-test-results-in-gaya/articleshow/76585786.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 25, 2020||Surat||Bank staff protest against cop attack, wear black ribbon||Surat: Over 10,000 employees of about 16 nationalised banks in the city donned black ribbon to protest the gruesome assault on a woman employee in the bank premises by a policeman and demanded protection from such a situation on Wednesday. Terming the attack on woman employees as a dastardly and gruesome act, the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) and the Gujarat Bank Workers’ Association (GBWA) urged the employees of the nationalised banks to wear black ribbon as a mark of protest and demanded security of the bank employees from such attacks. The GBWA office-bearers stated that the district collector Dhaval Patel visited the house of the woman employee of the Canara bank and that assured all possible legal action to help the family. “The bank fraternity is shocked over the attack on the woman bank employee by a policeman. She is the mother of a 10-month-old baby and has suffered fracture. We have demanded that the policeman should be terminated from his job to set an example in the society,” said Vasant Barot, secretary of the GBWA. “The GBWA met police commissioner and the district collector on Wednesday demanding strict legal action against the policeman. We have also submitted to the higher authorities to provide security at all the banks to protect the employees from such attackers,” added Barot. “The attack on the woman employee has stunned the entire banking fraternity across the country. We will continue our protest till the time the policeman in question is not dealt with strictly. We have also demanded to deploy security personnel and surveillance at the bank branches to protest our employees,” said Ashok Desai, leader of the State Bank Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bank-staff-protest-against-cop-attack-wear-black-ribbon/articleshow/76587639.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||“Damani a respectable person who invested in India Cements”||Chennai: Putting to rest speculation over billionaire retailer RK Damani evincing interest in taking over The India Cements Ltd., N Srinivasan, MD of the company called him a respectable investor.“We have clarified to Sebi. There is nothing to say. Stability of management (ICL) will be ok. He (Damani) is a respectable person who has chosen to invest in India Cements. We are a 70-year-old company. We will continue to make cement,” Srinivasan said during an earnings call.Last week, the cement maker dismissed a news report of a possible take over bid. The company reported a net loss of Rs 171.1 crore during the fourth quarter of March 2020 as compared to a profit before tax of Rs 62.2 crore a year ago. Total income dropped 26% to Rs 1,170 crore from Rs 1,582 crore during same period last year. The overall volume, including clinker, was lower at 2.7 million tonnes (3.3 million tonnes), down 20%.“The worst appears behind us,” said Srinivasan. The prices are climbing on the back of better than expected consumption in non-lockdown zones due to Covid. The company repaid Rs 140 crore of debts during the fiscal and plans to repay Rs 500 crore in the current year. Total debt is nearly Rs 2,500 crore. India Cements has moved its sales to a cash and carry basis as it was unsure of credit facilities from banks. “We have moved to Cash and Carry mode. It appears beneficial as cash flows are good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/damani-a-respectable-person-who-invested-in-india-cements/articleshow/76592477.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||GDWU accuses leading diamond firm of sacking 100 workers due to ‘recession’||Surat: At a time when Surat is in the spotlight due to spurt in Covid-19 cases among the diamond workers, the Gujarat Diamond Workers’ Union (GDWU) claimed that about 100 diamond workers of a leading firm were sacked in the name of recession on Wednesday. Office-bearers of GDWU submitted a memorandum to district collector urging him to intervene into the issue and demanded that the diamond workers be paid three month wages, lockdown wages and other benefits like provident fund (PF), gratuity etc.According to GDWU, the owners of a leading diamond company, K Girdharlal in Varachha has laid off about 100 workers without giving them any prior notice. The workers have not been paid with the wages during the lockdown period, despite the clear guidelines of the central and the state government regarding the same. Bhavesh Tank, vice-president of GDWU told TOI, “The diamond workers were without job from the last two-and-half-month. When the diamond company reopened, they were asked to leave the company without any prior notice.”Tank added, “About 30% of the diamond units have resumed operations in the city with less than 50% workforce. The diamond workers who have lost job are not going to get new jobs in the industry for the coming few months.”President of GDWU, Ramesh Jilariya said, “If the company owners are unwilling to reinstate the workers, they should ensure that all the workers should get the financial benefits under the labour laws” The company owners were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gdwu-accuses-leading-diamond-firm-of-sacking-100-workers-due-to-recession/articleshow/76587249.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Karni Sena gives ‘stop imports’ ultimatum to China Market||Ahmedabad: About 100 members of Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena on Wednesday held a demonstration denouncing Chinese products, outside Murtimant Complex. The complex is popularly known as ‘China Market’. The complex, on Relief Road, houses at least 200 shops selling electronic items imported from China. The products include mobile phones and accessories.“We have submitted a memorandum to the president of the shopkeepers’ association of the complex,” said Raj Shekhawat, the president of the sena in Gujarat. “We have urged the shopkeepers not to import any fresh stock from China.” Shops may clear existing stocks, Shekhawat said. “But they should discourage people from buying Chinese goods in the wake of the escalating border tensions between India and China,” he said.Shekhawat said more forceful protests will be held if the procurement and sales of Chinese goods continue.Shops at the complex remained shut for a couple of hours on Wednesday due to the protest. In the post-afternoon period, it was business as usual. “Many electronics goods are imported from China,” said Nikunj Patel, president, All India Mobile Dealers’ Association, Gujarat. “The demand for them is good owing to factors such as cost and quality.” He went on to say: “How can sales be stopped overnight, especially when there is no directive from the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/karni-sena-gives-stop-imports-ultimatum-to-china-market/articleshow/76591840.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||27 new cases push up Covid figures in rural Surat||Surat: Surat rural reported 27 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases to 394 in the district. According to health officials, a 41-year-old-man from Olpad succumbed to the virus, pushing the toll from Covid in rural areas to seven till date. Of the fresh cases, Kamrej reported the highest number with 8 followed by Choryasi with five. Three cases each were reported from Olpad, Bardoli, Umarpada, and Palsana and two cases each from Mandvi taluka of Surat district on Wednesday. Out of the total 394 cases in the district, the highest number of cases have emerged in Kamrej with 123 till date. Five Covid-19 patients were discharged from the hospital in Surat district taking the total number of recovered patients to 225 in the district. In Bharuch district, 10 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 171 on Wednesday.Health officials said that two Covid-19 positive patients admitted in the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar succumbed to the infection, taking the total death toll to eight. Both the patients from Jambusar and Sherpura village in Bharuch district were suffering from co-morbidities including blood pressure, diabetes and kidney diseases.Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) said, “Of the 10 cases, five are from Bharuch town, one each from Ankleshwar and Amod and three from Jambusar. Jambusar is on high surveillance of the health department due surge in Covid-19 cases.”Meanwhile, Navsari district recorded eight Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 59 on Wednesday. All the patients have travel history in Gujarat and Maharashtra, health department sources said on Wednesday.Valsad district reported four new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 80. According to health department officials, out of the four cases, 48-year-old man from Parnera village of Valsad taluka and three persons from Vapi reported Covid-19 positive. About 47 patients have been recovered and three patients have died due to the virus in Valsad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/27-new-cases-push-up-covid-figures-in-rural-surat/articleshow/76587718.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Surat||Daman records highest single day spike of 13 Covid-19 cases||Surat: The union territory of Daman witnessed its highest single day spike of 13 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With this jump, the total number of active cases in the UT reached 52.Official sources said that out of the 13 who tested positive for Covid-19, 11 persons were asymptomatic and considered high risk contacts. All the 13 patients have been shifted to the Covid-19 hospital in Daman. Further, the Daman administration has announced two new containment zones in Nani Daman and Kachigam, taking the total number of containment zones in the Daman municipal area to 20. Official sources said that out of the 20 containment zones, 14 are in Dabhel, two in Kachigam, three in Nani Daman and one each in Dunetha.Deputy collector of Daman, Charmie Parekh told TOI, “We are putting the buildings, chawls and societies under containment from where the Covid-19 positive cases are being detected.” All the borders at Pataliya, Dabhel and Kunta village have been sealed and the workers coming from Vapi and Valsad in Gujarat state are not allowed entry into Daman since last few days. Official sources said that the borders with Gujarat state have been sealed to prevent the workers residing in Vapi and working in the factories in Daman from entering into the territory for few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-13-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76587342.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||After Brazil blow, WhatsApp says India payments biz on track for launch||Bengaluru: After Brazil suspended WhatsApp’s payments service to “preserve competitive environment” just after a week of its launch, the Facebook-owned messaging platform said it remains committed to India and is working with local banks and regulators to launch payments services here. WhatsApp’s payment service through Unified Payments Interface (UPI) has been stuck in beta stage for two years over regulatory issues. Last week, as reported by TOI, WhatsApp told the Supreme Court it is now fully compliant with the RBI’s data localisation norms. Banking sources said the government’s green signal is also awaited as relevant regulatory work is completed. “Even as we continue to work with our local partners and the central bank in Brazil, we remain committed to launching WhatsApp Payments in India. UPI is a lighthouse model for the rest of the world, with local banks and institutions driving innovation on a local stack that is capable of delivering financial services for all,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. This comes on a day when the Competition Commission of India (CCI) cleared WhatsApp parent Facebook’s $5.7-billion investment in Reliance’s Jio Platforms. In the testing stage, WhatsApp Pay is restricted to 1 million users on UPI, where Google Pay, PhonePe, Paytm and Amazon Pay are leading players. WhatsApp is also a core part of Jio’s commerce initiative — JioMart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-brazil-blow-whatsapp-says-india-payments-biz-on-track-for-launch/articleshow/76592400.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Covid effect: Tatas plan layoffs to cut fixed costs||Nandini Sengupta & Reeba Zachariah | TNN Chennai/Mumbai: The Tata Group may eliminate jobs at some of its businesses to save fixed costs as it grapples with falling profits due to the coronavirus pandemic, and global economic projections pointing to a challenging time ahead. The pandemic had led to a suspension of the conglomerate’s several businesses — including aerospace, automotive and aviation — depressing its earnings in key markets across the world. The conglomerate has already made moves to cut contract workers engaged in manufacturing and other functions at its various facilities, including at Tata Motors and its UK arm Jaguar Land Rover. Tata Motors, after sinking Rs 9,864 crore into the red in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, said “there are widespread opportunities to cut costs across the organisation and all actions will be taken with prudence”, without getting into specifics. The flagship of the Tata Group has initiated a cash improvement programme of Rs 6,000 crore and 5 billion pounds at its India and UK units. Sources said the company plans to axe jobs at various levels in the domestic business. The labour union at Tata Steel’s Netherlands unit said the management planned to slash 1,000 of the 9,000 jobs at the site to improve the profitability of the metal producer. The senior leadership at the group’s several businesses, including Indian Hotels Company (which runs the Taj chain), has already taken a cut in remuneration as part of a broader restructuring plan. The $113-billion conglomerate — comprising 30 companies across 10 business verticals — employs over 7.2 lakh people in India and outside the country. Tata Group has joined Reliance Industries, Raymond, Apollo Tyres and TVS Motor, where top managements have taken a pay reduction as the pandemic ravages operations. The group’s real estate unit, said sources, may also retrench employees even as it battles mismanagement allegations. “With the advent of Covid-19, we are closely monitoring the situation and assessing its impact on the real estate industry and on the company,” said a Tata Realty and Infrastructure spokesperson. Other group entities — TCS and Tata Technologies — have reduced dependency on subcontractors and cut bench strength respectively to optimise costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-effect-tatas-plan-layoffs-to-cut-fixed-costs/articleshow/76590717.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 25, 2020||Business||Want level-playing field with offline cos: E-tailers||TNN New Delhi/ Bengaluru: E-commerce players on Wednesday demanded a level-playing field with offline retailers on disclosing the country of origin, amid indications that they are willing to accept the mandate, although it will take a few months to implement it. During a meeting convened by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), e-commerce players pointed out that small players who sell on their platforms may find it tough to comply, given that products may be assembled or packed in one country but may have inputs from across the world. “It is possible that the bottle is made somewhere and the cap somewhere else, while the final product in it is made here with inputs from several other countries. How do you classify this product?” an executive with a leading company said. Many of the mobile phone manufacturers assemble handsets in India and source components from China and other countries, although the packet carries a Made-in-India label, companies said. The government had called Amazon, Flipkart, Grofers, Jio, Reliance Retail, Snapdeal, ShopClues and 1mg, among others, for consultations on mandating country of origin norms, something that a GeM official said was easily doable. Several company executives suggested that the government should launch a campaign encouraging people to buy locally made goods, which will help in reducing the demand for cheap products from across the border. “A guy selling Diwali lights in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk is not going to say that the product is made in China. You need a level-playing field,” said an e-tailer. The e-tailers stressed that liability of adhering to the requirement of disclosing the country of origin should also be on sellers, given that these platforms are marketplaces. “Most of the players agreed they can do changes in technology to show ‘origin of products’ but sellers play an important role in compliance. For example, many saris sold online are from Surat, but the raw material comes from China. Now, sellers can still list it as Made in India. Distributors who buy in bulk from others may not even know the original source as it would have changed many hands by the time it lands in their warehouses,” said an e-commerce executive, explaining the contours of implementing such guidelines on the matter. This will impact online grocers and e-pharma players as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/want-level-playing-field-with-offline-cos-e-tailers/articleshow/76590973.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Karur Vysya Bank Q4 net profit up 40%||Chennai: Private-lender Karur Vysya Bank reported net profit of Rs 84 crore, up 40% YoY for the March-ended quarter 2020, due to reduction in bad loans and rise in other income. Gross non-performing assets (bad loans) dropped by Rs 237 crore to Rs 4,213 crore in the March-quarter while net NPA (loans for which provisions are made) dropped to Rs 1,809 crore from Rs 2,420 crore a year ago. Other income increased by 27% at Rs 347 crore for the fourth quarter. Provision Coverage Ratio also improved by 1204 bps and stood at 68.9%. Net profit for the year stands at Rs 235 crore, up 11% from Rs 211 crore a year ago. Total income grew by 5.4% at Rs 7,145 crore, with net interest income stands at Rs 2,348 crore. The bank has also provided Rs 430 crore to cover bad loans and contingencies in the future. Capital adequacy ratio stood comfortably at 17.17% — CET 1 Ratio at 15.27%, well above the statutory minimum. Under Basel III, a bank’s tier 1 and tier 2 capital must be at least 8% of its risk-weighted assets. The minimum capital adequacy ratio (including the capital conservation buffer) is 10.5%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/karur-vysya-bank-q4-net-profit-up-40/articleshow/76592583.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Base price of fancy number plates reduced||PATNA: With the craze for fancy number plates and choice-based vehicle registration numbers increasing rapidly, the state transport department has revised their base prices. “In case of private vehicles, the base fee for fancy number plates has been reduced from Rs 75,000 to Rs 60,000 and that for commercial vehicles has come down to Rs 20,000 from Rs 25,000. On the other hand, the base price for choice-based registration numbers for private vehicles is Rs 16,000 and that for commercial vehicles is Rs 10,000,” transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper. He added, “Many people choose numbers keeping in mind factors like date of birth, anniversary, astrology, numerology, and religion as they consider them lucky.” The department has also started an online booking and e-auction system so that people do not have to go to the district transport offices or get in touch with touts. “Bidding for fancy numbers will be done on the transport department’s official website. In case of more than one contender, the number will be allotted to the highest bidder,” Agarwal said and added, “No bidding will be required for 364 different types of choice-based registration numbers like 0120 and 0130. They will be allotted without any auction.” For fancy numbers like 0001, 0003, 0005, 0007 and 0009, the owners of private vehicles will have to shell out Rs 1 lakh and those of commercial vehicles will pay Rs 35,000. “While motorists will get the numbers of their choice, the e-auction system will help increase the department’s revenue,” the transport secretary said. He added, “The maximum number of bookings for fancy and choice-based registration numbers are done in Patna. Altogether 233 registrations have been made for fancy numbers and 328 for choice-based numbers in the state so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/base-price-of-fancy-number-plates-reduced/articleshow/76585434.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 25, 2020||Patna||Fee payment: Officials to probe allegations against private school in Patna||PATNA: Patna DM Kumar Ravi has instructed the district education officer (DEO) and the regional deputy director (RDD) to enquire into the allegations levelled against a private school at Jaganpura for threatening parents to cancel the admission of their wards due to non-payment of fee. “Based on the complaints received from parents, the inquiry committee will talk to the school administration and submit its report in the next two-three days. If the allegations are found to be true, action will be initiated against the school,” Ravi told this newspaper on Wednesday. After a video of the school principal asking a student’s mother to pay transport, computer lab, library and other miscellaneous charges began making the rounds on social media, several parents raised the issue and reported it to the district administration. The administration had issued an order on April 10 instructing all private schools not to force parents to pay fee for more than a month during the lockdown period. The order further stated that schools conducting online classes could ask for one-month tuition fee, but not pressurise parents. A parent, on condition of anonymity, said, “We have paid Rs 6,500 as tuition fee for two-month online classes. But now, the school is sending us messages and demanding miscellaneous charges as well.” Show-cause notices issued to 29 pvt schools: The commissionary has issued show-cause notices to 29 private schools over fee hike. Patna RDD Surendra Kumar Sinha said, “As per the The Bihar Private Schools (Fee Regulation) Act, 2019, which was passed by the legislative assembly last year, altogether 29 schools have been served show-cause notices for increasing the fee by more than 7% for the 2020-2021 academic session.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fee-payment-officials-to-probe-allegations-against-private-school/articleshow/76586132.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Five cops in Bhojpur nabbed for extortion||PATNA: Rohtas police arrested five police personnel posted at Hasan Bazaar police outpost under Piro subdivision in Bhojpur district on Monday midnight. They were allegedly involved in extorting money from truck drivers at Majhiaw checkpost on Ara-Sasaram state highway under Hassan Bazaar police outpost. The arrested police personnel were identified as Rama Oraon, driver constable Ashish Kumar and home guard jawans Adalat Rai, Harishankar and Raghuvar. They were handed over to Bhojpur police around 4pm on Tuesday. The Hassan Bazaar police then went to Bikramganj in Rohtas and arrested a tout named Mumtaz for allegedly conniving with unknown policemen and extorting money from truck drivers. Bikramganj police station shares border with Hassan Bazaar. Mumtaz is a motor mechanic and is being interrogated, Bikramganj police station SHO RB Chaudhary said. All five were sent to jail after lodging an FIR against them with Hassan Bazaar outpost on Chaudhary’s written complaint. Chaudhary said he had received direction from senior officers for taking action against those extorting money from truck drivers with connivance of policemen. “During raid, we went to the checkpost under Hassan Bazaar police station area and nabbed the five policemen of Bhojpur district while extorting money. All five were handed over to Bhojpur police,” he said. Chaudhary said Rs990 was seized from their possession. He said a video of money extortion was handed over to Bhojpur police. Piro SDPO Ashok Kumar Azad said all five were sent to jail on Tuesday. “The SI and constable would be suspended while recommendations would be made to remove the three home guards from service,” he said. Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar said the video submitted by Rohtas police had nothing to show that the policemen were taking money. “Bikramganj SHO didn’t mention anything about the video in the FIR. They were acting against a tout named Mumtaz, who had told one of their policemen that he helped the trucks in crossing the border,” he said. The SP said a separate FIR was lodged against Mumtaz and unknown policemen in connection with the incident. “Nothing surfaced yet to prove he was in touch with Bhojpur policemen. Instead, he had received a call from a policemen in Rohtas,” he said, adding further investigation were going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-cops-in-bhojpur-nabbed-for-extortion/articleshow/76584156.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||‘Bihar CM Nitish Kumar plays EBC/women card in Magadh’||GAYA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar has killed two birds with one stone in the Magadh region politics ahead of the assembly election by naming Kumud Verma among the party’s three candidates for the legislative council polls, political observers feel. According to Lalji Prasad. a senior JD(U) leader of the district, both EBCs and women constitute the party’s core constituency as the Nitish government has reserved 35% seats for women in the state jobs. No other CM has done as much for the women as Nitish has, Prasad said. Besides placating the EBCs, Nitish has also addressed his women constituency, said Ali Hussain, a keen watcher of the Magadh politics and a political science teacher. Kumud hails from a political family in the Magadh region. Her father-in-law late Upendra Nath Verma was a former Union minister and at the forefront of the Mandal politics in Bihar. Kumud’s brother-in-law Baghi Kumar Verma was also a minister in Bihar. Baghi is currently in RJD. Magadh Division comprising Gaya, Nawada, Aurangabad, Jehanabad and Arwal districts has 26 assembly constituencies. Late Jagdeo Prasad, called ‘Lenin of Bihar’ by his followers, carefully crafted a political constituency for the backward castes and continues to be a cult figure in the region. To Nitish’s credit, despite being with the BJP, Bihar Muslims continue to have a soft corner for the CM, says Masoom Aziz Kazmi, a retired IPS officer. On his part, Nitish has all along been wooing the Muslims and effectively contained the Hindutva hawks in the state, he feels. Welcoming the nomination of Kumud, Tekari MLA and state JD(U) youth wing chief Abhay Kushwaha said the CM has all along been accommodating ‘Dangis’ (a Koeri subcaste). Earlier, too, the CM nominated Upendra Prasad of the district to the Council for two consecutive terms, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-plays-ebc/women-card-in-magadh/articleshow/76583858.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 15 NDRF teams deployed for flood rescue operations||PATNA: The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed in several districts in the state for flood rescue operations amid Covid-19 pandemic. At least 15 NDRF teams with 35 personnel and four rescue boats each have been deployed in Patna, Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria, Supaul, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Bettiah, Motihari, Saran. More teams are in the process of getting deployed in Buxar and Nalanda districts. NDRF 9th battalion commandant Vijay Sinha, when asked, told TOI over phone on Wednesday that this time they would be involved in rescue works in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. “Hardly seven to eight persons, including NDRF personnel, would be allowed to board a rescue boat in order to maintain social distancing. This figure earlier used to be around 12 during flood rescue operations when the situation was normal,” he said. Sinha said they had procured large quantity of disposable masks which would be provided to the rescued persons as soon as they board a boat. “We have made arrangements of handwash and soaps with water container so that every rescued person washes his hands and feet before boarding the boat. In addition, this time teams have been deployed in the field for flood rescue with sodium hypo-chloride solution, biological suits, PPE kits, face hood cover for protecting themselves from infection besides having standard equipment for flood rescue and earthquakes,” he said. The commandant said the disaster management department took the decisions that district administration would screen the rescued persons and regularly sanitize rescue shelters by earmarking a small medical team so that if any symptomatic person is spotted, the team would be dispatched with NDRF personnel on boat for proper action. “This time, NDRF personnel would go to villages for community training and confidence-building measures and to tell them about the procedures to be followed during rescue amid flood,” Sinha said. He said NDRF personnel in the field have been instructed not to eat anything cooked and fried from market. “They have been instructed to sanitize vegetables properly and live separately in case anyone of them shows Covid-19 symptoms. Medical team would visit them for keeping their confidence level high,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-ndrf-teams-deployed-for-flood-rescue-ops/articleshow/76583771.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 25, 2020||Business||Reliance Big Entertainment defaults on bonds||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund late on Tuesday said Reliance Big Entertainment, which is already rated default by credit rating agencies, had defaulted on its payment of interest to the fund house on June 14. This is the second such instance the fund house has faced in recent times after Essel Infrastructure defaulted on May 22. The collaterals, securities and corporate guarantees it has for these bonds are adequate to cover amounts in each default, the fund house told its investors. Reliance Big Entertainment did not comment on the development. In an update, The fund house also said that it has received Rs 1,964 crore as interest payment, maturities and pre-payments between April 24 and June 15 in the six funds it closed down. Relating to the court cases against its April 23 decision to close down six debt schemes, all of which have been transferred to Karnataka HC by the Supreme Court, it said that the fund house would the HC “seeking vacation of the stay order issued by” the Gujarat HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-big-ent-defaults-on-bonds/articleshow/76592185.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Companies can submit results till July 31||MUMBAI: Sebi on Wednesday extended the deadline for companies to file their results for the period ending March 31, 2020 by another month to July 31. The extension was given due to Covid-related hurdles that company officials and chartered accountants (CAs) are facing in preparing the accounts. Sebi had received representations from listed entities, CA firms and industry bodies seeking further extension of the timeline for submitting of financial results due to several reasons that’s hindering the preparation of those results. After considering these representations, the timeline for submission of financial results for the period ending March 31, 2020 for listed entities and also for those entities that have other listed instruments is extended to July 31, 2020, Sebi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-can-submit-results-till-july-31/articleshow/76591874.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||3 more illegal parking lots found; FIR to be filed||Lucknow: Three illegal parking lots were found to be operating in the city during an inspection by officials of Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) on Wednesday. This came two days after a contractor was found running a lot under the nose of the corporation even after the expiry of his contract. The three illegal lots were found in Transportnagar, Charbagh and Jankipuram during the drive directed by municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi. Officials found that the three lots were not sanctioned by LMC and the operators had created them on their own. In Charbagh and Transportnagar, the operators were changing double the rate fixed by LMC for two-wheeelers. FIRs will be lodged against them. On Monday, a contractor was found running the lot even after expiry of his contract a stone’s throw away from LMC headquarters in Lalbagh. He was caught after an attendant charged double the parking fee from none other than the municipal commissioner’s driver who had parked his boss’s car near Darul Shafa. The commissioner later directed to lodge an FIR against the contractor and ordered officials to inspect the city for illegal parking lots. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Singh said, “FIRs will be lodged against those caught running illegal parking lots. The drive will continue for a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-more-illegal-parking-lots-found-fir-to-be-filed/articleshow/76597101.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Patients can keep mobiles in select corona hospitals now||KOLKATA: Two months after the state banned cellphones inside Covid-19 wards, several hospitals have relaxed the stringent protocol and are allowing patients to keep their smartphones with them. Officials of at least two hospitals TOI spoke to said they had relaxed the norms realizing the current state of the patients who have been repeatedly requesting the officials to allow cellphones, mostly to keep themselves engaged and entertained. “We have to realise that most Covid-19 patients are not bedridden or too sick. Most of them have mild fever which on other times doesn’t even need hospitalization. Hence, to spend their days in the hospital, they need some sort of entertainment to keep themselves engaged. We are still discouraging their use as cellphones are potential source spreading he infection but if they insist we are no longer stopping them,” said a senior official of MR Bangur Hospital. A senior official of Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, too, said they had also relaxed the cellphone norm. “We are allowing cellphones strictly for entertainment purpose and not for any sort of mischief. Seeing other patients and health workers in PPE without getting to see family members, it gets very difficult for them,” said a senior doctor of the hospital. An “oversight” on the part of M R Bangur authorities had the state health department issue an urgent directive on April 21, banning mobile phones inside Covid-19 wards after a video clip by a suspected Covid patient had gone viral. The video clip, shared extensively on social media, showed a plastic-covered corpse lying on one of the beds of the hospital ward. Acting on the directive, cellphones were taken away from all patients and over the next few weeks, several measures — from keeping wireless and landlines in the wards to initiating video-calling hours — were introduced by different hospitals to allow patients keep in touch with their family members. However, with passing weeks, the hospital officials realized banning cellphones was dampening the morale of the patients. In fact, in a recent meeting at Nabanna between association of health service doctors and chief minister Mamata Banerjee and senior health department officials, a group of doctors had requested the state to allow mobile phones with patients. “The directive had never come in the form of an official order that made it easier on our part to lift the ban. We are still asking them not to make videos inside the ward and share them on social media,” said an official of MR Bangur Hospital. Some hospitals like Beliaghata ID are, however, still sticking to the directive, an official of the hospital said, stressing cellphones were still banned and patients continued to interact with their relatives using landlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patients-can-keep-mobiles-in-select-corona-hospitals-now/articleshow/76590951.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Extend central schemes under UDH by 2 years: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to Union urban development and housing (UDH) minister Hardeep Singh Puri urged to launch a scheme on the lines of NREGA to provide employment to the urban poor. Gehlot said due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a large section of the urban population was deprived of livelihood. In order to provide relief to such population, a job guarantee scheme must be run at least for a limited period. The chief minister urged the Union minister to allot more money, extend time line of various projects and the amount due for these projects worth Rs 788 crore to the state at the earliest. He said the the Swachh Bharat Mission (urban) be extended by two years till March 2022 and budget be made available to the state. He said it is important in the light to fight corona, to promote cleanliness and repeated hand wash. He said the central government-run has ended in March this year. Chief minister also demanded the extension of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme by two years and to expedite the payment due of Rs 662 crore. The chief minister pointed out that the Rs 126 crore grant sanctioned under PM Awaas is also pending. He said the grant of Rs 51.37 crore under Deen Dayal Antyodaya Urban Livelihood mission be enhanced to Rs 100 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extend-central-schemes-under-udh-by-two-years-cm/articleshow/76595235.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Distribution of school textbooks begins in Trichy||TRICHY: Amidst uncertainty on the beginning of the academic year with no announcement yet on reopening of schools, textbooks for 2020-21 have started arriving in government schools. Books from Tamil Nadu textbook and educational services corporation are stocked at four places in the district. Books are being distributed to a maximum of 10 schools in the educational districts of Trichy, Lalgudi, Musiri and Manapparai every day from Monday, said Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi. The first volume of books for term–I of all classes from I-XII is being distributed and these will be handed over to students once the schools reopen, she said. Textbooks are given free of cost for government and aided schools while they need to be purchased by self-financing state board schools. Private schools however are reluctant to purchase as extension of lockdown may lead to cancellation of first term exams. Many of the schools say they don’t have money to purchase the books as there is also no direction on the collection of fees. Trimester system is followed in state board schools till class VIII with separate textbooks for each term. While the annual examination was so far conducted only with the third term book, it may not be the case this year, said a teacher in a private school. A 16-member expert committee constituted by the school education department to reduce the syllabus may include lessons from all terms for the annual examination. Hence, schools cannot avoid books of first term, said the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/distribution-of-school-textbooks-begins-in-trichy/articleshow/76595199.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC seeks footage after man vanishes from police station||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday directed Vadodara police to provide CCTV footage of Fatehgunj police station along with earlier inquiry reports, in connection with the mysterious disappearance of 65-year-old Shaikh Babu from Telangana after he was summoned by cops last December. After Shaikh Babu’s son, Shaikh Salim, filed a habeas corpus petition and the HC sought reply from the Vadodara police commissioner, the inquiry into the missing person’s complaint was transferred for the third time on Tuesday, this time to ACP-E Division. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria ordered the ACP to bring Shaikh Babu to court on or before July 6, or in case of failure to secure his appearance, an action-taken report should be filed along with the CCTV footage from Fatehgunj police station, from where Shaikh went missing on December 10, 2019. The high court also sought an explanation from the police as to why the CCTV footage did not form part of the earlier inquiry reports, after the son registered the missing person’s complaint. The HC questioned so after reminding them that it is mandatory to store CCTV footage of at least 30 days. Last week, the HC had ordered the Vadodara police commissioner to preserve CCTV footage from December 2019 to March 2020. Meanwhile, the police informed the HC on Wednesday that Shaikh Babu was summoned in connection with an offence. The surveillance squad of Fatehgunj police had taken him in at 11.30am and that he was allowed to leave the police station at 5.25pm after making a note in the police station diary. After he the left police station, his whereabouts were not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-footage-after-man-vanishes-from-police-station/articleshow/76591828.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Information gap impedes virus fight in business hub||KOLKATA: Several businessmen operating in the commercial hub of central Kolkata are not informing their market associations after testing positive for Covid-19, leading to a strange problem for the local administration that is unable to get help from the civic body and the cops for containment measures. The councillors of wards in Burrabazar, Posta, Brabourne Road, Canning Street and Mahatma Gandhi Road have started requesting the associations in different markets to sensitize their members on why the information is important to assess the exact status of the virus and to take preventive measures. “There have been several cases where businessmen in Burrabazar have tested positive and they have provided the address of their residence at the hospital during treatment. Now, the local councillors and the local police station in Burrabazar are not getting to know about this,. Consequently, we are not being able to take measures like sanitization, contact tracing and shutting down the markets or portions of it,” said Kishan Jhawar of Ward 42. This is also creating difficulty for the local elected representatives and the police to ascertain the actual status of the virus transmission, preventing them from declaring any particular pocket as a containment zone. Last week, both Nandaram Market and Tiretta Market were sealed after traders tested positive. “If we receive reports of positive cases from a particular market or a lane, we can seal it and sanitize it properly and determine why it is spreading in that particular area. But since the traders are only providing their residential addresses, it is becoming difficult for us to locate the affected pockets,” said Santosh Pathak, co-ordinator of Ward 45. The commercial hub spreads over five wards of 18, 21, 22, 23, 42, 45, including areas like Posta, Burrabazar, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Kalakar Street, Rabindra Sarani, Brabourne Road, Canning street and parts of Mechhua. “The severe lockdown helped in bringing down the cases but currently, we are facing problem in getting data about which pocket is affected because most traders are not informing us about testing positive,” said an officer of Burrabazar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/info-gap-impedes-virus-fight-in-business-hub/articleshow/76590991.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 25, 2020||India||Supply outstrips demand, PPE prices crash||CHENNAI: A spurt in production has resulted in a near 70% crash in prices of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and RT-PCR or Covid test kits. PPE kit prices of 100 GSM (gross square metre) have crashed in select markets to Rs 168 apiece from Rs 600 a few weeks ago, and those of RT-PCR testing kits have dropped to Rs 600 from nearly Rs 1,700 earlier. “We are in a situation where supply is significantly more than the demand. There are multiple standards of PPE depending on their use. Kits are now being supplied to the government at around Rs 300 per piece while it was nearly Rs 850 to Rs 900 a couple of months ago. The price of high-quality products are down to Rs 800 a kit from Rs 1,200,” said Satyaki Banerjee, CEO, Kiran Medical Systems, Trivitron group. Some large manufacturers, including Arvind group, are hoping that the government will open up exports. “This is a very good addition to the technical textiles segment and high quality PPE kits have a global market,” said Kulin Lalbhai, executive director of Arvind Ltd. “So far the procurement is mainly done by the government and the capacity is more.” The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, an agency that purchases PPE kits for the state government, buys them for Rs 365-380. TNMSC managing director P Umanath said, “Many other suppliers came with a lesser quote but their kits did not include gloves and goggles.” Starting at zero a couple of months ago, India has now become the world’s second-largest supplier of PPE kits. Nearly half-a-million pieces are made a day by more than 600 companies. But some smaller manufacturers have shut down their units. “It’s not viable at these prices. Prices today are Rs 168 a kit from Rs 600 a few weeks ago for a non-woven wax coated 90 GSM kit,” said R Annandurai of Knitfab in Tirupur. Ditto is the case with Covid test kits, which were imported for around Rs 1,600-Rs 1,700. These are now available for Rs 600 after local manufacturers started making them. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, one of the largest customers, paid Rs 1,200 for the testing kits. The state government body purchased viral transport medium from another agency for Rs 200. In early May, the state paid Rs 1,550 for all the three components of the kit. In the latest purchase, the cost of the imported kit dropped to Rs 850. “Most Indian test kits are now priced at Rs 400. The extractor and the viral medium will cost another Rs 200,” said Dr GSK Velu, Trivitron CMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supply-outstrips-demand-ppe-prices-crash/articleshow/76607403.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Rash of trouble: HCQ sparks new worry||NEW DELHI: The efficacy of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-malaria drug, in treating or preventing Covid-19 is unclear. However, thousands of healthcare workers and common people continue to have them in the hope that it may guard them against novel coronavirus infection. Doctors, however, warn against the practice. According to Dr Kabir Sardana, professor of dermatology at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital in New Delhi, they have come across healthcare workers using the drug as a preventive developing skin problems such as raised itchy eruptions, swelling of face, itching of body, itching of palms and soles, and rash involving the trunk. “It was a chance finding. We received six patients, all of them healthcare workers managing Covid-19 patients, who complained about skin problems. Tests showed four of them had developed the problem due to HCQ use while two others due to other factors,” Dr Sardana told TOI. He added that when they investigated further, it was found that a number of patients who had been reporting with similar skin problems also had a history of taking HCQ without prescription. It took nearly two to three weeks for the skin reaction to subside. Patients with severe itching required oral steroids, the doctor said. Dr Sardana said healthcare workers taking HCQ should be aware that even a weekly dose — approved by Indian Council of Medical Research — can cause skin rash. “If this is not treated properly, the skin problems can aggravate and cause serious health issues,” he added. The results of the study conducted by RML on the side-effects of HCQ use in healthcare workers has been published in the Journal of Dermatological Treatment. “While we will not debate on the merits and demerits of HCQ prophylaxis, it is pertinent to decide on whether the drug should be stopped or continued when side-effects are seen,” the study states. On June 17, World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the HCQ arm of the Solidarity Trial to find an effective Covid-19 treatment was being stopped. The United Nations body took the decision based on the findings of a UK study that showed that the use of this drug did not result in reduction of mortality of hospitalised patients, when compared with standard of care. “The decision to stop hydroxychloroquine’s use in the Solidarity Trial does not apply to the use or evaluation of hydroxychloroquine in pre- or post-exposure prophylaxis in patients exposed to Covid-19,” WHO said. Watch Hydroxychloroquine sparks new worry amid Covid-19 pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rash-of-trouble-hcq-sparks-new-worry/articleshow/76595320.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Wrong Covid test of pregnant woman: 5 docs, lab owner booked||Amritsar: Amritsar vigilance bureau on Wednesday registered an FIR against five doctors and the owner of a diagnostic laboratory under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act, over wrongly testing a heavily pregnant woman positive for Covid-19. Dr Anum Khullar, the woman, had later tested negative for the virus at the government-run Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here. The FIR was registered on a complaint by the woman’s father Raj Kumar Khullar. The accused include Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani, and Dr Robin Tuli of the diagnostic centre, and Pawan Arora and Dr Pankaj Soni of the hospital, where the woman was the deliver the baby. The accused have been charged with sections 307 (attempt to murder), 336 (act endangering human life), 270 (act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged) of Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the vigilance bureau police station. Raj Kumar alleged that Dr Anum was in the ninth month of pregnancy and was being treated at EMC Hospital.As her delivery date approached, she consulted doctors and was advised to undergo a Covid-19 test at Tuli Diagnostic Centre and was declared positive for coronavirus. They family has demanded an investigation into what it called was a “nexus between some hospitals and diagnostic laboratories”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wrong-covid-test-of-pregnant-woman-5-docs-lab-owner-booked/articleshow/76595327.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With Chinese signal system deal off the table, fate of 13 Dalian Metro rakes hangs in balance||KOLKATA: The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFFCI) might have cancelled its Rs 471-crore deal with a Chinese firm for signalling systems after the Galwan skirmish, but confusion remains on whether Metro Railway will continue to interact with China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC) for supply of the remaining 13 rakes for the North-South Metro corridor in Kolkata. While the government of India has maintained that the Galwan incident had nothing to do with the cancellation of the deal by DFFCI, the timing has certainly raised eyebrows. Metro Railway, in 2015, had placed orders with CRRC in Dalian, China, for 14 eight-coach rakes to augment its ageing fleet. The first of these was shipped to Kolkata in March 2019. This was considered a prototype that was to undergo extensive trials in Kolkata to weed out glitches. For this, a facility was also set up in the city by Toshiba of Japan that built several electrical components for these rakes. Before the lockdown, a number of technicians from CRRC were also in China to monitor the trials and report back to the company about necessary alterations that the remaining 13 rakes may need. Once this would have been settled, CRRC would have to ship one rake per month to Kolkata. “We have still not received any clear instructions from the Railway Board on how to proceed. There are some components for the ongoing Noapara-Dakshineswar project that Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) needs to bring in from China. Had the lockdown not occurred, these components, along with those from other countries, would have arrived by now. It is unclear when things will return to normal,” an official said. Trials for the Dalian prototype had begun before March 24 when the lockdown started. Technicians had pointed out some problems with the rake. For now though, Metro is concentrating on the rakes supplied by Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai. Metro Railway had also placed an order for 14 rakes from ICF. These are known as the Medha rakes after the company that developed their propulsion systems. According to another official, 10 of these rakes have already been sent to Kolkata. “Full-fledged trials for these rakes are continuing. We hope to have eight of them operational by July,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-chinese-signal-system-deal-off-the-table-fate-of-13-dalian-metro-rakes-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/76591021.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 25, 2020||Goa||‘Prayer session in Ambelim chapel point of Covid spread’||Margao: The quaint village of Ambelim in Salcete has turned out to be the focal point of investigations for contact tracing by the health department. With increasing number of fresh covid-19 cases from different parts of South Goa are found to have links to Ambelim, the medical teams have ramped up contact tracing and random testing in the village. “We have made announcements in all wards urging people to voluntarily come forward for testing their swab samples if they feel they were exposed to persons who have already tested positive. That’s the only way we can now control the spread of the virus,” Ambelim sarpanch Denica Correia said. On Wednesday over 40 persons from Ambelim and many from Cavelossim turned up at the Chinchimim primary health centre for testing their swab samples. Correia said that a prayer session conducted by the priest (who later tested positive) at the Ambelim chapel which saw an assembly of faithful turn up for the service has turned out to be the pivot around which contact tracing has largely revolved. Explaining the sequence of contact tracing that led to Ambelim becoming the focal point of investigation, sources pointed out to a Raia link that led to the Ambelim priest getting infected. “This woman from Raia who later tested positive had come for a prayer session to Ambelim. During the contact tracing exercise, the Ambelim priest was examined and his test was positive. During the intervening period, the priest possibly came in contact with god-knows-how-many people, and the virus subsequently spread wider,” a panchayat member said. Sources said the prayer session at Ambelim had become popular over the years. “During the lockdown though congregations didn’t take place, people would visit the priest and he would conduct prayer sessions,” a former panchayat member said, explaining the connection of new cases from villages as far as Loutolim, Curtorim and other places, with Ambelim. Velim sarpanch Savio D’Silva on Wednesday wrote to the chief minister and the health minister expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Betul and Ambelim, and pointed out the need for an isolation ward/centre in the village. Former sarpanch Cruz Silva said that as Chinchinim PHC caters to a large population spread over six villages—Cavelossim, Orlim, Carmona, Chinchinim, Ambelim and Asssolna—the premises is too small to handle the large number of patients turning up at the centre everyday. “With such large number of people visiting the PHC everyday, how can social distancing be maintained? ,” Silva said. Chinchinim panchayat on Wednesday issued a notice declaring that the village panchayat, village development committee and shopkeepers have voluntarily decided to go in for a lockdown from June 25 to June 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prayer-session-in-ambelim-chapel-point-of-covid-spread/articleshow/76599506.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Woman electrocuted at Thangadh unit||Rajkot: In a freak accident, a woman was electrocuted after the container she had climbed up had come in close contact with a live wire at a factory in Thangadh of Surendranagar district on Wednesday morning. Police said the deceased, identified as Bhanu Vaghela (50), had climbed up the container along with three other labourers to upload sanitary wares, which the factory manufactures. “As the container moved, it came in contact with a live wire dangling above. As the current started passing through, the container driver jumped out from the vehicle, while Vaghela got electrocuted,” said an official from the hospital police chowky of Rajkot Civil Hospital. While Vaghela died at the Rajkot Civil Hospital, Lila Mer (55), another woman labourer, is battling for her life. Those who had climbed the container along with Vaghela and Mer were Rekha Matrania (25) and Jani Solanki (50). They also received burn injuries. However, their conditions are out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-electrocuted-at-thangadh-unit/articleshow/76586323.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Jitu Vaghani likely to stay BJP chief till bypolls, local elections||GANDHINAGAR: Although his term as Gujarat BJP president has been completed, Jitu Vaghani is likely to continue at the post until the state assembly byelections and municipal and panchayat elections are over. After the BJP leadership changed the presidents of the Delhi, Chhatisgarh and Manipur units after the completion of their terms in the first week of June, there was a buzz in the Gujarat BJP that Jitu Vaghani would be replaced by a new state party president. However, after all three candidates nominated by the BJP won the Rajya Sabha elections, there is talk that Vaghani will continue for a few more months as state party president. Key sources in the BJP said, “Although only two leaders, PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, can tell for sure whether the state unit will get a new president, considering the fact that crucial elections like the assembly bypolls and municipal corporation, municipality, district and taluka panchayat polls are scheduled, key organisational changes will be done after the elections are completed.” Sources added that after CM Vijay Rupani completes the third year of his present term, there could be a reshuffle in his cabinet. “Vaghani could be replaced as state party president just ahead of the reshuffle and be given a key cabinet berth,” sources said. Jitu Vaghani was appointed in August 2016 and became the youngest Gujarat BJP president when the then party president, Vijay Rupani, took over as the chief minister. Vaghani was a first-time MLA when he took over as the state BJP president. He won the 2017 assembly election with a record margin from Bhavnagar city. He began his political career working as a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha leader and then was closely associated with the party’s core team for a few years before taking over as state party president. He was appointed state party chief when the Patidar and other caste-based agitations were at their peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaghani-likely-to-stay-bjp-chief-till-bypolls-local-elections/articleshow/76591801.cms||Kapil Dave
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||ATA reaches out to Telugus on visa curbs||Hyderabad: Claiming that US president Donald Trump’s decision to suspend temporary work visas till the end of the year will be short-lived, the American Telugu Association (ATA) said it is ready to help Telugus who are impacted. ATA, in a statement, said the President’s order “sends a message to the businesses to not depend on H-1 visas and that the real impact would be minimal. Parmesh Bheemreddy, ATA president, said: “We have teamed up with multiple attorneys to look into alternative visa options and minimise the impact to Telugu families. We feel this is a short-lived ban. To be a leader in technology and innovation, we need the brightest and the best people from all over the world.” Bhuvanesh Boojala, president-elect, ATA, said Trump’s visa suspension would hurt America, American companies and Americans. “Reducing immigration, especially skilled immigration, won’t protect jobs for Americans.” Jayanth Challa, ATA trustee, said, there is a strong pushback on the ban from trade industry groups and technology companies. “The US Chamber of Commerce is opposing the ban saying it will impact economic recovery and innovation in the country. Some companies and law firms are already looking into taking a legal action against the ban,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ata-reaches-out-to-telugus-on-visa-curbs/articleshow/76595343.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||After students, Lucknow University teachers demand exam postponement too||LUCKNOW: After Lucknow University students, teachers have also demanded postponement of the examination in view of coronavirus pandemic. The examinations are scheduled from July 7. A delegation of Lucknow University Teachers’ Association (LUTA) met deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday in this connection. Earlier, the Lucknow University Associated College Teachers’ Association (LUACTA) had announced to boycott examinations if they were not postponed. Teachers said cases of coronavirus are on the rise and in such a situation, conducting examinations would pose a threat to the health of students, faculty as well as non-teaching employees. In the memorandum of demands handed over to the Dy CM, the teachers said either the examination should be postponed until pandemic subsides or arrangements should be made in such a manner that physical presence of students is not required. LUTA general secretary Vineet Verma said, “All faculties and students are not in support of examinations. Teachers, students, and their parents are in great stress ever since the undergraduate and postgraduate examination schedule was announced. The examination should be postponed since it would be difficult to maintain social distancing during examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-students-lu-teachers-demand-exam-postponement-too/articleshow/76597153.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Enhanced counselling to be done for edgy Covid-19 patients||Mangaluru: Upset at the demanding behaviour of a section of Covid-19 patients admitted at Wenlock Hospital, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is now mooting having more counsellors to help patients’ tide over their pandemic fears. The step follows a few unsavoury incidents of patients clashing with doctors at the designated Covid hospital, leading to stern warnings being issued to the patients, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. “We can understand their frustration, but cannot condone any boorish behaviour,” Sindhu said, reacting to a few instances during the weekend, where patients gave vent to their feelings. Lashing out at the doctors is not the solution. The nature of this pandemic is such that people who test positive must be isolated for the safety of all,” Sindhu said, adding the way in which individuals react to being isolated, holds the key to their behaviour. “Most of the patients testing positive for the virus are asymptomatic, and apart from having a healthy diet and proper medicine regimen to reduce their virus load, there is nothing more that the doctors can do,” the DC said. “If the patients start heckling doctors who are taking personal risks to ensure their well being, and no action is taken against such people, the medical fraternity will be disillusioned, and not many will volunteer for Covid-19 duties,” she explained. Given that many patients, especially the younger lot, had misgivings about their reports testing positive despite taking treatment, the administration has sent their swabs to private laboratories for a retest, to address their doubts. “We cannot discharge anyone from the hospital till their reports turn up negative,” she said, adding such a step will put the entire society at risk, especially if they have elderly people with co-morbidities at home. At the same time, the administration is always open to addressing their genuine concerns, the DC said. “Given that these outbursts are evidently happening due to lack of knowledge or high expectations, especially among those who have returned from the Middle East, we will rope in more counsellors to allay their fears,” the DC said, adding this process is also undertaken at the time when they are admitted to the hospital on being declared positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/enhanced-counselling-to-be-done-for-edgy-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76586354.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Wild elephant found dead in Sirumugai forest range||Coimbatore: A female elephant was found dead in the Sirumugai forest range in the Coimbatore forest division on Tuesday morning. At least 10 elephants have died in the division since March this year. A source said during the routine patrol in Pethikuttai beat of the forest on Monday evening, forest officials had spotted a herd of elephants at Ottrai Kan Palam. While there was a foul smell emanating from the area the animals had gathered, the patrol team couldn’t access the spot as the elephants blocked the way. On Tuesday morning, the source said, a larger team of forest personnel went to the spot and found the carcass of a female elephant. “The elephant was aged about 25 years. The animal had nodular lesions in its liver and couldn’t take food,” district forest officer (DFO) D Venkatesh said.Forest department’s veterinary doctor Sugumar performed the autopsy and left the carcass in the forest for scavengers, the DFO said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wild-elephant-found-dead-in-sirumugai-forest-range/articleshow/76539840.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||To travel or not: Indians without valid visas in a fix||HYDERABAD: While people without stamped visas cannot travel to the USA till the end of the year, several Indians living in that country will also face a similar dilemma. Ravi K (name changed), a techie who lives in Virginia, hoped to come to India for his mother’s surgery but will not be able to travel now. “The order signed by Donald Trump affects people like me. My visa stamp on the passport expired last year. I thought I would come to India as my mother is in serious condition and needs surgery. But now that will not be possible.” Ravi’s mother lives in Chittoor, AP. The executive order signed by US president Donald Trump suspends the provision of temporary work visas such as the H-1B, L1 to foreign nationals. People who are also affected are those without valid visa stamps. Fearing that they too might be stuck abroad if they travel now, Indians in the US are delaying their decision to fly even for medical emergencies. “I had hoped to visit my parents at least by the end of the year, if the pandemic subsides,” said Sreedevi Alluri, a Texas resident. She says she has not seen them for over five years because of personal reasons. “After I sorted some issues here, my H-1B expired and I applied for a petition to continue working, which was approved. But now when I travel back I have to get my visa stamped which will not happen as consulates have been closed for a while,” said the techie. Sudhanshu Kaushik, ED, North American Association of Indian Students (NAAIS), said, “While there is a provision for emergencies within the executive order, people will always be doubting and second guessing. We will see a significant drop in cross-border travel (even if Covid-19 situation improves).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-travel-or-not-indians-without-valid-visas-in-a-fix/articleshow/76595630.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu flouting norms while counting deaths, experts wary of under-reporting||CHENNAI: Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the state health department is keeping information on deaths as a closely guarded secret, hiding it not only from the public but from scientists and an expert medical team it has constituted to seek advice on treatment and management of the virus. A fortnight ago, after the health department said that more than 200 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai were not added to the toll as it was not reported to the directorate of public health, a committee to reconcile these deaths was formed. It is still at work, according to director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam. But epidemiologists and public health experts say the state could continue to underreport fatalities as it has been violating ICMR protocols and ignoring WHO advisories. With 833 deaths until Tuesday, the fatality in the state climbed to 1.29%. "This is low compared to the 3% national average or when compared to states that have similar health infrastructure and incidence. This is a broad indicator that we could be missing many deaths," said public health expert Dr T Sundararaman, former executive director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre. "We will find the real case fatality only when we look at the total number of deaths in the city," he said. On an average, Chennai records 150 deaths every day. Neither the state nor the civic body has announced if there is a spike in deaths. Members of the expert committee said they were waiting for the information. "We can assess the disease profile and character of the virus precisely if we have that information. Death numbers are necessary to measure the public health impact and plan for timely health interventions," said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam, a member of the panel. TN has ignored two suggestions from ICMR and WHO. It has not followed ICMR protocols to declare suspicious deaths with symptoms of the viral infection. The ICMR guideline asks doctors to declare Covid deaths and probable Covid deaths. But the state does not record suspected Covid-19 deaths. "We have the number of Covid-19 cases and the number of Covid deaths as reported every day. These indicators are inadequate to profile the disease. To understand true impact of infection, we must have a more reliable data," said NIE deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, a member of the expert medical panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-flouting-norms-while-counting-deaths-experts-wary-of-under-reporting/articleshow/76591119.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: DNA evidence nails auto driver for raping minor||RAJKOT: The Amreli police on Wednesday filed chargesheet in connection with the rape of a three-year-old girl by a 35-year-old auto driver in Savarkundla town on May 21. The accused Raju Mangrolia was arrested two days after the offence was committed based on the description given by the survivor’s four-year-old brother. Police filed the chargesheet in Savarkundla POCSO Court within a month of arrest of Mangrolia and has included DNA report that confirmed that the semen of the accused matched with that found in the autorickshaw where the girl was allegedly raped. According to case details, Mangrolia had abducted the girl on May 21 midnight when she was sleeping with her parents in a slum on bank of Navli river. He had raped the girl in his autorickshaw and later abandoned her near Jhinjhuda village bus stand about 4km from the girls house. In the chargesheet the police have stated that the FSL report confirmed the blood stains in the auto were that of the rape survivor and semen was that of the accused. The girl had suffered severe injuries on her private parts but is recovering fast. Mangrolia has been charged under IPC sections 363, 366, 376, 377 and POCSO Act. Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai told TOI “DNA report is a very strong evidence. The accused was wearing the gamcha (handkerchief) which he used as a sheet while committing the crime. We sent that gamcha to the FSL and on the piece of cloth FSL found blood stains of rape survivor and semen of the accused. With such strong evidence we hope to get conviction soon.” For getting description of the accused, the police had to talk to survivor’s brother for two hours to make him comfortable. Cops had also offered him chocolates and ice-cream to earn the trust of the boy. The boy had given minute details like the colour of the accused's shirt, it’s pattern, colour of the trouser and mask that the accused had worn. He also told cops about the autorickshaw of the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dna-evidence-nails-auto-driver-for-raping-minor/articleshow/76586431.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Increase job scope under NREGA: Chief secretary||JAIPUR: Chief secretary (CS) D B Gupta on Wednesday instructed officials to increase the scope of employment and development works under MGNREGA. He was addressing officials at meeting of state-level coordination committee to review progress of works at the secretariat. Gupta said the department could use NREGA budget along with its own budget to provide jobs to the people by doing small works like digging ponds, basin and plantation. Gupta directed the officers to make a list of what works could be started department-wise in this financial year and ensure sending them to the rural development and panchayati raj department so that those works could be taken up on priority. He asked the PWD to take up plantation of trees on both the national and state highways, increasing the width of rural roads to prevent accidents, levelling on the roadsides, etc. He said that 4-5 model works of such roads should be done on priority. Additional chief secretary of rural development and panchayati raj Rajeshwar Singh said that apart from rural workers, migrant Rajasthanis were also getting employment under MNREGA. He informed that there was the need for labour planning for personal benefit projects and 50 % of the amount should be used preparatory work related to water collection, conservation and pre-monsoon plantation works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-job-scope-under-nrega-cs/articleshow/76595361.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||4 GIB eggs, 3 chicks found in DNP area||JAISALMER: A team of forest department at Ramdeora has come across a GIB chick. So far in the breeding season this year, three chicks have been sighted, of which two were seen in Sudasari, Desert National Park area. Total four eggs of GIB were also found at Sudasari area in DNP, of which two have been kept at the GIB breeding centre in Sam and two were left at the Sudasari closure area. DNP deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said that GIBs are generally found in army’s firing range in Pokhran and Ramdeora and also in Ramdeora closure, and in case of a locust attack in these areas, a guideline has been issued regarding the spraying of pesticides, wherein the locust control department and agriculture department teams will take joint action for locust control in GIB habitat areas. At the time of destroying locusts, additional personnel will be deployed who will collect the dead locusts in gunny bags and will throw them away so that the GIBs cannot eat them. Also, if any GIB is seen while spraying pesticides, they will be shooed away. Last year too, this method was adopted and it has been decided to adopt the same method this year as well. Apart from this, it has been directed to take preventive measures in case of a locust attack and additional labourers are being deployed in Sudasari area of DNP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-gib-eggs-3-chicks-found-in-dnp-area/articleshow/76595449.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||At home after surgery, Haryana minister Anil Vij falls back on work from bed||CHANDIGARH: Recuperating after a surgery, bed-ridden Haryana cabinet minister Anil Vij is now managing affairs from his room in his house in Ambala Cantonment, which has been converted into a makeshift office. By taking all precautions, Vij is attending to work and clearing files related to medical, education, health, home and urban local bodies departments. Vij suffered a fracture in his femur bone on June 9. After undergoing surgery at a private hospital in Mohali, Vij is now on bed rest at his Shastri Colony residence in Ambala Cantonment. The minister, who is incharge of important portfolios like health, medical education and research, home and urban local bodies, resumed his daily routine of official affairs on Wednesday by setting up the war room at camp office. It is the duty of his staff to ensure elaborate precautions were taken. On Wednesday, Vij chaired a meeting of urban local bodies department to discuss issues related to Smart City projects of Karnal. He also chaired a meeting of the officers of police department. When in hospital, Vij had been in touch with ACS (home) Vijay Vardhan, ACS (health and medical education) Rajiv Arora, DGHS Dr S B Kamboj and officers from medical education department to be updated on the status of Covid-19 in the state. “How can I afford to skip responsibilities, especially when the state is struggling to deal with this pandemic. We cannot afford to go slow or put decisions on hold. I am back to work, but with precautions,” he said. Except for important persons, especially officers and heads of departments who have to attend meetings, only selected persons are being allowed to visit the minister. Officers visiting the minister have to undergo thermal scanning and sanitising process. A couple of personal attendantsand family members are taking care of the minister. He is seen glued to TV screen and is quick to react to news stories appearing in regional and local media, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-home-after-surgery-vij-falls-back-on-work-from-bed/articleshow/76595443.cms||Manvir Saini
June 25, 2020||Kochi||CPM may suspend Zakir Hussain||Kochi: It is learnt that CPM district committee has decided to suspend party Kalamassery area secretary Zakir Huasian. The decision on the basis of a commission constituted by the party for conducting a probe into a complaint that Husain amassed wealth disproportionate to the known sources of his income. The decision by the district committee is yet to get the approval of the state committee. The commission comprising state committee member C M Dinesh Mani and district secretariat member P R Muraleedharan is learnt to have submitted the report to the party a couple of months ago. “The decision is yet to get the nod from the state committee,” one of the district members said. Meanwhile, CPM district leadership is denying reports that Hussain was suspended.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-may-suspend-zakir-hussain/articleshow/76586553.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Amid high production, prices of PPEs and test kits crash||CHENNAI: A spurt in production has resulted in a near 70% crash in prices of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and RT-PCR or Covid test kits. PPE kit prices of 100 GSM (gross square metre) have crashed in select markets to Rs 168 apiece from Rs 600 a few weeks ago, and those of RT-PCR testing kits have dropped to Rs 600 from nearly Rs 1,700 earlier. "We are in a situation where supply is significantly more than the demand. There are multiple standards of PPEs depending on their use. Supplies to the government are now happening around Rs 300 a kit while it was nearly Rs 850 to Rs 900 a couple of months ago. The high-quality products are down to Rs 800 a kit from Rs 1,200," said Satyaki Banerjee, CEO, Kiran Medical Systems, Trivitron group. Some large manufacturers, including Arvind group, are hoping the government will open up exports. "This is a very good addition to the technical textiles segment and high quality PPEs have a global market," said Kulin Lalbhai, executive director of Arvind Ltd. "So far the procurement is mainly by the government and the capacity is more." The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, an agency that purchases PPE kits for the state government, buys them for Rs 365-380. TNMSC managing director P Umanath said, "Many other suppliers came with a lesser quote but their kits did not include gloves and goggles." Starting at zero a couple of months ago, India has now become the world’s second-largest supplier of PPE kits. Nearly half-a-million pieces are made a day by more than 600 companies. But some smaller manufacturers have shut down their PPE units. "It’s not viable at these prices. Prices today are Rs 168 a kit from Rs 600 a few weeks ago for a non-woven wax coated 90 GSM (gross square metre) kit," said R Annandurai of Knitfab in Tirupur. Ditto is the case with Covid test kits, which were imported for around Rs 1,600-Rs 1,700. These are now available for Rs 600 after local manufacturers started making them. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, one of the largest customers, paid Rs 1,200 for the testing kits. The kit cost included RTPCR and RNA extractor. The state government body purchased viral transport medium from another agency for Rs 200. In early May, the state paid Rs 1,550 for all the three components of the kit. In the latest purchase, the cost of the imported kit dropped to Rs 850. "Most Indian testing kits are now priced at Rs 400. The extractor and the viral medium will cost additional Rs 200," said Dr GSK Velu, Trivitron CMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-high-production-prices-of-ppes-and-test-kits-crash/articleshow/76591218.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Barely any efforts for small traders’||Ahmedabad: The contest for the posts of vice president and senior vice president in the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) is heating up. Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of the BJP’s business cell for Gujarat, who is in the fray for the post of vice president, said that in the past few years, the GCCI made hardly any efforts made to address the issues of small traders and businessmen. “GCCI has had a history of representing issues of the smallest of businesses and trade representatives before government officials and resolving them. However, in the past few years, the agenda of the presidents and senior vice presidents has been more about their personal gain, settling scores and promoting their future generations than about resolving genuine issues faced by industry,” said Lakhani, in a statement issued to the media. Lakhani also took potshots at K I Patel, the founder of Aries Color Chem Private Limited in Vatva, who is also in the fray for vice president in the elections scheduled for July 11. Patel has formed a panel along with Hemant Shah of Navin Group, who is in the fray for the post of senior vice president, against Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/barely-any-efforts-for-small-traders/articleshow/76591796.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||In drought-affected Jaisalmer, 471 cattle camps to come up||JAISALMER: Disaster management and assistance department is making efforts to save cattle in scarcity-hit areas. In Jaisalmer district, there is a severe drought in 653 villages. Small and marginal farmers in drought-hit areas of the district have abandoned their cattle. Now, approval has been given to open cattle camps in different areas for protection of over 57,000 cattle. Considering the drought conditions, the sale and transport of fodder to other districts was banned in Jaisalmer district. District collector Namit Mehta said that 471 cattle camps have been approved for 57,242 cattle at various places in the district during the Kharif season. He said that these 57,242 cattle include 6,772 small and 50,470 big animals. As per the order, these cattle camps will have all arrangements to keep the animals including sheds, a fodder collection place, water etc. As per SDRF standards, big cattle will be given Rs 70 per animal and Rs 35 per small cattle per day, to feed the cattle. The institution running the cattle camps will be provided 1kg fodder for big cattle and half kg fodder for small animals per day. He said tehsildar and SDO will inspect camps. For the certification of cattle to be kept in the camps, a committee has been formed comprising patwari, gram sevak and school teacher and on the recommendation of the committee, the cattle will be kept at the camp. In the managing committee to run the camp, a member nominated by the collector will be included.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-drought-affected-jaisalmer-471-cattle-camps-to-come-up/articleshow/76595412.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Initiate diplomatic steps to curb locusts: CM Ashok Gehlot to Centre||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday urged the Centre to initiate diplomatic measures to control locusts entering India from Pakistan. Gehlot tweeted, “As #Rajasthan is affected by #Locustsattack - GoR has been providing best possible help including pesticides, sprays, drone supervision, etc. to the Locusts Department which falls under GoI. This time since locusts have originated from Africa and entered India via Pakistan - GoI may also consider Diplomatic measures to minimise the damages. (sic)” As #Rajasthan is affected by #LocustsAttack - GoR has been providing best possible help including pesticides, spray… https://t.co/Vf5YgzF92x— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1593006301000In Jaisalmer, energy minister BD Kalla said the main responsibility to control locusts lies with the Centre but it closed down the locust control department saying there were no attacks in the past 25 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/initiate-diplomatic-steps-to-curb-locusts-cm-to-centre/articleshow/76595485.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 surge spikes with record 45 cases in single day||VADODARA: Covid-19 surge in Vadodara city and district continues unabated with the highest number of 45 positive cases in one day on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total number of persons who tested positive went up to 1,998. As many as 247 tests were conducted in the city and district since Tuesday evening. While the total number of tests was lower than the previous two days when 265 and 255 tests were conducted respectively, the number of positive cases was higher. The highest number of cases in the city were reported from the north zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The zone that has been the worst affected added 14 new cases. Eight cases each were reported in the east and south zones of the city. For persons from the west zone of the city also tested positive. Areas of Vadodara district outside the VMC limits saw 11 more testing positive. With the fresh cases, the north zone has 743 cases in all followed by east zone where 563 cases have been registered. The cases in south zone now add up to 342 and 121 cases were reported in the west zone. In the areas of the district outside the city limits, 211 cases have been reported so far. Eighteen persons who were residents of areas outside the district also tested positive in Vadodara. Fifty-two patients were discharged from various treatment facilities in the city and home quarantine. The total number of discharged patients now stands at 1,355 leaving 593 persons under treatment. The live cases include 40 on ventilators and BIPAP machines and 124 on oxygen support. The official number of Covid-19 positive persons dying in the city still stands at 50. Box GSFC employees test positive Vadodara: Three employees of the Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited (GSFC) have tested positive for Covid-19 after they were screened at the medical centre of GSFC. Confirming that earlier two employees had tested positive and are both recovering, GSFC’s executive director (projects) B B Bhayani said. “As of now, only one employee is under treatment for Covid-19 at a hospital in the city.” The corporation is taking every precaution, including disinfecting the plant and residential colony, using face masks and maintaining social distance on the premises, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ncov-surge-spikes-with-record-45-cases-in-single-day/articleshow/76586865.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Poverty drives two to end their lives in Kota||Kota: A 70-year-old vegetable vendor, shattered by multiple diseases and poverty, hanged himself from a tree at a park in Veer Sarwakar Nagar under Mahavir Nagar police station on intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Another 60-year-old daily laboruer, distressed by deepening poverty, hanged himself at Nallaha near Rojadi village under RK Puram police station in Kota city. In another incident, a 25-year-old married woman, who allegedly consumed poison on Monday over some domestic issue in Ramganjmandi town of the district, succumbed to death during treatment at a hospital in Jhalawar. The body of the vegetable vendor identified as Jamanalal Koli, a resident of Veer Sarwarkar Nagar, was found hanging in his colony’s park on Wednesday, Mahavir Nagar SHO Pawan Meena said. Primary investigation revealed the man, who was suffering from various diseases, sneaked out of his home late on Tuesday night and allegedly hanged himself from a tree. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Wednesday and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. Prove revealed that the daily wage labourer identified as Pran Mandal Bangali, a resident of Rojadi village under RK Puram police station of the city, was jobless and could not sustain his family. This forced him to take his life, ASI at RK Puram police station Babulal Meena said. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem and a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. was lodged in this connection for investigation, ASI said. The married woman identified as Santosh, a resident of Subash Colony in Ramganjmandi town in Kota district, succumbed during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poverty-drives-two-to-end-their-lives-in-kota/articleshow/76595514.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||First batch of 250 Indians to arrive from Pakistan today||AMRITSAR: Finally, the first batch of 250 out of 748 Indians stranded in Pakistan will be arriving India via Attari land border on Thursday. Earlier, the Indian High Commission in Islamabad had urged the Pakistan’s minister of foreign affairs to send back the stranded Indians on June 23, but Pakistan government decided to repatriate the Indian nationals in three batches on June 25, 26 and 27. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Afshan Anjum, a resident of Srinagar, whose daughter is an MBBS student in Lahore and is expected to arrive in India on Thursday, said “I have no words to express my happiness. My daughter was scheduled to arrive in India on March 25 but the lockdown was imposed on March 23 and both India and Pakistan had sealed their borders and she, along with other Indian students couldn’t travel.” Indians arriving from Pakistan would have to undergo 14-day mandatory quarantine at their respective district headquarters. “Even if she undergoes 14-day quarantine, at least she will be close to me in Srinagar,” said Afshan, who expressed gratitude towards both Indian and Pakistan governments. Two families of Amritsar comprising of five members would be arriving home in the last batch on June 27. One of the family members Satbir Singh, who is living in his relatives’ house Amrik Singh in Lahore, said he was stranded in Lahore since the beginning of lockdown in March. “We were scheduled to return on March 27, but now we are coming back after nearly three months,” he said. Satbir, a heart patient, said he had finished his medicines also. Another Amritsar resident Harjit Singh said they got their visas extended twice, but in recent past they received a mail that all visas had been extended till June 30. “We all are happy to return home but worried also since we have to undergo quarantine and restart the business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-batch-of-250-indians-to-arrive-from-pakistan-today/articleshow/76595553.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 25, 2020||Udaipur||Man kills snake after it bites wife, takes it to Udaipur hospital||UDAIPUR: The medical staff at a community health centre in Gogunda near Udaipur were taken aback when a man showed up with a snake wrapped in a piece of cloth on Tuesday. They heaved a sigh of relief only after knowing that it was a dead one. Ambalal, a resident of Undithal village in Gogunda block of Udaipur district, had taken his wife Devli Bai to the community health centre after she was bitten by a snake while she was sleeping in her room on Tuesday. As he could not identify whether the snake was venomous or not, he killed the snake and carried it to the hospital. At the emergency ward, when the staff attended to his wife and asked him about the snake, the man expressed ignorance and innocently took out the wrap inside which the snake had been kept. Some of the people screamed out of fear while some jumped from their places, but later were relieved when Ambalal told them that it was dead. Devli was referred to a Udaipur hospital after first aid. Ambalal told the hospital staff that he had heard somewhere that it was necessary to find out if the reptile was venomous, in cases of snake bite, otherwise the treatment would be delayed leading to dire consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/man-kills-snake-after-it-bites-wife-takes-it-to-udaipur-hosp/articleshow/76595547.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana bizmen want govt to bear cost of migrants’ return||Times News NetworkLudhiana: A day after the Haryana government decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 1,500 each to the construction workers willing to return from their home states, the businessmen in Ludhiana on Wednesday demanded that the Punjab government also follow the model for bringing back the migrant workers from UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand etc, who had left following the Covid-19 lockdown.The businessmen said if the Haryana model is implemented, much of the labour shortage being faced by the industry of Punjab would end.Speaking to TOI, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “We had met the officials of district administration on Tuesday only and handed them a list of requirement of workers. There is a shortage of nearly six lakh skilled and unskilled workers in Ludhiana industries alone. The Haryana government’s initiative to incentivise the construction workers willing to return is appreciable and Punjab should also consider it to end the labour crisis here.”Ahuja said earlier also they had suggested the government to sponsor the travel of the workers willing to come back and compensate those, who stayed back and did not leave Punjab despite the lockdown.According to Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, “The state government should seriously take the issue of labour shortage in Punjab. On several occasions, the industry minister has himself said that the government will bring back the industrial workers from their home states, but till now nothing has been done. If Haryana can compensate for travel expenses, why can’t we? We urge chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to introduce this scheme for the factory workers willing to return. We will provide the required data about the persons who are willing to come back.”Rajinder Singh Sarhali, propaganda secretary of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “If Punjab government starts compensating workers for travel expenses, the labour crisis in the state will end pretty soon. Besides this being an effective idea to end the crisis, it will also save the huge cost of running special trains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-bizmen-want-govt-to-bear-cost-of-migrants-return/articleshow/76586586.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||They risk their lives to lay the dead to rest||CHENNAI: T M Ananthan has spent three decades being a cohort to hundreds of men, women and children in their final journey. The years have taught the 43-year-old undertaker at the Tiruvottiyur burial ground to discharge his duties with clinical discipline. But the past three months have unsettled his stoic, impervious self in a way that 35 years of working with the dead hasn’t. "I got more than 20 Covid deaths just this month. They all come in a package - no family, no last rites," he says. As of June 23, Chennai recorded a total of 645 Covid deaths. Risk of infection has made mourning a loved one’s demise harder than it already is, with family members often unable to bid them goodbye. Outrage over incidents like what happened with 55-year-old neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules and reckless disposal of a body in Puducherry have pushed a growing tribe of volunteers to emerge and take it upon themselves to give the Covid victims a dignified end. "Since the time we started helping with burials, the number of deaths has grown multi-fold," says Kursheed Hussain, an engineer and member of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam. The volunteers spend about half a day to pick up bodies and lower them into an eight-foot, machine-dug pit using a 15-metre cloth. While every volunteer is provided with PPEs, disinfectants and vitamin tablets, Kursheed says time has come to get more careful."With the number of deaths occurring every day, the usual safety precautions and monthly check-ups may not suffice. We’ve been asking for preventive medicines and also quality packing of bodies," says Kursheed. Packing is a matter of concern for crematorium staff too. Ananthan says there is often a marked difference between bodies coming from private and government hospitals. "At times, there’s an exposed foot or a decomposed body coming from government hospitals," says Ananthan, who gives himself a thorough bath before going home. Making times harder for crematorium staff is backlash from the neighbourhood every time a Covid victim is brought in. "Fisherfolk living nearby verbally abuse us. They treat us like enemies," says Ananthan. In Tiruvannamalai, the district administration has been hunting for land to open a burial ground for Covid victims to address the scale of the problem. To keep volunteers safe, Mohideen Ansari of Popular Front of India, says they have restricted their volunteers to those aged between 24 and 35, and with no ailments for burials. "We’re usually given only two PPEs for every death, but we need at least six volunteers to complete the burial. We’ve been pooling in our funds to compensate for the crunch," he says. "We will reach out to the government."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/they-risk-their-lives-to-lay-the-dead-to-rest/articleshow/76591331.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Firm officials, seed dealers booked for supplying poor quality seeds||Kurukshetra: Police registered a case of cheating against officials of a Telangana-based seed firm and its local dealers in the district on Tuesday for allegedly supplying poor quality sunflower seeds to farmers of Shahabad Markanda area in recent past. The case has been registered on the complaint of Shahabad sub-divisional agriculture officer Shishpal. On March 30, some farmers of Shahabad lodged a complaint with the Kurukshetra deputy director agriculture Pardeep Meel, alleging that they were sold poor quality seeds by the government-appointed agency for the purpose. The farmer had alleged that the sunflower plants started to mature too early. Following this complaint, Pardeep constituted a committee to investigate the matter. After about two and a half months, a case in this regard has been registered against the concerned seed firm and its dealers on Tuesday. The sub-divisional agriculture officer stated in the police complaint, “A seed firm, Nuziveedu Seeds Limited, based in Ranga Reddy district of Telangana, sold 5,190kg of sunflower seed of Sreshta NSFH-36 variety to farmers in Kurukshetra district. Complaints were received regarding its poor quality at Kurukshetra deputy director agriculture office. A departmental team consisting Thanesar sub-divisional agriculture officer, Kurukshetra assistant plant protection officer, Kurukshetra quality control inspector, Shahabad sub-divisional agriculture officer, Shahabad agriculture development officer and scientists of Krishi Vigyan Kendra inspected the fields of 54 complainant farmers. In the inspection, it was found that the flower bud of the sunflower plant started to grow early and also got dried. Also the plants did not grow at a similar height. Many plants developed more than one branch, whereas in case of sunflower only one flower grows on a single plant. Moreover, the size of the flower was also small.” On this complaint, a case under Section 7 (penalties) of the Essential Commodities Act and Sections 420 (cheating) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC was registered at Shahabad police station on Tuesday. Those booked in this case are officials of Nuziveedu Seeds Limited including its managing director M Prabhakar Rao, sales head K Venkat Rao, production head Ramana Reddo, quality head Raghuvendra Singh and breeder Satish Reddy. Some others booked are seed dealers Anil Trading Company, Shahabad; Mahesh Fertiliser Store, Babain; Sohanlal Agarwal, Mahi, Shahabad; Sanjeev Kumar and Company, Ismailabad; Shivam Trading Company, Shahabad; Guru Nanak Trading Company, Boripur Chowk, Shahabad, and Iqbal Trading Company, Kalsani village, Shahabad. Kurukshetra police officials said they had registered a case and investigation would be carried as per facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firm-officials-seed-dealers-booked-for-supplying-poor-quality-seeds/articleshow/76595533.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM reviews portal, apps to employ, train workers||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the technical education, skill development and labour departments to create an integrated system to assist youth, labourers and skilled workers in getting employment or get self-employed in the state. CM Yogi issued the orders on Wednesday after the technical education and skill development departments made a presentation of the Abha-Atmanirbhar Bharat mobile app and the labour department presented the Rozgar Junction portal and Sewa Mitra app before him. Additional chief secretary, technical education and skill development, S Radha Chauhan said the Abha-Atmanirbhar Bharat app has the facility for skill mapping and registration of workers for industrial training in 50 trades. Workers can choose to undergo training in any three trades. Besides, informational videos will also be available on the app. She said the app will also enable the workers get information about various schemes being run by the labour welfare department. The app will be improvised and modified as per requirements to make it more useful for the workers. Director, training and employment, Kunal Silku said the Rozgar Junction portal and Sewa Mitra app developed by labour department provide many services. There will also be provision for government departments, private institutions and individuals to get labourers according to daily requirement. “The labourers will be verified by police. Individuals will be able to locate labourers available nearby using GPS. It will be possible to get information about trained workers through Jansuvidha centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-reviews-portal-apps-to-employ-train-workers/articleshow/76597811.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||700 cases in 24 hours, Uttar Pradesh corona tally touches 19,700||LUCKNOW: As many as 700 new cases, including 212 in NCR districts of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, were reported in 24 hours. This is the second highest spike in a single day reported so far. In the first one, 817 cases were reported on June 19. With the new cases, the Covid-19 tally for the state zoomed to 19,764 on Wednesday. The state also recorded the death of 11 persons in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deceased to 599. While two deaths each were reported in Meerut and Jhansi, one each was recorded in Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Moradabad, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Bulandshahr and Gonda. Health officials said that the increasing numbers were the result of aggressive testing and surveillance. “The total number of tests conducted in the state so far reached 6.03 lakh, including 15,113 in the past 24 hours,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. While steps were being taken to achieve the target of 20,000 tests per day, the state decided to launch the rapid antigen test. Health staff in NCR districts were trained by experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday and the use of the kits will begin from Thursday. Prasad stated that in continuation with the targeted random sampling exercise in vulnerable pockets, health teams tracked and collected samples from workers at medical stores and health centres. The Covid bulletin revealed that the 470 persons were discharged from hospital, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,586. The number of active infections in the state as on date is 6,375. As per the official Covid-19 data sheet, 34% of cases were reported from districts in Meerut division, including Ghaziabad (114), Gautam Budh Nagar (98), Meerut (19), Hapur (5) and Bulandshahr (3). The other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow which recorded 73 cases, largest in a single day, Varanasi (30), Kanpur Nagar (27), Etawah (19), Chandauli (19) Azamgarh (18), Etah (18), Ghazipur (17), Deoria (16), Gorakhpur (11), Farrukhabad (11), Jaunpur (10), Amroha (10) and Jalaun (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/700-cases-in-24-hours-state-corona-tally-touches-19-7k/articleshow/76598197.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Day after clash over land dispute, man shot dead in Ambala||Ambala: A man was gunned down on Wednesday by three motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly over a land dispute, which had led to a clash on Tuesday in Fulelmajra village of Ambala district, the police said. Deceased Amarjit Singh, who was in his 40s and a resident of Fulelmajra, was shot dead near village Manglai village under the limits of Mahesh Nagar police station in Ambala Cantonment area. Incidentally, after the Tuesday’s clash, Amarjit’s son Rahul had accused some persons of his village, including sarpanch of Fulelmajra Vijay Kumar, of hiring men to attack his family. Based on the complaint of Amarjit’s other son Sahil Pal, a case has been registered against nine persons, including the sarpanch, on charges of murder and criminal conspiracy. In the police complaint, Sahil stated that the incident took place when he, his father and uncle were on a routine walk early on Wednesday morning. The assailants came on a motorcycle and fired at Amarjit, who was walking ahead of them, and sped off. While fleeing they said they had taken revenge for Tuesday’s clash. “We managed to identify the attackers including Sagar, who shot at my father, while Lucky was riding the motorcycle and Ravi also accompanied them. All of them are residents of Fulelmajra village,” he stated. Confirming the incident, Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said the two parties had clashed over a land dispute both on Monday and Tuesday, and separate cases were registered over the two incidents at Saha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-after-clash-over-land-dispute-man-shot-dead-in-ambala/articleshow/76595606.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Man uploads hate video on social media, arrested||Rajkot: A youth from Bharwad community was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly making a video in which he made inflammatory statements inciting hatred between Bharwad and Koli communities in Kalawad of Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, identified as Lalo Mewada (23), a resident of Makrani Sanosara village of Kalawad taluka, had allegedly uploaded the video on WhatsApp and Social media on June 18. “There has been an age old enmity between the members of Bharwad and Koli communities in Navagam village of Thangadh taluka in Surendranagar district. Mewada allegedly tried to incite hatred between the two communities through his video,” said Deepak Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-uploads-hate-video-on-social-media-arrested/articleshow/76586628.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Vellappally aide Mahesan found dead in unit office||ALAPPUZHA: SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan’s close aide and SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K K Mahesan was found dead in the union office here on Wednesday. The body of Mahesan, 54, Kottunkal House, Mararikulam north grama panchayat, was found in the union office at 10am. Mahesan was the state coordinator of the controversial microfinance scheme and general secretary of BDJS, the political party led by Vellappally Natesan’s son Thushar Vellappally. Crime branch questioned him many times in the fraud case and had recorded his statements earlier this month. “His relatives had begun a search after they found him missing since 7am on Wednesday. His car was found on Kanichukulangara union office premises. Police broke open the office doors and found him hanging from a ceiling fan,” police said. Cherthala DSP, the investigating officer, K Subash said that the death was a suicide and a case of unnatural death has been registered as per the CrPC section 174. A detailed investigation is on, he said. Police said that they found a suicide note from the office. In the note, he wrote that he was harassed over the microfinance cheating case of Mavelikkara union from the office bearers and crime branch, and this forced him to take the extreme step. Meanwhile, Mahesan had posted two letters on social media earlier. One was addressed to circle inspector, crime branch, Alappuzha and another to Natesan. As per the letter, with Mahesan’s signature on Kanichukulangara union office letter pad, crime branch tried to implicate him in the microfinance fraud case of Mavelikkara SNDP union. In the letter to Natesan, he levelled various allegations. He wrote that if he was targetted with government’s support, he would be left with no choice but to end life. He also mentioned that he could be a victim of goonda attack. Natesan said that the untimely death of Mahesan was very painful. “He served for long for the growth of SNDP Yogam and other related yogam organizations. His death is very shocking. A detailed investigation should be conducted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vellappally-aide-mahesan-found-dead-in-unit-office/articleshow/76586712.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Garbage piles up at Colva Covid care centre, patients forced to live with waste||PANAJI: Colva residency, which was converted into a Covid care centre a few days ago, has waste scattered all over the property since no arrangements have been made to clear it. Till Wednesday evening the waste was not removed. One of the patients said they were asked to put their waste in a basket and place it outside their rooms and that it would be lifted. “Since I came here a week ago no one has come to clear the waste. As told, today I gathered the waste in a plastic bag and left it outside my room, but it is still lying there,” he said. The patient said he was not aware of the issue, but wondered why the waste was not cleared. Normally in a village set-up, the collection and disposal of waste is the responsibility of the respective panchayat. Colva sarpanch Anthony Fernandes said the residency is the responsibility of the tourism department which has appointed a contractor for the job. “We collect waste only from houses in the village. Even in the past, before it was converted into a Covid care centre, we did not collect its waste from the Colva residency,” Fernandes told TOI. Secretary tourism J Ashok Kumar said the residency was requisitioned by the collector for use. “The non-clearance of garbage was brought to my notice and I have intimated the collector,” he said. South Goa collector Ajit Roy on June 17 had written to Margao Municipal Council that Colva residency was notified as a Covid care centre and had directed it to make necessary arrangements to pick up waste on a regular basis from the centre. But despite the collector’s orders the garbage has not been cleared. A source said there is reluctance on the part of civic bodies to pick-up the waste from the Covid care centre because it also involves collecting medical waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-piles-up-at-colva-covid-care-centre-patients-forced-to-live-with-waste/articleshow/76599919.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||NSUI leaders, medicos meet GU authorities||Ahmedabad: Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) and representatives of undergraduate medical students met Gujarat University authorities on Wednesday. While the NSUI members pressed for their demand that the varsity calls off the exams for medical, dental and paramedical courses, the undergraduate medical students are opposed to this idea. They want the exams to be held as scheduled. NSUI wants the varsity to defer the exams in line with GU’s deferral of exams for arts, commerce, science, and education colleges. Gujarat University’ decision to defer college-level exams that were scheduled to be held in two phases from July 2 and July 13, did not include medical, dental and paramedical courses. NSUI members are of the view that medical students are at equal risk as candidates of other faculties, hence their exams should also be deferred given the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The medical students want college-level exams to be completed on time so they can take the entrance exams for super-speciality courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nsui-leaders-medicos-meet-gu-authorities/articleshow/76591790.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Land identified near Jewar for electronic park||LUCKNOW: The state government has identified land near the upcoming Jewar airport for setting up of an electronics manufacturing park. Minister for industries Satish Mahana said the proposal would be sent to NCR Planning Board for necessary clearances. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked the department to scout for land near upcoming airport for electronics manufacturing park. We immediately asked the Greater Noida Authority to identify land which has found a suitable site along the Yamuna Expressway,” he said. The government is also on the verge of finalising the revised Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2020 through which investment will be encouraged. Under the policy, the government is expected to declare the entire Noida-Greater Noida-Yamuna Expressway, Lucknow-Kanpur-Unnao and Bundelkhand areas as electronics manufacturing zones. The government hopes to attract investments of Rs 40,000 crore in manufacturing and generate 4 lakh jobs by 2024. The state will provide subsidies and incentives over and above of what the Centre is currently offering. The new policy, a makeover of the one introduced in 2017, will give additional benefits to investors. As the government is proactively pursuing investors, especially those who are looking to shift their businesses out of China in the aftermath of Covid pandemic, it is revising several policies, including electronics manufacturing policy. NRI minister Sidharth Nath Singh said, “UP will be the future electronics hub of India. The government policy will encourage deep skilled manpower in electronics. Many major electronics manufacturers are in discussions with us to bring more investments in UP by enhancing existing capacities and fresh investment.” As per the proposed policy, the maximum limit of incentive on investment of up to Rs 200 crore has been fixed at Rs 10 crore. This is the capital subsidy on fixed capital other than land. Investments between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 crore will get maximum subsidy of Rs 150 crore. Among other proposals, domestic and foreign investors who set up units in the park in a minimum area of 50 acre will be entitled to 25% land rebate. There is a 100% exemption from tax duty for purchase or lease of land on the first transaction and 50% on the second. Reimbursement of electricity duty for 10 years to all units applying under the UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy will be made. An official said the financial implication of the proposed policy over the next 10 years was expected to be around Rs 4,035 crore. “This will include capital subsidy and refurbished machines, interest subsidy, stamp duty exemption, patent cost reimbursement, land rebate, and electricity duty rebate,” he added. Works that will be permitted under the new policy include manufacturing of telecom products, intermediate products, electronic precision parts, semiconductors and accessories, capital equipment for electronic products, biometric and identity devices, health and medical electronics equipment, consumer appliances, LED and LED products, battery and parts manufacturing, e-waste processing, avionics and industrial electronics, automotive electronics and multi-purpose electronic devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-identifies-land-near-jewar-for-electronic-manufacturing-park/articleshow/76598902.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Gym owner shot dead in Alwar||ALWAR: A gymnasium owner (34) was shot dead by four unidentified assailants in Kishangarh Bas area of Alwar district on Wednesday. The incident took place at 8am and the deceased has been identified as Jitesh alias Tillu Jat. According to police, the assailants came in a blue car in the morning. Two of them entered the gymnasium from the front door, while two others from the rear side, leaving no chance for Jitesh to escape. The killed Jitesh and drove away in the car. One more person was injured while they were firing indiscriminately inside the gym, police said. Police have formed a special team to investigate the matter. Kishangarh Bas deputy superintendent of police Tara Chand said that the body has been handed over to the family after autopsy. “Jitesh was a property dealer in Rewari and prima facie, it looks a case of personal rivalry,” he said. However, the police claimed that they have identified the assailants. “They will be arrested soon. Raids are underway at several places,” the police said. Jitesh was a resident of Haryana. The assailants had shot five times and four were aimed at Jitesh. One shot injured another person who is undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gym-owner-shot-dead-in-alwar/articleshow/76595587.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||65-yr-old succumbs to Covid-19, 26 of district test positive||TNNLudhiana: A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient from Jalandhar died at DMCH here on Wednesday noon. The district continued to witness a rise in cases as 26 Ludhianvis tested positive, besides eight others from outside, on the day. DMCH officials said the 65-year-old man, who belonged to Gur Mandi in Jalandhar, was admitted to the hospital on June 19. DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said the patient had hypertension, heart and lungs problems and was also diabetic. He said he died of cardiopulmonary arrest. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 632 samples sent on Tuesday, reports of 570 came out as negative and of 62 were pending. He said of the pending 50 samples, reports of 18 came as positive, of which 16 belong to Ludhiana district. Of the positive cases in the district, one is from Khanna, two from Jamalpur, one from Malerkotla Road in Raikot, three from Prem Nagar containment zone, one from Aman Vihar, two from Model Town, one from Jammu Colony, one each from Moti Nagar, Badewal and three from Salem Tabri.Health officials said apart from these cases, 16 positive case reports were received from DMCH, of which 10 belong to the district and six are from outside. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said so far 649 cases have been reported, while 169 were from outside. He said 18 people from Ludhiana and 14 from outside lost their lives, while 410 were discharged.On Wednesday, 250 were sent for home quarantine and 997 samples of suspected cases were sent for testing. Sharma appealed to the residents to follow the directions of the Punjab government and stay indoors if possible to protect not only themselves, but others also. Khanna caseKhanna SMO Dr Rajinder Gulati said a 40-year-old patient tested positive for Covid-19 and rest 43 whose samples were sent on June 20 were negative. He said the 40-year-old man, who had no contact history, was moved to isolation ward of the Khanna civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/65-yr-old-succumbs-to-covid-19-26-of-district-test-positive/articleshow/76586566.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Stir against coal mine privatisation||Hyderabad: Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS) will stage protests at all the mines of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in the state on June 26, in opposition to privatisation of coal mines. The workers will also observe 24-hour strike on July 2. In a statement, TBGKS honorary president and former MP K Kavitha found fault with the Centre's decision to privatise the coal mines which was against the interests of the public undertakings. She said that the effigies of the Union government will be burnt at all the Singareni mines on June 26 during the protests.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stir-against-coal-mine-privatisation/articleshow/76595581.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Father of minor girl who was molested found hanging from a tree||ALWAR: A 46-year-old man, father of a minor girl who was molested recently, was found hanging from a tree some 500 metres away from his house in Balot Nagar of Alwar district on Wednesday. His relatives have filed a police complaint alleging Anis, who was accused of molesting the girl, had killed the 46-year-old man and hanged him from the tree. The complaint stated the accused was forcing girl’s family to compromise. Son of the deceased, Pankaj Kumar said someone had shouted from outside his house asking his father to come out of the house. He said that his father went out of the house and did not return. He said his sister had tried to kill herself by jumping into a well on June 18. But the villagers prevented her from doing so. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/46-year-old-man-found-hanging-from-a-tree/articleshow/76595620.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||‘Don’t compel asymptomatic contacts to stay at Covid centre’||Madurai: The Madras high court has disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking the Virudhunagar administration not to compel asymptomatic family members and close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients to stay at the Covid care centre at Thoppur in Madurai district. A division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi disposed of the plea after Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan who appeared through video conferencing on Wednesday, submitted that due to increase in number of Covid-19 positive cases after lockdown restrictions were lifted, the contacts are being shifted to quarantine facilities. The court was hearing the petition filed by Farjana Ghoushia Dawood, a resident of Madurai. As per the guidelines of ICMR, when a person tests positive for Covid-19, his/her family members and their contacts should be subjected to testing. They should beshifted to the Covid care hospitals on if they are tested positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dont-compel-asymptomatic-contacts-to-stay-at-covid-centre/articleshow/76595809.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Rehire fired teachers or face more protests’||Jind/Kaithal: Dismissed physical training instructors (PTIs) held a protest march on Wednesday in Jind and burnt an effigy of Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar. The Sarv Karmachari Sangh members also went to the dharna site near the mini secretariat to extend their support and warned the state government of a statewide agitation. Ramphal Dalal, district president of Sarv Karmchari Sangh, said, “The Haryana government is deceiving PTIs and other employees in the name of Covid-19, but we would not go back. This the beginning of protest and, soon, other departments will come together on the streets against the state government. Today, we burnt education minister’s effigy, thereafter we will approach CM and PM to press our demands to reinstate sacked PTIs.” Wazir Singh Gangoli, vice-president of Physical Education Teachers Sangharsh Samiti, said, “Our agitation may turn violent if demands are not met. State government may reinstate 1,983 sacked teachers by any special power, else it should be ready for an agitation.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rehire-fired-teachers-or-face-more-protests/articleshow/76595661.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Real estate council to issue job letters to 1 lakh migrants||LUCKNOW: The UP chapter of National Real Estate Development Council, which had signed an MoU with the state government to provide employment to 2.5 lakh migrant workers, will be issuing letters of employment to 1 lakh workers on Friday. RK Arora, president, NAREDCO-UP and chairperson of Supertech, said the council will be submitting a report on employment generation to the government on Friday in a virtual programme, which is expected to be attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Migrant workers will be receiving letters of employment will also get a chance to interact with the CM. “After we signed the MoU, NAREDCO set up a call centre through which we have been calling workers based on the information given to us by the government. So far, 1 lakh have agreed to join various construction projects across the state,” Arora said. He added that the remaining 1.5 lakh workers will also be absorbed in real estate projects within the next three months. Initially, the UP Relief Commissioner’s office had handed over a list of about 2.8 lakh workers to NAREDCO, containing names, addresses, contact numbers and skill sets of various migrant workers who had returned to the state during the lockdown period. A second list of 9 lakh workers has now been handed over to the organisation. “We are ready with a database of about 2.5 workers and based on their location and requirement of our member builders, we will be ready to absorb them very soon. Our call centres are calling up the remaining workers in the list and offering them positions. Once they confirm their willingness to take up jobs, we will be ready to give them letters of employment as well. The real estate sector had come to a complete halt during the lockdown but now, as more projects start, there is an increasing demand for labour as many earlier workers have returned to their home states,” Arora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/real-estate-council-to-issue-job-letters-to-1l-migrants/articleshow/76597929.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur shelter girls found negative forHIV, Hepatitis-C in confirmatory test||Kanpur: The two minor girls of Swarupnagar Shelter Home in Kanpur, who had been found HIV and Hepatitis-C positive in a preliminary screening, tested negative for the two viruses in a confirmatory test at a city laboratory. Confirming the reports, district probationary officer Ajit Kumar said: "The two had undergone tests required for HIV and Hepatitis C and their report is negative." Although he didn't elaborate further, sources at LLR Hospital's maternity wing said that the two girls had been found positive for HIV and Hepatitis-C in a preliminary screening through kit when they were brought from the shelter home after being found infected with coronavirus. "Senior hospital authorities, thereafter, sent their samples to a local microbiology lab for Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) confirmation test, in which they were found negative for HIV and Hepatitis C," they said. On Sunday,shelter home superintendent Mithilesh Pal had told reporters that two minors, out of 57 inmates who had tested positive for Covid-19, had tested posative for HIV and Hepatitis-C respectively. Five out of 57 Covid-19 positive inmates, including these two girls, were also pregnant. They are all rape survivors, who had been brought to the shelter home under the Pocso Act. Meanwhile, the district probation officer lodged an FIR against unidentified people for allegedly circulating false information about the government shelter home where 57 inmates, including five pregnant minors, besides one staff, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. According to the FIR, false news about the shelter home was circulated on various platforms, including social media and news channels, and the identities of the inmates were revealed. The five pregnant girls are victims of sexual crimes. The case was registered at the Swarupnagar police station under relevant sections of the IPC, including 228-A (disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences etc), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). The police have also invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Investigating officer Amar Singh said that an investigation into the district Probation officer's complaint has been initiated. "We are collecting evidence to nail the person who circulated false information," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-shelter-girls-found-negative-forhiv-hepatitis-c-in-confirmatory-test/articleshow/76598268.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Self-reliant villagesneed of hour: Minister||LUCKNOW: Union minister for rural development and Panchayati Raj Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday pressed for making villages self reliant. This is the only way to make the state and the country self-reliant, he said. Addressing a virtual rally which was live streamed to over 25 lakh people in Poorvanchal region of UP, Tomar said that the Centre has been working to make villages self reliant by providing them roads, toilets, electricity, gas connections and houses in a well coordinated manner. Tomar was addressing the second rally in the series of three, after the one addressed by BJP chief JP Nadda on Sunday. The next rally would be addressed by Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday. The Union minister also attacked the previous SP and BSP regimes accusing them of inflicting grave injuries to the state economy. “But the BJP government has brought back the reputation which UP had in the past,” he said. He said that the state attained the number one slot by constructing maximum number of houses under PM Awas Yojana. The state government, he said, also worked significantly in providing toilets, gas connections and electricity to villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/self-reliant-villagesneed-of-hour-minister/articleshow/76598017.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Commuters ride over distancing norms||Ludhiana: Even as the government has restricted the number of persons travelling by two-wheelers and four-wheelers in the city, these rules have found few takers in the city.As per the government norms announced in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, there cannot be more than one pillion rider on a motorbike and not more than two passengers in a car, but people can be seen flouting the rules day in and day out.While bikes plying with two pillion riders remain a common sight in the city, in some areas, including Gill Road, Arora Palace Chowk and Vishwakarma Chowk, even four persons can be moving around on two-wheelers, making a mockery of law. Similarly, three to four passengers travelling in auto-rickshaws is also not a rare sight here.The case with four-wheelers is also no different. Many private vehicles with more than three persons seated inside can be easily spotted in areas like Bharat Nagar Chowk, Bhai Baala Chowk, Pakhowal Road, Ghumar Mandi, Sarabha Nagar, Mall Road, Model Town, Jawahar Camp, Bus Stand Road, etc.Upset over flagrant violation of rules, social activist Narinder Singh said, “It is unfortunate that people don’t understand the purpose of such norms and the severity of problem. It is very necessary to maintain distance even while travelling in private vehicles.” He demanded that the authorities strictly implement the norms to ensure an effective fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana police has sought suggestions from people on the matter. In a message posted on its Facebook page, the police said it is launching a campaign “Operation Safe Punjab” against people not wearing masks, not maintaining physical distance in shops/ markets/ residential areas/ buses etc, violation of the number of persons allowed for social gatherings, restaurants and marriage places etc, and against more than allowed number of passengers riding two-wheelers, autos and four-wheelers.DCP (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said they are creating awareness and educating people about social distancing and norms related to passengers allowed in vehicles. He said they are also enforcing such norms on the ground and issuing challans to violators.Police officials said they have asked people to inform them about the spots where such violations take place most. The data thus collected from people would be used to increase police presence in those areas, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/commuters-ride-over-distancing-norms/articleshow/76586758.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry plans courses for hospital jobs||Chandigarh: Haryana health and medical education and research minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said the possibility of starting courses relevant to technical posts in hospitals and medical colleges would be explored soon. Vij instructed additional chief secretaries of health and medical education and research departments to take appropriate action. He said the department of skill development had prepared a list of technical courses with minimum educational qualifications, which could be started in hospitals and medical colleges. For such courses, the skill development department has also promised to give free certificates to successful candidates. In view of demand, officials have been asked to brainstorm on the number of seats, possibilities of starting courses and making a proposal in this regard soon. More than 30 courses have been selected by the department of skill development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-plans-courses-for-hospital-jobs/articleshow/76595739.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||15 vehicles gutted in fire||Pune: As many as 15 vehicles were gutted in a fire at two garages near Welcome Hall at Kausarbaugh in Kondhwa around 11.30pm on Wednesday. The fire brigade rushed to the spot after receiving information from public. “We pressed four fire tenders and three water tankers into service and gained control over the flames in around 40 minutes. The work of spraying water for cooling other vehicles parked inside the garages is in progress,” said fire officer Sameer Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-vehicles-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/76595696.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||HC directs petitioner to undergo polygraph test||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court on Tuesday dismissed a petition while directing the petitioner to give a voice sample and polygraph test on dates and at place determined by the investigating officer or probe agency. The petitioner, who was arrested in a corruption case, had challenged the order of the court of special judge (forest), Shimla, on the plea that the investigating agency’s proposal to take his specimen voice sample and conduct polygraph test was against the protection granted to him under Article 20(3) of Constitution. A case FIR was registered against Vinod Mittal under Section 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 in Police Station State Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau, Shimla, and on November 5, 2018, the court of special judge (forest), Shimla, had directed him to undergo polygraph test and to give his voice sample to the probe agency during case investigation. On behalf of the state government, additional advocate general Desh Raj Thakur had submitted that no fundamental right is absolute and individual right can be diluted for compelling public interest. He also submitted that by showing conditional readiness in order to establish his bona fide, consent in reply to application had been cleverly drafted so as to avoid adverse inference which could have been drawn during trial against the petitioner under Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act for refusal. Justice Vivek Singh Thakur said that in the present case, the petitioner has specifically pleaded in reply to application, filed by prosecution before the special judge, that in case a polygraph test and voice sample are legally permissible, he is ready to undergo the same to show his bona fide. Therefore, there is expressed consent of petitioner on record, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-directs-petitioner-to-undergo-polygraph-test/articleshow/76553904.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||IIT-Ropar ranks 62nd in THE Young University Rankings||Ropar: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has been ranked 62nd in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2020, announced in the UK on Wednesday. In the rankings, THE shortlisted 70 best young institutes globally. IIT Ropar director Prof Sarit K Das said the institute was just 12 years old, but the rankings showed it had become known worldwide for its competitiveness. “This ranking is important because IIT Ropar has particularly identified its formal vision statement as: ‘To be a trendsetter among the technology universities born in this millennium.’ This is largely due to our hard working faculty, students and staff. Consistent performance in various rankings are a testament to the institute’s continued success at fostering a collaborative and supportive research culture,” he said. Prof Das added the rankings reflected IIT Ropar’s growing international reputation and the significance of government’s policy to support the institute in its mission to contribute to the nation’s development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iit-ropar-ranks-62nd-in-the-young-university-rankings/articleshow/76595676.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Health department issues notice to NIMS for conducting Covid-19 clinical trials||JAIPUR: The state health department has issued a notice and sought reply from NIMS Hospital for conducting clinical trials on Covid-19 patients without informing the state government and the Centre. Based on these clinical trials, Patanjali Ayurveda Ltd has claimed to have produced the "first and foremost ayurvedic remedy", ‘Coronil’, for mitigating corona virus-induced mild and moderate clinical signs and symptoms. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that no one has applied for permission for this drug and no permission had been granted by the state government for the same. NIMS officials have refuted the charges and claimed that they had all the required permissions to conduct the clinical trials. The minister said as per a notification issued by the Centre on April 21, under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, no Ayurvedic medicine can be sold as a medicine for Covid without the permission of AYUSH ministry. “Appropriate action will be taken against the seller of ayurvedic medicines as Covid drugs,” said Sharma. Reacting to Ramdev’s ayurvedic medicine, he said that it can be used as an immunity booster. The claim that the medicine can treat Covid patients cannot be accepted until the AYUSH ministry gives it permission. He said that human clinical trials cannot be conducted in the state without the permission of the state government. He said action would be taken against such people who try to mislead the public. “We will initiate an investigation, if required, if they have violated norms. We will take legal action against them as per law, if they have violated norms,” said Dr K K Sharma, director (health), health department. The health department said that more than 400 Covid patients had been admitted to NIMS Hospital for treatment. “We have taken cognisance of media reports published about the clinical trials of ayurveda medicine for Covid patients. We are not aware about the clinical trials. We came to know about it only through media reports. Taking it on a serious note, we have issued notice to the NIMS Hospital. Without informing the state government and the Centre, clinical trials have been conducted,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur (I). The health department has given hospital authorities three days to reply. The department will also investigate if consent was taken from patients for being part of clinical trials. A joint press release was issued by Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, and the National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) University, Jaipur, on Tuesday to launch the drug claiming that ‘Coronil’ is the "first and foremost ayurvedic remedy for mitigating coronavirus-induced mild and moderate clinical signs and symptoms". “This herbal remedy is basically a combination of 'divya swasari vati', 'giloy ghan vati', and 'ashwagandha' extract along with 'divya anu taila'. The aforementioned treatment modalities have shown significant results within a time span of 3-7 days as far as minimising the virus load is concerned,” they claimed in the press release. The release also claimed that a clinical trial was successfully conducted on 95 patients, divided into placebo and treatment groups. Patients were checked for Covid viral load, Interleukin 6 (IL-6), and HS-CRP levels on the first, third, and seventh day. In the placebo group, a recovery of the viral load was detected at 52% on day 3, and 65% on day 7. In the treatment group, the viral load recovery was 69% on day 3 and 100% on day 7. A similar substantial recovery was also determined for the clinical parameters such as IL-6 and HSCRP levels. For these parameters, the recovery in the treatment group was higher and statistically significant as compared to the placebo group, the release claimed. When contacted, NIMS officials claimed that they had all the permissions required for the clinical trial -- randomised placebo-controlled trials (RCT) related to the ayurvedic medicine -- in Jaipur. “All the prerequisites were fulfilled including the ethical approval of Clinical Trial Registry India (CTRI) (Reg. No.—CTRI/ 2020/ 05/025273),” they claimed in the release. Meanwhile, a social activist, Dr Sanjeev Gupta, has also filed a complaint at Gandhi Nagar police station. “At a time when Covid has been declared as an epidemic, conducting clinical trials on Covid patients without permission from ICMR, the Centre, drug controller of India, ministry of health is a legal offence,” said Dr Gupta in his police complaint. Watch Jaipur: Notice issued to NIMS for conducting Covid-19 clinical trials without informing state government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-dept-notice-to-nims-for-conducting-covid-clinical-trials/articleshow/76595726.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Man accused of wife’s murder hangs self in Balrampur prison||LUCKNOW: A 30-year-old undertrial lodged in Balrampur jail allegedly hanged himself in a washroom on the prison's premises on Wednesday morning. Police have sent the body for the post-mortem examination. An inmate, identified as Loha, spotted Jai Lal Pal hanging from ceiling of washroom with a ‘gamcha’ around his neck. Pal, an undertrial, was arrested for the murder of his wife Sheetal under Tulsipur police station of the district. He was sent to jail on April 19. The deceased was accused of strangling his wife in the first week of April. To conceal the crime he had dumped her body at a secluded spot from where it was recovered by the police. Later, on the basis of postmortem examination report and other evidences it was established that Pal was involved in her murder. Jailor of the Balrampur jail Vijay Kumar Rai told TOI that preliminary inquiry revealed that Pal was under depression and lodged in a barrack along with around 20 inmates following Covid-19 norms. The police said that ligature marks on the victim's neck suggested that it was a case of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-accused-of-wifes-murder-hangs-self-in-balrampur-prison/articleshow/76598089.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||7 murders involving kin shook city post-lockdown||Ludhiana: Post-lockdown, Ludhiana saw seven murders involving blood relations. Illicit or strained relations were the triggers in most of these.On June 20, Jodhewal police had received a complaint that a man, Mohammad Mehfooz, with the help of his friend, Mohammad Rafeeq, strangled his wife, Naju Khatoon, and buried her body in a graveyard. The June 14 incident came to light after the father of the woman approached the cops. On June 23, the body was exhumed for autopsy. Police said Mehfooz suspected his wife of having an illicit relation. On June 10, Jatinder Singh, 45, along with his mother, Charanjit Kaur, 67, killed his father, Sham Singh Anand, 75, at their house in BRS Nagar. The septuagenarian was stabbed multiple times. Jatinder and Charanjit had strained relations with Sham Singh.May 24 saw another such murder, when a woman, along with her son and teenage daughter, strangled her 40-year-old husband, a building contractor, with a television wire in their hose in Daresi. The woman had told the cops, “My husband wanted to develop physical relations with his daughter. He had earlier raped his step-daughter and my sister. When we objected to his misdemeanours, he thrashed us.”Rajinder Manocha of Chandarlok Colony and three contract killers were arrested on May 20 for injuring the former’s brother Joginderpal Manocha and killing his nephew, Girish Manocha, over a monetary dispute. On May 13, the contract killers had opened fire at the father-son duo outside their house.Mohammad Rivani of Alamgir village was arrested on May 16 for killing his wife Shakeela Bibi. The woman would object to his illicit relations. Rivani hit her with a blunt weapon, strangulated her and threw her body into a well on May 11. The police had arrested Sukhbir Singh, 25, for killing his wife, Kamaljit Kaur, in Gahi Bhaini village of Koomkalan on March 29. The man suspected his wife of infidelity. Vijay Prakash of Palm Vihar was nabbed for killing his wife, Tara Devi, on March 16. He had thrashed his wife to death in an inebriated condition as he suspected her of having illicit relations.A city-based psychiatrist, Dr Anshu Gupta, said, “Marital dispute and family conflict cases are increasing. Post-lockdown, such cases have gone up by 20%. People can’t tolerate their partners having friends on social medial and spending time on them. This is leading to illicit relation suspicion. Liquor consumption adds to this. This is called Othello Syndrome in which those who consume excessive liquor tend to suspect their partners of infidelity. And the lockdown stress is making matters worse.” He has a few suggestions to strengthen family ties.“One should spend quality time with family. S(he) can engage each family member, especially children, into activities. Also, one should stop being judgmental,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-murders-involving-kin-shook-city-post-lockdown/articleshow/76586848.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre plans to end MSP, ruin Punjab’s farm economy: Jakhar||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday alleged that by bringing in the three farm ordinances, BJP at the Centre has planned to put an end to the minimum support price (MSP) regime. At a meeting with party MLAs, Jakhar said with the move, the arthiyas (commission agents) will be dumped and rural markers will be shut. “The BJP’s long strategy to destroy Punjab’s farm sector was hidden behind the amendments in the marketing laws,” he said, adding that Congress leaders will take the campaign to oppose the ordinances to the villages of the state. “The farmers will now be at the mercy of the big corporate and the mandi system will be abolished. It will deprive Punjab of the marketing fee that will, in turn, affect development of rural infrastructure in the state. The network of village roads had been created through market fee and rural development fund,” he added. Jakhar claimed that the Modi government had brought the ordinances as per the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee and the aim was to eventually close down the Food Corporation of India (FCI). On the same lines, he said, the Centre planned to procure food grains from states only as per the quantity required for the public distribution system. “If this happens then out of 127 lakh tonnes of wheat produce in Punjab, only 8 lakh tonnes would be procured by the government,” he claimed. He said party leaders will go around their constituencies to make people at the grassroots aware of the implications of the farm ordinances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-plans-to-end-msp-ruin-punjabs-farm-economy-jakhar/articleshow/76553931.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor theft: Elusive inspector surrenders before SIT||Chandigarh: The sacked police inspector — who had been on the run for 49 days after being named as prime accused in the liquor theft scam of Sonipat — has finally surrendered before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in Rohtak. Jasbir Singh, the former SHO of Kharkhoda police station, surrendered before the SIT late on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, he was produced in the court, which sent him to five-day police remand. Jasbir is alleged to have masterminded the liquor theft from the godown, along with main accused Bhupender Singh. He allegedly also indulged in several notorious activities during his tenure as the SHO of Kharkhoa police station. “Besides recovery of the missing stock, we also have to recover the money he allegedly made through sale of smuggled or stolen liquor. Besides, we need to ascertain the role of other persons involved in the scam as well,’’ Sonipat SSP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said. The incident dates back to May 5 when the Sonipat police had registered three cases over the missing stocks of liquor worth lakhs of rupees from the godown in Kharkhoda town. In course of investigation, the SIT had also recovered labels of various IMFL brands and packing material from the godown, suggesting that the place had been used for packing of spurious liquor too. Jasbir is the fifth person to be arrested by SIT in connection with the scam. His arrest came a day after the SIT started the process to attach his properties after declaring him and three others as proclaimed offenders. Besides Jasbir and main accused Bhupender Singh, the other accused arrested so far are excise inspector Dhirender Singh, ASI Jaipal Singh and an associate of Bhupender Singh. Meanwhile, the Special Enquiry Team (SET) headed by bureaucrat T C Gupta is also probing the case from the administrative side. According to information, a total of 9,000 cases of liquor were found to be missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-theft-elusive-inspector-surrenders-before-sit/articleshow/76595798.cms||Manvir Saini
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Game-changer: Kushinagar airport takes a global leap||LUCKNOW: Hours after the Union cabinet green-flagged construction of an international airport in Kushinagar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, the move would not only fast-track development of eastern UP, but also bring the Buddhist circuit on the global tourist map. After Jewar in Noida, Kushinagar will be the second site for an international airport in the state. “Great news for Uttar Pradesh, tourism and those inspired by noble thoughts of Lord Buddha. Kushinagar airport will now be an international airport. Connectivity will improve significantly. More tourists and pilgrims will mean better opportunities for the local population,” Modi tweeted. The project, which was pending for over a decade, has a 3.2km airstrip ready. During Mayawati’s stint as chief minister, the airport was associated with the ambitious Maitreya project that envisaged a mammoth statue of Buddha. While the Maitreya project was shelved, citing financial unviability, Kushinagar airport too was put on the backburner. After BJP stormed to power in 2017, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Airport Authority of India (AAI) on March 5, 2019, for development of the airport. Earlier, the state government acquired 590acre and released Rs 190crore for the project. This included construction of 3.2km long and 45m wide runway and an Air Traffic Controller (ATC) tower. Under the arrangement, the state government agreed to hand over possession of land and other properties to AAI. The process began on October 4, 2019. Yogi said, an international airport in Kushinagar, where Lord Buddha attained ‘Nirvana’, would be a game-changer for east UP, besides enhancing easy access to Buddhist circuit of Sarnath, Shrawasti, Kapilvastu, Kaushambi, Sankisa and Lumbini, birth place of Buddha. The chief minister said, the state government was working to develop Buddhist circuit to help tourists reach cities associated with Buddha’s life. Civil aviation department officials said, the project, which is expected to be executed with the help of Airport Authority of India (AAI), would allow followers of Buddhism from Thailand, Japan, Vietnam, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Taiwan to easily touchdown in cities on the Buddha trail. Yogi said, the step would not lend a fillip to the tourism industry, but also create employment opportunities. Last year, the state government managed to push through the green-field airport at Jewar in Greater Noida. It was not only seen as an alternative to Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, but also an air connectivity booster in west UP. The Jewar airport, which is being developed by Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) too had been languishing for two decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kushinagar-airport-takes-global-leap-puts-buddhist-circuit-on-world-map/articleshow/76598359.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Man slits wife’s throat, kills himself||tnnLudhiana: Following a verbal spat, a man killed his wife by slitting her throat and then ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance at their house in Gurdev Nagar early on Wednesday.Mukesh Kumar, 38, was the caretaker of the house, where he lived along with his wife, Jyoti, 28, and three children. This was Mukesh’s second marriage. He is survived by a 17-year-old son from his first marriage, a 6-year-old son and a seven-month-old daughter from second marriage. Assistant commissioner of police (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh said, “Mukesh’s teenager son told that his father was a hard drinker. He would often fight with Jyoti after getting sloshed. Jyoti wanted him to quit drinking and this led to frequent fights between the couple. On Tuesday around 8pm, the teenager returned home from factory, where he worked as a labourer. After dinner, he went to asleep. The family used to sleep in the porch that had a pedestal fan.” While the children were sleeping, the couple again had a fight. “When Jyoti tried to persuade him to quit drinking, an angry Mukesh picked up a sickle and slit her throat around 2pm. The kids did not hear anything as the noise of the pedestal fan drowned their arguments and shrieks. However, when Mukesh was trying to escape with his daughter, a woman intercepted him,” he added.The woman — Guddi — lived in the same house with her family. She too was a caretaker of the house.“A suspicious Guddi asked him where he was going at this hour. Mukesh did not say anything and went back to his house. Thereafter, Guddi saw Jyoti lying in a pool of blood. She raised the alarm and sounded the police,” the ACP said. When police reached the spot, they found Mukesh unconscious. He had consumed a poisonous substance. He was rushed to Ludhiana civil hospital, from where he was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He breathed his last a few hours later. Division 5 police station SHO sub-inspector Richa Rani said, “A case was registered against Mukesh early on Wednesday. However, he died in the morning. The murder weapon has been recovered from the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-slits-wifes-throat-kills-himself/articleshow/76586915.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Hotel staff forges ID of rape survivor, booked||RAJKOT: The receptionist of a hotel was booked on Tuesday night for allegedly forging documents to conceal the identity of a rape survivor in order to help the accused in the crime in Jamnagar. Police said Manish Vasara used to allegedly forge the ID of the rape survivor by registering the ID proofs of other women. The rape accused, Wasim Makrani (24), who was arrested last month for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl four times had sought the help of Vasara. “Whenever Makrani took the survivor to the hotel on Bus Stand Road in Jamnagar, Vasara would register other woman’s names and photographs instead of the survivor in the hotel’s register. However, Makrani would submit his original ID proof. When we interrogated Makrani, he said that as Vasara was his friend he would commit the forgery after taking money from him,” said V K Ratia, sub-inspector with Jamnagar A division police station.According to the details recorded in the hotel’s register, Makrani had taken the rape survivor four times and had allegedly raped her. “We have booked Vasara for the crime and launched a manhunt for him,” added Ratia. Makrani used to work as a trainer at a gym on Digvijay Plot on Bus Stand Road in Jamngar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hotel-staff-forges-id-of-rape-survivor-booked/articleshow/76586902.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||HC seeks Haryana reply on plea for prosthetic limbs to boy||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Haryana government on a plea seeking directions to start the process to provide upgraded artificial limbs to a minor boy who lost both his arms and left leg after coming in contact with a live 11KV transmission line. The incident happened November 3, 2011, when Raman was playing on the terrace at Sanoli Khurd village in Panipat district. Raman was only five years old when he got entangled in the wire hanging low on the terrace and landed in a condition worse than 100% permanent disability. In his fresh application filed by Raman through amicus curiae Anil Malhotra, a plea has been made to direct the civil surgeon, Haryana, to frame specifications of artificial limbs of the applicant-petitioner and forward the indent/demand of prosthesis to the Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) in consultation with Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) for the period from 2021. During the hearing of case on Tuesday before Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill, Malhotra informed that the process of fresh tendering after formulation of specification of artificial limbs/prosthesis of the petitioner has to be started in 2020 so that the artificial limbs can be provided in 2021. For this process, necessary directions are required by HC. Hearing this, HC asked the state authorities to respond on the issue by July 6. The civil surgeon Panipat has to forward the indent demand of prosthesis to the managing director, HMSCL, for procurement and commissioning of artificial limbs/prosthesis as it (HMSCL) is the nodal agency in Haryana for procurement of artificial limbs. To expedite the entire process, the petitioner had to approach the HC for directions to the concerned authorities. The budget for the limbs is to be provided by UHBVNL to HMSCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-seeks-haryana-reply-on-plea-for-prosthetic-limbs-to-boy/articleshow/76553917.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Merchants want sale of fish banned in M’luru for a fortnight||Mangaluru: Panic has gripped those engaged in the sale of fish at Old Port in Mangaluru following reports of a Covid-19 case being reported at the port. Members of the Fish Commission Agents’ Association have demanded a ban on the sale of fish at Old Port for a fortnight. Secretary of the association K Ashraf said that they had appealed to Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner to impose a complete ban on the sale of fish. Pointing out that fishing activity had been banned in the region owing to the climactic conditions, Ashraf told TOI, “The fish being sold at the Old Port are those coming to Mangaluru from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and even Gujarat. The fish arrive by trucks, and we have been asking the DC to ban movement of vehicles from other states to Mangaluru. The fish must be sold once they are brought here.” Stating that sale of fish was going on at other places such as Ullal, Kudroli and BC Road, Ashraf called on the district administration to impose a blanket ban on the sale of fish in order to arrest the spread of the pandemic. Deputy director of the fisheries department P Parshwanath admitted to social distancing and other safety norms being tossed out of the window at the wholesale market at Old Port. “Since there is a ban on fishing, those who use traditional vessels and means, venture into the sea only if it is calm. Although Section 144 of the CrPC is imposed at Old Port, people forget all about social distancing when the fish arrives,” Parshwanath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/merchants-want-sale-of-fish-banned-in-mluru-for-a-fortnight/articleshow/76586953.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||ESIC collects Rs 565.60cr from Punjab, spends Rs 518.70 crore in FY 2019-20||Chandigarh: Punjab has contributed Rs 565.60 crore to the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) during the year 2019-20 out of which the ESIC had spent Rs 518.70 crore, as per ESIC’s unaudited accounts. The ESIC has said that out of the total yearly contributions, it has to keep reserve funds provision for a long period for making monthly payments to beneficiaries of dependent benefits or permanent disablement benefits. There are six ESI hospitals across Punjab in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Mandi Gobindgarh and Mohali. Also, there are 69 such dispensaries being run by Punjab government’s health and family welfare department. In addition, the ESIC directly runs a model hospital in Ludhiana and two dispensaries-cum-branch offices in Rajpura and Barnala. As per ESIC office in Chandigarh, ESIC has tie-up arrangement with 36 private hospitals for providing super speciality treatment on cashless basis. During the financial year 2019-20, Rs 36.54 crore was spent on providing cashless super speciality treatment to 12,618 patients in these 36 private hospitals in Punjab. The ESIC has neither stopped nor deferred medical services at any of these medical facilities during the Covid-19 times. The ESIC hospitals in Ludhiana and Jalandhar are also attending to the general population to provide medical facilities to them during Covid-19 times. The ESIC spokesperson said ESI beneficiaries can get themselves admitted to any hospital during emergency without any approval. “However, in case of admission in an ESI hospital or a tie-up hospital, they are given cashless treatment and in case of non-tie up hospital, the expenditure is reimbursed at prescribed central government health scheme rates,” he said. The spokesperson further stated, “ESI has a well defined SOP to deal with the direct emergency admissions in tie-up hospitals and the cashless approvals in such cases are granted online through UTI-Infrastructure Technology Services Limited (bill processing agency). The process does not involve any physical movement of documents or patient.” The ESIC has communitated the issue regarding underutilisation of indoor patient department services at some ESIC hospitals to the Punjab government’s director health for examination and appropriate action. Out of the total yearly collections, ESIC also spends on repair and maintenance of infrastructure, administrative costs and a reserve is also maintained for cash benefit liabilities and future expansion. “The scheme is now 100% funded by ESIC and state contributions have also been waived off. Despite all the expenditures mentioned above, ESIC was able to decrease the contribution rate from 6.5% to 4% with effect from July 1, 2019,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/esic-collects-rs-565-60cr-from-punjab-spends-rs-518-70-crore-in-fy-2019-20/articleshow/76595840.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Drug claims: Plaints to Pb DGP, MHA||Jalandhar: Two separate complaints have been sent to the Union home ministry and Punjab DGP to seek registration of a criminal case against Yoga guru Ramdev and his associates, who had claimed cure for Covid-19 even when the so-called medicine developed by them had not been cleared by health authorities. Both complaints have said the claim violated provisions of the Pandemic Act and Drugs and Magic Remedies Act. In a complaint sent to the Punjab DGP, advocates Hakam Singh, Simranjit Kaur Gill and RTI activists Parvinder Singh Kittna and Kuldeep Singh Khaira have pointed out that Ramdev made the claims of inventing medicine to cure Covid-19 without involving the Ayush ministry as well as Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and without disclosing two-stage clinical trials to both the authorities. “Claim of Baba Ramdev was telecast live on social media… It is a clear-cut violation of guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and attracts offences under Sections 420, 270, 276 and 188 of IPC, Pandemic Act, Section 7 of Drugs & Magic Remedies (objectionable advertisement) Act, 1954 and section 66(D) of Information Technology Act, 2000,” their complaint said. In the complaint sent to Union home minister with copies to the Union ministry of health and family welfare and secretary AYUSH, Jalandhar-based activist Simranjit Singh alleged that the claims were in violation of Union home ministry guidelines issued on March 24 and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under disaster management which directed all the state governments and UTs to take effective measures including making fake claims as punishable offenses. He said Patanjali Yogpeeth central chief coordinator Dr Jaideep Arya should also be booked for his tweet on the issue claiming 100% recovery in seven days should be registered under the Disaster Management Act and Drugs and Magic Remedies Act. He pointed out that if two Maharashtra-based companies could be booked for similar claims, then Baba Ramdev should also be taken to task. Simranjit Singh has also sent copies of the complaint to the Punjab CM, chief secretary, Punjab DGP, Jalandhar police commissioner and civil surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-claims-plaints-to-pb-dgp-mha/articleshow/76595872.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for early completion of Darbhanga airport work||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked the officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) to complete the ongoing construction works of the civil enclave at Darbhanga airport at the earliest, keeping in mind its ‘huge importance’ for the people of north Bihar. Nitish, who inspected the ongoing construction works, also spoke to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and AAI chairman Arvind Singh over the phone and urged them to remove the hurdles coming in the way of completing the project. “Certain issues related to the construction works were solved immediately after the CM spoke to Puri,” a state government official accompanying Nitish told TOI over phone. A civil enclave is being constructed at the Darbhanga airport, which is originally an airbase of Indian Air Force (IAF). “The civil airport at Darbhanga is a very important project. Beginning of flights from this airport will make it convenient for the people of entire north Bihar and increase economic activities in the entire Mithila region. It will also provide new avenues for business and trade,” Nitish said. The CM asked Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM to regularly monitor the works and ensure the project’s completion at the earliest. A DGM-ranked officer of the AAI, who was present there, informed the CM that 55% of the civil airstrip works had already been completed. Nitish also asked the AAI officials to widen the taxi track and expedite the construction work of terminal building. CM also suggested for constructing a separate link road connecting the terminal building to the NH-527B. He also suggested for creating the entry and exit to the terminal building from gate number 1, so that the main entrance to the civil airport and the air force base remains separate. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, chief secretary Deepak Kumar and several other senior officials accompanied the CM, who made a stopover there on way to Jayanagar via road. Earlier on May 11, the civil aviation ministry had requested the Indian Air Force (IAF) to allow resumption of construction work for the Darbhanga civil airport. “A request has been made to the IAF to allow the work to restart. Once we begin, all works should be over by October 2020,” the civil aviation minister had tweeted. “Work on Darbhanga airport was (going on) in full swing till it had to be temporarily halted due to the lockdown necessitated by our fight against COVID-19,” Puri had tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-for-early-completion-of-darbhanga-airport-work/articleshow/76591656.cms||Madan Kumar
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Health teams, govt hospitals to be equipped with oximeters, thermal guns||Vadodara: All the government hospitals and health teams in Vadodara district that are involved in house-to-house surveys for Covid-19 will be equipped with pulse oximeters and thermal guns. With the support of Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL)’ Gujarat Refinery, 500 pulse oximeters and 100 thermal guns are being provided to hospitals and health teams for primary screening and treatment of patients across the district. “The devices will be provided to 42 primary health centres in the district and all urban health centres of four Nagarpalikas of the district. Also, teams of National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force which are involved in rescue and relief operations during monsoon will be equipped with the devices,” said Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. “The devices will help the teams identify patients who require immediate attention. Also, they will be able to decide whether individuals require hospitalisation or can be provided treatment at their home,” she said. The medical devices were handed over to the health officials in presence of Sudhir Kumar, Gujarat Refinery’s executive director and refinery head. “Currently, there are 600 teams which are involved in door-to-door survey in rural areas. Against this, there are nearly 200 pulse oximeters that are used to measure the oxygen level (oxygen saturation) of the blood,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara. “With more oximeters and thermal guns, the teams will be able to carry out medical check-ups speedily. Early diagnosis will help in providing early treatment to patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/health-teams-govt-hospitals-to-be-equipped-with-oximeters-thermal-guns/articleshow/76587037.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Hardware stolen from aircraft carrier found||Kochi: National Investigation Agency (NIA) recovered the microprocessor, which was part of peripherals stolen from the under-construction indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) here. In the remand report filed before the court, NIA submitted that the microprocessor was recovered from a person in Muvattupuzha who had purchased it from an online platform. The NIA court in Kochi on Wednesday remanded Sumit Kumar Singh and Daya Ram in judicial custody till July 9. They were arrested from Bihar on charges of theft of computer peripherals from IAC, which came to light in September last year. Indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) is under construction at Cochin Shipyard. With the recovery of the microprocessor, all stolen components have been recovered. The missing equipment also included six RAMs of three computers and three hard disks worth Rs 2.10 lakh. The duo were produced in court on Wednesday after nine days in NIA custody. The accused were taken to Cochin Shipyard and a house in Alappat Cross Road for evidence collection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hardware-stolen-from-aircraft-carrier-found/articleshow/76587048.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Hisar: Four drag woman from home at 3am, rape her||HISAR: Four men barged into a house at a village in Hisar around 3am on Wednesday, abducted a 23-year-old woman who lived there and gang-raped her at the nearby house of one of the accused. When the woman’s mother, sister and father came to the rescue, the four men assaulted them. These allegations were made in a police complaint filed with Hisar police later in the day. Police have registered a case and arrested the main accused, while the other three are on the run. In her complaint, the rape survivor alleged that the accused entered her family house and forcibly took her to the house of one of them who lived nearby. The woman claimed that she knew two of the assailants, Naveen and Vishnu, as they lived in the same village. She alleged that her mother and sister, on not finding her in the house, reached Vishnu’s house, but the men attacked her mother with a brick and slapped her sister. After this, when her father came there, the men attacked him with sticks. They then fled from the spot. All this while, the woman alleged, she was being raped inside the house by Vishnu. Later, the family took the woman to the police, she alleged. The case has been registered under sections 376 (2) N (continuous rape), 376-D (gang rape), 354-D (stalking), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Vishnu is the arrested accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-abducted-from-home-at-3am-gang-raped-parents-assaulted-when-they-come-to-her-rescue/articleshow/76595880.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Key accused in recruiting of radical Sikh youths for illegal activities in NIA custody||Mohali: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday produced a key member of a gang allegedly involved in recruiting radical Sikh youths before special NIA judge Karunesh Kumar. The court remanded the accused to NIA custody until June 29. Pargat Singh (23), a resident of Tarmala in Punjab’s Sri Muktsar Sahib district, was arrested on Monday. He allegedly used to recruit Sikh radicals for Sikhs For Justice, which has been declared an unlawful association under the provisions of UA(P) Act, on directions from foreign handlers. A case was registered at Sultanwind Police Station, Amritsar (City), on October 19, 2018 under sections 124-A (sedition), 153-A (indulge in wanton vilification or attacks), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 120-B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. During investigation, various others sections of UA(P) Act and Arms Act were also added. Punjab Police filed a charge sheet against 11 arrested accused in March 2019. The case was subsequently re-registered by the NIA on April 5 this year and taken over for investigation, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The NIA spokesperson said the case is related to a series of acts of violence, including arson, in Punjab during 2017-18, carrying out propaganda activities both online and on the ground, campaigns in support of Referendum 2020/SFJ, including pasting posters in Delhi and parts of Punjab, by groups of radicalised youths under the direction and financial assistance of SFJ handlers located abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/key-accused-in-recruiting-of-radical-sikh-youths-for-illegal-activities-in-nia-custody/articleshow/76553949.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Plasma therapy for 2 more patients||Chandigarh: Plasma therapy has been administered to two more Covid-19 patients in Punjab. The plasma was donated on June 23 by a recovered patient from Chheharta, Amritsar. He was found infected on his return from Dubai. Punjab medical education minister O P Soni said the therapyb was given to two patients being treated at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and Government Medical College, Amritsar. Doctors will be monitoring the progress of patients after the therapy. “The plasma of a convalescent patient has been given to patients with moderate disease and this therapy is being used across the globe for the management of patients,” added Soni. He said ICMR had earlier given sanction to Government Medical College, Faridkot, under the national clinical trial to treat patients with plasma therapy and it had become one of the leading institutes in the country to introduce this therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plasma-therapy-for-2-more-patients/articleshow/76595942.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon enters Madhya Pradesh with cloud cover; Met expects heavy rain in several parts||BHOPAL: The southwest monsoon covered the entire Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, a day after it covered Bhopal city. The meteorological department declared onset of monsoon in the entire state in the afternoon after clouds covered the remaining parts of Bhopal, Ujjain, Gwalior, Chambal and Sagar divisions. Though there is no strong system over the state that would lead to widespread showers, rains would continue, officials added. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said there is a circulation over north-east MP and another circulation over south Gujarat and adjoining areas. It would not have much impact over MP. Rainfall in MP would be mainly due to convective activity and moisture incursion that would develop local systems. The day temperature in Bhopal on Wednesday was recorded at 30.1 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than normal mark, while night temperature in the city was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, a degree less than normal. Wind direction in the city was westerly and average wind speed was 15 km per hour.  In the forecast for Bhopal on Thursday, the Met officials said there would be cloudy sky with possibility of rain and thundery development. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 31 degrees and 24 degrees Celsius while average wind speed will be 16 kmph. In the forecast for state, the weather officials issued warning of heavy rain at places including Rewa, Satna, Sagar, Panna, Ashok Nagar, Gwalior, Datia, Guna, Shivpuri, Rajgarh, Vidisha and Ujjain. There was also possibility of thunder and lightning at Rewa and Sagar divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedmonsoon-officially-begins-across-mp-brace-for-heavy-rain-in-some-parts/articleshow/76591739.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Kin refuse to cremate man who died of Covid in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a shocking incident in Sultanpur, the body of a 59-year-old man, who died after Coronavirus infection, was left unattended at a hospital morgue for three days as his family refused to perform the last rites. The deceased was an engineer in a multinational company in Mumbai. He travelled in a car from Mumbai with friends but fell unconscious before reaching his Sultanpur home on June 18. His family took him to a local hospital where he died during treatment. His samples were taken for Covid test and the report came positive on June 20. During this period, his body remained in the morgue. After waiting for the family for three days, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Sultanpur Sadar, Ramji Lal, visited them on June 21 to enquire why the body was left unclaimed. The son of the deceased then handed over a written request, signed by all the family members, asking the government authorities to perform the cremation as they feared catching the infection while performing the last rites. Heeding to the family’s request, the man’s last rites were performed by the SDM and circle officer of Kadipur in Sultanpur on Tuesday evening. “The family gave a written request to the district administration saying they would not be able to perform the last rites fearing Covid. We had assured to provide PPE kits for each family member but they refused even to see the body,” said CO, Kadipur, DP Shukla. Locals said that the man’s ashes were immersed in the Gomti river by the two officers. The son of the deceased is an engineer in a private company in Noida. TOI tried reaching out to the family of the deceased but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kin-refuse-to-cremate-59-yr-old-engineer-who-died-of-covid-officers-perform-last-rites/articleshow/76598491.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Premature baby born to college student handed over to DCPU||Tirunelveli: A five-month-old girl baby born to a college student on January 18 and had been in the paediatric ward of the Tirunelveli Government Medical College and Hospital was handed over to district child protection unit (DCPU) officials on Wednesday. “The baby weighed only around 1.25kg when she was born. Now she weighs more than four kg and is in sound health and active,” district child protection officer, B S Devananth said. The baby was born out of an illegal affair. Her mother, who was only 19 years old, was a first-year college student in Bengaluru. The college girl came to the hospital with her mother. After delivery, the girl and her mother escaped from the hospital on January 22, abandoning the five-day-old baby there. The girl had given her Kerala and Bengaluru addresses. But, they turned out to be false when officials went to trace them. Since the baby was underweight, she was under the care of the doctors and staff nurses in the neonatal intensive care unit and the paediatric departments. The healthy baby was handed over to the child protection officer and team by the hospital staff, after which she was taken to the child welfare committee. On the committee’s instruction, the baby was taken to a temporary shelter. “We will wait for 60 days if her mother or father or close relatives claim the baby. After that, the baby will be ready for legal adoption as per the government guidelines,” Devananth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/premature-baby-born-to-college-student-handed-over-to-dcpu/articleshow/76595952.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Greens cheer as Tillari notified as conservation area||Keri: In a move that is expected to boost tiger conservation efforts by Goa and Karnataka in the Western Ghats, the government of Maharashtra has issued a notification declaring 2,953.7 hectares of the Tillari forest area in the Dodamarg range as a conservation reserve. The Tillari Irrigation Project, a joint venture by Goa and Maharashtra, which was built across the Tillari river to store 462.17 million cubic metres (MCM) of water, falls in the newly declared reserve. The notification, issued on Sunday by joint forest secretary of Maharashtra Sujay Dodal under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, states that the conservation reserve covers government reserve forests in the villages of Bombarde, Ghatiwade, Kendre Khurd, Kendre Budruk, Patiye, Shirange, Konal, Ainode and Hewale of Dodamarg. For over 25 years, environmentalists from Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka had been lobbying for legal protection to be accorded to the Tillari forest area. “The Tillari region is not only the natural habitat for tigers, leopards, elephants, sloth bears and other wild animals, but also protects water resources that converge to form the Tillari river. This is a significant step, though more forest areas having ecological significance need to be added,” Geerish Punjabi, a wildlifer working in the Tillari region of Maharashtra, said. The Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa was notified in 1999 and the Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka in 2011. Kolhapur’s chief conservator of forests V Clement Ben, told TOI that the Tillari conservation reserve would act as a buffer zone and a migration corridor between the Mhadei and Bhimgad wildlife sanctuaries for tigers and leopards. “We were trying for a long time to get legal protection for the forest of the Tillari region. Declaring it as a conservation reserve has boosted our morale. We have included only uninhabited and government owned forests,” Samadhan Chavan, deputy conservator of the Sawantwadi forest division, under which the Dodamarg range falls, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greens-cheer-as-tillari-notified-as-conservation-area/articleshow/76600847.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Transfer of case plea by Multani’s brother aims to scandalise court: Ex-DGP Saini||Mohali: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s counsel H S Dhanoa on Tuesday opposed the transfer application filed in the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal in the Balwant Singh Multani dissapearance case, terming the plea by the brother of Balwant as a “self-created story to scandalise the court”. The application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, complainant in the case in which Saini is the main accused, had sought the transfer of the case to another court, and it came up for hearing before the court of district and sessions judge R S Rai. The matter was adjourned for June 29. Dhanoa said, “We have prayed before the court that the transfer application is not maintainable and requested the court to dismiss the same.” Saini mentioned in his application: ‘That transferring a case merely on the asking of an apprehensive litigant would not only lead to scandalising the court but browbeating the presiding officer, thereby causing direct interference in the independent and fair administration of justice.” The application for transfer of case was filed after ADJ Goyal’s court allowed interim bail to Saini in anticipation of the SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR. In his reply, Saini termed the litigants as disgruntled, often ill-advised, just to hoodwink the court. “A litigant cannot choose a bench of his choice and in the absence of allegation of pre-existing buyers, the power of transfer of a case can be invoked only sparingly — nowadays, there is growing tendency among disgruntled litigants just to hoodwink the court. The ratio of above mentioned legal matrix buttresses the case of the respondent,” the former Punjab top cop’s lawyer submitted. During the last hearing, district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai had deferred the hearing. Special public persecutor Sartej Singh Narula had then argued that anticipatory bail granted to Saini on murder charges without imposition of Section 302 of the IPC in FIR was not maintainable. After appearing in the case on Tuesday, Narula and district attorney Sanjiv Batra said, “We have been pressing that anticipatory bail granted against Section 302, which is yet to be imposed, is arbitrary and the case must be transferred to some other court. Sessions judge has also called for the comments of additional district and sessions judge on the issue, which will be brought up in the next hearing on June 29.” An FIR was registered afresh on May 6, 2020, against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station, accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani in December 1991. The case had been registered under sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/transfer-of-case-plea-by-multanis-brother-aims-to-scandalise-court-ex-dgp-saini/articleshow/76553969.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police nabs wanted criminal from Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Haryana Police arrested a Kaithal-based criminal in Jalandhar on Wednesday. A local resident was also arrested for harbouring Ajay Kumar, the criminal. Panic spread in Phagwara gate area when police in civvies intercepted a car and fired a bullet on one of its front tyres. While they apprehended a person when he was still in the car, another man entered a mobile phone shop. Haryana Police chased him and arrested him. As local police got the information about the firing, they rushed to the site where Haryana cops identified themselves and revealed that they were looking for Ajay Kumar of Kaithal who was facing around half a dozen cases and he had jumped parole after coming out of jail in 2016. Jalandhar resident Karamjit Singh was arrested for helping Ajay. DCP Gurmeet Singh said Haryana police team had not informed them and they were looking into the legal angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-police-nabs-wanted-criminal-from-jalandhar/articleshow/76595919.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bengaluru||22 macaws being smuggled to Bengaluru rescued at Kolkata airport; duo held||BENGALURU: Twenty-two macaws, including a few endangered birds from the parrot family, which were about to be smuggled to Bengaluru via air cargo were rescued at Kolkata airport on Sunday. Two men, who investigators believe are part of a wildlife smuggling syndicate sending birds to Bengaluru for a specific client, were arrested. Sources with the Kolkata zonal unit of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) said the duo, Kolkata residents Kamalesh Saha and Sayan Acharya, had crammed the birds into small cages and covered them with thick white cloth to avoid detection by Customs authorities. "We received specific information about a gang attempting to smuggle exotic birds from Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport. Our team carried out a search on Sunday and discovered the consignment containing 22 macaws packed in a few iron cages. Following a probe, we nabbed Kamalesh and Sayan," a DRI officer from Kolkata told TOI over phone. A thorough investigation revealed the two men had smuggled the macaws from Bangladesh through Bongaon town at the Indo-Bangla border. They are suspected to be part of an international wildlife smuggling gang, which had possibly received an order from a Bengaluru-based buyer for a specific number of macaws, the officer added. Investigators suspect the buyer wanted the birds to be displayed in a farm facility. "We are still probing the matter and the men are being questioned. A search is under way to locate the receiver in Bengaluru, who remains unidentified," explained the DRI officer. The macaws were rescued in coordination with sleuths of West Bengal's Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and were safely shifted to a facility in Kolkata. Sources said the birds are unhurt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/22-macaws-being-smuggled-to-bengaluru-rescued-at-kolkata-airport-duo-held/articleshow/76624087.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Accused in Manaf murder nabbed||KOZHIKODE: Police nabbed the main accused in the Manaf murder case 25 years after the murder of the Muslim Youth League worker at Othayi near Edavanna in Malappuram district. Malangadan Shefeeq, 52, who had been absconding, was nabbed by the police on his arrival at Karipur airport in a chartered repatriation flight from UAE on Wednesday morning. Shefeeq is the nephew of Nilambur MLA P V Anvar. He had a lookout notice against him and was intercepted by immigration officials on arrival at the airport. Later, Edavanna police inspector M B Sibin recorded his arrest. After subjecting him to Covid-19 test at Manjeri medical college, he was produced before Manjeri JFCM court and remanded in custody. The court had on July 2018 issued a lookout circular against him, following a petition by the family of Manaf stating that the accused was living in the Gulf and have been evading arrest. Manaf, an auto driver and activist of the Muslim Youth League was murdered on April 13, 1995, at Othayi near Edavanna. There were 26 accused and 21 accused in the case were earlier acquitted by the trial court for lack of evidence. Three remaining accused in the case who too were absconding had surrendered earlier before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/accused-in-manaf-murder-nabbed/articleshow/76587297.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Patna||223 new cases raise Covid-19 tally up to 8,273 in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 223 new cases of coronavirus were reported on Wednesday, taking the tally to 8,273 in the state so far. Total 20 new cases were reported in Patna district, including from Agamkuan, Patna City, Fatuha, Mokama and Daniyawan. As many as 6,106 patients have recovered so far, while 2,112 active cases remained in the state. Altogether 79 people were discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate in state is 73.08%. A 49-year-old man of Muradpur area died on Sunday evening due to cardiac arrest, said Patna civil surgeon Raj Kishore Choudhary. The swab samples of the deceased tested positive on Monday evening. The health department on Wednesday confirmed the 55th Covid death. Dr PN Jha of medicine department of PMCH said the man was brought dead and he was kept in the mortuary for sample collection. “He was tested positive on Monday. The medical team has collected the samples of his family members as well,” said Dr Jha, who is also the Covid nodal officer at PMCH. According to Patna DM Kumar Ravi, the Muradpur area has been sealed. Now, there are 44 containment zones in Patna district, including PC Colony, Buddha Colony and Rupaspur areas. As per information shared by the state health department, Covid positive cases were reported from 21 districts with maximum 39 from Siwan, followed by 26 in Muzaffarpur, 16 each in Begusarai, Nalanda and Samastipur, 13 in Munger, 12 in Gaya and 11 in Bhagalpur. Eight cases were reported in Aurangabad, six each in Lakhisarai and Madhubani, five each in Bhojpur, Gopalganj and Darbhanga, four each in Arwal and Supaul, three in Saharsa, two each in Purnea and Katihar and one each in Banka, Nawada, Saran, Sheikhpura and Sitamarhi districts. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh on Wednesday said altogether 1,75,103 samples had been tested in the state so far, including 5,702 in the last 24 hours and 206 of them tested positive for Covid-19. In a press release, he mentioned that altogether 5,174 migrants, who returned from other states after the lockdown, had been tested positive since May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/223-new-cases-raise-covid-tally-up-to-8273-in-state/articleshow/76591809.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Government plans to roll out ‘Light Metro’ to cover more areas in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government is now planning to roll out ‘Light Metro’ on the BRTS Corridor and take the Metro from Mansarovar station to Ajmer Road-Delhi bypass. The issues were discussed at a meeting chaired by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Wednesday. UDH secretary Bhaskar A Sawant and Metro CMD Samit Sharma were present. According to department sources, they are planning to expand the Mansarovar line by 1.75km. “Nothing has been finalized yet, but the meeting was constructive. We are planning to expand the Mansarovar metro line upto Delhi bypass that will cost around Rs 200 crore. At the same time, this project can be completed in 18 months. It will be named Phase-1D,” a source said. On the other hand, there is talk about running ‘Light Metro’ i.e. a metro with small compartment, on the BRTS Corridor which is proving to be unusable. Initially, the Light Metro will run from Mansarovar station to New Sanganer Road. After this, it can be considered to take it further to Sanganer, Haldi Valley, Pratap Nagar. The estimated expenditure on the entire project is believed to be around Rs 1,800 crore. The government will take a final call only after inspection and the DPR, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-to-roll-out-light-metro-to-cover-more-areas-in-city/articleshow/76596030.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Delayed monsoon makes dull entry to Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The city witnessed a dull start to monsoon on Wednesday and that too, four days behind schedule. Unlike overcast sky and widespread rainfall typically seen in the rainy season, sporadic showers occurred in some areas. However, based on the wind pattern and rainfall in other parts of the state, the Met department announced that currents have not only covered Lucknow but have reached Mainpuri, advancing into most of UP. Met officials also predicted more rains till the weekend. People woke up to overcast sky and brief spells of rainfall. The sky turned partly cloudy during the day and one or two spells of rainfall were reported from some parts of the city. The maximum temperature during the day was 33.6 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees below normal. Relative humidity was also high. The state Met observatory at Amausi recorded total 9.3mm rains from 8.30am to 5.30pm. The amount was less than 13.7mm “pre-monsoon showers” that it recorded on Tuesday. The normal date of monsoon onset in Lucknow is June 20. It arrived in UP on June 15 but lost steam a day after covering east UP. The currents revived on Tuesday and covered northern parts of the state. On Wednesday, the press release of the Indian Meteorological Department stated that monsoon has covered most parts of the state barring some areas in central UP. The monsoon line was crossing over Mainpuri and Bijnor. State Met director JP Gupta said that monsoon has covered most parts of UP including Lucknow. The advancement was declared after several weather stations recorded good rainfall, he added. He also predicted that the city will receive moderate rainfall in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delayed-monsoon-makes-dull-entry-to-city/articleshow/76598792.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Moderate to heavy rainfall today and tomorrow in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Monsoon is set to arrive in the city on Thursday even as pleasant weather prevailed in Ludhiana on Wednesday. School of Climate Change and Agrometeorology predicts moderate to heavy rainfall in city in the next two days. Kulwinder Kaur Gill, weather expert at PAU said moderate to heavy rainfall is expected in Ludhiana on Thursday and Friday and it may be recorded between 20 to 40 millimetres (mm). She added that whereas day temperatures are expected to decrease and may fall below 35 degrees Celsius during these days, night temperatures are expected to remain around normal or slightly above it during these days. Weather expert said monsoon is expected to reach Ludhiana on Thursday morning. She added that conditions are favourable for it as south westerly winds are expected to blow with a speed of 30 to 40 kilometres per hour. Relative humidity in the evening is likely to increase to 40-50% from normal 30% and day temperature might fall. K K Gill said this year the rainfall during monsoon in Ludhiana, which is recorded between June end and September end, is expected to be at normal of around 600mm. Meanwhile, met department website predicts day temperature to fall to 35 degrees by Thursday and then remain at 36 degrees the next day, whereas night temperature is expected to rise to 27 degrees till Friday. Cloudy conditions and breeze blowing in the city did have impact on the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana which was recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius, which is two degrees less than normal. On Tuesday the day temperature in city was recorded at 36.6 degrees Celsius, which was around normal. The minimum (night) temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 28.3 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees more than normal and 0.4 degree more than a day before. The residents enjoyed the pleasant weather. “It was not hot for the last two days. We are using the air conditioners only during the night hours as fan cools the room during the day time. But it is bit irritating that humidity is there and one does sweat,” said Manohar Singh, a businessman from Chandigarh road. “It is wonderful to get drenched during the rainy season and I am waiting for monsoon to arrive,” said Shivani, a college student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/moderate-to-heavy-rainfall-today-and-tomorrow-in-city/articleshow/76596008.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 25, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar commander of NDA in Bihar: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Invoking the metaphor of ‘war’ for the forthcoming assembly elections in the state, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday described CM Nitish Kumar as the ‘commander of the NDA’ and insisted that he would remain its CM face. “When in a war, the commander is not changed or replaced. Nitish has been the leader of the NDA in the state from the beginning and will continue to be so. He is also the CM face of the NDA,” Modi said in an interview at an event organized by a TV news channel and also made the observations in a ‘press note’ for public consumption. “He is a commander who has clean face and no stain, nor is there any charge of corruption against him,” Modi said referring to the profile of Nitish, adding: “He pulled Bihar out of the hard times and took it to the new heights of development. Undoubtedly, he cannot be replaced by anyone.” Curiously, when describing the Bihar NDA, Modi mentioned the BJP and JD(U) but left out the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) whose president Chirag has been sending out confusing signals, even though obliquely. The LJP leadership has even demanded more assembly seats to contest. Accordingly, Modi virtually described JD(U) as the oldest alliance partner of the BJP since 1996. Though Nitish broke the alliance in June 2013 and contested the 2014 parliamentary elections on his own, but came a cropper. After that Nitish embraced RJD president Lalu Prasad and contested the 2015 assembly elections together as part of the grand alliance that also comprised the Congress. However, the grand alliance government was dismantled in July 2017 and Nitish again entered the NDA. “The BJP-JD(U) alliance is natural and is also the symbol of sushashan (good governance) in the state,” Modi said, adding: “If Lalu comes out of the jail, it will only make the NDA’s march to victory all the more easy.” Modi repeatedly hammered on that the vote share difference between the NDA and UPA in Bihar was 20%, a gap which the UPA would never be able to narrow, when in other states, the governments get replaced on the basis of 1-2% vote share difference. Describing Nitish’s parting of ways for three years (2014-17) with the NDA a freak of an incident, Modi said the JD(U) workers had never accepted it. “We never thought that this bonding (Nitish-Lalu) will last. Anyone who wants development can never join hands with Lalu and can never accept him,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-commander-of-nda-in-state-sumo/articleshow/76591910.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Parents demand school fee waiver for 6 months||JAIPUR: A group of parents staged protests in front of the Cambridge Court High School and the St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, C-Scheme, demanding fee waiver and relaxations in online classes on Wednesday. Around 200 parents gathered in front of Cambridge Court High School at 7am shouting slogans against the school demanding fee waiver. The parents want a fee waiver from April to September because of economic slowdown due to lockdown. Chidrup Jain, a parent who participated in the protest said, “There is an economic slowdown and we are demanding that school should waive fees for six months. Also, we want a time limit for online classes that are affecting our children. More than 2 hours of online classes should not be held.” According to the parents, school authorities did not meet them or allow them inside the premises. TOI contacted Cambridge Court school authorities but they were not available for comments. Reacting to repeated protests in various schools in the city, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said, “We will soon release the Standard Operating Procedure and advisories regarding online classes. The government is keeping a tab on protests and showing careful though in providing relief to parents regarding school fees. Let us sit with officials, experts from the field of education and we will soon come up with a plan.” Another group of parents with similar demands protested in front of the St. Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, C-Scheme, demanding relaxations in fees. Arvind Aggarwal, one of the parents said, “We want at least 50% relaxation in school fees. Every year we have to pay annual fees of around Rs 5,500 in which we want relaxations. We also want relaxations in online classes as everyone does not have laptops and smartphones.” St. Xavier’s School administration said, “School is not functioning at present due to Covid. However, the demands of the parents have been forwarded to the school governing body that will decide on the issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-demand-school-fee-waiver-for-6-months/articleshow/76596077.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Another accused nabbed in 30kg gold heist case||LUDHIANA: In the 30 kg gold heist case, a team of organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police has arrested fifth accused, identified as Gursewak Singh, resident of Goluwala village, near Kot Isse Khan in Moga district on Wednesday. Inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who heads the OCCU, said Gursewak was arrested in the ongoing special operation by the OCCU team. He will be produced in the court according to procedure. Gursewak was one of the robbers who executed the gold robbery at IIFL’s Gill Road Branch in Ludhiana. Now, only one of the key accused, Jaipal, is at large. Different teams have been constituted to nab him. OCCU had nabbed inter-state gangster Gagandeep Singh in Chandigarh in March and got major breakthrough in the gold robbery case. The team also recovered around Rs 31 lakh apart from one pistol, two magazines and 50 live cartridges from the possession of Gagandeep. He and his gang members are involved in more than two dozen crimes, including contract killing. Following Gagandeep’s arrest, two more accused, Pardeep Singh of Gardiwala village in Hoshiarpur district and Harpreet Singh of Peer Mohammad village in Ferozepur district, were arrested by OCCU team. Pardeep was actively involved in the gold robbery at Ludhiana while Harpreet was harbouring the accused as all the culprits stayed at his house for a week before committing the crime and also one night after the crime. On March 17, another accused Amritpal Bhullar has also been arrested who is brother of gangster Jaipal Bhullar. On February 17, five masked robbers barged into Gil Road branch of IIFL Gold Loan, kept employee hostage and decamped with 30kg gold jewellery. During investigation, the OCCU team had also identified that the robbers had done recce at five shops, including three in Ludhiana and two in Jalandhar to execute robbery. They found IIFL branch an easy target, as there was no security guard there. Also, Gill Road is a vast area from where the accused could escape in any direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-accused-nabbed-in-30kg-gold-heist-case/articleshow/76596113.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Day 1 of dining-out: Fear of Covid-19 eats into food oulets’ profits||LUDHIANA: The day one of the dine-in services in restaurants met with lukewarm response from city residents. Dashing the expectations of the hospitality industry, very few customers turned up in the food outlets of the city till late evening. According to restaurateurs, there is still a lot of fear of coronavirus among people because of which they are avoiding eating out. Considering the poor show, the businessmen are demanding that the 8pm deadline should be extended immediately and Sunday lockdown too should be lifted. Harjinder Kukreja, restaurateur of the city, said, “Today was the first day of allowing dine in after a gap of three months. Though the response has been lukewarm today, we welcome the move to allow hospitality industry to function. We are hopeful that over the span of few days, business will increase for sure. But government also needs to take initiative to help the hospitality industry. Timing for closure of food outlets, which is 8pm now, needs to be extended till 10pm. But starting of restaurants is a welcome move and we are thankful to the government for taking this step.” According to Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association Ludhiana, “The inputs available from our members showed that the customer footfall today was very disappointing — very few of them turned up at food outlets. This clearly indicates that people are preferring to stay indoors due to the fear of Covid-19. However, we still have not lost hope and we are anticipating that with time there will be an increase in the number of people eating out. We will be doing whatever we can to increase the footfall but at the same time, the government should also take corrective measures immediately like lifting the Sunday lockdown, as it is the only day of the week when the customers come out in large numbers for dining.” Kulpreet Malhotra, a bicycle manufacturer, said, “My family and I are big time foodies, we like eating out a lot and trying out new cuisines. For the last three months, we were eagerly waiting for food outlets to open so that we can go out and dine, but since the situation in Ludhiana right now is not good with Covid-19 cases increasing day by day in the city, we think its better that we stay home and order food than taking the risk of going out for dining.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-1-of-dining-out-fear-of-covid-19-eats-into-food-oulets-profits/articleshow/76596058.cms||Mohit Behl
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Going to college a distant dream, but mgmts extract fee||HYDERABAD: After schools, it’s colleges offering professional courses that are forcing students to shell out fee. This, despite the University Grants Commission (UGC) categorically asking colleges not to insist on immediate payment of annual tuition or semester fee. Students allege several engineering, pharmacy and management institutions have asked them to clear tuition fees on or before June 30, failing which they would not be allowed to attend online classes or even appear for semester exams. “Parents of many students have lost their jobs, not receiving salaries and facing financial crisis. How can the college management force us during such a pandemic?” asked Mir Mahmood Ali, a final year BTech student at a private engineering college. Notice issued by one such private engineering college, (TOI has a copy), states: “Those students of convenor, management and foreign students who have not yet paid tuition fee and common service fee for academic year 2019-20 are directed to pay the fee on or before June 30 positively. Otherwise they will not be allowed to attend the exams.” Student of a deemed to be university at Moinabad, Satwik Reddy (name changed) said,” Our annual fee is Rs 2.50 lakh, which also includes transportation. Management has said if we don’t pay it, we will not be eligible for the next semester,” sharing the circular which instructs all BTech students “to pay the even/odd semester fee (tuition and transport/hostel) dues” on or before June 30. “Without fee payment, you will not be allowed to enrol for ERP (enterprise resource planning) registration to attend the classes,” it adds. College managements attributed this to the Telangana government’s failure to clear fee reimbursement dues. “Some college managements must be forcing students to pay tuition fee as they have to clear salaries of teachers, which is a pre-condition for affiliation. The state government has not released fee reimbursement dues for the last two years due to which many colleges don’t have sufficient funds,” said KVK Rao, general secretary of the All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions. He added that institutions face curbs on collection of fee for the 2020-21 academic year and not for 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/going-to-college-a-distant-dream-but-mgmts-extract-fee/articleshow/76591857.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Constitute committee to reduce syllabus by 30%: Hyderabad schools to Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: With the reopening of educational institutes looking unlikely any time soon, teachers and school managements in the city said that it’s time the state government form a committee to consider reducing the syllabus. They said the state government should also consider bringing in reforms when it comes to examinations and give more weightage to objective type questions, assignments/worksheets over descriptive questions. “It might not be possible to start schools immediately, but there is a need to form a committee and look into all aspects and to ensure schools reopen as soon as possible. To ensure there won’t be a spike in drop-out rate, child labour and child abuse cases, it is important that students are back in schools,” said M Ravinder, vice-president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation, adding it won’t do any harm if the syllabus is reduced by 30% to 40% or the number of working days is reduced. They said that although the Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had earlier said schools and colleges can be reopened in the second phase of unlocking or after mid-August, at the state level, there is not much of a discussion on the way. “The state should immediately form guidelines on how schools need to function after reopening,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized School Managements Association. They said the state should also make its stand clear on online classes and direct private schools to conduct virtual classes until a decision is taken. While the calls to the department of school education officials went unanswered, State Council of Educational Research and Training officials refused to reveal whether or not they are working on the reduction of syllabus or alternate academic calendar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constitute-committee-to-reduce-syllabus-by-30-schools-to-govt/articleshow/76591926.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Up to 50% shortage of labour for road construction work, projects delayed||LUDHIANA: It is not only the industry and farmers who are facing shortage of labour, but the road construction agencies, tasked with the completion of major highway projects in Ludhiana district, are also grappling with such shortage. However, the silver lining is that, despite shortage of labour, the projects might not suffer major delays. Among the two main projects, one of the projects is Ludhiana Ladowal byepass that is expected to help in decongestion of traffic in the city as the vehicles coming from Jagraon, Moga, Ferozepur, and other cities on way to Jallandhar and Amritsar which normally enter the city on way to Ladowal, will take this route. As part of the project 17km road is being constructed from Ludhiana to Ladowal. “Normally we would have completed the project by August end, but since we are facing 20-25% shortage of the labour, the project is expected to be completed by November end,” said a National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officer asking not to be named. “The work on the project remained suspended for around one and half months due to lockdown/curfew”. One of the officials of the construction company said about 80% work of the project is completed. He added that the major works that are being done include construction of flyovers at Jhammat and Ladowal. He added that cemented road on the 2km-stretch, from near a petrol pump to Ferozepur road, is almost complete. Another prestigious project is Ludhiana-Chandigarh road that will shorten the distance between two cities. Even as NHAI officials say that more than 90% of the work on the 76km road project is completed, but labour shortage is delaying the project and instead of June end it is expected to be completed by August end. NHAI project director K L Sachdeva said they are facing shortage of about 50% labour and are trying to bring road construction workers by offering them some incentives, but till now there is no indication that they will come. He added that most of the work in Ludhiana district is completed and they have got final permission for cutting of trees on the road near Samrala byepass. “Apart from that, we are getting approach roads to bridge on Samrala byepass built. We are also getting toll plaza buildings constructed near Kharar and Ghulal village,” said the project director. He added that according to the orders of ministry of home affairs, the projects which were to be completed by March 31, were given extension till 30 September, but they are hopeful of completing the project before that. NHAI officials said the only works pending will be that at Khanpur and Dadu Majra, where the land acquisition case is in court and at Sanghol where Archaeological Survey of India has objected to construction of road because of a Buddhist stupa. They added that in Ludhiana district, the land is being acquired for construction of flyover near Bhaini Sahib. Ludhiana residents are meanwhile anxiously waiting for the completion of these road projects. “Both these projects will be of immense utility to city residents. One of the roads (Ladowal Highway) will reduce the congestion in city as vehicles from Ferozepur, Bhatinda, Moga on way to Jalandhar and Amritsar will take that route instead of entering the city whereas the other project will ensure that we will take less time to reach Chandigarh,” said Gurdeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/up-to-50-shortage-of-labour-for-road-construction-work-projects-delayed/articleshow/76596168.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||Door-to-door survey in ‘Kill Corona’ drive from July, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced that a ‘Kill Corona’ campaign will be launched across the state on July 1, with Covid-19 surveyors going door to door in what is planned as a decisive phase in the battle against the virus. The campaign will begin from Bhopal, Chouhan told collectors and divisional commissioners at a video conference on Wednesday evening. “The campaign will cover every household in MP with the objective to eliminate coronavirus from the state,” the CM said. He asked district officials to start preparing for the massive campaign. “It will not only uproot Coronavirus from MP, but also send across a positive message to other states,” the CM said, adding that survey teams are already being set up and ‘Covid Mitras’ recruited to work as volunteers. Survey teams will visit 10 lakh houses a day, with each team going to 100 houses. As many 14,000 volunteers will spearhead the campaign that will be carried out “jointly by the official machinery and common people”, Chouhan said, asking collectors to take the crisis management group of their respective districts into confidence. MP has one of the slowest Covid-19 growth rates now -- 1.43%, as stated by the CM on Tuesday -- and the second highest recovery rate (76%). The death rate is a concern though as it is stuck at 4.2%. “What’s needed is a final push to eradicate coronavirus from the state,” he said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/door-to-door-survey-in-kill-corona-drive-from-july-says-cm/articleshow/76591917.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Man who fired at an ATM to rob held||Rajkot: A thief who fired at an ATM machine while trying to break it open in Sanskarnagar locality of Bhuj, was arrested on Wednesday.Police said accused Kalpesh Manek and his aide, Imam Sama, made the wild attempt at an ATM kiosk on Tuesday night. “Both the accused were captured in the CCTV camera installed inside the kiosk. Meanwhile, we got a tip-off that Manek was admitted to GK General Hospital, following which we went there and arrested him. During his interrogation, Manek confessed to his crime,” said an official from Bhuj A division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-who-fired-at-an-atm-to-rob-held/articleshow/76587355.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ranchi||JMM workers break open BSL quarters, make it their party office||Bokaro: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) workers broke open a quarter of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) in Sector-1/B and declared it as their district unit office. The incident occurred on Tuesday. The JMM workers claimed that they will vacate the building after the company frees all its quarters of encroachment. A BSL security team, which reached the quarter to remove JMM workers, returned without success. Even administrative and police teams headed by circle officer Diwakar Dwivedi returned after keeping a silent watch over the situation. The house now declared as JMM’s district unit office is a B-Type quarter, which BSL provides to its officers above deputy general manager (DGM) rank. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan also has his residence in the neighbourhood. The JMM workers have painted their party symbol, bow-arrow, on the walls of the quarter. The BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said: “The matter is being looked into by agencies concerned.” The district president of JMM, Hiralal Manjhi, said: “About a month ago, our district unit with a recommendation from the state education minister had given a letter to BSL management requesting for the allotment of a quarter. Since then we are pleading for it, but BSL officials ignored our request. We have not asked for anything wrong, BSL had earlier allotted quarters to other political parties.” “We will leave the quarter, but before that BSL management should remove all illegal occupants from the quarters in the township. The connivance of BSL officials in encroaching company quarters cannot be ruled out. In fact, we demand a CBI inquiry as the PSU is losing revenue in crores,” Manjhi added. The BSL management is, however, yet to take any decision on how to respond to the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-workers-break-open-bsl-quarters-make-it-their-party-office/articleshow/76587325.cms||Divy Khare
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||All shops in Mumbai's 195 civic markets to reopen today||MUMBAI: All shops in over 195 BMC markets will become fully operational from Thursday. As per the new guidelines, shops on either side will remain open on alternate days. The markets will deploy security personnel to scan customers at the gate and maintain social distancing inside the premises. Some of these markets are situated in one-or two-storey buildings. TOI had reported the closure of Dadar, Byculla and Borivli civic markets due to overcrowding in April. Following the Mission Begin Again initiative early this month, the BMC allowed shops selling essential items in these markets to operate. Wednesday’s order allows operation of all shops in these market premises. Assistant municipal commissioner (Market) Mrudula Ande said, “Customers will be allowed in the markets after scanning and the shop owners’ association in the markets will ensure social distancing inside the premises. The shops will also employ limited employees. We will keep a watch on these markets for a few days before deciding further.” Officials stated they will study crowd patterns in the markets to decide if all the shops can continue to remain open or if sale of non-essential items in these markets needs to be stopped to avoid overcrowding. Civic officials stated multi-storey BMC markets such as the six-storey hawkers’ plaza at Dadar will continue to remain shut. The Dadar market has seen resumption in activity for the past two weeks with stall owners opening shutters and wholesale roadside vegetable vendors also back in business. Assistant municipal commissioner G-North (Dadar-Mahim-Dharavi) Kiran Dighavkar said, “In the BMC markets, shops selling essential items were allowed to open 10 days ago. Now, we will allow other shops to resume operations as well. We are working to regulate roadside vendors and avoid crowds at these markets, including the flower market outside Dadar station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-shops-in-citys-195-civic-markets-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76600217.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana businessmen say diesel price hike will increase production cost||LUDHIANA: Huge resentment is being seen among city businessmen over rising prices of petrol and diesel. Compared with last month, the rates of both the fuels have shot by almost Rs 10 per litre. According to businessmen, the rising rates are pinching the industry very hard and the government should consider freezing the rate of diesel at least, which is used in huge quantity in the industry for various operations. The current rate of diesel in Ludhiana is Rs 73.69, which was Rs 63.78 per litre in May. The rate of petrol as of today is Rs 81.27 per litre, which was Rs 72.19 per litre in May. Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums said, “The rates of both petrol and diesel are touching sky. When the rates of crude oil in international market are not fluctuating much, it is hard to undeerstand why there are such huge fluctuations in the rates of petrol and diesel in India. During last one month alone, the rates have gone up by Rs 10 per litre in case of both petrol and diesel, which is very worrisome. The hike has come at a very wrong time as already the industry is reeling under immense pressure of trying to cover huge losses and resuming production levels to even 50% because of the aftermath of coronavirus lockdown. In such a scenario, it is impossible to absorb the hike of even a single rupee in rates of diesel, which is not only used as a fuel in the industry for several processes but also for the man and material transportation. Therefore, it is our request to the government to take immediate notice of this issue and plug the price hike and ensure that rates are reduced by at least Rs 10 per litre.” According to Atul Sagar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana, “The hike in the rates of petrol and diesel have come at a very wrong rime for us. Had there been an increase of Rs 1-2 wouldn't have mattered much, but the hike of Rs 10 per litre is hurting everyone. The onus is on the governments now and something should be done at the Centre so that the rates of fuels at least diesel, are frozen, for next three months at least, which will be a great help for businessmen.” Subash Verma, a tractor parts manufacturer, said, “Diesel is almost like raw material for the industry as it has very wide applications, including fuel for power backup. So, if the rate of diesel goes up by even Rs 1, our cost of production will rise as well. If the present hike of Rs 10 is not rolled back, we are bound to suffer huge losses. The government must take urgent notice of this issue and order freezing of rates of fuel for a certain period at least.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-say-diesel-price-hike-will-increase-production-cost/articleshow/76596211.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hubballi||Old markets to make way for Smart commercial spaces in Hubballi||Hubballi: If everything goes according to plan, vegetable markets in Old Hubballi and Janata Bazaar near Kittur Rani Chennamma Circle will be demolished to make way for new facilities. Within a fortnight, authorities plan to evacuate all vendors to upgrade the markets under the Smart City Project. HDMC is serving notices to the vendors at the markets to voluntarily vacate within a week. HDMC is expected to take up demolition in 15 days. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said, “We will wait for vendors to vacate, otherwise we will have to vacate forcibly, as no other option is left before us.” “We are expecting the Old Hubballi market to be cleared in a week. Rehabilitation arrangements for the time being are made at Heggeri ground. However, officials have been told to ensure the arrangements do not hamper sporting activities,” he added. “In a couple of days, meetings will be convened with the vendors in Janata Bazar market, and notices will be issued to them to vacate the market. Alternative arrangements for them will be planned at Girani chawl ground,” Itnal said. Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Project Limited special officer SH Naregal said the markets will be developed at a cost of Rs 18.3 crore. The vendors in the both the markets have been running their business for several years and HDMC officials were reluctant to initiate vacation proceedings. But the HDMC commissioner took a caveat from the court to avoid legal hurdles while demolishing the buildings and vacating the shops, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/old-markets-to-make-way-for-smart-commercial-spaces-in-hubballi/articleshow/76585317.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Shepherd has narrow escape in leopard attack||Palakkad: A shepherd who was herding his 20 sheep at Attipathi near Walayar had a narrow escape but one of his sheep was killed by a leopard. While John Joseph (56) was grazing his sheep, a leopard pounced on him but he had a miraculous escape. Hearing his cries, those grazing cattle nearby came to his rescue. The leopard took away a two-year old sheep but as people gave chase the big cat left the dead sheep and escaped into the Walayar forests. The forest department had set up two cages and installed camera traps and the department’s rapid action force were patrolling the area under the Walayar forest range to catch a leopard that had intruded into human settlements and killed three sheep earlier. Forest officials have directed people living close to the forest areas to be vigilant and not to travel in the night as leopards have a tendency to attack people while trying to lift domestic animals.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shepherd-has-narrow-escape-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/76587442.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard trapped in well is rescued||Mysuru: A leopard which accidentally fell into a dry well in Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar district, and was trapped for about 3 days, managed to climb the ladder which was placed in the well by the forest staff, in the early hours of Saturday last week, and return to the forest. On June 16, a leopard had fallen into a well in the coconut farm belonging to farmer Ningarajappa in Hasaguli village. The villagers who noticed the leopard, informed the forest department, who rushed to the spot with a cage and nets. But despite many efforts by the forest staff, to trap the leopard in the cage, which was lowered into the well, they failed. Due to the commotion caused by the villagers who had gathered in hundreds at the spot, the panicked leopard had hid itself inside a small gap in the wall of the well. Even after three days, when their efforts failed, the forest staff placed a large ladder inside the well, so that the leopard could climb out. The staff also placed camera traps around the well, to capture photographs of the leopard. Foresters said that the leopard climbed the ladder and got out of the well in the early hours of Saturday last week, and went into the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-trapped-in-well-is-rescued/articleshow/76586697.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Getting the maths right through online education||Vadodara: When the lockdown began, Baldev Pari’s channel on a video hosting and sharing site had only around 4,000 followers. Today the channel has over 21,200 followers and Pari is no entertainer, but a maths teacher, that too from a panchayat school. Pari was always keen on adopting new teaching tools and reaching out to as many students as possible. The lockdown and the consequent stress on online meetings, work and even studies was the right opportunity for him to expand what he had started. He is not alone, even others like the state-run Navanadisar Primary School in Panchmahal used online teaching tools much ahead of the state government insisting on the same from June 1. Pari, who teaches at the Barwala Secondary School in the Bhesan taluka of Junagadh district, said that he has put videos on the entire maths syllabi from standard six to standard 10 online on his website and his channel on YouTube. “I worked for 15 to 18 hours a day to finish videos. I made over 400 videos during the lockdown. My son edited them and made them viral on social media. Some schools are even using these for online teaching,” said Pari. Not all have mobile phones, tablets or computers in remote rural areas, but that is hardly a deterrent for online teaching at the Navanadisar Primary School that is an example on many fronts when it comes to teaching methods and tools. The school has ensured that all students have access to lessons if they want to and can attend online classes in groups. The school started online interactions since March itself. “We wanted learning to continue even if it was not from the syllabus. Current students, alumni and teachers used to come together on a video conferencing application. We continued communicating and learning different things. A quiz was also started to keep students hooked on through the vacation,” said Gopal Patel, an assistant teacher at the school. The quiz included one on Covid-19, too, to increase awareness. Patel said that the end result was that when classes went online from June 1, students were already used to the system. Children can use the application used for conducting classes. The morning session is common for all students where they discuss their difficulties and teachers clear them or make a note of them so that they can clear them during home visits. “Through the day, teachers visit their homes and clear their doubts. The module prepared by the Gujarat Council for Education Research ant Training (GCERT) is also activity based. There are WhatsApp number, too, on which the children can post work after finishing it,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/getting-the-maths-right-through-online-education/articleshow/76585944.cms||Sachin Sharma
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Celebrate Bonalu in grand way: Samithi||HYDERABAD: Even as the government officials continue to battle the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, the Bhagyanagar Bonalu Utsav Samithi’s (BBUS) demand that Bonalu be celebrated on a large scale has put the officials in a tight spot. While seeking permission, the committee said that celebrating Bonalu would end the pandemic. BBUS convenor Dr Bhagavanth Rao said, “From times immemorial Bonalu festival is being celebrated to stop local epidemics. Anti-microbial material like neem and turmeric are widely used during the festival. There are clear guidelines from the ministry of home affairs that all prayer places shall remain open by following the standard operating procedure including wearing masks and maintaining social distance”. Rao said that the state government is trying to violate the guidelines. “Telangana government is trying to violate the guidelines. Many people from the poor communities like potters, potha rajulu and siva satthulu find employment during the month-long Bonalu. All of them will be deprived of their livelihood. If the festival is not celebrated then it will have negative consequences on the state,” added Rao. The samithi demanded the government to withdraw its announcement advising people not to participate in the festival. It also asked the government to release funds to temples for Bonalu and GHMC for arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/celebrate-bonalu-in-grand-way-samithi/articleshow/76591967.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Special court denies bail to 7 accused||NEW DELHI: A special court, which was designated to hear cases of the northeast Delhi riots that took place in February this year, has dismissed bail applications of seven men accused of rioting. While three men had sought bail in the same FIR, four others were booked in different FIRs connected to the riots. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav refused bail to three men— Baudeen, Wasim and Sajid – for the investigation was under way. The prosecutor in this case referred to “heavy damage to government and public property” and “loss of life”. All three men were allegedly identified in a CCTV footage that showed them moving around with a stick in their hands. “There is also clear electronic evidence against the applicant. In this view of the matter, I am not inclined to admit the applicant on bail at this stage,” the court observed. Another accused Kundan was stated to be involved in 12 other cases that were being investigated, the court noted. An eyewitness’s account apparently revealed that he had flung a small gas cylinder and “set bikes and cycles on fire” inside a mosque to “enhance the fire and blast the mosque”. The court took note of the “gravity of the allegations,” saying it was not a fit case for grant of bail. Similarly, another FIR against Manoj Kumar was based on “clear evidence” that showed him “vandalising a vehicle”. In this case, the prosecutor had argued that communal clashes took place between anti-CAA and pro-CAA protesters during which the accused was seen vandalising a car. The court observed that the investigation was in progress and it was not inclined to allow bail to Kumar at the current stage. The investigation in another FIR against Manish Kumar was found to be ongoing. The court said there was “prima facie evidence of rioting” against the applicant. Police had accused him of being part of the mob that vandalised a shop and set it on fire. “...I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant,” the court held. In the case of accused Raj Kumar arising out of another FIR, there was “prima facie evidence of involvement of the applicant in the riots”. He had allegedly carried a sword and a knife at the time of riots with the police recovering a sword from his terrace later. The court, as a result, held, “Considering the seriousness of allegations against the applicant, recovery of sword at his instance and the stage of investigation, I am not inclined to admit the applicant on bail at this stage. The bail application is accordingly dismissed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-special-court-denies-bail-to-7-accused/articleshow/76596227.cms||Aamir Khan
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Minister Govind Singh Dotasara distances self, blames RBSE for Maharana Pratap fiasco||JAIPUR: Distancing himself from the controversy over the objectionable content on Maharana Pratap, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasara on Wednesday said the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) in Ajmer is responsible for adding the objectionable content to the class 10 e-textbook. “RBSE is an independent and autonomous body with no direct influence of my department. It is clear that some portions of the Maharana Pratap chapter have been different from what we have in our printed textbooks available since one and half years ago,” said Dotasara, while talking to TOI. Fixing responsibility for the issue, Dotasara informed that the writer who added the content has been summoned by the RBSE. “The writer has been called by the board to inquire about the reasons behind adding the content. He is not my employee. The RBSE should complete the investigation as soon as possible. I assure that the guilty will be punished,” said Dotasara. The e-book version of ‘Sangharshkalin Bharat-1206 AD-1757 AD’ has an objectionable comment like ‘Senanayak me pratikul paristhitiyon me jis dhairya, sanyam aur yojana ki avashyakta honi chahiye, Pratap me uska abhav tha’ (Pratap lacked the sense of moderation and patience during unfavourable circumstances), which is not mentioned in the printed version of the textbook. The issue has sparked a major political controversy as Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari, along with the Congress government’s own minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas criticising the downsizing and addition of objectionable content in the class 10 social science textbook. Clarifying his stand on the issue, Dotasara said the revision of the textbook was done almost 18 months ago and the controversy is related to the e-version uploaded recently. “I have answered at least 50 questions in the state assembly over the textbook revision issue last year leaving no scope for ambiguity. The printed book has been read by students in the academic session 2019-20. Since then we have not come up with any book other than e-version which I agree is different from the print and the matter is being looked into,” said Dotasara. He claimed that since the issue has come to light, they have removed the e-content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-distances-self-blames-rbse-for-pratap-fiasco/articleshow/76596206.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid cases rise in Rasoolpura||Secunderabad: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and Telangana State Medical and Health Department officials are facing a huge challenge in tackling the spread of Covid-19 cases in Rasoolpura, one of the slums with the largest population in Cantonment area. According to the health department officials, 15 positive cases have been reported in Rasoolpura during the last two weeks. All the affected people have been home quarantined. The first positive case surfaced at Police Lines in the first week of April when a retired policeman was infected, after that there were no cases reported from Rasoolpura till the first week of June. However, things changed after the relaxation in lockdown norms. “The cases are steadily increasing in Rasoolpura and mostly in the slum areas. In the last two weeks, 15 positive cases have been reported in different parts of Rasoolpura,” Dr P Sushma, in-charge medical officer, told ToI. “The health department is ready to conduct a door-to-door survey in the area but there is no scope for it as the urban primary health centre (UPHC) at Rasoolpura has been converted into a Basthi Dawakhana,” she said, and added that no ANM staff will be available at the Basthi Dawakhana. The medical officer said cases have been reported from slums and thickly populated areas like Indiramma Nagar, Jagadish Nagar, Balamrai and Arjun Nagar. “There are chances of the virus spreading rapidly because of narrow bylanes and density of population in the area,” said Dr Sushma. The SCB’s health and sanitation wing is concentrating on major slums like Rasoolpura, Anna Nagar, Indiramma Nagar, Chandrababu Naidu Nagar (known as CBN Nagar), Kattamaisamma Basthi, Beerappa Temple, Patil Nagar and Sri Lanka Basthi. All these areas are being sanitised regularly to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Special teams have been deployed to lift garbage on a daily basis from residential areas and also commercial units in Rasoolpura, said a senior SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-cases-rise-in-rasoolpura/articleshow/76592032.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Cong workers protest against fuel price hike, 40 detained||Rajkot: At least 40 Congress party workers, including a few corporators of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), were detained for staging protest against rising prices of petrol and diesel at Trikon Baugh in Rajkot on Wednesday. The protests were organised by the opposition party across 18 wards of RMC. The Congress workers had rode bullock carts from each of the 18 wards and gathered at Trikon Baugh for a public meeting. Through out the protest the Congress workers were shouting slogans against the ruling Vijay Rupani government. The protesters demanding reduction in fuel prices, carried placards displaying comparison of prices of petrol and diesel during the UPA and BJP regimes. Leader of opposition in RMC Vashram Sagahtiya said, “The police did not allow us to reach out to the people. They intercepted our bullock carts and detained our workers. The police are behaving at the behest of the ruling BJP and are trying intimidate us.” Meanwhile, the leaders of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh (BKS)’s Rajkot unit also registered its protest on high fuel prices by taking out procession on horse and bicycles near the collector’s office. They also submitted memorandum demanding reduction in fuel price. BKS president Dilip Sakhiya said, “The government increased fuel price at the time when the people are already reeling under financial cruch. Many are facing unemployment because of lockdown. It's unbearable to see people being burdened more with increase in fuel prices. This has also increased the input cost for farmers.” He added, “The government had promised to double farmers’ income by 2022. But under the current situation we feel that farmer’s input cost will surely increase significantly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-workers-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-40-detained/articleshow/76587542.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Fear and loathing at Covid care centres in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A Naraina resident was anxiously waiting at a Covid care centre in west Delhi with his wife to hear the verdict: could the couple, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, go back home or would they have to stay back at the government facility? A new standard operating procedure issued by Delhi’s lieutenant governor has made it mandatory for all Covid-positive patients, even the asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms, who do not have a separate room and toilet at home to be will be transferred to a Covid centre, while moderately or severely affected patients, especially those with existing conditions like diabetes and heart ailment, would be shifted to Covid centres and hospitals. “We are definitely more comfortable at home than at a Covid care centre (CCC) because we do not have symptoms,” said the Naraina man. “Our home has separate rooms and toilets.” While the couple were screened by doctors, district surveillance officers had already checked their residence to certify if they were eligible for home isolation as per protocol. The LG’s decision on isolation at a CCC is turning into a logistical nightmare for the district administration and health workers. “The directive to send all positive patients to CCCs is a problem for healthcare workers who are already stressed and overburdened. Conducting the daily follow-up of patients is a challenge in itself,” a government official confided. That the new SOP has created anxiety among patients and their families, as for the Naraina resident, is evident from the fact that while more than 15,000 new cases have emerged since the order was issued, only around 450 patients have made it to a CCC. In the 20-odd CCCs, the largest number went to the Narela CCC, the city’s first and biggest such facility. The CCC at Dwarka Sector-16, functioning out of DUSIB flats, has screened the highest number of total patients on Monday and Tuesday — 81. It was followed by the Narela CCC, with 79 patients. The others that screened more than 15 patients were the ones at Mandoli (62), Terapanth Bhavan (61), Saket (59) and Badarpur (42). The number of patients who visited other CCCs are less than 15, and eight CCCs, including at Tughlaqabad, PUSA Road, Rouse Avenue and two in Okhla, haven’t seen a single patient. “The ones who are coming here want to be quickly done with the procedure and return home,” said an official at the west Delhi centre. “When we ask those who are symptomatic to stay back, they protest that they don’t want to go to a government isolation facility since they have the necessary provisions at home.” The official said that residents of affluent localities didn’t even want to go to a government facility for testing. As an official in a south Delhi CCC disclosed, “Those who are asked to stay at the quarantine facility protest strongly. Nobody wants to stay in a government setup. Most people are not comfortable in a CCC and prefer home isolation. However, the recovery rate is high and those who do stay in the Covid centres are satisfied with the facilities.” At Narela, where the CCC is spread across four blocks of DDA flats, the official there said, “This quarantine centre was established in March for travellers coming from abroad and began with 250 beds, but the capacity has increased since.” The number of Delhi government officials, doctors, healthcare workers, sanitation workers, Delhi Police personnel posted there number more than 300 currently. “The number of people coming for testing has gone up from five a day earlier to 40-50 a day in the last couple of days,” the Narela official revealed. “We have adequate facilities for accommodating a large number of patients with each flat capable of housing two patients in separate beds.” The problem, he added, was mobilising people for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fear-and-loathing-at-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76596324.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||‘Government will release SOPs for schools and online classes’||Education minister Govind Dotasara is currently faced with two major issues. First, the demand of parents to waive school fees for a few months because of lockdown, and second, issues related to online classes which have been severely opposed by many guardians. Talking to TOI’s Shoeb Khan, Dotasara puts forward his take on the issues. Q: When can we expect schools in the state to reopen?Ans: I feel that schools should open as per the academic calendar from July. Students in senior classes are aware enough to take all precautions at home and in school. For junior students, we can come up with strict guidelines related to social distancing in classrooms and transport. But still, the decision to open schools will be taken after considering the Covid situation in the state and also directions from the central government. Q: A section of parents have been demanding waiver in school fees from schools. How would you react?Ans: I feel that this issue is being raised by parents whose wards study in 100 odd elite schools. Over 30,000 private schools in the state have fees below or up to Rs 10,000 and I haven’t heard any issue from these schools. But, still we will look into the issue and try and resolve it amicably once schools reopen. Q: Why the state hasn’t come up with any guidelines on online classes? A section of parents is alleging that online classes are taking a toll on their wards’ health?Ans: The day we will announce the date for school reopening, we will also release the guidelines, advisories and standard operating protocols (SOP) related to classes, schools and online classes which are generally attended via mobile phone and laptops. We have to collectively think as what is good and bad for our children in a given situation. The state has come up with several educational programmes being aired on DD and radio for our students who doesn’t have access to mobile phones and computers or even internet. It can be attended by our students in private schools also which is comparatively safer than online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-release-sops-for-schools-and-online-classes/articleshow/76596316.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Cycle enthusiasts are back on roads after taking a break during lockdowns||LUDHIANA: Unlock 1.0 has opened up the roads for city's cycle enthusiasts again, who are again peddling their way to nearby areas. During the lockdown, cyclists had to restrain themselves from riding bicycles, even for short distances. “I have been cycling for nearly 10 years and it is sort of an addiction for me. After the imposition of curfew and subsequent lockdowns, I would walk in my garden but always wanted to ride on my bicycle. As soon as Unlock 1.0 was announced, I along with 20 members of our group, which is called Ludhiana Peddler’s Club (LPC) which has industrialists, professionals and businessmen, started cycling again on June 8. It feels great to start cycling again,” said Ranjodh Singh, an industrialist and passionate cyclist. “There are around five to seven cyclists groups comprising nearly 500 cyclists. Social distancing is not an issue for cyclists, as they maintain the same while cycling. Worldwide, people are adopting cycling for commuting to their offices even,” added Singh. According to him, after resuming cycling, their group has been to Phallahi Sahib, Qila Raipur, Narangwal, Gujjarwal and other villages around Ludhiana. Cyclists said their number in Ludhiana has increased recently. “I and another doctor cycle in the city every day, but on Sundays we go near Issewal village and surrounding villages. Earlier, we wouldn’t find many people but now we see around 60 cyclists on the way. As gyms are closed, people are taking to cycling, as it is a full-body exercise. Also, the traffic on roads is less these days compared with pre-Covid days, so it is easy to do cycling. There is distance between two cyclists on the road so social distancing is maintained and we wear masks and take sanitisers with us as well,” said Dr Priti Vohra, a city-based dentist and a passionate cyclist. Another cyclist said they prefer to ride in the mornings. “We go on rides mostly in the mornings, as there is less pollution, air is fresh and there is less activity on the roads. It is a wonderful feeling to peddle our way, in nature’s company,” said Harpreet Singh, an industrialist from Dugri area in city. Way of lifeFor the bourgeoisie, cycling may be a trendy sport, but the workers who cycle to their place of work said it is best way of commuting. Ramesh Kumar, a daily wage earner of Pakhowal road, said he avoids going to his place of work in motor vehicles and instead peddles his way to his work place. He added that apart from saving money, cycling keeps him in good health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cycle-enthusiasts-are-back-on-roads-after-taking-a-break-during-lockdowns/articleshow/76596307.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||BMC again changes policy to free up hospital beds||Mumbai: BMC has again changed its discharge policy and decided to test “low symptomatic” patients on fourth day of admission if symptoms disappear and discharge them the next day if the report is negative; instead of discharging them on tenth day without testing. Civic chief I S Chahal issued the directive to civic hospitals and covid health centres. A related order will be issued soon. Chahal said, “It’s only for those with low symptoms and no symptoms in the last two days, before testing on fourth day.” Civic officials said many who tested positive were admitted to hospital but within a day or two they are asymptomatic. Chahal has told them to test such patients on fourth day to check if they turn negative and accordingly discharge them. It will help BMC free hospital beds. BMC used to discharge patients with “mild symptoms” within 10 days without testing, if no symptoms were there in three days, which was a bone of contention between civic officials and patients. Vijay V Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-again-changes-policy-to-free-up-hospital-beds/articleshow/76592142.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||CM’s approach behind Covid spike: Cong||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of playing with the lives of people by failing to effectively handle Covid-19 situation in Telangana. Addressing party cadre on a social media platform on Wednesday, Shabbir Ali said even after four months, the state government has no clear plan of action to deal with the situation. “Casual approach and delayed decisions nullified measures taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Now, the entire state is in the grip of coronavirus, particularly after the relaxation in lockdown since June 1,” he said. “Manpower and infrastructure is insufficient in government hospitals to deal with the rising number of cases. The situation would have been different had the state government conducted Covid-19 tests on a massive scale in April as suggested by Congress,” Shabbir Ali alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-approach-behind-covid-spike-cong/articleshow/76592078.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to freeze Rs 5,000 crore pay panel arrears for a year||MUMBAI: Its income crippled by the pandemic, the Maharashtra government has deferred this year’s payout of the 7th Pay Commission’s arrears to its employees by one year. The Rs 5,000 crore payout was due on July 1. This would have been the second instalment of the payment which began last year. Officials say owing to the pandemic, the state’s tax kitty is likely to reduce by as much as 42-45%. The revenue gap in the first quarter from April to June is around Rs 30,000 crore. Borrowings amount to around Rs 25,000 crore, a senior official said. “Given the reduction in the state’s income, deferring the payment of arrears was the only option. Already in three months this year, the borrowings are almost half the amount in the entire twelve months of 2019-20,” the official said. Although excise revenues have risen after liquor sales were permitted, there has been no significant improvement in collections of stamp duty or GST, officials said. GST is the main tax income for the state. Sources said that the state needs to pay Rs 10,000 crore per month on salaries, Rs 3,000 crore on pensions and Rs 7,000 crore for debt servicing. Priority social sector expenses require another Rs 3,000 crore per month, officials said. In May, the government undertook a series of austerity measures, including a 67% cut on plan expenditure. All department heads were asked to review ongoing schemes and postpone those which were not vital. Only priority departments like public health, medical education, food and drug administration and relief and rehabilitation were given greater liberty to spend. In keeping with the Centre’s move, the state government also froze the DA and LTC of state government employees for two years. The freeze in DA helped save Rs 18,000 crore. In April, the state had asked the Centre for permission to raise its annual borrowing limit to around Rs 1.5 lakh crore from last year’s Rs 90,000 crore. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has asked for the state’s borrowing limit to be raised to 5% of its GSDP from the current 3% of GSDP. Pawar has also asked the Centre for a package of Rs 10,000 crore per month for five months to help with the state’s revenue shortfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-freeze-rs-5kcr-pay-panel-arrears-for-a-yr/articleshow/76600323.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Sarpanch ends life over ill health||Hyderabad: The sarpanch of a village in Vikarabad district committed suicide by hanging at his house due to ill health on Tuesday night. The deceased was Anand (27), sarpanch of Kottapalli village in Pudur mandal of Vikarabad district. According to police, on Tuesday night, Anand hung himself at his house in Kottapalli. Police found a suicide note purportedly written by Anand. “In the suicide note, it was mentioned that no one was responsible for his death. Anand mentioned that he was suffering from mental and physical illness since past two months. He also said that he could not perform officials duties due to ill health and decided to end his life,” Police said. A suspicious death case was registered under section 174 of CrPC and the body was shifted to a hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sarpanch-ends-life-over-ill-health/articleshow/76592180.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||MAUD report cites water projects, civic Act as achievements||Hyderabad: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said the government is implementing citizen friendly, corruption-free and transparent methods for providing services in the civic bodies, besides innovative programmes for faster development of urban areas in the state. KT Rama Rao released the 2019-20 annual report of municipal administration department here at Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Errabelli Dayakar Rao, municipal administration director N Satyanarayana and principal secretary of municipal administration Arvind Kumar were present. In the report, the department said that the Telangana Municipal Act 2019, which was brought out a few months ago, facilitates self-assessment and online filing of property tax, self-declaration based 100% online time-bound building permission system, instant approvals for almost 85% of the building permissions i.e up to 240 sq yards, and earmarking 10 per cent of the budget as ‘green budget’. In a major boost to drinking water supply in Hyderabad, the Keshavapuram reservoir was completed, ensuring drinking water till 2040 by bringing water from Kaleshwaram LIS through Kondapochamma Sagar. The Water Board also completed Rs 725 crore phase-I project for ORR covering 24 urban local bodies and 18 gram panchayats supplying water to two lakh households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maud-report-cites-water-projects-civic-act-as-achievements/articleshow/76592129.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No oxygen or hospital, only apathy for lawyer||NEW DELHI: A 36-year-old Supreme Court advocate faced nightmares when he tested Coronavirus positive around a week ago. With high fever and a diminishing oxygen level, he waited for someone in the government to get in touch with him. None did. And worse, the day his result came, his entrepreneur wife and two children too began showing symptoms of infection. Surjendu Sankar Das, who lives in south Delhi’s Alaknanda, told TOI about his family’s ordeal. All four of them had followed the lockdown norms and stayed indoors, only going out to buy essentials. “We took all precautions whenever we stepped out of the house,” claimed Das. “But our fear worsened when I developed symptoms of corona infection. I went to get myself tested at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, and since my condition was worsening with breathing becoming difficult, I asked the hospital to admit me. But they claimed they did not have a vacant bed.” A few days after Das’ refusal by the hospital, TOI conducted a reality check on Monday to have the Apollo admission section respondent saying that since the discharge rate of Covid patients was high, beds were available again. On Wednesday at 6.17pm, the hospital had 188 vacant beds as per the Delhi Corona mobile app. Das, however, had to return home dejected. When his breathing difficulty became aggravated, the family searched for an oxygen cylinder on rent, but couldn’t find any. “We also tried contacting the government officials, but in vain. Nothing was working out for us,” the lawyer said. While his fever showed no sign of disappearing, his wife, Rachna Pathak, and the children too exhibited Covid symptoms. “My wife and I frantically made calls to the hospitals for tests and oxygen cylinders, to no avail,” narrated Das. “Delhi government claims that someone gets in touch with every person who tests positive and advises them on how to manage the infection. In our case, nothing happened. Our house wasn’t disinfected either.” Their one-year-old daughter too became feverish. “The kids are totally isolated and so are we. We see them from our room, but can’t touch them,” Das said. “They, of course, miss their mother more than me. They cry and want to come to us, but we are unable to hug them. Our help can’t cook, so the children are surviving on Maggi.” On Tuesday morning, Das called an ambulance to go to the hospital, but faced disappointment once again. With the situation deteriorating for the family, the lawyer, though suffering high fever, took the tough decision to drive to Max Hospital in Saket himself. The bad only got worse — he claimed he was instructed to return home. “We had heard of home tests, so we tried getting someone to come and test us at home, everyone refused. It was only on Wednesday afternoon that a private lab agreed to come to take test samples from my wife,” Das said. Rachna's results are due on Thursday. He said that he was contacted by a Delhi government official on Wednesday, who assured a team would come and disinfect this house on Thursday. Das added that on Wednesday, a police inspector too arrived. “He called me downstairs, saying he wouldn’t step into our house. I kept pleading with him for an oxygen cylinder, but he said that there were none while indicating that ‘having contacts’ could help,” maintained Das. The situation was somewhat saved by a friend finally managing to arrange a portable oxygen concentrator for the lawyer. But that, of course, does not bring the horror story to an end yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-oxygen-or-hospital-only-apathy-for-lawyer/articleshow/76596457.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Cut red-tape for life-saving drugs: Doctor||Mumbai: One of the city’s leading pulmonologists, Dr Jalil Parkar, who recently beat coronavirus, criticised bureaucratic tangles for unavailability of life-saving drugs that could have saved scores of patients over three months. “We are 108 days into the epidemic and patients are still fighting red-tape to get medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab that doctors the world over have found to be effective. A storm was kicked up when we gave plasma therapy to two patients, one of whom survived. Not to mention, there are threats of medico-legal action if all paper work is not in order or rules are not followed. We, as doctors, are trained to save lives. Why should we have to wait even an hour to get lifesaving medicines,” said the doctor, best known as Bal Thackeray’s physician. Dr Parkar said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was the country’s research body and its decisions are appreciated, but fact is drugs are not available for common people without VIP contacts. Dr Parkar had to pull strings to get Remdesivir for his treatment, he said. Despite the drug getting drug controller general’s approval recently, his colleague undergoing treatment at Lilavati Hospital has not got it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cut-red-tape-for-life-saving-drugs-doctor/articleshow/76592276.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||T workers in Saudi to fly home||Hyderabad: Hundreds of workers from the Telugu states are set to return home from Saudi Arabia as a company they were employed with has organised chartered flights for them. The first such flight will land in Hyderabad on Wednesday from Dammam, Saudi Arabia. However, getting permission to land has not been easy for the company. Social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan told TOI that the workers could not travel by the Vande Bharat flights as they could not be accommodated. Expertise Contracting Company, which had employed the workers, organised chartered flights to ferry the workers to their respective states in India. Amjed Ullah Khan brought to the notice of the union civil aviation ministry the plight of workers stuck in Saudi Arabia though the company had taken the responsibility to fly them back in chartered flights. The issue was also taken up with the state government. In a letter to the secretary, ministry of external affairs, the principal secretary (political), general administration department of Telangana on June 20 informed that the state had approved landing of a chartered flight from Dammam on June 25 in Hyderabad following a representation from Mohammed Ashraf of Expertise Contracting Company. The company has so far arranged nine flights to Chennai, Mangalore, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi and the plan was to operate a flight to Hyderabad on June 13, but it did not get permission to land in Hyderabad. Expertise Contracting Company Limited, which had employed the workers, organised chartered flights to ferry the workers to their respective states in India from Saudi Arabia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-in-saudi-to-fly-home/articleshow/76592212.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 25, 2020||Agra||81-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Agra, 2 more deaths in Meerut||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: One more Covid-19 positive patient died in west UP's Agra district on Wednesday. While two new deaths were reported in Meerut, taking the toll to 64, said CMO Dr Raj Kumar. There were also 18 fresh cases in Meerut on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 836, including one found in Kanpur. The positive cases included a lecturer of a dental college, a daily commuter from Noida, a sub-inspector and an employee of house tax department in Nagar Nigam. In Agra, the 81-year-old deceased man was from Arjun Nagar. He was a type 2 diabetes patient and suffered from respiratory failure. The Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 83 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, at least nine new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,166. Nine Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,166 cases, 84.04% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 111 active cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 974 people have recovered.” In Bareilly district, two more cases were reported while there were 23 cases found in Budaun district on Wednesday. Budaun's CMO Dr Yashpal Singh said, “Of these, 12 belong to Bisauli town, 10 are from Budaun city and one from Ujhani.” With five new cases reported in Pilibhit, the tally of those infected has now gone up to 116. Of these, 70 have recovered while 46 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/81-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-agra-2-more-deaths-in-meerut/articleshow/76582824.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Rajkot||Man killed by girlfriend’s father in cold blood||Rajkot: Disapproving the love affair of his daughter, a father in cahoots with eight more assailants allegedly clubbed her 21-year-old boyfriend to death with bats and iron pipes in Sartanpar village of Jasdan taluka in Rajkot district. While the crime was committed on Monday, the deceased, identified as Ashish Rojasara, succumbed to his injuries during treatment at a hospital in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Jasdan police station which had earlier lodged an attempt to murder case converted the offence to murder after Rojasara’s death. Cops booked Manu Makwana, Jayenti Makwana, Vinu Makwana, Prakash Makwana, Budha Makwana and four more unidentified accomplices for the crime. According to police, Manu Makwana was totally against Rojasara and his daughter’s love affair and wanted to remove the man from his daughter’s life anyhow. Along with the eight accomplices, he allegedly plotted Rojasara’s assassination. “While Rojasara was working at a farm, Manu and the co-accused arrived there armed with bats and iron pipes. They attacked Rojasara, hitting him on his head, face, back and feet, rendering him unconscious. The accused then fled from the spot,” said K R Rawat, inspector with Jasdan police station. “Father Jayenti Rojasara rushed his grievously injured son first to Botad Civil Hospital, from where he was taken to Bhavnagar hospital and then to Ahmedabad. However, Rojasara succumbed to his injuries,” said Rawat, adding that the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-by-girlfriends-father-in-cold-blood/articleshow/76588162.cms||---
June 25, 2020||India||Loud and clear: Learning over loudspeakers amid lockdown||DUMKA: A village school in Jharkhand's Dumka district has given distance learning in the time of lockdown a new spin by using strategically placed loudspeakers to reach out to students who don’t have smartphones for online classes. Shyam Kishore Gandhi, the principal of Bankathi Upgraded Middle School, came up with the idea of using a network of loudspeakers connected to a microphone for lessons after learning that 204 out of 246 students do not have access to a smartphone. The microphone is placed on a stone slab in the village chowk while the loudspeakers sit on treetops at multiple locations so that the students get to hear their teachers loud and clear from the courtyard of a home, atop a terrace or wherever it is convenient for them to study without being disturbed. “Since only 42 of our students had access to mobile data, we had to innovate to ensure nobody was left behind. With lessons over loudspeakers, social distancing is being maintained and children are not missing out on their studies despite not having smartphones,” the principal said. Attendance has been close to 100% on most days, and nobody in the village has yet complained about the unusual aural experience of loudspeakers blaring science, mathematics, geography or language lessons. Manisha Marandi, a Class VII student, said she took to the new way of learning without much difficulty. “In the early days of the lockdown, I had to visit classmates who have smartphones for online classes. But understanding what is being taught over loudspeakers is way easier than peering into a small screen and trying to grasp what our teachers are saying.” Tribal-dominated Dumka district hasn't reported any Covid case since June 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/loud-and-clear-learning-over-loudspeakers-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76608581.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 25, 2020||Agra||Police complaint against Priyanka Gandhi over ‘misleading’ Agra Covid deaths tweet||Agra: Hours after Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh issued a notice to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi over a ‘false’ tweet about Covid-19 deaths, a BJP district-level functionary has approached the police seeking an FIR in this regard.Tagging a media report, Gandhi had on Monday tweeted that 28 novel coronavirus patients who were hospitalised have died within 48 hours in Agra. She had described it as a “matter of shame” for the Uttar Pradesh government, accusing it of suppressing the truth.On Tuesday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha district unit vice-president Govind Chahar filed a complaint at Sadar police station accusing Gandhi of misleading people on social media regarding the deaths of Covid patients in the Taj city. He said, “The misleading tweet by Priyanka Gandhi has caused public disturbance. It is aimed at maligning the image of the state government and the district administration. We have filed a formal complaint at the Sadar police station for an FIR against the Congress general secretary under the Information Technology Act.” Agra senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar said, “Based on the complaint, we have started a preliminary inquiry. No FIR has been registered yet.” Meanwhile, Congress district president Manoj Sharma accused the BJP workers of unnecessarily gathering at the police station violating social distancing norms. He said, “Around 10 BJP workers went to Sadar police station to file a complaint against the Congress general secretary. This was done in violation of the social distancing protocol in the wake of Covid-19. The SSP should take cognizance of the CCTV footage and register a case against the BJP men under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/police-complaint-against-priyanka-gandhi-over-misleading-agra-covid-deaths-tweet/articleshow/76582894.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Flower market temporarily shifted to school ground||Coimbatore: The flower vendors, who were forced to leave the market on the Mettupalayam Road after the city corporation sealed the area as part of the Covid-19 containment measures, resumed business on the Devanga Higher Secondary School ground on Wednesday. The old market had to be closed as it was cramped and people could not follow social distancing norms, a corporation official said. “The temporary arrangement on the school ground was made to ensure that their livelihood is not affected,” he said. The corporation has earmarked 6X6 feet spaces for each vendor on the ground, where as many as 115 stalls can be set up. The vendors have been asked to do business on rotation. The shops will function from 6am to 4pm. The civic body is constructing a spacious flower market opposite to the existing one on the Mettupalayam Road, the official said. “The vendors will be shifted to the new facility after the work finishes in 10 days.”Flower vendors welcomed the move. Selling flowers on the school ground is better than selling on streets and they cannot afford to lose the business, they said.K K Ayyappan, trustee of the Kovai District Flower Merchant Association, said they wanted to ensure that the flower market does not become a hotspot after the Koyambedu market fiasco. “We have deputed four volunteers of the association to make sure that only people with face masks enter the ground. Steps have been taken to provide sanitizer to all. Police personnel have been deployed to enforce social distancing norms. Arrangements have been made to create awareness through public addressing systems.”Single-use plastic items are banned and customers have to bring containers to collect flowers, Ayyappan said. “We allowed them to carry flowers in paper covers and sacks on Wednesday as it was the first day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flower-market-temporarily-shifted-to-school-ground/articleshow/76592284.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||600 new ventilators to boost medical infrastructure in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 fight in terms of ramping up medical infrastructure recently got a shot in the arm with the Centre providing 425 new ventilators to Delhi government. Another 165 ventilators will be reaching the capital’s hospitals in the first week of July taking the total number of new life-saving machines to 590. As of now, there are 167 ventilators available in state-run hospitals — Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty, Guru Teg Bahadur and Deep Chand Bandhu — while another 181 are in the Centre’s AIIMS (Delhi and Jhajjar), Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia and Lady Hardinge. Recently, Delhi government purchased 11 of the life-saving machines. The new machines arriving in the next two weeks in the Centre and state-run healthcare facilities will take the total number of ventilators to 949. Private health facilities in Delhi have another 387 ventilators. This will take the total number of machines in the city’s hospitals above the 1,300 mark. According to Delhi government’s mobile app, a total of 735 ventilators are currently available in the city’s hospitals, both government and private. Of these, 491 were occupied and 244 vacant till late on Wednesday. Experts say about 2.1-2.2% of the total Covid-positive cases in the country are categorised as serious, which require ICU beds or ventilators. “As per the trend so far, even if the number of active coronavirus cases crosses 60,000, we should have sufficient number of ventilators available for serious patients,” said an official. Delhi government’s nodal officer for procurement and supplies, Sanjay Goel, said the Centre had agreed to provide more ventilators, if the need arose. “Depending on the surge in cases, the number of ventilators can be increased,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/600-new-ventilators-to-boost-medical-infrastructure-in-city/articleshow/76596560.cms||Atul Mathur
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Temp rises as monsoon weakens in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After timely arrival in Telangana, the southwest monsoon activity over the city has weakened, resulting in significant rise in temperature over the last few days. Though the city received sporadic rainfall of up to 22 mm on Wednesday, it failed to bring down the mercury levels as the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad said that southwest monsoon has been weak over Telangana. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Patancheru received highest rainfall of 22.5 mm followed by Jagadgirigutta (22 mm), Allwyn Colony (21.3 mm) among others. Onset of southwest monsoon had led to a significant drop in mercury levels in the city on June 12 with the maximum temperature dropping to 28.4 degree Celsius, which was seven degree Celsius below normal. However, absence of persistent rainfall activity for the past few days led to increase in maximum temperature which was recorded at 35.8 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Meteorologists said it is as a regular phenomenon every year wherein southwest monsoon is weak during June.  “There is no system such as cyclonic circulation, depression or trough over Telangana which may cause rainfall activity. Due to this, the southwest monsoon activity is weak. Rise in maximum temperature led to formation of cumulonimbus clouds resulting in sporadic rains in parts of city,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad. Meteorologists predict that intensity of rainfall is likely to increase from June 27. Heavy rains are also likely to occur at some places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temp-rises-as-monsoon-weakens/articleshow/76592258.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Skeletal remains of woman murdered in 2014 exhumed||Coimbatore: Police on Wednesday exhumed the remains of a 28-year-old woman, who was allegedly murdered by her mother, uncle and mother’s lover six years ago at Veerapandi here.Abul Kasar, 60, and his wife Sagayarani, 54, residents of Velan Nagar, had lodged a complaint with the Veerapandi police in June 2014 after their daughter Esther Baby went missing.In March this year, the Pallikarani police in Chennai arrested Xavier Arul, 50, younger brother of Sagayarani, in connection with a murder case. Kasar informed the Tirupur police that his daughter had gone missing after Arul visited his house. A team was sent to interrogate Arul, who was lodged in the Puzhal prison.“The deceased had found out that her mother was having a relationship with their neighbour Bakiyaraj, 38. Arul, Sagayarani and Bakiyaraj killed the girl and buried the body near their house in Veerapandi,” a police officer said.A medical team exhumed the skeletal remains and sent them for forensic examination.Police have altered the case to include 302 (Punishment for murder) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested Sagayarani and Bakiyaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/skeletal-remains-of-woman-murdered-in-2014-exhumed/articleshow/76592255.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pedestrian plaza work along OMR may take off soon||CHENNAI: The 2km stretch of Old Mahabalipuram Road from Kasturba Nagar MRTS to SRP Tools along the MRTS railway line will soon boast of an easily accessible green space. The Rs 20-crore project comprises a pedestrian plaza on one side in a 10m-20m space and a miyawaki forest on the other taking over a 15m space. Seating areas, an informal amphitheatre and some beautification structures are planned along the pedestrian plaza. The tender process is ongoing and the project will be completed in about six months from when construction begins. Landscape architect at LandTech AEPC Private Limited Nithya S, who designed the space, said the idea was to create a visible green stretch in Chennai. “People can enjoy the view of the canal and also spend some recreational time as cycle tracks, walking tracks will also be set up,” she said. Officials said the company that will handle this project will be finalised only after lockdown. Urban designer Mark Selvaraj said the stretch was selected for the project as it was along a water body and is a linear space. “This would create a visual impact and also provide a recreational space in the heart of the city. The space under the MRTS, which was lying idle so far, will be used,” he said. The civic body had initially planned on setting up sewage treatment plants (STP) along the stretch to deal with the water in the Buckingham Canal, but the plan was dropped due to various constraints. “For now, we will plug inlets bringing sewage into the canal in this stretch and will also have micro level interventions. But we have left scope for STPs and have also allocated a budget for them. Based on approval, it will be set up,” said a corporation official, adding that the water is relatively clean. “Without STPs, however, the project is incomplete. The vendor will clean up the garbage and construction debris lying on the canal banks. The water treatment part will be taken up later,” he said. Residents also added that the project won’t take off among the public if there is no STP. “It’s a waste of money. Why would people come to a place that has a bad stench,” asked Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pedestrian-plaza-work-along-omr-may-take-off-soon/articleshow/76592336.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mysuru||Volunteers team to be formed at village level to raise awareness||Mysuru: Concerned about SARI, ILI and suspected Covid-19 cases going unnoticed and leading to community spread, the state rural development and panchayat raj department has asked all taluk panchayat executive officers to constitute ten-member volunteer teams to raise awareness in all villages and help the administration contain the spread of virus. The teams will have volunteers between the ages of 18 -45 years and with no health complications. As per the circular issued by department, the volunteer teams will implement the action plan proposed by the government at grass root level. The teams will comprise volunteers working at several non governmental organisations and ASHA workers familiar with the villagers. They will be asked to work closely with the community on Covid-19 awareness and the rules notified by the government from time to time. “The committee will be helpful in many ways. From creating awareness to alerting the suspected cases, early diagnosis, follow up of people arrived from other places etc. They will also educate villagers on the precautionary measure to be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Mysuru taluk panchayat executive officer CR Krishna Kumar. “Panchayat members, ASHA workers, panchayat development officers and volunteers will be part of the team. As they are familiar with their villages, it will be helpful for us to keep track of all the developments,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/volunteers-team-to-be-formed-at-village-level-to-raise-awareness/articleshow/76590643.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Shallot prices to remain stable||Coimbatore: Shallot prices will remain stable in the prevailing market price of Rs 32-35 per kilogram in the coming days, the domestic and export market intelligence cell of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) said.In a release on Wednesday, the cell said shallots have started to arrive from Dharapuram, Udumalpet, and Pollachi, and also from Mysuru and Kollegal from Karnataka. “Because of the Covid-19 crisis, export is not picking up to the southeast Asian countries. Arrivals from Karnataka are expected to be normal and around late-June, arrivals from Mysuru and Chamarajpet will hit the Tamil Nadu markets,” it said.The cell analysed historical prices that prevailed in the Dindigul market over the last 20 years and deduced that the farm gate prices of good quality shallots till the end of August will be Rs 36-Rs 38/kg. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shallot-prices-to-remain-stable/articleshow/76592343.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Rally by murder accused: HC seeks reply from Vadodara police||Vadodara: The Gujarat high court has asked Vadodara city police to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a law student over the rally taken out by a murder accused after getting bail.The law student Suyash Sahay’s advocate Jaidev Acharya said that the court issued notice to the police department asking to file a detailed response on every issue raided by them in the PIL. The bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice J B Pardiwala will take up the case for further hearing on Friday.Sahay had asked the court to direct police to set up an inquiry against cops who did not stop the rally taken out by the accused Suraj Kahar and his supporters. He also requested the court to direct police to form code of conduct so that no such rallies take place in future.Kahar was released by a sessions court on June 4. He and his friends had allegedly killed an HR executive in February over road rage. After getting out of the jail Kahar boarded a luxurious red car and stood through the sunroof while heading towards his home in Warasia. His friends drove two-wheelers around the car and honked incessantly as if celebrating his release from the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rally-by-murder-accused-hc-seeks-reply-from-vadodara-police/articleshow/76587142.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Slum clearance board to build 3 housing units||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board will construct three housing units in Coimbatore, two near Perur bypass at South Ukkadam and one at Variety Hall Road, to accommodate over 1,744 families within the city limit. This includes the families who were forced to vacate their houses at CMC Colony because of the upcoming flyover at Ukkadam. The board has decided to rebuild two dilapidated housing units – one at CMC Colony in South Ukkadam and another at Variety Hall Road – and construct a third housing unit afresh at CMC Colony in the city. About 737 families living at CMC Colony have been asked to vacate their houses to facilitate the construction of the Ukkadam–Athupalam flyover. Obliging to requests of the residents not to shift them to distant places, the board has said it will construct a new housing unit for them at the colony itself.“A new housing unit would be constructed near the flyover for 492 families. Each house will be 400 square feet and the construction cost is Rs 9.5 lakh,” said a board official. The housing unit will be completed in 18 months. The corporation has decided to provide its land near the sewage farm at Pullukadu for the residents to set up temporarily shelter during the construction period. A one-time payment of Rs 8,000 would be provided as shifting charges to the families once they vacate the houses, he added. For the remaining 245 houses, the board has allotted flats at its housing units at Vellalore and Ukkadam. On Wednesday, Coimbatore south MLA Amman K Arjunan distributed tokens for alternative accommodation at the housing units to the residents at the Corporation higher secondary school at Okkiliyar Colony. Meanwhile, the board has floated tenders to demolish and reconstruct the decades-old housing unit at the CMC Colony. “Talks are being held to allow the residents to set up temporary shelter at Pullukadu itself,” the official said. The housing unit will have as many as 820 flats. At the Variety Hall Road housing unit, the residents have been setting up temporary shelters at the corporation ground. “The reconstruction work will commence as soon as they vacate,” the official added. The housing unit has about 432 families. A resident of CMC Colony, V Jothi said corporation officials had orally asked them to vacate but had not given them any specific deadline. “As most of us don’t have any work during the lockdown period, we have sought the assistance of a trust to help us set up a temporary shelter and they have agreed,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/slum-clearance-board-to-build-3-housing-units/articleshow/76592312.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Covid claims cop at forefront of migrant crisis||Mumbai/Kalyan: A 55-year-old senior inspector of Kashimira traffic police and a 45-year-old Manpada constable have died of Covid-19. The inspector was at the forefront of handling the migrant exodus during lockdown. He and his wife were admitted to SevenHills hospital (Andheri) a week back. His condition worsened on Monday. This is the first death of a cop due to Covid-19 in Mira-Bhayander and with these two deaths the state toll has touched 53. He was a familiar face at Ghodbunder Road junction on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway, when migrants walked to reach home states. Colleagues recalled how he played a key role in dissuading migrants from walking. He had convinced many to return home or to camps here and await a government order on train or road travel. The constable died in Dombivli on Monday before he could get admitted to a Covid-19 hospital. His test report came on Tuesday. He is the third to die of Covid-19, while over 200 have been infected in Thane commissionerate, of which 25 are in Kalyan. He is survived by his wife and two school-going children. Colleagues said he suddenly went on leave after complaining about fever on June 18. Sources said on June 22, when he had a problem breathing, his family took him to Rukminibai hospital (Kalyan) and he was tested at a private laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-claims-cop-at-forefront-of-migrant-crisis/articleshow/76592459.cms||Sandhya Nair
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC grants bail to AAP MLA in doctor suicide case||NEW DELHI: AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal was on Wednesday granted bail by Delhi high court in connection with the alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi. The court said he is not required for further investigation and trial will take substantial time. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait observed that the deceased Rajendra Singh committed suicide on April 18, but there were no allegations against Jarwal in the suicide note and a diary recovered by police. “Thus, it seems, there is no proximity and link in alleged commission of offence,” the court noted. Regarding the allegations of extortion of money for Delhi Assembly election held in February, 2020 from tanker owners, the court said there was no complaint by family members of the deceased or any other tanker owner. A complaint was found only in the “dairy and suicide note”, some of which are without signature and in different handwriting, it noted. Regarding the allegations of threat and influencing the witnesses, the court said police have already taken note of that and if in future any incident of this nature happens, the police are at liberty to take action against such a person as per the law. It added that the MLA’s brother Anil Jarwal whose name was also mentioned in suicide note has already been granted anticipatory bail by a trial court and granted bail to Prakash Jarwal on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000 and a surety of the like amount. It directed Jarwal not to contact or influence the prosecution witnesses in any manner. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. Jarwal’s close aide Kapil Nagar is co-accused in the case. Both were earlier involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, and police alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, was arrested on May 9, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against him and others based on a police complaint by the doctor's son — Hemant. The MLA, represented through senior advocate Rebecca John argued that the alleged suicide note was fabricated and it is in two different handwritings with different pens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-grants-bail-to-aap-mla-in-doc-suicide-case/articleshow/76596576.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Congress to observe ‘Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas’ on June 26||JAIPUR: As a tribute to the brave soldiers who were martyred in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh, the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee will observe June 26 as ‘Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas’ at the district and block levels across the state. Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot said, on June 26 from 11 am to 12 noon, Congressmen will pay homage to the martyrs by sitting at the Martyr Memorial or Mahatma Gandhi statue or the site related to freedom fighters in their respective areas. Pilot said an online social media campaign by the name ‘Speak up for our martyrs’ will be held on the same day, by posting live videos and photos of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-observe-shaheedon-ko-salam-diwas-on-june-26/articleshow/76596593.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ajmer||Monsoon hits Rajasthan a day early||JAIPUR: Now, it’s official. Southwest monsoon entered Rajasthan on Wednesday, a day ahead of predicted time by the meteorological department. In its forecast, the department had said that monsoon will hit the state on June 25. However, due to increased humidity and favourable conditions, monsoon swept across the southern districts of the state in the morning. Now, it is moving towards western Rajasthan. It is going to cover the entire state between June 28 and July 1. According to the department, southwest monsoon covered Banswara Dungarpur Jhalawar districts in the morning. Now, it is moving towards Barmer, Jalore, Jaisalmer, Jodhopur and Pali. Jaipur witnessed cloudy conditions, however, it didn’t convert into rainfall. “Jaipur is likely to get its monsoon rainfall in the next 48 hours,” said an officer. “While covering 12 districts, including Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran and Bhilwara, southwest monsoon also arrived in some parts of Ajmer and Sawaimadhopur,” said Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office while talking to TOI on Wednesday. By the evening, southwest monsoon covered 14 districts in the state. “It has arrived a day prior to its actual date of arrival. In the last 10 years, monsoon had entered state on June 15 only once in 2013. However, it usually arrived by June 25. Also, this was the third time when monsoon arrived ahead of time.” The meteorological office further stated that conditions are favourable for progress of monsoon in other districts of the state. “There is a possibility that Jaipur is going to get its first monsoon rainfall by Friday,” said an officer. The department stated that many places in southern and eastern Rajasthan are likely to get excess rainfall, while some districts in western Rajasthan are likely to get abnormal rainfall. In its forecast, the department said many places in the state are likely to get moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours. In 2019, almost 18 districts had got abnormal rainfall, six districts received excess rainfall, seven districts get scanty rainfall and three districts receive deficit rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/monsoon-hits-raj-a-day-early/articleshow/76616348.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: District education officer held for bribery||JAIPUR: The ACB on Wednesday arrested Ram Singh, the chief district education officer of Tonk, for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000. ACB (DG) Alok Tripathi said the complainant, a teacher in a government school, complainanat had filed a complaint with ACB mentioning that Singh had been demanding bride for payment of printing of examination papers. He mentioned that there was an agent through which he demanded the amount. A police team under Neeraj Bhardwaj conducted the verification of the amount and arrested the accused. A government teacher Sita Ram Agarwal has also been arrested for helping Singh. In another raid, the ACB arrested one Pramod Sharma, owner of a tour and travel agency, for allegedly accepting Rs 5 lakh bribe from a complainant who alleged that he demanded the money for benefitting him in ACR filing. He allegedly demanded bribe in the name of deputy director general of police Bharatpur range. The complainant is station house officer of Udhyog Nagar in Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/district-edu-officer-held-for-bribery/articleshow/76596621.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Folk artists told to register with welfare board||Coimbatore: Folk artists who practise performing art forms have been showing lukewarm interest to register with the Folk Artists Welfare Board under the state department of art and culture, say officials and representatives of forums that promote folk arts.The Tamil Nadu Folk Artists Welfare Board had given Rs 2,000 special assistance during the Covid-19 lockdown to 24,588 folk artists across the state, whose livelihoods had been affected by the lockdown, said B Hemanathan, assistant director of the Regional Art and Culture Centre in Salem. The board has 35,644 registered members. “Of them, 24,588 are eligible members, who are still in the performance sphere. We gave them the assistance fund,” he told TOI.In Coimbatore, there are only 718 registered members in the board, and among them 505 eligible people have been given the Covid-19 assistance fund, he said.Folk artists said March-June was their ‘season’, when they get to perform in temples and festivals. As this year the season has almost gone past in lockdown, which prevented gatherings and festivals, they said their income for almost the whole year has been lost. Over the past weeks, several artist groups said they had not received the special assistance, as they had not registered with the welfare board. “However, they have not been forthcoming to register. After we started giving the assistance funds, only 140 people turned up to register,” Hemanathan said.Representatives of folk art forums seconded this and said artists need to be responsible and get themselves registered. M Harikrishnan, who runs Kalari Heritage and Charitable Trust in Salem, which promotes, documents and teaches folk arts, said in several instances, artists were careless about such government initiatives. “The department has been reaching out to artists to enrol them in the welfare board. Artists should make use of it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/folk-artists-told-to-register-with-welfare-board/articleshow/76592371.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Megalithic cairn circle found in Tirupur||Coimbatore: Archaeological researchers and enthusiasts in Tirupur have stumbled upon a megalithic cairn circle, which according to experts is around 3,000 years old, in Samanthan Kottai village in Avinashi taluk.Members of Tirupur Varalaatru Suvadugal, an archaeological forum, found the cairn circle earlier this month, while they were in pursuit of locating and documenting archaeological sites and symbols. They subsequently consulted with experts, who confirmed the structure to be a megalithic one.Cairn circles are essentially circular structures made of big boulders that are erected as memorials for the deceased. These circles are a kind of megalithic memorials, which include slab cists, dolmen cists, and menhirs, according to the researchers of the forum.Stephen Mudiarasu, a researcher and representative of the forum, said the structure has two concentric circles of boulders, and the outer diameter was around 32ft. Each boulder would be around 150kg to 200kg and the structure was situated at an elevated area – 15ft from the surface level.The distinguishing feature of the structure, he said, was the heap of smaller stones inside the circles. “This is a rare finding in this region. We have seen such structures in Dharmapuri and other places, but not here. The two-layered stone circle and the heap of smaller stones inside are notable.”Mudiarasu said they had identified around seven such sites within 0.5km to 1km from the Kousika river so far.R Poonkundran, former assistant director of the state archaeology department, said the age of the structure would be around 2,500-3,000 years. “These megalithic structures are raised over a grave. If not a body, a bone or any other belonging of the deceased would be buried, and such a structure would be formed over it. Sometimes, smaller stones would be dumped inside the circle in a heap, as in this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/megalithic-cairn-circle-found-in-tirupur/articleshow/76592385.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Chennai returnee flouts Covid-19 norms, booked||Coimbatore: Sending out a strong message to the people, the city corporation has booked a 38-year-old man at KK Pudur under the Epidemic Diseases Act for not remaining in home quarantine that too after entering the district from Chennai without the mandatory e-pass. While he hadn’t informed the control room about his arrival, neighbours spotted him and alerted the city he corporation.The west zone sanitary inspector said Subramaniyam, a resident of Balasubramaniam Street, had come back from Chennai, where he owns a house, on June 5. “After the arrival, he could have called the control room. But he did not do that. More importantly, he also did not remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Instead, he went around meeting people and visiting restaurants and shops during the period. The neighbours, who were in a state of fear, called us.”The city corporation has booked Subramaniyam under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and under Sections 269 and 188 of the Penal Code. It has also stuck the quarantine sticker outside his house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chennai-returnee-flouts-covid-19-norms-booked/articleshow/76592408.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RWAs write to lieutenant governor, question new norm||NEW DELHI: Residents’ welfare associations from various parts of the city have demanded a review of the recent government order as per which people who test positive for the novel coronavirus will have to visit Covid Care centres. In a joint letter written to the Delhi’s lieutenant governor on Wednesday, over 30 RWAs questioned the purpose of the long process. They argued that the same process could be done through teleconsultation which would minimise the risk of the infection spread. “Considering a significant number of people tested positive are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, doctors can check via phones if they have the facility for home isolation or not. History of comorbidities can be obtained through teleconsultation easily. Still if doctors feel, they can call patients to the centres,” said Dr Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Vihar RWA. In the letter, which has also been marked to the chief minister and the deputy chief minister of Delhi, the RWAs clarified that most of the colonies in A, B and C categories (based on property tax categorisation) will surely meet the defined home isolation criteria. “Authorities can anytime verify the information given by the patients. This will help save the asymptomatic patients from the risk of contracting other non-Covid communicable diseases at the care centres,” said Vani Aggrawal, general secretary, RWA, Chattarpur Enclave Phase-2. Residents said that rules of home isolation were very much laid out and introducing frequent changes and guidelines would lead to confusion. “A corona patient develops symptoms after five-six days of infection and chances of his situation worsening may arise after a week. Visiting the centre once may not help much,” claimed Samrat Yadav, president, Anand Lok RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-write-to-lg-question-new-norm/articleshow/76596806.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Two new plants at Rs 5,000 crore to power Greater Chennai area||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has ordered preparation of a detailed project report to set up two re-gasified liquified natural gas-based power plants with a combined capacity of 1,460MW to supply power exclusively to Greater Chennai area. The projects are being planned at the site vacated by GMR at Basin Bridge. The two plants would cost Rs 5,000 crore. Imported gas for the plant will be provided by Indian Oil through pipeline from Ennore refinery. At present, Tangedco has 516MW gas-based plants in Cauvery delta basin and in the dry belt of Ramanathapuram. “We have appointed a consultant for preparing a detailed project report. Once Covid-19 subsides, things will move fast. We hope to have the two units running in the next three years,” said a senior Tangedco official. The Basin Bridge units would be different from the ones that are already functional. “For the units in the Cauvery basin and Ramanathapuram, we are using gas from the same basin. But the one at Basin Bridge will use imported LNG,” said the official. There is enough land in the area. The four units of GMR, each with a capacity of 46MW, were occupying about 30 acres. The GMR units initially used diesel as fuel and later the plants used low sulphur heavy stock. But in 2018, due to high cost of fuel, the units were decommissioned. Pollution was another reason for the decommissioning, said the official. For Tangedco, the average cost of power production of the gas-based units available now, is around Rs 3 per unit, but the cost may increase based on the gas price in the future.  “At present, we stock gas in Ennore and provide to a few companies in and around Ennore. For the Basin Bridge project, we are ready to provide any amount of LNG as very soon, we will be laying pipelines throughout Tamil Nadu to supply gas,” said a senior Indian Oil Corporation official. “We have assured Tangedco of supplying enough gas to fulfil their requirement. Tangedco has to come back to us with the exact requirement,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-new-plants-at-rs-5000cr-to-power-greater-chennai-area/articleshow/76592377.cms||B Sivakumar
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon hits Rajasthan a day early||JAIPUR: Now, it’s official. Southwest monsoon entered Rajasthan on Wednesday, a day ahead of predicted time by the meteorological department. In its forecast, the department had said that monsoon will hit the state on June 25. However, due to increased humidity and favourable conditions, monsoon swept across the southern districts of the state in the morning. Now, it is moving towards western Rajasthan. It is going to cover the entire state between June 28 and July 1. According to the department, southwest monsoon covered Banswara Dungarpur Jhalawar districts in the morning. Now, it is moving towards Barmer, Jalore, Jaisalmer, Jodhopur and Pali. Jaipur witnessed cloudy conditions, however, it didn’t convert into rainfall. “Jaipur is likely to get its monsoon rainfall in the next 48 hours,” said an officer. “While covering 12 districts, including Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran and Bhilwara, southwest monsoon also arrived in some parts of Ajmer and Sawaimadhopur,” said Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office while talking to TOI on Wednesday. By the evening, southwest monsoon covered 14 districts in the state. “It has arrived a day prior to its actual date of arrival. In the last 10 years, monsoon had entered state on June 15 only once in 2013. However, it usually arrived by June 25. Also, this was the third time when monsoon arrived ahead of time.” The meteorological office further stated that conditions are favourable for progress of monsoon in other districts of the state. “There is a possibility that Jaipur is going to get its first monsoon rainfall by Friday,” said an officer. The department stated that many places in southern and eastern Rajasthan are likely to get excess rainfall, while some districts in western Rajasthan are likely to get abnormal rainfall. In its forecast, the department said many places in the state are likely to get moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours. In 2019, almost 18 districts had got abnormal rainfall, six districts received excess rainfall, seven districts get scanty rainfall and three districts receive deficit rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-hits-raj-a-day-early/articleshow/76596654.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Monster fire destroys diaper factory||AHMEDABAD: A raging fire broke out at the manufacturing facility of sanitary products maker Unicharm India Pvt Ltd at Sanand, its smoke rising to a height of at least 400 metres and covering an equal distance on the ground, destroying the entire factory in the process. The raging inferno, according to a fire official, is perhaps the worst fire incident the state has seen in the last one decade. All 572 staffers were evacuated from the factory premises safely and no casualties or injuries were reported, company sources said. The enormity of the fire can be gauged from the fact that 36 units of fire-fighting vehicles and 125 personnel battled the fire all day long after it erupted at 8.45am. Fire officials said it will take till Thursday to bring the fire completely under control. Company sources said that the incident took place around 8.45am, when the morning shift was on. The factory at Sanand, is a subsidiary of Japanese FMCG firm Unicharm Corporation, famous for its MammyPoko brand. An industrialist who was on his way to his facility at Sanand said he saw huge dark clouds hovering in the sky from a distance and mistook them as rain clouds. Only when he reached a little closer to the Unicharm facility, did he realize that the factory was on fire. The land for the project had been given by Gujarat Industrial Development Corp to the company in 2016. Unicharm had proposed an investment of Rs 1,000 crore in the Sanand facility which is billed as one its largest manufacturing facilities spread across an area of over 3 lakh square metres, said sources in GIDC. Initially, fire tankers and fire fighters from the factories of Tata Motors, Ford India Pvt Ltd were rushed to the spot. Even Sanand Nagarpalika and Dholka Nagarpalika officials joined the fight to douse the fire before the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) team of fire-fighters could arrive at the spot, said a GIDC official. Rajesh Bhatt, deputy chief fire officer, AMC, said since the first line of fire control was available with the company, all of the 572 employees present at the factory were rescued in time. He said that it took three hours to control the fire to an extent and clear the smoke. The fire-fighters ensured that the damage due to fire did not spread further, he added. Prima facie it seemed that the fire was due to a short-circuit, Bhatt said. Union home minister Amit Shah said in a social media post, “A fire incident has taken place at a factory in Sanand of Ahmedabad district. I am in contact with the district collector and concerned officials. To control the fire, teams of fire brigade have reached and along with them a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also arrived.” Till 6pm on Wednesday, about 25 lakh litres of water was used and according to a senior fire department official, only 50% of the fire was controlled. It will take another 24 hours of fire-fighting to douse the fire completely, he added. Ahmedabad district SP, R V Asari, said that fire-fighting was still on and no casualty has been reported. Asari, said it was the worst incident of industrial fire in the state. Despite several attempts, Unicharm did not send any official statement till the time of this report. The Japanese company is among the leading players in India’s sanitary products and diaper market. The company also exports the products manufactured at its Sanand facility. Sanand fire station demand hanging fireAfter the fire at the Unicharm factory in Sanand GIDC came to light, representatives of the Sanand Industries Association (SIA) raised the issue of absence of a fire brigade station in Sanand. “Since the past eight years, we have sought to set up fire brigade services in Sanand. However, the same has not been fulfilled yet. Had a fire station been set up in the GIDC premises itself, damage of this scale could have been prevented,” said Ajit Shah, president, SIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monster-fire-destroys-diaper-factory/articleshow/76592577.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Monsoon hits Rajasthan a day early||JAIPUR: Now, it’s official. Southwest monsoon entered Rajasthan on Wednesday, a day ahead of predicted time by the meteorological department. In its forecast, the department had said that monsoon will hit the state on June 25. However, due to increased humidity and favourable conditions, monsoon swept across the southern districts of the state in the morning. Now, it is moving towards western Rajasthan. It is going to cover the entire state between June 28 and July 1. According to the department, southwest monsoon covered Banswara Dungarpur Jhalawar districts in the morning. Now, it is moving towards Barmer, Jalore, Jaisalmer, Jodhopur and Pali. Jaipur witnessed cloudy conditions, however, it didn’t convert into rainfall. “Jaipur is likely to get its monsoon rainfall in the next 48 hours,” said an officer. “While covering 12 districts, including Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran and Bhilwara, southwest monsoon also arrived in some parts of Ajmer and Sawaimadhopur,” said Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office while talking to TOI on Wednesday. By the evening, southwest monsoon covered 14 districts in the state. “It has arrived a day prior to its actual date of arrival. In the last 10 years, monsoon had entered state on June 15 only once in 2013. However, it usually arrived by June 25. Also, this was the third time when monsoon arrived ahead of time.” The meteorological office further stated that conditions are favourable for progress of monsoon in other districts of the state. “There is a possibility that Jaipur is going to get its first monsoon rainfall by Friday,” said an officer. The department stated that many places in southern and eastern Rajasthan are likely to get excess rainfall, while some districts in western Rajasthan are likely to get abnormal rainfall. In its forecast, the department said many places in the state are likely to get moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours. In 2019, almost 18 districts had got abnormal rainfall, six districts received excess rainfall, seven districts get scanty rainfall and three districts receive deficit rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/monsoon-hits-raj-a-day-early/articleshow/76616346.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Udaipur||Monsoon hits Rajasthan a day early||JAIPUR: Now, it’s official. Southwest monsoon entered Rajasthan on Wednesday, a day ahead of predicted time by the meteorological department. In its forecast, the department had said that monsoon will hit the state on June 25. However, due to increased humidity and favourable conditions, monsoon swept across the southern districts of the state in the morning. Now, it is moving towards western Rajasthan. It is going to cover the entire state between June 28 and July 1. According to the department, southwest monsoon covered Banswara Dungarpur Jhalawar districts in the morning. Now, it is moving towards Barmer, Jalore, Jaisalmer, Jodhopur and Pali. Jaipur witnessed cloudy conditions, however, it didn’t convert into rainfall. “Jaipur is likely to get its monsoon rainfall in the next 48 hours,” said an officer. “While covering 12 districts, including Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran and Bhilwara, southwest monsoon also arrived in some parts of Ajmer and Sawaimadhopur,” said Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office while talking to TOI on Wednesday. By the evening, southwest monsoon covered 14 districts in the state. “It has arrived a day prior to its actual date of arrival. In the last 10 years, monsoon had entered state on June 15 only once in 2013. However, it usually arrived by June 25. Also, this was the third time when monsoon arrived ahead of time.” The meteorological office further stated that conditions are favourable for progress of monsoon in other districts of the state. “There is a possibility that Jaipur is going to get its first monsoon rainfall by Friday,” said an officer. The department stated that many places in southern and eastern Rajasthan are likely to get excess rainfall, while some districts in western Rajasthan are likely to get abnormal rainfall. In its forecast, the department said many places in the state are likely to get moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours. In 2019, almost 18 districts had got abnormal rainfall, six districts received excess rainfall, seven districts get scanty rainfall and three districts receive deficit rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/monsoon-hits-raj-a-day-early/articleshow/76616344.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Agra||Pregnant woman out to relieve herself in a field gives birth, newborn taken away by wild animal||Agra: A pregnant woman, 26, who lived in a UP village declared open defecation free (ODF) by the government, delivered a child in an open field where she had gone to relieve herself on Tuesday morning. Tragically, the newborn was taken away by some wild animal soon after the birth as the woman lay unconscious there near Chambal ravines, far away from any medical assistance. There was no trace of the newborn, a boy, till Wednesday night. The incident took place in Jodhapura village of Agra. After the woman, Shilpi Chauhan, didn’t turn up for hours, her family members launched a search and found her lying in a pool of blood. She was rushed to a private hospital where her condition is stable now. She told later, “I had gone to the field to relieve myself. But I got labour pain there and gave birth to a boy. Soon after that, I fell unconscious. However, when my relatives found me after two hours, the baby was missing.” Speaking to TOI, her husband Sunil Chauhan said, “Every family in the village has a toilet built with the help of government aid. But when I contacted gram pradhan Gajendra Singh for financial aid, he refused to help saying my residential address in Aadhaar was of Ragunathpura. However, when I showed documents of ancestral property, including the farms, he accepted that my original roots are of Jodhapura village.” But the toilet was not built. Shilpi and Sunil had moved back to their ancestral home three years ago from Ragunathpura. After the incident, senior district officials comprising sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Bah, Abdul Basit, block development officer Pinhat, R K Singh met the family. Speaking to TOI, Basit said, “Jodhapura is a remote village with 12 families. Out of that 11 have toilets, barring Sunil’s home. During probe, we found that Sunil along with his wife and five-year-old daughter returned to village from Pinhat sub-urban area (Ragunathpura) three years ago. Since Sunil’s Aadhaar carries Ragunathpura address, he was not eligible to get toilet at his ancestral village Jodhapura.” “Once he updates his Aadhaar and ration card address, the gram pradhan will process his application for the toilet. However, it’s tragic that the family lost a newborn to a wild animal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pregnant-woman-out-to-relieve-herself-in-a-field-gives-birth-newborn-taken-away-by-wild-animal/articleshow/76583051.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: SHRC asks home secretary for report on custodial deaths||CHENNAI: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of media reports about the suspected case of custodial death of two men — a father and son, who were locked up at the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district. The commission has sought a detailed report from the home secretary and the additional director general of police, prisons, within four weeks. The commission has also sought a detailed investigation by the intelligence wing of SHRC and asked it provide a report within eight weeks along with documents and CCTV camera footage of the concerned police station. According to reports, the duo, P Jayaraj, 58, and J Bennix, 31, were detained for keeping their shop open beyond permitted hours during the curfew in Tuticorin district. Relatives and friends alleged they were brutally assaulted by the Sathankulam police overnight before they were sent to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on Saturday. At the jail, Bennix complained of chest pain around 7.30pm on Monday and was taken to the Kovilpatti general hospital where he died soon after admission. His father developed fever around 10.30pm and was taken to the same hospital, where he died early on Tuesday. Agitated traders of Sathankulam town downed shutters and staged a protest accusing the police of custodial brutality. Two sub-inspectors have been placed under suspension and an autopsy will be held on Wednesday. According to reports, trouble started on Friday night, when police told Jayaraj who was manning his son’s mobile phones and accessories selling shop, to shut and asked the crowd to disperse. The victims’ relatives said Jayaraj picked an argument with police, one of whom hit him. Bennix who had arrived on the scene by then got into a scuffle with the police when his father was assaulted, they said. The First Information Report (FIR) in Sathankulam police station against the father and son says they rolled on the ground and injured themselves and shows the time of occurrence of this incident as well as time of lodging the complaint in the police station 1km away as 9.15pm. After their death, police said the two had a history of heart ailments and were under medication. Their kin denied this and said the two men had no health problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-asks-home-secy-for-report-on-custodial-deaths/articleshow/76592446.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Students turn to online courses to hone skills||Madurai: With schools remaining shut down for more than three months now, some students across various classes, during the period, turned to online courses, some of which also provide certification to build up their portfolio. “I heard from my teachers and friends about online courses. I’m interested in pursuing Visual Communication. So I took up several courses which taught various adobe designing and creative software. Though I started because it was fun and interesting, it will now be valuable in future as well,” said Kavitha P, a Class XII student from Thallakulam. The student further said that the course completion certificate provided by them will add weightage during college admissions. Various platforms, including globally-recognized websites like Coursera, Udemy, and Skillshare offer a range of both free and paid online courses to choose from. The course duration lasts between few weeks to months and on completion of the course, certificates are also given. Study material and audio-visual content is also provided. A Class X student from Sivakasi in Virudhunagar, V Nikhil Adithyan has in fact done several courses on investment banking and data science during lockdown. “I was always interested in investment banking. During this lockdown period, I completed financial markets conducted by Yale University and a data science R course conducted by Harvard University via online platforms. I passed the exams and got certification too,” said Nikhil. He has also got certifications from Google Academy for completing all six stages of Google Analytics and now has launched his own blog page at www.insightbig.com. He has also launched another website www.insightbigschool.com for the benefit of students like him which contains details about all free online courses. Parents say that they don’t have to spend too much from their pockets either and many courses are even free. “Even the paid courses on some platforms cost less than Rs 1,000. It is like paying for a summer class. While there are higher-level topics in say science for my son who’s just passed out from Class X, my daughter who is studying Class VI, tried a simpler course in English grammar and creative writing. Certificates encourage them and is useful for their portfolio,” said Meena A, a resident of KK Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-turn-to-online-courses-to-hone-skills/articleshow/76596672.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra allows Ayush research for Covid medicines||NAGPUR: Now, institutes and individuals working in the field of ayurveda, unani, siddha, and homeopathy, (Ayush) fields in Maharashtra will also be allowed to conduct clinical trials, closed clinical trials and other research to find out efficacy of medicines on Covid-19 in their respective school of medicine. State Department of Medical Education and Drugs (MEDD) has given final nod for the these entities including companies to conduct research following all ICMR regulations. This came immediately after Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali launched the medicine Coronil claiming it to be the cure of Covid-19. “In Maharashtra, we encourage research in Ayush for coronavirus,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Medical Education and Food and Drugs Administration. Conditions for research include approval from the ethical panel of scientific advisory committee. In case of clinical trials, the institute or individual must register the project with clinical trial registry of India CTRI. Clinical research must be conducted as per the ICMR regulations. Interestingly, the Ayush ministry has allowed clinical research studies on the possibility of using Ayurvedic medicines as preventive or add-on to standard care to Covid-19 since April 21 itself. In many states, the trials have already started. Maharashtra Government issued a circular on June 23, on the day Patanjali claimed their Coronil cures Covid-19 in three to seven days. Clinical trial or research is a joint initiative of state, ministries of Ayush, Health, Science & Technology through the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) with technical support from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As per the Ayush ministry statement, ayurvedic formulations (rasayanas) of Ashwagandha, Yashtimadhu, Guduchi, Peepli and Ayush 64 are being researched. Siddha, unani and homeopathy schools can also start research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-allows-ayush-research-for-covid-medicines/articleshow/76596710.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Lawyer moves HC seeking action against magistrate||Chennai: A day after the custodial deaths of a father and son, both traders in Sattankulam, in judicial custody, a lawyer has approached the Madras high court seeking action against the judicial magistrate who remanded the duo flouting rules. P Jayaraj and his son J Bennix were allegedly assaulted by cops in Sathankulam police station resulting in their deaths a day later. On Wednesday, advocate A P Suryaprakasam made a mention before a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice D Krishnakumar, and requested the court to initiate suo motu proceedings on the incident Citing a report published in TOI on June 24, he said, “it is reported that the judicial magistrate concerned mechanically signed the remand warrant without personally examining the accused, as mandated by law.” The bench suggested the lawyer to file a proper memo with the court registry and assured that the matter would be taken up for hearing on Thursday.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lawyer-moves-hc-seeking-action-against-magistrate/articleshow/76592486.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Varanasi||‘Clear highway project hurdles in a week’||VARANASI: Within days of Prime Minister Narendra Modi exhorting officials to timely complete all development projects in Varanasi, the district administration on Wednesday gave a week’s time to sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to dispose of all disputes and objections raised by locals regarding the land acquired for National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) projects so as to clear hurdles in the way of their execution. The NHAI has been directed to ensure repair of service lanes and by-lanes in order to avoid problems for the commuters. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma convened a meeting with the officials of NHAI and all departments concerned on Wednesday to review progress in the works of on-going highway projects. During the meeting, the NHAI officials said locals in Rajwari, Kaithi and Umraha areas had stalled the work of Varanasi-Ghazipur highway four-lane conversion by claiming possession on the land acquired for the project. Taking note of it, the DM asked the SDM concerned to ensure payment of the compensation amount of the farmers and landowners who have not received it so far and were creating hurdles against acquisition of their land in court and give the possession of land to NHAI. An order to initiate legal action against those creating hurdles was also issued by him. Regarding demand of farmers of seven villages for measuring their land which had been acquired for ring-road phase-2 package-I project, the DM asked the SDM concerned to engage special teams in order to measure the land as per the demand of the farmers. On the issue of loading and unloading of sand by traders by parking their trucks on national highway-2 and running market by occupying the land of highway, the DM asked NHAI to initiate stern action against them under NH Act. The DM expressed concern over the stalled six-lane conversion of the flyover near Vishokar village on NH-2 and asked to start this work at the earliest. He said that all the issues of arbitration will be heard in the courts concerned between Monday and Friday next week in order to dispose of them on a priority. NHAI was also asked to immediately repair broken railing of Mohansarai flyover and damaged service lanes along NH-2. SDM Rajatalab was directed to solve the dispute created by locals in Thathra area, due to which repair work of service lane is stalled. The NHAI was also asked to repair the diversion routes and service lanes at earliest. Plans for massive plantations along all highways from July 1 was also discussed at the meeting. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired a review meeting on various development projects being carried out in Varanasi via video conferencing on June 19 and exhorted the officials to ensure their timely completion without compromising on the quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/clear-highway-proj-hurdles-in-a-week/articleshow/76583188.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government receives flak over handling of Rath Yatra issue||Ahmedabad: The state government has come under fire from different quarters over its handling of the Ahmedabad Rath Yatra issue. Apart from the fact that devotees were left disappointed as the Rath Yatra did not take place for the first time in 143 years, Hindu organizations openly criticized the state government for not doing enough to ensure the annual event was held.To make matters worse, the mahant of Jagannath temple blamed functionaries in the government, claiming that he was given an assurance that the Rath Yatra will take place. Without naming anyone, temple mahant Dilipdasji Maharaj said on Wednesday, “I had a lot of faith. Whatever you call it, a game has been played with us. I cannot say more. The person I trusted, failed me.”The high court, in an order passed in the early hours of Wednesday, directed that the Rath Yatra will not take place on its regular route owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The chariots of Lord Jagannath’s procession were pulled within the temple compound itself.An angry Vishwa Hindu Parishad reacted strongly, criticizing both the state government and the temple authorities and alleging inaction on their part. “The government sent its advocates to the HC at the eleventh hour and the temple authorities did not file any affidavit. The Hindu society is very disturbed that the Rath Yatra was not held,” said Ashok Raval, state secretary, VHP.International Hindu Parishad president Pravin Togadia said that across the world, traditions are part of law. “Not organizing the Rath Yatra is an insult to crores of hindus. The state government also has to answer many questions. Why did it not sort out the court matter well in advance?” asked Togadia. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said on Wednesday evening that the state government had made all possible efforts it could to ensure that the Rath Yatra takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/government-receives-flak-over-handling-of-rath-yatra-issue/articleshow/76592567.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||82 of 100 corpn wards in Madurai have recorded Covid-19 cases||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has seen a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases post the opening of the lockdown as 82% of the corporation wards have active Covid-19 cases as on June 21. Among the 100 wards only 18 are left with no active cases.The number cases reported in the city limits crossed the 500 mark on June 21, a substantial increase from 186 the previous day. Officials said that Covid-19 cases are widespread throughout the city and only two wards namely Iravathanallur and Muthuramalingapuuram have not reported a single case so far. Madurai reported its first case on March 21. In the next two months, the city reported only 94 cases.Corporation officials attribute the sudden increase of Covid-19 cases in the city to the influx of people from other districts and states. Some of the wards such as Meenambalpuram (13), Sundararajapuram (12), Kochadai (11) and Ellis Nagar (11) have reported high number of cases. At present, 20 wards have accounted for 50% of the active cases in the city. “As many as 321 active cases are there in Madurai city as on June 21, out of which 20 wards alone have contributed 159 cases,” a corporation official said.A health official said that they leave no stone unturned to contain the spread of Covid-19. The officials have taken up various measures such as opening of fever clinics, door to door survey, mass disinfection and distribution of free immunity boosters to one lakh families. The corporation receives at least 100 calls from residents informing it about the returnees from Chennai and other districts, he said.“We have initiated intensive source tracing and traced more than 3,000 contacts who have moved closely with positive cases. It includes more than 1,500 primary contacts,” the health official said.Among the four zones in the corporation, zone one has accounted for 31.46% of cases, which is followed zone two with 28%, zone four with 22.42% and zone three with 17.75%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/82-of-100-corpn-wards-in-madurai-have-recorded-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76596730.cms||V Devanathan
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Paravai mkt turning out to be cluster||Madurai: The Paravai wholesale vegetable market is turning out to be a cluster for Covid-19 cases with the market having been identified as source for 17 positive cases. With the primary and secondary level contacts of the cases being traced, the number is expected to go up in the days to come. The market was shut down a week back, after 11 people – a wholesale trader, his family members and workers-tested positive. Earlier, at least 15 shops in the market were closed during various inspections carried out by officials for not following safety norms. A higher official from Madurai corporation said that infection is suspected to have spread from truck drivers coming from other states like Maharashtra and Kerala and other districts like Coimbatore. So far around 50 cases in the city have been attributed to Chennai returnees and their contacts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/paravai-mkt-turning-out-to-be-cluster/articleshow/76596767.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras forces students to vacate hostels during lockdown||CHENNAI: Indian Institute of Technology, Madras is forcing around 300 students who stayed back in the campus following the lockdown in March to vacate their hostel rooms within two to three days. The students, who are from remote corners of the country, said they are safer inside the campus than travelling home during the pandemic. “All students who are enrolled in course-based programmes (MSc, MTech, BTech, DD, MBA) have to vacate from the hostel as soon as possible (within the next 2-3 days). All MS/PhD students who have either finished their synopsis or have submitted thesis or do not have any critical (interpreted very strictly) academic reasons will have to leave in the next 2 to 3 days,” a circular from one of the hostel wardens to students said. “If you don’t fill the form, then it’s assumed that you will vacate the hostel. In that case, please inform us of your date of leaving the campus,” the circular further added. The students hail from Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other parts of the country. Sources inside IIT-M said two students and two faculty members have tested Covid-19 positive in the past few days and the institute has decided to send the students homes.  “The move is heartless and puts us under enormous mental stress,” said one of the students. “The Covid-19 cases were reported in labs where project staff from outside the campus work. Hostelers were not allowed to go outside the campus in past three months.” A student from Madhya Pradesh said they were already under a lot of stress due to the pandemic. “We have to travel more than 1,500km. I have to find transport from airport to my native, more than 300km away, which is not possible during this crisis. We are safer here,” the student said. Another student stated that states like Chhattisgarh have strict quarantine rules where returnees have to be under institutional quarantine for 28 days, while Arunachal Pradesh stopped issuing e-passes to enter the state. “Other IITs are taking care of their students. IIT-M, supposed to be the top IIT, is abandoning them in the time of crisis,” a research scholar said, adding that students under 14-day quarantine also have been asked to inform the date of vacating their rooms. When asked for comment, IIT Madras did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-madras-forces-students-to-vacate-hostels-during-lockdown/articleshow/76592542.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Shifting of executive capital to Vizag in October?||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has made up its mind to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam as proposed by it and reiterated by governor Biswabhushan Harichandan in his address to the assembly on the first day of the budget session on June 16. Sources say, officers and employees in the secretariat have been given enough indications that the shift will take place in October, or at least by Dasara. Despite opposition from other parties and farmers continuing their protest in Amaravati, chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy is firm on moving to Visakhapatnam. The moved would have been completed by now, mostly before Ugadi, as per original schedule, but was deferred due to Covid-19. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the government had made preliminary arrangements to shift the secretariat to the Port City. Although there were several proposals to have the secretariat in Visakhapatnam, sources in the government say that the chief minister had made up his mind to take over a private engineering college to relocate the secretariat. The sources say that the government has also finalised the number of heads of departments (HoDs) to be located in Visakhapatnam, while shifting the secretariat. The engineering college located on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam is closed now due to financial issues and this campus was finalised to accommodate the secretariat, the sources said. The government held talks with the owners of the college, who are politically well-connected and a formal understanding was reached with them, it is said. A senior official from the chief minister’s office had visited Visakhapatnam during the Covid-19 lockdown and inspected the college buildings besides the two other buildings proposed for the chief minister’s camp office and Raj Bhavan. The officer had reportedly given a suitability report to the chief minister. The chief minister also wants to resume the capital work in Amaravati simultaneously. “The government is committed to the development of Amaravati as legislative capital, Visakhapatnam as executive capital and Kurnool as judicial capital. There is no second thought on this plan,” minister for finance and legislative affairs Buggana Rajendranath, reaffirmed in assembly while introducing the CRDA repeal Bill and the decentralisation of administration Bill for the second time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shifting-of-executive-capital-to-vizag-in-oct/articleshow/76583237.cms||Gopi Dara
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Sanjeev Khanna interim bail plea rejected||Mumbai: Special CBI court on Wednesday rejected the interim bail plea of Sheena Bora murder accused Sanjeev Khanna (55). Lodged at Arthur Road jail since 2015, Khanna had sought interim bail citing Covid-19 and its recent outbreak in jail. His defence told court he would be present as directed by court. CBI opposed his plea. The interim bail plea of co-accused and ex-wife Indrani Mukerjea will be heard on July 1. The court directed the prosecution to submit its reply on Friday. Peter Mukerjea, another accused, got bail in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanjeev-khanna-interim-bail-plea-rejected/articleshow/76592599.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 51% new cases from Ahmedabad’s west||AHMEDABAD: The intensity of Covid-19 outbreak in western parts of the city seems to be overtaking that in the eastern parts. On Tuesday, Of the 230 new Covid cases and 13 deaths reported in the city, 119 cases (51%) and seven deaths (53%) came from western city parts. The city currently has 3,113 active cases of which 1,437 (46%) are from western city parts. Health officials said that also on Tuesday, 381 patients had recovered and were discharged. They added that since relaxation of lockdown, the western parts of the city have been witnessing a surge in fresh cases and deaths. In contrast, the Central Zone, which had been in containment, had reported just 12 cases in May. The city on Wednesday reported 205 new cases and 15 deaths. Further details on Wednesday’s reports are awaited. Of the 119 cases and seven deaths on Tuesday reported from western city, 63 cases and four deaths were from the West Zone which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna. Thirty-two cases and three deaths were reported from the South West Zone which includes the Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Mumatpura and Sarkhej areas. Twenty-four cases were reported from the North West Zone. The North West Zone includes wards like Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. East Zone reported two deaths, while one death each was reported from Central Zone, North West Zone, North Zone and South Zone. Of the 13 deaths reported in city on Tuesday four were in Civil Hospital, Asarwa, one in Sola Civil Hospital and another eight deaths were reported from private hospitals. Of the current 3,113 active cases in the city, 678 are in the West Zone, 588 in North Zone, 459 in the South Zone, 416 in East Zone, 399 in the South West Zone, 360 in the North West Zone, and 213 in the Central Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/51-new-cases-from-citys-west/articleshow/76592592.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rising trend in Andhra Pradesh: No symptom of Covid, sudden death||VISAKHAPATNAM: A doctor working at the ART Centre in the premises of the old government general hospital in Vijayawada recently developed breathing difficulties all of a sudden. Upon detecting abnormalities in his chest X-ray, he was wheeled into the Covid-19 hospital where he succumbed to the disease on the same day. The death of the doctor, who treated patients even a day before he exhibited any Covid-19 symptoms and other similar casualties in recent times, has brought into focus the topic of sudden death among asymptomatic patients in Andhra Pradesh. A super-spreader, who is believed to have transmitted the disease to at least 200 people in Pedapudi and neighbouring mandals in East Godavari district, died within half-an-hour after being admitted to a hospital in Kakinada. Another Covid-19 patient was declared brought dead in Amalapuram region three days ago. Similar cases have been reported in other districts, where the health of Covid-19 patients have deteriorated suddenly, leading to death within hours or a day since the onset of symptoms. Coronavirus liveblog updatesExperts say that even if such asymptomatic patients appear stable, the virus may have already damaged the organs, partly by depleting blood oxygen levels. This leaves little to no sufficient time for doctors to restore the health of the victims. Consultant pulmonologist at Seven Hills Hospital, Dr Vamsi Krishna, said that the outcome of the treatment primarily depends on the severity of the disease as well as the immunity level of the patient. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Delhi overtakes Mumbai in a race no one wants to winDelhi surpassed Mumbai in the tally of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, thereby becoming India’s worst-hit city. In all, 3,788 new cases of the viral infection were reported taking the total to 70,390, 862 more than Mumbai’s. The national capital's death toll mounted to 2,365. It is, however,“However, some Covid-19 patients do not exhibit any acute abnormality despite having exceedingly low blood oxygen levels. When it comes to sudden deaths, silent hypoxia and the consequent complications may have led to sudden de-compensation,” said Dr Vamsi Krishna. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Senior genetics professor at Andhra University (AU) Dr G Sudhakar said, “As per the emerging Covid-19 literature on the virus, treatment outcomes and medication trials across the world, the majority of the patients are asymptomatic. But the absence of symptoms does not mean no harm. By the time the patients were admitted to the hospital, some might have already slipped into a critical condition, causing irreversible damage to the vital organs. This might be the reason for the sudden deaths in some patients. In fact, the asymptomatic ones can spread the disease fast due to the absence of any symptoms,” said Prof Sudhakar. Watch No symptom of Covid, sudden death: This rising trend worries Andhra Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spotlight-on-sudden-death-of-asymptomatic-cases/articleshow/76588129.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Covid inmate who abducted youth denied bail||Mumbai: An Arthur Road jail inmate, accused in the 2015 kidnap of the 21-year-old son of a Ghatkopar stockbroker, was denied bail by a sessions court on Monday despite testing positive for coronavirus thrice. The court said according to Supreme Court directions and recommendations of a high-powered committee, he was not eligible for bail. It said he was stable and was being treated, and the offence was serious. The victim was released when his father paid Rs 2 crore after a month. He and 10 others are on trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-inmate-who-abducted-youth-denied-bail/articleshow/76592739.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Allahabad||Corona warriors also test positive||PRAYAGRAJ: District Epidemiologist and district Data Manager of IDSP (Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme) were among the four fresh novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases reported from Prayagraj on Wednesday taking Prayagraj district tally to 214. Nodal Officer and Additional Chief Medical Officer (ACMO) Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI that “41-year-old district epidemiologist and resident of Daraganj, who was suffering from fever for past two days, tested positive for the Covid 19 infection. Besides, 37-year-old district data manager at Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) and resident of Phaphamau also tested positive for Coronavirus infection here on Wednesday. Both district epidemiologist and district data manager were posted at the office the chief medical officer (CMO) Prayagraj. Moreover, a 46-year-old man and resident of Leader road also tested positive for infection on Wednesday. Dr. Sahai said that man, who complained fever and consulted a doctor for treatment had advised him to go through the test and he was tested positive for the infection by a private lab. On Wednesday, around 220 medical teams have conducted survey at around 10,627 houses and screened 44,516 people . The health teams found 24 people were suffering from influenza like illness while 197 others were suffering from other ailments for long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/corona-warriors-also-test-positive/articleshow/76578749.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu curbs to continue till coronavirus subsides, no more travel zones||CHENNAI: The general lockdown in Tamil Nadu will continue with relaxations until the pandemic is brought under control while the state government has also decided to not extend intense lockdown when the existing one in Chennai and Madurai ends on June 30, highly placed sources said. The government has also decided to do away with the zoning of districts between June 25 and 30. Hence, interdistrict movement of vehicles will be allowed only on the basis of e-passes. “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will decide on the relaxations after holding a meeting with the public health experts committee on June 29,” said an official. The state government has decided to continue the lockdown framework till the disease is brought under control and the last restriction is removed. Activities such as public events, public gatherings and cinema halls are the last things on the priority list. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced cash support of Rs 1,000 for ration cardholders in Madurai district, where a seven-day intense lockdown began on Wednesday. He also announced the government’s decision to suspend inter-district movement of transport - both private and public - within earlier demarcated zones between June 25 and 30.“During this period, public transport will be operated only within the district,” Palaniswami said, while interacting with district collectors through videoconference.The government had divided the state into eight zones on June 1 and permitted free movement within the zones without passes. The operation of public transport was allowed within the zones with 50% fleet strength. Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Greater Chennai Police limits were excluded from the relaxations. The government feels free movement of people and vehicles resulted in an increase in number of positive cases in the rest of the state. The decision to keep the zonal system in abeyance was taken after the collectors flagged off issues like difficulties in tracing the contacts of Covid-19 positive people who arrived from other districts without e-passes. A stern message was given to the district collectors during the meeting that they should not declare lockdowns or relaxations on their own, sources said. On Tuesday, the Theni district administration announced intensification of lockdown in certain areas beginning Wednesday and issued a press release. Palaniswami told the collectors to go for aggressive testing in containment areas and adequate testing of persons arriving from other states and countries. “Since economic activities have to move on parallelly, we cannot completely shut down for a long time. The collectors were told to tighten the containment areas and intensify surveillance. The administration is taking all out efforts to slow down the spread of infection,” said another official. Responding to the collectors’ call for adequate doctors and nurses, the CM said they would be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-curbs-to-continue-till-virus-subsides-no-more-travel-zones/articleshow/76596847.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||18 inmates of Akola jail test Covid-19 positive||NAGPUR: In a first, 18 inmates (all men) of Akola district jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday confirming the entry of novel coronavirus in prisons of Vidarbha. Total 310 samples, including those referred from Akola district jail, were tested on Wednesday out of which 65 (20 women and 45) tested positive apart from the 18 inmates. Nagpur reported 40 new patients, followed by Amravati (14), Yavatmal (11), Buldhana (3), Washim (2), Gondia (2), and Chandrapur (1). Total 138 new cases were reported in a day, taking Vidarbha’s total to 3,985, just 15 shy of the 4,000-mark. In a major relief, the number of patients who recovered from Covid-19 is also set to reach 3,000-mark. On June 24, a record 163 patients recovered from Vidarbha region. This is highest single-day recovery number for the region till date. Out of the 163, highest 79 recovered from Akola followed by Nagpur (25), Yavatmal (17), Gondia (14), Buldhana (13), Amravati (9), Washim (4), and Bhandara (2) taking the total recoveries to 2,814. With this, recovery rate of Vidarbha surged to 70.61%. Covid-19 deaths, however, continued to haunt the region. Four patients, who were under treatment at Akola, died on Wednesday. Two of the four deceased were below 50 years of age. Youngest among the deceased was a 43-year-old man from Balapur, who was admitted since June 9. A 48-year-old man from Dabki Road also died during treatment. He was also under treatment since June 9. An 80-year-old woman from Kama Plots and a 70-year-old man from Sontakke Plots died on June 23 late night. Both were under treatment for more than 4 days. With this, Vidarbha death toll has reached 136. AMRAVATI: Three members of a Habibnagar family, a woman doctor from PDMC Hospital and a one-year-old boy from Sabanpura locality are among 14 new cases that tested positive on Wednesday to take the district’s Covid count past 450-mark to 460. Nine patients also staged recovery on June 24 and got discharged from the Covid Hospital, which took the number of recovered patients to 321. A release by civil surgeon’s office said a 15-year-old girl and her father (48) and mother (40) tested positive on Wednesday. They are the contacts of a 74-year-old woman, who died on June 22 after testing positive. The trio, residents of Kachchi Masjid area in Habibnagar No.1, took Habibnagar’s count to 19. Amba Gate reported its third case today through a man aged 40, who lives near Datt temple. Sabanpura reported four cases to take its count to 12 today when a 28-year-old youth and a 77-year-old woman tested positive along with a 25-year-old woman and her one-year-old son. A 70-year-old man from Jama Masjid area in Badnera’s Old City, took the town’s count to 60, the highest from any single locality of the district. The town, which observed a spontaneous 4-day janata curfew to break the Covid chain, will return to routine from Thursday as markets reopen on odd-even basis. AMC commissioner Prashant Rode praised the townsmen for showing exemplary discipline during the 4-day janata curfew. Badnera also saw relatives of a 58-year-old deceased Malipura woman asking police to perform her last rites as per government rules as the June 21 deceased positive woman’s husband is under treatment at Covid Hospital and there is none in her family to perform the last rites. AMC health team led by medical officer (sanitation) Dr Seema Netam performed the last rites at Hindu Smashan Sanstha here as per government protocol. PDMC Hospital, where nurses have struck work since Tuesday, today saw a 26-year-old lady doctor serving there testing positive. She is the second from the hospital to test positive. Mahajanpura (M 20), Ashoknagar (M 50), Topenagar (M 47) and Visawa Colony (M 31) saw Covid virus entering there for the first time. Meanwhile, with all members of Sadar Bazar-based oil trader’s family testing negative after treatment, the twin towns of Achalpur-Paratwada have become Covid-free. The district’s number of active cases has now gone up to 120, including 11 under treatment in Nagpur. YAVATMAL: Eleven new cases were reported on Wednesday which took the patient tally to 72 in Yavatmal. On the other hand, 17 patients were discharged from the isolation ward of GMCH. Among the 11 positives are 5 men and 6 women. They include a man each from Yavatmal city and Wani and one woman from Digras, 2 women and a man from Darwha while 2 men and 2 women from Ner. As on June 24, GMCH Yavatmal isolation ward has 58 persons admitted there. CHANDRAPUR: One more person tested positive to Covid-19 infection in Chandrapur city on Wednesday taking the total of patients to 62 in the district. The new patient is a 19-year-old living with a family, three members of which had tested positive on Tuesday. All three had arrived in Lumbini Nagar here from Hyderabad on June 16 and were home quarantined. A total of 43 patients have been discharged and only 19 active patients are left in the district. GONDIA: Fourteen patients recovered and discharged on June 24 in the district. Two fresh Covid-19 cases also reported after 6 days of no cases. Both are foreign returnees and natives of Tirora. Reports of 87 samples are awaited. BULDHANA: While three new cases were reported, 13 recovered in Buldhana on June 24. Buldhana now has 169 cases, with 135 recovered and 10 deaths. Total 24 active cases are undergoing treatment here. WASHIM: With 2 new patients — a couple returned from Mumbai — testing positive on June 24, Washim’s total cases have reached 85. Total 4 patients recovered, with which Washim’s active patient count is now 31. Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli reported no new patient on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/18-inmates-of-akola-jail-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76596795.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMA seeks to reduce cost of RT-PCR tests||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) on Wednesday, wrote to CM Vijay Rupani seeking to rationalize costs for the RT-PCR tests conducted to identify Covid-19 patients. The government of Gujarat has fixed the price of RT-PCR test at Rs 4,500, when conducted at any private laboratory in the state. According to AMA, if widespread testing needs to take place, then it is in public interest to rationalize the costs. Dr Mona Desai, president, AMA, told TOI that they have been attempting to rationalize the entire Covid-19 testing procedure through initiatives ranging from approaching the Gujarat HC to reduce the red tape in testing to making it widely available. “Quicker identification and isolation of the Covid-19 positive patients is the way to reduce the spread,” she said. The representation also mentions that the same test costs as low as Rs 2,200 in other states including Delhi, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, among others. AMA has proposed that the cost be reduced to Rs 2,000 which is realistic and provides enough margin as well. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president, Indian Medical Association Gujarat chapter, said that AMA has taken initiative to rationalize charges of RT-PCR to benefit the patients. “The actual kit costs about Rs 700. There should not be any profit making motive during the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ama-seeks-to-reduce-cost-of-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/76592771.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||District death toll now 51||The Ahmedabad district death figures crossed the 50-mark on Wednesday. The district, barring AMC areas, reported one more death with this the district has so far reported 51 deaths. Ten new cases were reported — four from Dholka, two each from Daskroi and Viramgam and one case each from Detroj and Mandal. Taluka-wise, of the 746 cases in the district, 222 are from Dholka, 167 are from Daskroi taluka, 142 from Sanand, 74 from Viramgam, 76 from Bavla, 25 from Dhandhuka, 16 from Mandal, 15 from Detroj and Mandal and nine from Dholera. The Ahmedabad district also has 1,255 people under home quarantine. In the last two days 317 people have completed their quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/district-death-toll-now-51/articleshow/76592759.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Stalled Amaravati projects may be revived||AMARAVATI: The state government is set to resume some of the stalled works in the existing capital city area in Amaravati to pacify angry farmers in the region. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana, who has been touring the area for the last two days, has directed CRDA commissioner Lakshminarasimham and additional commissioner Rammohan Rao to ready a brief note to be submitted to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The government had spared Rs 500 crore in the last budget to restart some work on some key projects in Amaravati. However, the works could not be revived due to pending inquiries and feasibility studies. The Capital Region Development Authority and expert committees studied various issues involved in the revival of the projects that were stalled after the YSRC government came to power in May last year. The previous government had readied project works worth nearly Rs 60,000 crore, but work on a majority of projects were launched in the last leg of the TDP regime. Projects like residential quarters for government staff were nearing completion when they were stalled. Similarly, many road projects are nearly 70 per cent complete. The capital region farmers have been demanding that the government should complete all the planned projects in the area as they parted with their land with the hope of getting a decent appreciation in prices after the completion of the proposed projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stalled-amaravati-projects-may-be-revived/articleshow/76583366.cms||Samdani MN
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Two new cases take Nilgiris’ Covid-19 count to 48||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris recorded two more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, both secondary contacts of the public relations officer with a private needle manufacturing company at Yellanhalli near Ooty who tested positive for the virus a few days ago. He has infected about 11 people, including secondary contacts. The new cases comprise a 50-year-old woman from Tiger Hill area in Ooty and a 17-year-old girl from Yellanhalli. With this, the district’s Covid-19 tally stands at 48. While 31 patients are undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, the remaining 17 have been recovered and discharged from the hospital so far. The Nilgiris has 20 containment zones now. According to the district administration, sealing of district borders from Thursday would help curtail the import of positive cases from other districts. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “From Thursday, e-pass is a must to exit and enter the district. Permit for travel will be granted only for valid reasons.” She also called on the shopkeepers and the public to follow all the safety measures to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. “Strict action will be taken against the people violating safety measures.” While public transport to other districts is suspended till June 30, the facility is available within the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-new-cases-take-nilgiris-covid-19-count-to-48/articleshow/76592642.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Amaravati||Stalled Amaravati projects may be revived||AMARAVATI: The state government is set to resume some of the stalled works in the existing capital city area in Amaravati to pacify angry farmers in the region. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana, who has been touring the area for the last two days, has directed CRDA commissioner Lakshminarasimham and additional commissioner Rammohan Rao to ready a brief note to be submitted to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The government had spared Rs 500 crore in the last budget to restart some work on some key projects in Amaravati. However, the works could not be revived due to pending inquiries and feasibility studies. The Capital Region Development Authority and expert committees studied various issues involved in the revival of the projects that were stalled after the YSRC government came to power in May last year. The previous government had readied project works worth nearly Rs 60,000 crore, but work on a majority of projects were launched in the last leg of the TDP regime. Projects like residential quarters for government staff were nearing completion when they were stalled. Similarly, many road projects are nearly 70 per cent complete. The capital region farmers have been demanding that the government should complete all the planned projects in the area as they parted with their land with the hope of getting a decent appreciation in prices after the completion of the proposed projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/stalled-amaravati-projects-may-be-revived/articleshow/76616402.cms||Samdani MN
June 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors, cops to undergo Covid test before Bahuda||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Wednesday decided to subject over 5,000 persons, comprising servitors of the Jagannath Temple in Puri and police personnel to Covid-19 test ahead of the Bahuda Yatra, the return car festival, on July 1. Around 2,000 servitors, who were allowed to perform the rituals and pull the chariots on Rath Yatra on Tuesday after testing negative, will undergo the RT-PCR test twice before the Bahuda Yatra. The Supreme Court, which earlier allowed Rath Yatra without congregation of devotees, had specifically asked the government to engage only Covid-free persons in the nine-day Rath Yatra festival. “We will go for massive testing of servitors, police personnel and other government employees, who have been engaged in Rath Yatra duties. Their number would be a little over 5,000. About 2,000 servitors, who had undergone Covid-19 test a day before Rath Yatra and were found negative, will again be tested twice during the week. We want to be doubly sure before allowing them in Bahuda Yatra,” working chairperson of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) Suresh Chandra Mahapatra said. The government will be doing so because a servitor tested positive hours before the Rath Yatra on Tuesday. The contact tracing process is underway. The government said Covid-19 test of police personnel and other government employees is imperative as the Supreme Court had ruled that only around 500 policemen and officials would be allowed to pull each of the three chariots. However, police personnel and officials of other departments were not allowed to pull the chariots on Tuesday as their Covid-19 test could not be done owing to paucity of time ahead of Rath Yatra. With Bahuda a week to go, the government said swab samples of around 2,000 police personnel and 1,000 government employees would be collected for test. “We have also decided to launch a special IEC (information, education and communication) campaign to educate the families of servitors about precautions to keep the Covid-19 virus at bay. Two health centres would be set up for screening and health check-up of the family members of servitors. Hand sanitizers will be provided to families of servitors. We have also placed orders to procure 5,000 more face masks from Boyanika for the servitors,” temple’s chief administrator Krishan Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-cops-to-undergo-covid-test-before-bahuda/articleshow/76588171.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai MP calls for focussed action to control spread of disease||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has submitted a petition to the district Covid-19 monitoring officer, B Chandramohan, seeking to increase the testing to 3,000 per day in Madurai. He also assured to fund fever camps with MP funds.At present, there are two RBSK vehicles and one mobile medical unit (MMU) per block, which should be used to conduct a minimum of 39 fever clinics per day in all the union blocks in the district. Medical staff on duty in these vehicles should not be deputed for any other purpose..Doctors attached to the primary health centres should conduct camps in their respective villages from 11am every day and they should be given transport facilities for the same. If 100 such camps are conducted it would be easy to screen 7,500 people per day and identify fever cases easily. If identified, swab tests should be conducted for them. All basic infrastructure required for conducting these camps, including chairs, shamiana tents and funds for conducting the camps, would be provided from the MP’s funds.Covid risk assessment should be done in crowded places. He said that a 1,000-bedded quarantine facility should be arranged to house asymptomatic positive cases. An integrated Ayush centre for Madurai, integrating Siddha and Ayurvedic medication which was reportedly giving promising results, should be established in Madurai, he said.Venkatesan also said that about 100 people who had undergone kidney transplantation and receiving medicines including Tracrolimus, Mycophenolate and Cyclosporine at the GRH, where Covid patients are undergoing treatment, must be given the medicines separately, as their immunity was compromised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-mp-calls-for-focussed-action-to-control-spread-of-disease/articleshow/76596827.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||CM launches Kapu Nestham scheme||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday launched Kapu Nestham scheme, under which Kapu women aged between 45 and 60 years will get Rs 15,000 every year for the next four years. The scheme, which would cost Rs 354 crore to the state exchequer, will benefit 2.36 lakh women from the Kapu community. Interacting with the beneficiaries through video link, the chief minister said he has kept the promise he made to the community during his padayatra. “Kapu Nestham is in addition to schemes such as Amma Vodi, Vasati Deevena, Viya Deevana, Vahana Mitra, Chedodu and Videsi Viday Deevena. Over 23 lakh people of the community have been given Rs 4,770 crore in the last one year,” the chief minister said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-kapu-nestham-scheme/articleshow/76583299.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Conflicts in families rise as lockdown extends||By:Harshitha Kumayaa CHENNAI: When Rithika R came to Chennai for a vacation, little did she think she would be stuck within the four walls of her house with her in-laws for months on end. “From being a decision-maker at work to being stuck in a household where my opinions are not considered important, I feel frustrated. I can’t even express my anger as there is no privacy,” says the 32-year-old. The extended lockdown has taken a toll on personal relationships. Many initially welcomed WFH schedules that allowed them to spend more time with their loved ones, but as weeks turned into months, the lack of personal space, pressure of domestic chores and office work is leading to frayed nerves and tempers. “Earlier I used to get only a couple of calls from people who wanted to sort out relationship issues. Now I get two or three calls every day from people who are feeling depressed, and isolated during lockdown and who are battling personal issues ...,” says Khushali Manikandan, clinical psychologist at Sixth Sense Mind Clinic, Chennai. Sunita Menon, a Nungambakkam-based psychologist, says the lockdown has definitely resulted in imposition of moral familial rules. “Coping with such loss of independence has to be dealt with patience.” Children are among the most affected. “I have virtual classes for a couple of hours every day. Though I want to play video games and relax, my parents force me to sit with my books until it is bedtime,” says Anirudh*, a Class XII student. “And I also don’t want to listen to them bickering all day. Life was much easier when both of them went to work.” For the elderly, it has been an exhaustive period. Rugmini Ravi, who lives with her husband and six other family members in Mambalam, says, that from feeding a large family to doing all the household chores, everything falls on her shoulders. “Though my sister-in-law occasionally lends a helping hand, it is very tiring,” says the 62-year-old. For people in abusive marriages, it’s a scary time. “My husband has anger issues and tends to get verbally and physically violent. Before lockdown, he was out of the house for long hours on work. Now, with him around all the time, my kids and I are treading on eggshells,” says Anita*, 48, a homemaker in Mogappair. Carving out time for yourself, giving each other personal space and sharing household chores can help, say experts. “Setting a schedule for every household chore, and proper division of labour can reduce the frustration building in the household. This will give every person enough time to focus on themselves,” says clinical psychologist Kamala Bhaskar. (*Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/conflicts-in-families-rise-as-lockdown-extends/articleshow/76592651.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Durga temple on alert after priest tests positive||VIJAYAWADA: Authorities of the Kanaka Durga temple are on high alert after a priest working at the temple tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Krishna district registered 36 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,132. The district has 575 actives cases while 514 patients have been discharged. Three deaths were reported on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 45. Till date the district has carried out 78,279 tests and testing capacity has been ramped up to 3,000 per day. Ten iMASQ smart buses have been deployed to carry out tests across the district. With testing intensified, officials anticipate a surge in cases over the next week. By the month-end, officials hope to have screened at least 25 per cent of high-risk cases. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz requested medical officials at Covid-19 hospitals to focus on providing improved treatment to patients with chronic diseases. More beds will be added to Covid-19 hospitals, the collector said. The district administration had on Tuesday announced a complete lockdown for a week in Vijayawada city from June 26 but later withdrew the order. Shops selling essential commodities, however, saw a huge rush on Wednesday as rumours on a reimposition of the lockdown continued. Panic buying ensued in the city even after the order was withdrawn by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-on-alert-after-priest-tests-ve/articleshow/76588221.cms||Venu Lanka
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Is Telangana govt turning into Eskimo of Alaska: HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Wednesday asked the special secretary of disabled welfare department, Divya Devarajan, to hold a fortnightly live interaction with persons with disabilities (PWDs) across the state to resolve their issues. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy interacted with Divya during the hearing of a PIL filed by Shiva Ganesh Karnati of Uppal seeking measures to protect the crisis-hit PWDs. Lamenting that the government and civil society are not showing enough concern for the welfare of the weak, old and the disabled, the judges wondered: “Are we turning into Eskimos of Alaska that allowed their old people to perish.” They ought a fresh report from the state government on the steps taken to alleviate their problems by July 14. Divya narrated her previous experience as district collector of Adilabad wherein she used to interact with physically challenged persons every fourth Saturday and resolve their problems. The bench asked her to emulate the Adilabad model throughout the state since she is in-charge of the disabled people’s welfare. Divya explained to the court that they have Rs 3.5 crore with them to assist the disabled and that they have a budget of Rs 1,800 crore along with 64,000 anganwadi teachers to reach out to the disabled. The bench wanted the state government to give wide publicity to this aspect and make the PWDs aware of their rights and the availability of all kinds of assistance from the state machinery. “Tell them about the nearest authority they can contact for help,” the bench said. Petitioner’s counsel Kowturu Pavan Kumar said that there are 10 lakh physically challenged people in the state and all the assistance is going only to those with white ration cards. “The state needs to reach out to those who do not possess such cards,” he said. Divya said that the state has Rs 3.5 crore to assist the disabled and a budget of Rs 1,800 crore along with 64,000 anganwadi teachers to reach out to them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-t-govt-turning-intoeskimo-of-alaska-hc/articleshow/76592672.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||20mm rain in 2 hours: City flooded, monsoon covers the entire state||Ahmedabad: Many places in Ahmedabad including Jodhpur, Memnagar, AEC Crossroads and others were flooded in just 20.36mm of rain in two hours. AMC’s monsoon action plan remained on wet paper, and it was proved again how the city was not prepared for such rain. AMC’s standing committee chairman, Amul Bhatt, had time and again pointed out that the city will face waterlogging if even one or two inches of rainfall is reported in an hour. With 18.81mm of rain between 3pm and 4pm on Wednesday, the city was flooded at several places and waterlogging was reported from Vejalpur, Jodhpur, Bodakdev areas among others. The AMC control room said they had not received any complaint of waterlogging from any part of the city, but there were reports of waterlogging at Helmet Cross roads, AEC Crossroads, Pallav Crossroads among other areas. The eastern parts of the city were flooded. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that on Wednesday, the annual southwest monsoon covered entire Gujarat state. “Similar to last year, we have received good pre-monsoon showers and we expect the monsoon in the state to remain normal,” he said. He added that on Thursday, heavy rains are likely in Banaskantha, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Aravalli and Mahisagar. “In the next four days, chances are slim that the state could get heavy to very heavy rainfall,” said Sarkar. The AMC officials said that following inflow of water in the river, the AMC released 1,491 cusecs of water downstream of the river while 580 cusecs of water were released in the canal. Civic body officials said that the two gates of Vasna barrage were open. The rain came as a major relief for citizens who were eagerly waiting for the monsoon to arrive. “The temperature and humidity had gone up. The Wednesday rain came as a major relief,” said Usha Patel a resident of Satellite. IMD officials said rainfall is expected also on Thursday evening. According to IMD the city has so far received 127.1mm of rain which was 124% of the normal rainfall till June 24. IMD officials said the city on an average receives 56.6mm of rainfall till June 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20mm-rain-in-2-hours-city-flooded-monsoon-covers-the-entire-state/articleshow/76592814.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Allahabad||HC to UPP: Spread awareness on lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has advised the Uttar Pradesh Police (UPP) authorities to desist from taking coercive action and rather spread awareness regarding fallout of lockdown violation. Disposing of a writ petition filed by one Munna and others of Agra district, a division bench comprising Justice Sunita Agarwal and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh stayed the arrest of petitioners against whom an FIR was lodged, accusing them of violating the protocol of social distancing at a public place at Malko Gali, Tajganj of Agra district, where a crowd of eight to 10 people had collected. Passing the above directives, the court observed, ”Considering the above, we find that there is no allegation of any untoward incident having been occurred at the place. There is no doubt that the denizens of the city are under obligation to follow the protocol of social distancing in collective fight of the country with pandemic Covid-19. It is the responsibility of each and every person to be aware of the protocol and see that others follow it strictly. However, in our opinion restraining these persons who for some reason violated the protocol of social distancing may further aggravate the corona crisis.” “In our opinion, it would be more advisable to create awareness and consciousness amongst people rather than putting them in jails or lock-ups which are already over-crowded,” the court added. By means of the present petition, the petitioners had requested the court to quash the first information report (FIR) lodged against them on May 4, 2020, at police station Tajganj, Agra. The only allegation against the petitioners in the FIR was that protocol of social distancing was not followed by the crowd of eight to 10 people, who were collected at a public place in Malko Gali, Tajganj, Agra and the petitioners were members of the crowd. The stand of the petitioners was that they were engaging in distribution to food packets amongst the poor persons in the locality during the lockdown and in the course of such distribution, suddenly some people had collected on the spot. Though, the petitioners made all efforts to disburse them but of no avail. Disposing of the petition, the court observed, “Considering the above, we find that the first information report discloses commission of a cognizable offence but in order to grant one opportunity to the petitioners to mend themselves, it is provided that they (each) shall file an undertaking before the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Agra stating that they will follow all norms and protocol of Covid-19 and will not breach them in future. The SSP, Agra shall do the needful considering the undertaking given by the petitioners herein.” The court directed that the petitioners shall not be arrested in the aforesaid case till submission of the police report provided they cooperate with the investigation. The order was passed on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-to-upp-spread-awareness-on-lockdown/articleshow/76578835.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai folks stay indoors on day-1||Madurai: Roads in Madurai wore a deserted look as people chose to stay indoors on Wednesday, on the first day of an intense lockdown in the city corporation limits and Paravai town panchayat. The intense lockdown, meant to curb the spread of Covid-19, will be in force till June 30. Fewer vehicles were seen on city roads, most of them being two-wheelers. Police teams were deployed at check-posts on the city borders to prevent unnecessary movement of people. People were allowed to enter the city only when they gave a valid reason. Stores selling grocery, milk, medicine, meat, fruits and vegetables were open, while wholesale meat stalls and fish markets were closed. While all the vegetable markets were overcrowded on Tuesday, hardly a few were seen on Wednesday. The price of vegetables, which rose on Tuesday due to sudden demand, came down on Wednesday. People were allowed into the market only after they wash their hands and their body temperature checked. “We have better quality of vegetables today, but hardly a few are coming out to purchase. Yesterday (Tuesday),we sold out all the vegetables by 10am and left,” said S Chinnappan, a trader in Anna Nagar farmers market. Bus terminals were deserted as public transportation came to a grinding halt. Police conducted checks throughout the city to ensure that social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-folks-stay-indoors-on-day-1/articleshow/76596872.cms||V Devanathan
June 25, 2020||Madurai||10 including mother held for selling baby||Tirunelveli: The district police have arrested 10 people including the mother of a 15-month-old child for selling her baby to a family in Dindigul district for Rs 25,000 under the cover of ‘adoption’. Action was taken based on a complaint lodged by the baby’s father with Veeravanallur police here on Monday. V Ganabathi, 24, of Alangulam and Rosaline, who are from different communities, fell in love and got married in February 2018. Rosaline gave birth to a child in March 2019. The man said his wife developed an affair with a man from the locality following which the family relocated to Chennai where Ganapathi worked as tea maker in an eatery on North Usman Road. He had a quarrel with his wife before leaving for work on February 15. On returning home he found Rosaline and the child were missing. He lodged a complaint with police but could not find them. However, recently he traced her at her aunt’s place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-including-mother-held-for-selling-baby/articleshow/76596897.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Mobile shop owner who blocked rivals’ Insta accounts held||Vadodara: A mobile shop owner, who used to block Instagram accounts of his rivals in the city, has landed behind bars. Crime branch sleuths on Wednesday arrested Pushpak Makhijani who owns a mobile shop near Sangam Crossroads in Harni. He was first questioned and then arrested after two mobile shop owners filed a complaint against him.According to the police, Pushpak was in contact with a man in Rajasthan who knew the trick of blocking Instagram accounts. “Pushpak gave Instagram accounts of six mobile shop owners in the city to the man from Rajasthan and the latter used to report the accounts several times. Instagram blocks accounts that are reported frequently,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). “Once the accounts got blocked, Pushpak used to approach the victims demanding money to get their accounts unblocked. Two of the victims approached the cops and filed a complaint recently after he extorted Rs 10,000 from them,” Jadeja told TOI. The police said that many of the mobile shop owners use Instagram to brand and sell products and Pushpak ensured that the victims lose their business. The cops are now searching for the other accused in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mobile-shop-owner-who-blocked-rivals-insta-accounts-held/articleshow/76587274.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||New LG order: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia urges Amit Shah to intervene||NEW DELHI: The latest norm of corona patients visiting Covid care centres for health assessment may become a new bone of contention between Delhi government and the Centre. While chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called the order, announced by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chaotic and asked for its withdrawal, his deputy Manish Sisodia said Delhi now had two models to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic. “Under the Amit Shah model, Covid-positive persons are required to go to Covid care centres while under the Arvind Kejriwal model, health teams go to their houses,” Sisodia said. On Wednesday, Sisodia wrote to Union home minister Shah urging him to withdraw the new condition and restore the old system. On Tuesday, he wrote to Baijal. “I have received many requests to reverse the home isolation order because it is not feasible for the people,” the chief minister said later. “Supposedly, your 80-year-old mother gets corona, and she is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms, and needs treatment at home. How will you take her to a quarantine centre or a government facility? At home, she will be better taken care of by her children,” he said. As per the earlier order, Kejriwal said, a government medical team will visit a patient at his home for assessment and tell him if he needs home isolation or hospitalisation. “Can a corona-positive person who has a body temperature of 100°C or 102°C stand in a queue for a medical check-up?” He also pointed out that the Delhi and central governments were cooperating with each other in fighting the pandemic. Sisodia said he had urged Baijal to call an immediate meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority to scrap the order. “The LG has not responded to my request, and no DDMA meeting has been called,” he said. The norm has burdened the entire ambulance system, he added. “Now the administration has to arrange for buses to take people to these centres. This has created a huge chaos in Delhi.” Sisodia said people were stressed about going to Covid care centres. “When the order of five-day mandatory institutional quarantine was issued, you intervened and rolled back the order for the convenience of the people,” he wrote to Shah. “These decisions should be taken spontaneously. It is because the LG has not responded, I have written to Amit Shah-ji that his intervention is important as it is creating chaos,” Sisodia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-lg-order-sisodia-urges-shah-to-intervene/articleshow/76596927.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to start serological survey with rapid antibody tests soon||Bhubaneswar: The state has decided to undertake serological survey using rapid antibody tests among targeted groups such as healthcare professionals and other frontline workers. This is in accordance with the revised ICMR guidelines issued on Tuesday and will help the government figure out the extent of the spread of the coronavirus. The government is also planning to use rapid antigen tests on people with influenza-like illness, close contacts of Covid patients and immune-compromised patients seeking treatment for chronic illness. This strategy will compliment the ongoing use of the confirmatory RT-PCR test. The plan will be fine-turned at a high-level government meeting on Thursday. “We will come out with a detailed micro-plan after a discussion with the ICMR’s Regional Medical Research Centre and other testing centres,” additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Mohapatra said. Sources said the government was planning to conduct antibody tests among asymptomatic police and security personnel, healthcare workers, staff members of municipal bodies, drivers of ambulances and public transport, and individuals in containment zones as part of the serological survey. The test looks for presence of antibodies in the blood serum of a person to determine if and when they have been exposed to the novel coronavirus. “This strategy will help us know the extent of the spread of the virus to understand if there is community transmission. Many people may have recovered after getting exposed. This, however, doesn’t help in finding out acute infection for immediate treatment,” said another health department officer. The ICMR has approved the use of antibody tests using two methods: ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and CLIA (chemiluminescence immunoassay). The ICMR has approved some ELISA kits and has also given its nod for use of US FDA-approved ELISA and CLIA kits. The RMRC in Bhubaneswar is equipped to do antibody tests using both methods. Antigen tests, on the other hand, are not as conclusive as RT-PCR but can be done quickly, without a specialised machine. South Korean firm SD Biosensor, which has a manufacturing unit in Gurugram’s Manesar, has developed a Standard Q Covid-19 Ag kit, which is ICMR approved. The antigen test throws up true positives, but may also throw up a false negative. What this means is, if a person tests positive for Covid in an antigen test, it means he or she definitely has the virus. However, if a person tests negative, he or she should confirm this with an RT-PCR test. Those with Covid symptoms and asymptomatic high-risk people — patients in hospital or on chemotherapy or waiting for organ transplant or elderly people with diabetes, lung, heart and kidney ailments, any patient undergoing surgery and non-surgical intervention such as bronchoscopy, dialysis and endoscopy — can undergo the antigen test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-start-serological-survey-with-rapid-antibody-tests-soon/articleshow/76588244.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Guinness Park in Ooty turns 18||Udhagamandalam: The Guinness Park, which was set up at Kuruthukuli village near Ooty 18 years ago in a record attempt, is a picture of neglect today. However, at least 250 saplings of indigenous trees were planted in the park on Wednesday, when it turned 18. The drive was taken out by Sahu, managing director of Indcoserve, the largest tea cooperative federation in the country, along with the district administration. She said, “Given the Covid-19 situation, a massive tree planting drive could not be carried out. Hence we started with planting 250 saplings of indigenous trees. We need to involve all the stakeholders to continue the drive. The Guinness title stands in the name of the district administration and the people of the Nilgiris.” The drive saw the participation of district collector J Innocent Divya, superintendent of police V Sasi Mohan and district forest officer Gurusamy Badla, among others. The park was the brainchild of Supriya Sahu, who was the Nilgiris collector in 2002. Motivated by her, a group of volunteers, comprising army men and special task force, among others, planted about 43,000 shola tree saplings across 50 acres of land in Kuruthukuli village in 24 hours. The drive started on June 23, 2002 and concluded the next day (June 24). The drive entered the Guinness World Records, beating the previous record of planting 35,083 trees in 24 hours that was set in May 1999 at Alberta, Canada. Over the years, the park, with little maintenance, turned into a grazing place for cattle. In 2010, the forest department attempted to restore the park by planting around 10,000 new saplings. But that lone drive was not enough to save the park, which has been crying for attention in the past couple of years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guinness-park-in-ooty-turns-18/articleshow/76592705.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Ex-civic body chief arrested for murder||TIRUPATI: Former municipal chairman of Yerraguntla, Hanumanagutti Musalaiah, was arrested in connection with the brutal murder of a moneylender on Wednesday. According to local police, Venkata Ramanaiah, a former employee of a private cement factory at Yerraguntla, had turned to lending money post retirement. He went missing from his home since June 20. His family members and relatives, who searched for him in vain, lodged a complaint on June 22, following which the local police began investigations. During the course of inquiry, it emerged that Venkata Ramanaiah had lent lakhs of rupees to many in Yerraguntla, including former municipal chairman Musalaiah. Police found out that on June 20 Venkata Ramanaiah was last seen leaving home to meet the former municipal chairman. After gaining enough leads, which undoubtedly established his culpability, local police took Musalaiah into custody. Following a prolonged interrogation he confessed that he had borrowed nearly Rs 30 lakh from Venkata Ramanaiah and eliminated him after calling him home to settle the matter on June 20. As per the confessions, after inviting Venkata Ramanaiah inside home, the former municipal chairman bludgeoned him to death. Musalaiah then went on to decapitate Venkata Ramanaiah and hid his head inside a tiffin box before disposing it in a gorge near Guvvalacheruvu in the outskirts of Kadapa. And his body was buried under the balcony of Musalaiah’s house. After acquiring a search warrant, police searched Musalaiah’s residence and retrieved Venkata Ramanaiah’s body, which was found, as he had said, buried under his balcony and police have also recovered the head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-civic-body-chief-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/76583413.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||Fresh peak in Tamil Nadu: 2,865 new Covid-19 cases in a day||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded its highest spike in fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday with 2,865 cases, pushing the tally to 67,468, while the official toll went up to 866 with 33 more deaths. The number of people under treatment across the state was 28,836. With 1,654 fresh cases, Chennai remained the hotspot and its neighbours, Chengalpet (131), Kancheepuram (66), Tiruvallur (87), together logged 284 cases. On day 1 of lockdown, Madurai logged 97 cases and the case tally in the district crossed the 1,000-mark to 1,073. Among other districts, Nagapattinam had 62, Salem recorded 55, Tiruchi had 75, Vellore 51 and Tiruvannamalai 54 fresh cases. The state tested 29,655 people including close to 8,000 in Chennai on Wednesday. “All labs have been told to increase testing. We want to ensure we isolate infected people as early as possible. In the coming days our focus will be on protecting the vulnerable and preventing deaths,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The case fatality rate in the state was 1.2% on Wednesday, while the recovery rate was above 55% The reports prepared by experts from a dozen health sub-committees to standardise prevention and treatment protocols for diabetes, hypertension, pregnant women, patients with cancer, kidney and heart related ailments were released by the chief minister on Wednesday. “These e-booklets will be available on the webpages. Information given by the experts will be used to create awareness among patients,” the health secretary said. In addition, 91 people, including 15 passengers from Kuwait and 14 each from Delhi and Karnataka, who returned to the state tested positive on Wednesday. There were six passengers from Qatar, four from Singapore, three from Saudi Arabia and one passenger each from UAE, Malaysia and Nigeria who tested positive for the viral infection. Among the people who succumbed to the viral infection, three people had no comorbidities; 19 of them were above the age of 60. At least six people died within 24 hours of admission and a 52-year-old woman was brought dead to the Government Royapettah hospital. An 82-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital a day after he tested positive, died within 41 minutes of admission. The state discharged 2,424 from hospitals and home quarantine taking the total number of people who have been cured to 37,763.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-peak-in-tn-2865-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76596951.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to scale up Covid-19 tests as state crosses 10,000 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana will soon scale up Covid-19 tests to 10,000 per day in a bid to contain the rapidly spreading virus, health minister Eatala Rajender said as the state recorded 891 cases and five deaths on Wednesday. Telangana’s caseload crossed 10,000 on Wednesday and it stands at 10,444, with 225 fatalities so far. On a day Telangana tested 4,069 samples and created another single-day surge record, Rajender said the state will soon receive a new COBAS 8800 machine for Covid-19 test, after the previous one was diverted by the centre to West Bengal. “We are aiming at enhancing testing capacity to conduct 10,000 tests a day, of which 2,000-3,000 will be conducted by private facilities,” Rajender said. Stressing that the mortality rate in novel coronavirus cases was less compared to swine flu and severe acute respiratory illnesses, the minister said that majority of patients have recovered or are on the path of recovery and there was no need to panic. Altogether 4,361 patients have completely recovered in the state and have been sent home. Rajender visited the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) during the day and said the hospital will be operational by June 29 and the staff will be recruited over the next two-three days, while outpatient services have already started. The hospital has 1,224 beds, of which 1,000 beds have oxygen facility, while 50 beds have ventilators. “TIMS will be developed on lines of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and will be the second PG college in Telangana after Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), having all super-speciality departments,” he said. While emphasising that asymptomatic patients should stay home, the minister assured quality care in government hospitals for symptomatic patients. PG doctors at the Osmania General Hospital’s (OGH) isolation ward resumed service on Wednesday after boycotting duties for four days in a row over increasing workload. Hospital authorities have deployed additional staff to the ward now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-scale-up-covid-tests-as-state-crosses-10k-cases/articleshow/76601098.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 25, 2020||Madurai||88 fever clinics to come up in Madurai||Madurai: The Covid-19 monitoring officer for Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan said that 88 fever clinics-- 31 in the Madurai Corporation limits and 57 in the rural limits-- are going to be established in Madurai district to prevent the spread of the virus. He said thay door-to-door surveillance would also be initiated in the district. As per the scheme, 39 mobile fever clinics will also be established. Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Wednesday, in the presence of Madurai District Collector Dr T G Vinay, Chandramohan said that fever surveillance workers would go to the houses once in three days and inquire about the health of the residents. If anyone is detected to have fever, they would be taken for further evaluation to the clinics, which are being set up for the purpose. The people, who test positive, would be categorized into - mild, moderate and severe. The mild cases would be kept in the non-hospital Covid care centres where 2,045 beds have been established. Around 21 such facilities have been readied in the district, he said. Apart from this, 600 beds have been added to the Covid health centre while 2,000 beds are available in the Government Rajaji Hospital for this purpose and 375 of these beds have oxygen connections and 150 have been allocated for intensive care. On being asked about the claim that four to five patients in GRH had died in the past week of Covid-19, Chandramohan said that they were conducting a treatment and death audit for Covid-19 cases in the district for better understanding of the process and also the deaths. The corporation commissioner S Visakan, said that any person who had symptoms like fever, cough and cold could contact the number 8428425000 for immediate medical help, and that doctors would come and evaluate their health conditions for appropriate treatment and care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/88-fever-clinics-to-come-up-in-madurai/articleshow/76596980.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Salon owner ends life||Nagpur: An impoverished hair salon owner committed suicide by jumping into Gandhisagar, frustrated over his inability to restart his business due to the coronavirus lockdown. Social worker Hari Atkare, who is also a salon owner, has requested the government to allow salons to reopen so that the others in the business do not take such drastic steps. Dilip Kapse (59), a resident of Yadav Nagar Buddha Vihar, used to run a salon at Durgawati Square. His business came to a halt after the state government imposed the lockdown. Atkare said that Kapse was struggling to feed his family as he had no other source of income. “His savings were over and he was not getting any more loans from neighbours and relatives. He was very depressed and probably decided to end his life. He is survived by his wife and two daughters,” said the social worker. Kapse had gone missing on the night of June 22. His family members searched for him everywhere but could not trace him. His motorcycle was found parked on the bank of Gandhisagar. His family members were present when Ganeshpeth police fished out his body. They identified it immediately. Strangely, no missing complaint was lodged with either Pachpaoli or Yashodhara Nagar police stations as Kapse’s residence comes under both their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/salon-owner-ends-life/articleshow/76592791.cms||Ashish Roy
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No bail for man who pointed gun at policeman||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday posed some tough questions to Shahrukh Pathan who allegedly pointed a pistol at a police head constable during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. “If you take law in your hands and become a hero, then you have to face the law. Your intention was to become a hero,” Justice Suresh Kait remarked during the hearing on Pathan’s bail plea. Sensing that the court was not inclined to grant him bail, Pathan’s lawyer withdrew the plea. Pathan had sought bail claiming that he had to take care of his 76-year-old father, who was unwell and there was no one in the family to look after him. However, the court was not convinced, and wondered why Pathan “didn't think of his parents when he was flashing the gun in public? But when he got into trouble, he is recalling his parents,” said Justice Kait. Pathan’s counsel submitted that he had clean antecedents and was in judicial custody for 113 days, adding that he was not required for investigation as the chargesheet had been filed. The counsel also referred to the bail granted to Jamia student Safoora Zargar on humanitarian grounds and said Pathan’s plea should also be considered in a similar way. The petitioner argued that he was a victim of circumstances highlighting that he had no criminal antecedents, and there was no evidence of anyone getting injured by his alleged act. Additional public prosecutor Amit Chadha opposed the plea saying they have got two more CCTV footage clearly showing the accused firing with the pistol, and there was ample evidence to prove what the entire country witnessed. Pathan, 23, whose picture pointing a pistol at unarmed Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahia went viral on social media, was arrested on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district and is currently lodged in Delhi. Police registered a case against him under IPC and Arms Act after it recovered the pistol which Pathan had allegedly pointed at the police officer during the violence from his house. After opening fire, Pathan kept the pistol at his house and fled the city in a car, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bail-for-man-who-pointed-gun-at-policeman/articleshow/76597032.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hunger management was starved of help||Ahmedabad: Direct government involvement was limited in tackling the hunger of the vulnerable during the Covid crisis, says an IIM-A survey. The survey by IIM-A of 100 organizations and individuals concluded that there was a need for more active government intervention in hunger relief efforts across the country. The respondents of the survey, drawn from across India, were involved in facilitating the distribution of food and raw materials to those in need.The survey’s findings said most organizations reported that the support from governments has been limited to providing approval for curfew passes. Another role that governments played was to identify areas with people in need of food.Aid in the form of funding and raw materials has been negligible. Close to 20% of the organizations stated that none of the people they served had accessed the public distribution system (PDS). Almost half of the respondents stated that only some people could obtain rations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hunger-management-was-starved-of-help/articleshow/76592750.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||IRDAI panel to study drone insurance||Hyderabad: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on Wednesday said it has constituted a working group to study the kind of insurance products that are required to cover the various risks involved in the use of drones. “Drones are playing a significant role in the current Covid-19 situation, assisting various authorities in several activities. There is an immediate need to make available suitable insurance products covering the various risks involved in the use of drones,” it said. The working group, which has been asked to submit the report within six weeks, has been asked to study the insurance needs of remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS) and drone technology owners and operators. It has been asked to make recommendations related to design and development of products that meet the requirements of RPAS owners and operators, including third party liability. It has also been asked to make recommendations relating to the underwriting of such risks, including the re-insurance aspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-panel-to-study-drone-insurance/articleshow/76592778.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Locusts invade trans-Yamuna area||PRAYAGRAJ: After attacking several villages of the trans-Yamuna area and other parts of the city in the first fortnight of this month, new swarma of locusts has attacked various villages of Bara tahsil of the district on Wednesday. Villages around Nari-Bari and Chamu village have been attacked by the new swarms. It is being believed that this swarm has come from bordering Madhya Pradesh and as of moment, the topmost priority of the farmers and of the administration is to not to let the locust settle down. According to sources, the swarm is almost of the same size that hit several of the villages of Koroan, Meja, Karchana and parts of Phulpur tehsil early this month. The attack has spurred the officials of district administration and that of the agriculture department into action and a massive operation, in collaboration with the folks of affected villages have been launched. “We are taking help of the police and the experts of the agricultural department and with the help of locals doing everything possible to chase away the menace and not to let it settle down,” said SDM Bara, Sandeep Bhagiya. The help of fire tenders can also be taken if the requirement so arises,” he said. “Their movement depends on the direction of the wind, so we are trying to chase away the swarm by every possible method,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/locusts-invade-trans-yamuna-area/articleshow/76578943.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Vizag crosses 500-mark, over 300 cases in 11 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 571 cumulative positive Covid-19 cases, numbers in Visakhapatnam district are reaching a new high every day. Three deaths have been reported in three weeks and 128 cases reported in three days. The number of cases is expected to further increase with foreign returnees and returnees from other states arriving this week. Hotspots like Peda Jalaripeta and Appughar account for over a fifth of the cases. Beginning with the first reported case on March 17 to 113 cases on May 31, Visakhapatnam reported 1.4 cases per day on average during the lockdown. With Unlock 1.0 from June 1, 458 cases have been reported till June 24, an average of 19 cases per day. Between June 18 to 24, almost 35 cases have been reported everyday, on average. District health officials have attributed the rising cases to non-adherence safety rules and social distancing norms, influx of domestic and foreign returnees and enhanced tracking and testing of primary and secondary contacts. The Covid-19 graph of the district indicates that the first 100 cases were recorded in 73 days, the second 100 (on June 9) in 12 days, the third 100 (on June 15) in six days, the fourth 100 (on June 20) in five days and the next 100 within just three days (June 23). With 41, 46 and 41 cases in the last three days, the district’s cumulative total stands at 571, out of which 320 are active cases. New highs have been reported on a regular basis over the past two weeks. Twenty cases were detected on June 8, 25 cases on June 14, 29 cases on June 19, 35 cases on June 21, 41 cases on June 22 and 46 cases on June 23. Further, close to 15 new clusters are added everyday to the list of containment zones with cases being detected in new areas. Dormant and active hotspots including Dandubazar, Anakapalle, Peda Jalaripeta and Appughar have reported between 30 to 60 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-crosses-500-mark-over-300-cases-in-11-days/articleshow/76588351.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 25, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: ‘Text books will reach schools before June 30’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said that all text books for Class I to Class XII will be dispatched to all the schools across the state before June 30. “The CM will inaugurate the textbook distribution to students in Chennai... after that, the books will be distributed,” he said. Sengottaiyan said this while he was in in Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday to inaugurate a watchtower, built with the help of Rotary International for Rs 3.75 lakh on the bus stand premises. Talking to media persons, the minister said that based on CM’s direction, text books will be distributed to all the government and aided schools across the state. “All students will get their text books,” he said, adding that they have sufficient stock. The minister also said that a 16-member team was working to reduce the number of pages for books considering the minimum working days. “We will reduce the pages and portions based on their report and the CM’s consent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/text-books-will-reach-schools-before-june-30/articleshow/76592796.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Salem||Salem registers 55 new Covid-19 cases, western Tamil Nadu tally nears 700||SALEM: Salem district recorded 55 new Covid-19 positive cases, including seven imported ones, on Wednesday. With this, the number of positive cases in the western region including Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode has neared 700. Salem already had 198 indigenous cases and 151 imported cases. “We have recorded 55 new cases on Wednesday,” said Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services. With this, the district has 404 Covid-19 positive cases. Dean of the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital Dr R Balajinathan said at present, 187 active patients were getting treatment for Covid-19 in SGMKMCH. “We have discharged seven Covid-19 patients after they tested negative,” he said. According to health department officials, a 68-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died on Tuesday. “Nearly 20 of her contacts including her son and other family members tested positive on Wednesday,” Balajinathan said. Namakkal district has 90 Covid-19 positive cases of which one was newly added to the list on Wednesday. Erode district currently has 89 cases, including two new cases. “Of them, 15 are undergoing treatment while the rest have been discharged,” said Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services.Dharmapuri district has 44 cases including 9 imported cases. Krishnagiri district recorded three new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-registers-55-new-covid-19-cases-western-tn-tally-nears-700/articleshow/76592859.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Lack of uniformity in containment zones irks citizens||Nagpur: With corona cases coming from numerous localities, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) containment zone system is no longer uniform. The citizens have started to compare area of containment zones and raising objections. In one cases that invited a lot of criticism, officials of NMC Dharampeth Zone did not barricade the area as per containment zone notified by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. The zone had been notified as per recommendations of Dharampeth Zone officials. In another case, after two persons from a flat scheme at Ramdaspeth tested positive for Covid-19, Mundhe had notified two lanes as containment zone on June 22. The zone had 10 boundaries from A-H. Ramdaspeth resident Sharad Paliwal, also secretary of NGO Swachh Association, told TOI, “My residence was marked B, with barricades to block road in front between A and B. Next barricade was to be after buildings marked C and D. But next barricade was also after my house. There are a few buildings after C and D till the turning, but they were excluded from the containment zone. This proves influential people have been left out.” The epicentre is in another lane and not in the lane of Paliwal’s house. On the other hand, on June 13, the civic body had notified containment zone at Shivaji Nagar when a woman from a flat scheme had tested positive. The zone comprised of only one flat. Paliwal pointed out two persons who tested positive from Ramdaspeth are residents of one flat, but containment zone was far bigger. The containment zone is closely watched as citizens inside face a lot of prohibitions for 28 days. They cannot move out with vehicles. Even for essential services, they have a pass system. People from outside also cannot enter the zone. On June 4, a nurse at a private Dhantoli hospital tested positive, after being exposed to a patient. She and some other nurses were residing in the building at Bajaj Nagar. Five lanes with over 50 buildings were notified as containment zone though the nurse’s source of infection was identified clearly as the hospital. Residents of Bajaj Nagar too complained of a larger area in containment zone as compared to Shivaji Nagar. With 73 containment zones in existence in city, there is no uniformity in their demarcation. Earlier, when cases were restricted to a few areas, a team led by additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar used to demarcate containment zone, and there were no complaints. Now, zone offices demarcate containment, and there is no uniformity. An official from NMC Dharampeth Zone assured to look into the Ramdaspeth case. “At Shivaji Nagar, the building was on 18-meter wide road connecting Shankar Nagar Square to Ram Nagar Square. Blocking it would have created problems,” he said. Till last week of May, containment zones used to include all houses in one or more kilometres from the epicentre. The system was revised to mini-containment zone after changes in guidelines by the government, and experience of containment zones like Pandhrabodi, where cases were restricted only to one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-uniformity-in-containment-zones-irks-citizens/articleshow/76592870.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 25, 2020||Pune||Shops flout P1/P2 norm in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Shops on both sides of several roads were open on Wednesday in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad in gross violation of the P1/P2 order issued by the civic bodies, triggering concern about the spread of Covid-19 in both the cities. Residents claimed that shops on Jangli Maharaj Road, Karve Road, Baner Road, Salunke Vihar Road as well as in Pimpri Camp and Pimple Saudagar, among other areas, were being kept open on all days of the week. Barring a few pockets along Laxmi Road and Budhwar Peth, shops have been violating the P1/P2 rule even in Peth areas. Following the indiscipline in the Pimpri Camp market, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar announced its closure till Thursday. Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “If citizens and traders do not show some discipline, imposing restrictions such as this remains our only option.” Joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve said the police would contact the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities and seek feedback from zonal officers to decide on a plan for the enforcement of the P1/P2 norms. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, however, said the P1/P2 rule was mainly meant to control the opening of shops and the consequent crowding. “We have no issues if shops on both sides of roads open in non-containment areas,” Gaikwad said. Fatehchand Ranka, the president of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), said mainly the smaller traders were violating the P1/P2 rules. “Traders have incurred heavy losses during the lockdown and so many are trying to grab the opportunity of sales,” he said. A small trader said, “The shop is the only source of income for my family. We have incurred heavy losses because of the lockdown and we have no option but keep the shop open.” The owner of a shop along an arterial road in Pune said, “Many shops are still not functioning, and the road is wide enough. After assessing the situation around this area, we have decided to keep the shops open most days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-flout-p1/p2-norm-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/76592850.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Professor-teacher fired for drawing two salaries, moves Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: A PhD in Chemistry, Chirag Patel moved the Gujarat high court after his university cancelled his designation of assistant professor because he was working at a primary school as a vidya sahayak and allegedly doing both jobs, professor and primary teacher, simultaneously. Patel, the head of the chemistry department at Dr Indu Dayal Meshri College of Science and Technology in Patan, was facing the charge that while being designated an assistant professor with the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University, he took up the job of a primary teacher at Deodar town in Banaskantha. He was accused of drawing income from both sources. Now, he has neither of the jobs and moved the HC for restoration of his university designation and livelihood. Patel was appointed to the Patan college in July 2013, and the university granted conditional approval of his designation as assistant professor for three years because he did not have a PhD. His designation was renewed for another three years in 2016. In January 2019, he obtained a doctorate and got the university designation unconditionally. However, Patel also took the job of a primary teacher at a government school in Banaskantha in March 2017. It was only after a notice for absenteeism was published by the district education authority in September 2019, that he resigned the post. The college’s query about his second job was answered by Patel. But the university this March issued him a show-cause notice, asking why his position should not be cancelled for drawing two salaries from different sources simultaneously and duping the employers. The university on June 11 cancelled Patel’s designation, leading him to approach the HC through advocate Sudhanshu Jha. In the HC, it was submitted that Patel opted for the government job because of job insecurity at the self-financed institute in Patan. He resigned immediately after the notice and deposited one month’s salary. The education department has not termed his job illegal or accused him of drawing money illegally from the government treasury. He held that the university authorities acted against him without giving him an opportunity to defend himself. The HC refused to stay the university’s decision, but asked it to reply by June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/professor-teacher-fired-for-drawing-two-salaries-moves-hc/articleshow/76592926.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai cops rescue 2 from child marriages||MADURAI: The Madurai city police stopped a marriage organized for a 14-year-old girl from Melathoppu near Goripalayam. The marriage was scheduled for Wednesday morning. Based on an alert, a team from the Sellur station rescued both the girl and her twin from their residence on Tuesday night. The Tallakulam all-women police station took up an inquiry. Child Welfare Committee members L Shanmugam and B Pandiaraja too conducted a separate inquiry. The family gave an undertaking that they will not get the minor married till she turns 18. The girls, who lost their father in 2007, were raised by their mother , a vegetable vendor. She organised the marriage with her brother. In another incident, police stopped the marriage of a 16-year-old from Santhankudi village. The girl’s family gave an undertaking that they will not conduct her marriage till she turns 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-rescue-2-from-child-marriages/articleshow/76597040.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 continues to batter R’seema||Tirupati: Fresh Covid-19 cases continue to be reported across the Rayalaseema region causing panic among both residents and district administration. All the four districts of Kurnool, Anantapur, Kadapa and Chittoor registered new cases in the double digits on Wednesday. In Kurnool district, the death toll rose to 42 with four new deaths. The district is only second to Guntur in terms of death toll that reported 43 deaths. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally reached 1,483, highest in the state, with 76 cases being reported in the last 24 hours. In Anantapur district, the overall number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1,000- mark after 90 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. While 1,028 cases have been reported in the district so far, 674 patients are still undergoing treatment and seven have succumbed to it. In Chittoor district, too, the overall number of cases shot up to 657 after 40 new cases were reported on Wednesday. Six deaths have been reported in the district, which so far has 367 patients undergoing treatment. Twenty-four new Covid-19 cases were reported in chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s home district of Kadapa, where the overall number of cases have risen to 478. While one death has been reported in the district so far, 272 patients are being treated for the disease. With fresh cases being reported in the district, collector CH Harikiran declared that 13 new containment zones were demarcated in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-continues-to-batter-rseema/articleshow/76588447.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 25, 2020||Goa||Turtle nesting season overlaps with monsoon, takes hit||Panaji/Poinguinim: More than 2,670 Olive Ridley hatchlings from 3,949 eggs crawled back to the sea from the state’s four turtle nesting sites. This season, however, has been a poor one and ended with Cyclone Nisarga-induced rain totally dousing two of the 33 nests. The season, that ended a couple of days back, once again laid bare the management and climate change problems faced by Goa’s modest turtle conservation programme. The overall hatching rate continued to be discouraging, as only 67.8% turtle babies emerged from the pits. The number of Olive Ridley turtle (Lepidochelys olivacea) nests dropped from 41 in 2018-19 to 33 this season. Morjim, where the turtle conservation was first pioneered in 1998, and recorded 31 nests in 2003, had only 10 pits this year. Agonda, which is in recent years high on the turtles’ ratings as a “maternity home”, hosted only 12 nests. In 2016-17, a total of 28 pits had been laid and last season there were 19. “The success rate of hatchings depends solely on weather conditions. Two of the 12 nests at Agonda were laid late in April, but after the 50 to 55-day incubation period in June, no hatchlings emerged as they must have been spoilt due to rain water,” range forest officer (wildlife) Vikramaditya Gaonkar said. There was some cheer for turtle lovers on the northern beaches as site managers at Morjim reported a better hatching rate of 75.8%. “This was due to high temperature and there was no moisture in the sand. A maximum number of eggs were hatched from some of the nests,” a forest official said. In recent years, the delayed nesting has impacted the conservation programme, being managed by the forest department at Morjim and Mandrem in north and Agonda and Galgibaga in south Goa, as rain water soaks the eggs, triggering decay. “If you consider the pattern of turtle arrivals for the last 20 years, it is observed that the arrivals have shifted by a month ahead. The turtles that lay eggs in mid-May face the monsoon and there is a chance of spoilage of nests due to heavy rainfall,” programme coordinator, Centre for Environment Education, Sujeet Dongre said. Adding to the management’s problems are a host of intrusive tourism activities near the sites, as bright lights and noise disturb the reptiles. In comparison to mass nesting in Odisha, Goa plays host to fewer visitors from the sea on its beaches. (With inputs by Albert Fernandes)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/turtle-nesting-season-overlaps-with-monsoon-takes-hit/articleshow/76601297.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid fear: Passport applications crash by 50% in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Covid outbreak was first reported in the state in March, but its effect was visible at the Ahmedabad passport office from February, with a steep decline in applications. This year till June, the Ahmedabad Regional Passport Office (RPO) received only 1.58 lakh applications. In contrast, about 7 lakh applications had been received by the end of 2019.  Till last week, the RPO processed 1.66 lakh applications, which include cases pending from previous years. On Wednesday, officials observed the Passport Seva Divas. Officials said that applications dipped this year because tours were cancelled following the pandemic. They said the Covid situation may have also scuppered students’ plans to join colleges abroad. A senior official said that even in 2019 there was a fall in the number of applications as compared to 2018. But it was only a 2.5% slide. The official said that changes in US visa norms may have played a part in reducing the number of applications in 2019. The official said that Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) in Ahmedabad began issuing fresh appointments from June 3. Only 50% of pre-Covid-period appointments are given in a day. Yet, only half the number of applicants who confirm their appointments are turning up at Ahmedabad PSKs. Officials attribute the situation to Covid fears. Ahmedabad gets full-time passport officer  Wren Mishra has taken over as the full-time regional passport officer, Ahmedabad. He was the regional director of the Staff Selection Commission, Chandigarh. Mishra replaced Sonia Yadav, who was holding the charge after Neelam Rani was transferred to iNDEXTb, the investment promotion organization of the Gujarat government. As soon as he took over, on June 10, Mishra directed that pending applications be dealt with. Officials said that about 40 applicants are called daily. The officials said in most cases, applications are processed on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-fear-passport-applications-crash-by-50/articleshow/76592899.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||ISB to design state’s development plans||Amaravati: The state government has decided to rope in Indian School of Business (ISB) to ready a blueprint for the state’s development. ISB will be made nodal agency to design development strategies. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy visited ISB at Hyderabad on Wednesday and interacted with key professors to discuss strategies to revive economic growth in the state and come up with a long term roadmap for sustainable development in the state through data-driven policy making. Speaking at the meeting Gautham Reddy the key areas of engagement identified to be taken up as ‘project mode.’ The objective of the project is to see a greater synergy between departments to address the larger issues of development. In order to help governance reach the last mile, Pulse is an advanced data analytics application using near real-time digital data on citizen interactions with government schemes and systems, said Gautham Reddy. The minister noted that every state is offering a suite of incentives to attract investments in industrial development, often customized to local endowments. “We will undertake a comparative analysis of incentives and investment patterns across states. This will allow Andhra Pradesh to learn from experience across India and structure incentives to make the state more attractive for targeted investment,” said the minister. Professor Ashwini Chhatre, associate professor of public policy at ISB, said that the faculty and students were delighted to collaborate with the AP government on the agenda of inclusive and sustainable development through the JumpStartIndia@ISB initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/isb-to-design-states-development-plans/articleshow/76583650.cms||Samdani MN
June 25, 2020||Pune||Main market in Pimpri shut after rules violation||Pune: The civic body shut down the main market in Pimpri on Tuesday evening for a couple of days and barricaded the entire area because shops allegedly violated the social distancing norms. Smita Zagade, the additional commissioner and in charge of the Pimpri ward, said the move was necessary because all hygiene and social distancing norms were violated. She said the situation would be reassessed after June 25. “The commissioner issued orders to open shops but we found that people were not wearing masks and crowding in shops in alleys, among other violations. So, the commissioner said the shops have to be closed. They would be opened only if the shopkeepers assure that the norms would be followed,” Zagade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/main-market-in-pimpri-shut-after-rules-violation/articleshow/76592910.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man, 20, held for sexually harassing girl||COIMBATORE: All Women Police Station (AWPS – west) officials arrested a 20-year-old man for sexually harassing a minor girl in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The accused was identified as S Jayapal, a native of Sathyamangalam, who works as a daily wage labour in the city. A few days ago, the victim’s parents had filed a complaint at Kuniyamuthur police station stating that their daughter had gone missing. During the investigation, it was revealed that the accused befriended the victim and had been chatting with her through social media platforms. Promising to marry the victim, the accused had sexually assaulted her. Following this, the case was transferred to AWPS. Police had booked the accused under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and arrested him. Further investigation is on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-20-held-for-sexually-harassing-girl/articleshow/76592936.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||DMK MLA booked for threatening BJP functionary||Madurai: Madurai East MLA P Moorthy has been booked by the Oomachikulam police on charges of using filthy language and threatening a BJP youth wing functionary with dire consequences. Police sources said that the BJP functionary, S Sankarapandi of Sridevi Nagar in Oomachikulam had shared a news item, published against the MLA in an online portal, through Twitter and Facebook tagging many people. Irked by his act, Moorthy along with a few of his supporters went to Sankarapandi’s house and picked up a verbal altercation with him and also tried to beat him up. Leaked footage from CCTV showed that the MLA was trying to hit Sankarapandi. The MLA and five of his supporters were booked under various sections of the IPC including 294 (using filthy language) and 506 (i) (threatening with dire consequences). On Tuesday, 84 local BJP leaders and functionaries were arrested for staging a protest at Oomachikulam junction without getting police permission. They were released later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-mla-booked-for-threatening-bjp-functionary/articleshow/76597070.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Tuticorin victims’ kin won’t accept body, want murder case on police||TIRUNELVELI: “We don’t want the Rs 20 lakh from the government. Give us back our father and brother alive. How can a sister even explain the torture her brother endured?” said a distraught Persis, the elder daughter of Jayaraj, who along with his son Bennix, died following alleged custodial torture in Tuticorin within hours of each other on Monday night. The father and son were in lockup at the Sathankulam police station the entire night on Friday after being picked up for keeping their shop open beyond the permitted time. Postmortem on their bodies was performed by doctors in the presence of a judicial magistrate here on Wednesday, following inquest with the relatives. Besides Persis, 34, from Vijayawada, Jayaraj’s other daughters Beulah, 30, from Pollachi and Berlin, 26, from Chennai were also waiting for the formalities to be completed. The family and relatives were firm on their stand that they would receive the bodies only if the police officers and personnel at the Sathankulam police station are booked for murder and dismissed from service. “We will take a call on receiving the body after autopsy based on the assurance they give,” says P Pon Sekar, one of Jayaraj’s sons-in-law. Persis and insisted that everyone in Sathankulam police station should be booked for double murder and torture. “It should not happen to another family. We want it in writing. What did the doctors at the Sathankulam GH and court observe when they were produced before them? The CM should help our family get justice,” she said. Earlier, Kovilpatti judicial magistrate-I M S Bharathidhasan, who conducted the inquest, assured the family a fair probe and justice. A senior police officer told TOI that during the videoconference with district collectors and police heads earlier in the day, the chief minister spoke about the incident. “The CM said that all the good work done by the government will be in vain when such incidents,” the officer said. In a statement, the CM said the government will take legal action based on the report of the inquest and orders to be pronounced by the high court that took cognisance of the issue. He also announced compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the family and a government job for a relative based on their qualification. Most shops in Tuticorin district and many in Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari were closed to extend support to the one-day closure announced by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai. Lawyers and political parties organised protests in various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-victims-kin-wont-accept-body-want-murder-case-on-police/articleshow/76597110.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops track down 44 of 63 ‘missing’ Covid-19 patients||MUMBAI: Police tracked down 44 of 63 Covid patients that BMC had reported as ‘missing’ from the western suburbs. Four of those ‘missing’ are dead and three are criminal offenders. The list of missing patients was compiled by P/North ward when it could not establish contact with people after their testing over three months. Phones of many patients were switched off, and some were not available at addresses provided. BMC staff who compiled the list were criticised by corporators for glaring inconsistencies. They were accused of dashing off the list hurriedly without verification. Of the 44 traced, 17 live in Kurar police station jurisdiction in Malad (E). Two who died also lived in Kurar. Three are offenders booked by Dindoshi police and are at a quarantine centre. "Every person that is arrested is taken for a Covid-19 test,” said a senior officer. Nineteen of those missing have been hospitalised, mostly from Dindoshi police jurisdiction. Eighteen have been discharged from hospital and are home quarantined. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya wrote to municipal commissioner I S Chahal demanding information on how many positive patients are there in city, how many have been followed up by BMC staff and how many are missing from June 1 to 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-track-down-44-of-63-missing-covid-patients/articleshow/76593025.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Tobacco prices dip, board yet to be up||GUNTUR: The crisis in the tobacco market is likely to worsen further as prices have been coming down in the last one week. Tobacco growers boycotted auctions at a few platforms in Prakasam district in protest against poor prices offered by traders. The growers are frustrated as there is no change in the situation even after chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy’s ultimatum to traders last week. The delay in formation of a new tobacco board to pick up stocks is helping traders. A week has passed since the chief minister directed officials to float a new firm to buy tobacco within two days. While the CM wanted the new entity to start operations by Monday, the marketing department is yet to finalise the modalities and secure a trade licence from the tobacco board. Sources said senior officials are finalising the guidelines and functionalities of the new corporation to be headed by an IAS officer as the new board requires at least a few people with expertise in tobacco procurement. Tobacco is a regulated crop with different grades and varieties cultivated in the state. The government is also worried about disposal of the stock after purchase. “Unlike other crops it is not so easy to sell tobacco stock after purchase. We need expertise and infrastructure to store the stocks,” said a senior official. The marketing department purchases tomato, orange, banana, chilli, turmeric, onion or any other crop under market intervention to provide price support to farmers when there is a dip in open market prices and off-loads a majority of the stock in retail market through Raithu bazaars. “It will not be the case with tobacco as we can’t sell the stock to traders unless there is demand,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-prices-dip-board-yet-to-be-up/articleshow/76583722.cms||Samdani MN
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC reserves order in PIL on timely RTE admissions||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has reserved its order on a PIL seeking directions to the state education authorities to start admission process for the poor students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act well ahead in time. The state government has not started the process for admission for students belonging to economically weaker sections in private schools under RTE laws. Each private school is mandated to admit 25% poor students in Class I under this law. Petitioner advocate Sandeep Munjyasara had filed the PIL in March urging the HC to direct the government to initiate admission process under RTE much before it actually takes place in normal course. When the state government in February declared that its academic session would begin from April, the petitioner rushed to the court for early RTE admissions. Munjyasara had earlier filed a PIL questioning the delay in conducting admission rounds by the state government. The HC last year refused to issue directions saying that it was already late for such direction because the first term was near its end in September. The petitioner cited earlier proceedings and insisted that the RTE admission process too should be started in the month of November-December, the way private schools begin their admission process. The PIL could not be heard due to the lockdown announced due to Covid-19 pandemic. He also argued that the RTE admission process is even more important this year because many people have lost their livelihoods or there is drastic reduction in their incomes due to the Covid-19 situation. The state government defended itself by citing a litigation initiated by Munjyasara. To this, the lawyer submitted that pendency of a litigation cannot be a ground for delay in such an important process. The state government delays RTE admission process under one or the other pretext, he argued. The petitioner told the HC that he sought urgent hearing in this PIL due to the decision of the state government to allow private schools to start education activity online from June 15. As the education activity in private schools has already started, the poor students to be admitted under RTE laws might face trouble in study later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-reserves-order-in-pil-on-timely-rte-admissions/articleshow/76592984.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 in Kerala: Officials to increase pooled testing due to spike in cases||KOCHI: In view of spike in number of Covid-19 positive cases, district health authorities have decided to change sample testing strategy by increasing number of people being tested every day to identify source of infection. Officials are planning to increase collection of samples of asymptomatic people. These samples would be tested via pooled testing under RT-PCR and TrueNat test. Pregnant women and patients who are going to undergo emergency surgery will also considered for pooled testing as they are among vulnerable categories. Currently, pooled testing is done under RT-PCR test at Kalamassery government medical college as part of sentinel surveillance. CBNAAT test too is being conducted at the medical college to identify whether any deceased person was Covid affected or not. Meanwhile, to increase pooled testing, one more RT-PCR lab will be set up at regional public health laboratory in Ernakulam. Though less than 10 private labs, approved by the government, have been conducting RT-PCR tests, the number is negligible. “By conducting pooled testing under two categories of tests, our plan is to cover more people in view of increasing number of cases besides spike in number of people coming from outside Kerala. During a state-level meeting, it was also decided to increase testing and set up RT-PCR labs in districts where it is not available. We are planning test at least 400 samples per day. Since we need more facilities to increase testing, a new RT-PCR lab is necessary. The new lab will be set up in the regional public laboratory,” said a health official. Earlier, TrueNat testing started in the regional lab on Tuesday. “Pooled testing can be conducted under both RT-PCR and TrueNat tests. We are planning to increase tests of asymptomatic cases under TrueNat to avoid wasting of RT-PCR test kits, which we will earmark for symptomatic cases. The move is to conduct pooled testing of samples of asymptomatic people under TrueNat tests as the result of a single test will be available within one hour. We will do pooled testing in samples of people in the low risk category too,” said another health official. Under pooled testing, five samples are tested together. If any one of the samples is tested positive, all the five samples will be tested separately. If the result of pooled testing comes out negative, all samples will be considered negative and no more testing is needed. Meanwhile, authorities have also decided to increase staff strength at regional lab. “Currently, we have six lab technicians. National health mission has promised to provide service of five more technicians on contract basis. When the tests increase, number of staff too would be increased,” said an official at the lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-to-increase-pooled-testing-due-to-spike-in-cases/articleshow/76588636.cms||T C Sreemol
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||‘Mining in Bander to destroy habitat of 6 tigers’||Chandrapur: Minister for disaster management, relief and rehabilitation and guardian minister of Chandrapur, Vijay Wadettiwar, on Wednesday said that any mining activity in Bander near Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) would destroy habitat of at least six resident tigers. Opposing move to auction the Bander coal block, the minister said he would apprise the government of threat it poses to Tadoba tigers and the people living around. Interacting with the media persons, Wadettiwar said that there are six resident tigers in the Bander forest. “Any mining activity will destroy the critical northern tiger corridor of TATR. It will also destroy tourism in the world famous tiger reserve. State environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has already expressed his concerns over mining at Bander. We will never allow the mining at Bander and there will be no negotiations on it,” he said. Meanwhile, Eco-Pro Organization led by senior wildlife activist Bandu Dhotre forwarded a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister for environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar through district collector demanding cancellation of Bander coal block auction. The memorandum listed out “adverse effects” mining will have on Tadoba tigers and their northern corridor, “leading to escalation in man-animal conflict in the area”. Similarly, local stakeholders and wildlife NGOs including Tarun Paryawarnwadi Mandal and Paryawarn Sanwardhan Sanghatna also submitted a memorandum to SDO at Chimur demanding cancellation of coal block auction as “it will threaten agriculture activity, local population and tigers in the area”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mining-in-bander-to-destroy-habitat-of-6-tigers/articleshow/76593039.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Custodial deaths: Madras HC asks SP to file status report June 26||MADURAI: Taking suo motu cognizance of the deaths of the father-son duo, P Jayaraj, 58, and J Benicks, 31, who were in judicial custody after being arrested by the Sathankulam police, Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Tuticorin superintendent of police to file a status report on the incident on June 26. A division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi observed that since street hawkers and daily wagers were facing difficulties because of Covid-19, a humane approach should be adopted in treating people. In a democratic setup, people are sovereign and such kinds of incidents would create widespread discontent. The judges orally asked the AAG to discuss with the state government and DGP and come up with standard operating procedures to put an end to such kinds of incidents. When the case was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, the court directed the director general police (DGP) and Tuticorin SP to appear through videoconferencing. Additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian informed the court that the DGP was in a videoconference with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Hence, south zone IG K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran and Tuticorin SP Arun Balagopalan appeared through videoconferencing. IG Shanmuga Rajeswaran submitted that two sub-inspectors, Balakrishnan and Raghuganesan, have been placed under suspension, an inspector, Sridhar, had been placed on waiting list and disciplinary actions initiated against head constables Muthuraj and Murugan attached to the Sathankulam police station. ArunBalagopalan submitted that the situation was calm at present and people had faith in the police action. He further submitted that Kovilpatti JM was conducting an inquest at Tirunelveli government hospital. The court directed the district administration officials to provide necessary infrastructure and support to the JM to conduct an inquest without any interference. They reiterated that as per the earlier direction of the court, postmortem should be performed by a team of three doctors and the same should be videographed. A copy each of the judicial magistrate’s (JM) inquest report and postmortem report should be submitted to the court registry. After the AAG expressed apprehension that social distancing norms may be violated during the funeral, the judges said they are not relaxing the norms prescribed by the government for funerals. They directed the Tirunelveli and Tuticorin district administrations to keep the public informed of the fact that the high court Maduraibench is closely monitoring the case and thereby instil confidence in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-deaths-madras-hc-asks-sp-to-file-status-report-june-26/articleshow/76597183.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC calls for awareness about skewed sex ratio||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday called for a crusade to bring awareness among people for balancing the sex ratio in Gujarat so that evil practices like exchange marriages can be eliminated.The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria made certain observations about the evil effect of skewed sex ratio in form of exchange marriages and said that the district judiciary and legal service authority should undertake a drive “for balancing the sex ratio”. The court said, “Let there be an endeavour and crusade for creating of awareness by legal and social education as the people also must be made aware of the severe and scary consequences of such imbalance resulting into various unpredictable and unmanageable social and legal issues in the society.” The court was dealing with a case filed by a person from Banaskantha, whose married daughter had eloped with a youth and got their marriage registered. The man sought his daughter’s custody on the grounds that his daughter’s decision would jeopardize his son’s marriage also because he got his children married according to the ‘sata’ system - exchange marriage.The girl is determined to live with her new husband. With the HC’s and Banaskantha district judge’s intervention, both the families settled the dispute, but the HC said that it was pained at the custom that “stifles the dreams and aspiration of young people”. The bench criticized the “unpalatable custom” of exchange marriages prevalent in some parts of Gujarat in which both the siblings (brother and sister) are married to siblings of other side and unless this exchange marriages are promised, no matrimonial relationship gets finalized. The judges said, “This not only stifles the dreams and aspiration of young people, it eventually results in the parents bargaining for an amount every time there is a dispute between the couple which has married in exchange as there is a severe dearth of daughters. This is all on account of the imbalance in sex ratio in the state of Gujarat that such insistence in many parts of the state for exchange marriage continues.”The court further said, “This dearth of daughters can in no manner entitle anyone to bargain over or capitalize on the situation and thereby allow the monetary transaction to dominate the human relations. However, it is an evil camouflaged as a social custom which requires to be redressed firmly by going deep into the same and one of the principal requirements is to create awareness amongst people of far reaching consequences of further depletion of such ratio.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-calls-for-awareness-about-skewed-sex-ratio/articleshow/76592957.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Off road, pvt bus operators demand bailout package||Nagpur: The Bus & Car Operators Confederation of India (BOCI), which represents 20,000 bus operators with 15 lakh buses and 11 lakh tourist taxis in the country, has demanded a bailout package from the government else they will park their buses in RTO offices. “The private bus operators have been badly hit owing to the four-month lockdown since March. March to June is our peak season and due to lockdown entire business has come to a standstill,” said Prasanna Patwardhan, president of BOCI. Sanjay Mohta, secretary, Travels Association of Nagpur (TAN), said, “The bus operators had raised their demands with the state and Central governments. Except promises no decision was taken to bail out the travels industry. We pay crores in taxes to the government, which should provide relief to us. If no action is taken we will park our buses in RTO offices from June 25.” Treasurer of TAN Mahendra Luley said, “Over 1.5 lakh people in the state depend on this business and 30 lakh people have been affected directly and indirectly due to closure. State bus operators are losing a bare minimum Rs500 crore per month and have no money to pay wages and salaries of staff.” Patwardhan said that around 20 lakh people have lost employment and an equal number is staring at job losses. “Of the total buses, 95% were off the road and only 5% were deployed to transport migrants,” he said. Seeking government support, Luley said, “Our demand is to waive off motor vehicle taxes while removing toll taxes for inter-city travel. There should be concession on diesel, ” he said. TAN president Mahendra Jain said, “For the lockdown period our insurance policy should be extended, at least by three months. Unlike before insurance is quite expensive. For buses, it can be between Rs50,000 to Rs2 lakh a year.” Jain also sought government intervention for waiver of interest on vehicle loans for six months. “From September, when the EMI payments are to restart, businesses are not going to start immediately and come back to normal. So rescheduling of loans is also equally important,” he said. Luley said while the government has taken steps to support the economy through various schemes, it has failed to address issues of public transport sector. Major demands * Exempt operators from taxes for 1 year * Extend period for insurance premium payment * Exempt toll tax payment and grant diesel subsidy * Withdraw e-challan fine by traffic police * Waive off interest on vehicle loans for six months, reschedule loans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/off-road-pvt-bus-operators-demand-bailout-package/articleshow/76593058.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Edu dept work stalled after 3 clerks test positive||Pune: Three clerks from the education department’s offices have tested positive for Covid-19, affecting routine work as the offices had to be sanitised. The midday meal department under the primary education department had a clerk who tested positive for Covid-19, the commissioner’s office also had a clerk who was on duty at a ration shop, followed by another staff member from the Pune division of the state board. They have been admitted in hospitals. Commissioner of education Vishal Solanki said, “We have carried out all the protocols set by the health department after the staff tested positive. We have sanitised the offices and followed other procedures.”The detection spread panic among staff and officers but now they are more cautious and are following social distancing and taking all precautionary measures. “The work is going on through WhatsApp e-mail and others,” Solanki added. After the lockdown was extended to June 30, the government offices were permitted to start functioning with 15% workforce. The offices were shut for nearly four to five days. A senior officer at the Pune division of the state board said, “Work had been progressing slowly with very few staff members. Now, we shall resume after the short shut-down for sanitisation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-dept-work-stalled-after-3-clerks-test-positive/articleshow/76592976.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Migrants account for 83% of Vizianagaram’s caseload||VISAKHAPATNAM: More than 83% of the Covid-19 cases in Vizianagaram district involves migrants, said officials of the medical and health department of Vizianagaram on Wednesday. In the last few months, a total of 15,409 people (migrants) returned to Vizianagaram district that include 1,833 people from high-risk states such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Delhi. Returnees from Tamil Nadu, one of the top Covid-19 hotbeds in the country, accounted for over 23% (42) of Vizianagaram district’s caseload, followed by Telangana (22), Maharashtra (six) and Delhi (four). As for returnees from other districts, Krishna district has contributed to over 27% (45) of the caseload of Vizianagaram district followed by Visakhapatnam (seven cases). As per the reports, of the total 177 Covid-19 cases in the district, only 29 are local cases, while 148 cases involve returnees from other state, districts, and even foreign countries. The DMHO (in-charge), J Ravi Kumar said, of the total 177 cases in the district, a total of 68 patients have recovered and were discharges. There are 109 active cases, he added. Vizianagaram is the only district in Andhra Pradesh that has not reported any Covid-19 death so far, he further added. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal appealed to officials to increase the number of tests and get reports quickly from the laboratories. He also appealed to the people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms to contain the spread of the virus. On the other hand, Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari formed special teams to implement social distancing in the district, including the fish markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrants-account-for-83-of-vzms-caseload/articleshow/76588516.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Re-exams on hold, ‘failed’ class IX students worried||With class IX re-examinations on hold until physical schools reopen, students who haven’t passed the academic year based on their scores in exams conducted before the lockdown, have been left in the lurch. In April, the state education department had announced that final semester exams for classes IX and XI will not be conducted and schools should promote students based on their first-term exam and internal exam results. In normal circumstances, students who don’t pass class IX can take re-examination soon after the results. If they perform well, they are promoted to class X and don’t lose a year. But with schools only operating online due to the Covid-19 pandemic, re-exams have been put on hold, which has both students and their parents worried. A parent of a class IX student said, “We had received a message from my son’s school in Mahim that he has been promoted to class X. But a few days later, we were informed that he would have to appear for the class IX re-examination when school reopens and only then would he be promoted to class X. What if the re-exam is held in September and my child clears it? He will have only five months to prepare for SSC.” Schools across the city have asked students who have not cleared class IX to either wait for the re-examination until they re-open or begin attending class X online session for now. “We have asked our students to start attending the class X online classes. If a student fails the class IX re-exam, he/she can either repeat the year or continue in class X as a private candidate. He/she can fill up the state board’s form 17,” said Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri. Another school from the western suburbs has currently promoted all its class IX students and will give them a chance at re-examination. “In these extraordinary circumstances, we will try not to hold back students,” said the principal. Deputy director of education Rajendra Ahire iterated that all schools will have to conduct class IX re-examination after they reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/re-exams-on-hold-failed-class-ix-students-worried/articleshow/76593093.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
June 25, 2020||Pune||Areas along BT Kawade Rd sealed to arrest spread||Pune: The areas along BT Kawade Road, including Shrinathnagar, Shaktinagar, Panchashilnagar-Ghorpadigaon and Bhimnagar, were declared micro-containment zones on Wednesday after rise in Covid-19 cases. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued an order in this regard on Wednesday. The order stated that the Pune police department with the local ward office of PMC will seal all the lanes, bylanes and internal roads having entry-exit points to the micro-containment areas by installing barricades. Besides, all the shops, except medical stores, will remain closed in these areas till June 30. Milk will be available only between 7am to 9 am. The BT Kawade Road will, however, remain open only for goods transport and supply of essentials. Dayanand Sonkamble, head of Dhole Patil Road ward office, said a review of all the areas along BT Kawade Road was held recently. “Over 43 cases were detected in the last three-four days from the slum pockets of Shaktinagar, Bhimnagar and even from Shrinathnagar. Since the areas are densely populated and have significant movement of people, a proposal was moved to implement micro-containment zone measures,” he said. The civic authorities said the surveillance had been increased in the affected areas and tracing of contacts had also been initiated by the teams from the civic health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/areas-along-bt-kawade-rd-sealed-to-arrest-spread/articleshow/76593018.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 2,000 mechanised boats set to get bio-toilets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 2,000 mechanised boats in the state are set to be equipped with bio-toilets. The National Fisheries Development Board, under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana scheme, will finance the initiative. At Rs 30,000 per toilet, the project is estimated to cost around Rs 6.5 crore. “We will fund the project and prepare guidelines for it within the next two or three days,” Rathin Raj, executive director of National Fisheries Development Board told TOI. On May 26, the fisheries minister Giriraj Singh had announced the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana scheme, which aimed to “bring about a Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries sector in India, with the highest ever investment of Rs 20,050 crore.” Construction of bio-toilets on fishing vessels is one of the key aspects of the scheme. For years, boat owners in Andhra Pradesh managed without toilets on the mechanised boats, despite their long and arduous stay, some of which lasted for almost three weeks, at sea. “Recently we had done a survey on what needs to be done to maintain hygiene onboard following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. The survey revealed that bio-toilets were the need of the hour. Although the fishing season in on in full swing, we are confident that we would complete the project by the end of the year,” Arijili Dasu, the executive secretary of Visakhapatnam District Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Association told TOI. A team has been formed comprising members from different boat owners’ associations to execute the project. It has roped in a Hyderabad-based sanitation company to procure the bio-toilets, which will be tailor-made for the fishing boats. “These bio-toilets would be fitted on board and these can actually recycle the waste using bacteria that can be used for plantation and other purposes,” said Kodur Venu, the owner of the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-2k-mechanised-boats-set-to-get-bio-toilets/articleshow/76588645.cms||Arpit Basu
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 15-year-old raped at own home||AHMEDABAD: A 15-year-old girl was raped at her own house by a man who preyed on her because her mother was hospitalized and her father was too infirm to intervene. The girl’s ordeal was revealed on Tuesday when her mother lodged a complaint of rape with the Isanpur police station. According to case details, the girl was raped by Mahesh Devipujak, 23, about three months ago at her house near Chandola Lake in Isanpur. At the time, the girl’s mother had been admitted to Civil Hospital. The girl’s disabled father, who spent most of his time sleeping outside the house, was unaware of the assault. On Monday, the girl’s mother was discharged after three months of treatment. The girl confided in her mother about her traumatic experience. The girl also told her mother that Devipujak had said dire consequences would follow if she ever complained about him. Neighbours told the girl’s mother that Devipujak was seen entering her house. The girl’s mother took her to the Isanpur police station on Tuesday and lodged a complaint. Inspector J M Solanki said that the accused has been rounded up and sent for a Covid-19 test. Official arrest will follow after the results are known, he said. Solanki said that Devipujak, a Vatva resident, used to visit his in-laws’ house in Isanpur. On his visits, Devipujak noticed that the minor was vulnerable. “One day, when the girl’s brother and grandfather were at Civil Hospital, Devipujak entered the house and raped the girl,” Solanki said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-year-old-raped-at-own-home/articleshow/76593047.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS to grill gun racket kingpin||AHMEDABAD: Tarun Gupta, of Tarun Gupta Gun House, was brought for interrogation from Bhuj to Ahmedabad by a Gujarat ATS team on Wednesday. Gupta had been arrested and put in judicial custody of the Bhuj court for selling guns against licences obtained on forged documents or fudged entries. His role was revealed when some accused were caught in an attempt to hunt a peahen in Kutch on June 8. “Fourteen firearms were seized from the accused by cops of B-Division police station, Bhuj, on June 8. The number and variety of the weapons pointed at a well-organized gun racket and the case was transferred to anti-terrorism squad,” said an ATS official. “Gupta will also be arrested by ATS in a recent seizure of 54 guns from nine accused. We expect to seize at least another 50 to 60 imported and Indian guns based on Gupta’s interrogation and this may lead to the highest seizure of guns in the state till date,” said an ATS official. Gujarat ATS had recently seized 54 guns from nine accused, which included imported guns and those made at Indian ordinance factories. The guns were bought either on licences issued on forged documents or wrong entry in description of guns in the licences. In the recent seizure, ATS had found a wide range of firearms including automatic pistols, pocket pistols, Mauser, 9mm Colt pistols, double and single-barrelled guns and 0.22 bore rifles, cumulatively valued at Rs 80 lakh. The first to be arrested in this case were one Wahidkhan Pathan of Kothkaydesar in Gangad and Musaq Baloch of Vankaner. Pathan was arrested with a loaded revolver from near Iscon temple, and Baloch had an automatic pistol when he was held. Seven more were arrested soon including Javedkhan Pathan, Imrankhan Pathan, Naeemkhan Pathan and Kacha Sandhi of Bavla; Amir Mogal, Raju Yadav and Wasim Diwan of Vankaner. ATS officials said some of the accused used the firearms for illegal hunting while others may have used them for more serious crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ats-to-grill-gun-racket-kingpin/articleshow/76593102.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NGO lends a hand to commercial sex workers but it’s not enough||MUMBAI: It is no longer easy finding customers but commercial sex workers (CSWs) in Kamathipura do try to solicit by walking the streets. “The lockdown has been very hard on us. Prerna (NGO) gave us some ration, so did the church and Shankar Anna. With no work there is no money even to pay rent. Some of them stand on the roads in the evening but hardly anybody comes,” said Seema Sarkar. Raziya Biwi, another CSW, said there was no money for rent or medicines. “I have three children in Kolkata. I have no money for food, so how do I send them money? People have been kind, offering ration, but it is not enough,” she said. Parwati Naudiyal, a Powai resident, raised money from friends and relatives to provide rations to CSWs but has enough to provide essential kits to only 300, while there are 2,000 of them. “We will distribute that on Friday, but we would like to help all,” she said. Naudiyal was approached by a friend working with a local NGO that raised funds in the name of Kamathipura but used it elsewhere. “She knew I was helping people at Vikhroli Parksite, so she told me to help here too. CSWs were highly appreciative of help by Prerna, but need more,” said Naudiyal. Many CSWs have been brought here forcibly or tricked into the flesh trade. “They cannot avail of essentials from public distribution system as they do not have a ration card,” said Naudiyal. Prerna founder Priti Patkar said it was unfortunate the government had not offered any package to the women in debt. “We tried our best to give them essentials but it is for 15 days at a time. The government must offer them another sustainable source of livelihood,” she said. (To help, you can contact Priti Patkar #9821274865 or Parwati Naudiya #9987783192)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngo-lends-a-hand-to-commercial-sex-workers-but-its-not-enough/articleshow/76593192.cms||Clara Lewis
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Spurt in coronavirus cases cloud Ganesha idol market||VADODARA: By the end of June every year, idol makers in Vadodara would finish making 30% of Ganesh idols of their order book. But this year, they are unsure of getting orders as the coronavirus cases are showing no signs of abating. With Rath Yatra getting cancelled and the number of cases in the city crossing 2,000-mark, Ganesh festivities organizers here are also not able to finalize whether to install the idols or not. “Most of the idol makers start work in March, but this year due to lockdown nobody could open their workshops. Now, everything is open but there is no clarity over festivities,” said idol maker Ashok Ajmeri, who has fixed clients and makes 50 to 60 idols every year. “Since the unlock, people have been inquiring but nobody has finalized so I am right now making only small idols which are installed at homes,” he added. “By now I finish 30% work of my order book, but this year I could start my work only last week and that too by making small idols,” said another artist Ghanshyam Kahar. His entire family is in the business of idol making. While Ajmeri and Kahar have nothing on their order book this year, another idol maker has his hands full. Rajendra Bhoire who is the third-generation artist said that his clients have placed orders in advance this year. Bhoire and his wife Alka make 300 sand idols of up to 1.5 feet height every year for installing in homes. “Every year my clients place orders a month before the festivities, but this year the fear of shortage of idols due to Covid-19 prompted them to come early,” said 63-year-old Bhoire. He added that since maintaining social distancing would be difficult, people will be encouraged to celebrate the festivities and do the ‘visarjan’ at homes itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spurt-in-coronavirus-cases-cloud-ganesha-idol-market/articleshow/76585844.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 25, 2020||Mysuru||SSLC exam in Karnataka: Mock drills carried out to ensure SOP||Mysuru: DC Abhiram G Sankar has said that the district administration is working towards conducting the SSLC exam in a safe and secure environment. Addressing FB Live, he stated that for every 200 students, one thermal scanner will be used. They will be allowed to enter the exam centre from 8.30am. He also made it clear the Avila centre has been shifted to the nearby Maharani PU College as the area is sealed down. The authorities at Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar and Mandya districts have also made arrangements to ensure safety of the students. The education department has banned the public and organisations from distributing masks near the centres. But they can give the masks to the department officials so they can do the needful. Police will avoid crowding near the centres, he added. In Mysuru, 22 students are from containment zones. “Special arrangements have been made for them to write the exam,” the DC said. DDPI Panduranga said that the health department will depute medical teams to all centres to ensure the safety of students. Meanwhile, the department officials and other government staff, who are deputed for the exam duty, carried out a mock drill at all centres spread in all districts of south Karnataka. Parents were also allowed to visit the centres to be reassured of the preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sslc-exam-in-karnataka-mock-drills-carried-out-to-ensure-sop/articleshow/76589479.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Repatraition flight lands in M’luru||Mangaluru: As many as 123 repatriates from Abu Dhabi, UAE, landed at Mangaluru International Airport on Wednesday evening. A FlyDubai flight chartered by a private company in UAE landed with 123 passengers, including nine people from Udupi, two from Mysuru and one person from Dharwad. It landed around 7.15pm. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur in-charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said that all the passengers, after initial health screening, were sent for institutional quarantine for seven days. Their throat swabs will be collected and tested for the novel coronavirus after five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/repatraition-flight-lands-in-mluru/articleshow/76583834.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Senior Congress leader tests+ve for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: A senior Congress leader, who is also the TPCC treasurer, has tested positive for Covid-19. He is the first among the top Congress leaders in the state to have contracted coronavirus. The Congress leader has been admitted to a corporate hospital where his condition is said to be stable. His car driver and personal security guard have quarantined themselves even as their test reports are expected late in the evening or on Thursday. “I went for Covid-19 test after early symptoms of loss of taste and smell. The result was positive for coronavirus,” he said. He has not met the members of his family for over two weeks as he has been busy distributing sanitisers and masks among the poor. His last visit was to Lallaguda in Secunderabad constituency a week ago. Local leaders, who participated in masks and sanitisers distribution with him, too have quarantined themselves. The Congress leader was actively involved in relief activities during the lockdown and also organised awareness programmes. He had been demanding the TRS-government conduct more tests and that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s strategy of conducting less number of tests will cost the people dearly. “The state government has been denying community transmission in the state. But my case could be a strong indication. I don’t have any recent travel history. I have not come in touch with any identified Covid-19 patient or their close contacts. The state government should admit of community transmission as it will help people stay more alert and prevent further spread of coronavirus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/senior-congress-leader-testsve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76433388.cms||Roushan Ali
June 25, 2020||Kochi||73 infants, mothers placed under quarantine||KOCHI: Fear and anxiety have gripped residents of Sreemoolanagaram and nearby panchayats as infants — three-months-old to one-and-a-half-year old — have been placed under quarantine after they came in contact with the staff nurse at the primary health centre, who was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. This is the second case in the district in which the source of infection is unknown. As many as 73 infants and their mothers have been placed under quarantine, besides 13 hospital staff, six Asha workers and others. Around 167 people have been placed under quarantine and the number will increase. These people came in contact with the nurse during the immunization drive held on June 15 and 16. While the nurse developed symptoms on June 17 night her husband showed symptoms two days after that. He too was tested positive. The samples of their daughter, who also developed symptoms, has been collected. Six wards of Sreemoolanagaram panchayat have already been declared as containment zones. “As mothers and relatives of the infants are anxious, we have started sample collection. Samples of 74 infants and their mothers will be collected,” said a panchayat official. The nurse and her husband had visited Tripunithura and Malayattoor too. Ten of the 73 infants are from neighbouring panchayats of Chengamanad, Vazhakulam and Kanjoor. Meanwhile, the source of infection of the Nayarambalam native, who was tested positive, is still not clear. Health officials said the man had visited the houses of some North Paravur natives, who reached Kerala from other states recently. Swabs of those family members were collected for testing. Samples of seven staff in a nursing home, where the man sought medication, were also collected. Panchayat authorities have sent a list of 11 people, who came in contact with the patient, to district health authorities. One more containment zone in dist Ward number 15 of Malayattoor-Neeleswaram panchayat has been declared as containment zone since the Sreemoolanagaram couple has visited husband’s house in the area. Meanwhile, the review meeting convened by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar noted that nine per cent of the total positive cases reported in Ernakulam are through contacts. This is less than that of the state average. Ernakulam reported eight more positive cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/73-infants-mothers-placed-under-quarantine/articleshow/76588760.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to relax curbs on taxi, auto travel after June 30||MUMBAI: With the state government likely to open up more sectors after June 30 under its Mission Begin Again, it is also expected to relax restrictions on travel in taxis and autorickshaws in the city. To ensure safe travel while using public transport, the state has set up a 13-member task force, led by transport minister Anil Parab, to study various issues like problems faced by commuters, how to minimise the risk of Covid-19 spread and issues faced by the industry. Its first meeting is on Friday, via videoconferencing. Transport officials, however, said they will wait for the final instructions from the CM on restrictions on public transport. At present, BEST buses are the only major public transport available in Mumbai, while taxis and autos with limited capacity have been allowed for only ‘essential use’. Taxi and auto unions, who are stakeholders in the task force, want the state to ease restrictions and allow them to resume regular services, especially when offices have reopened with 10% of workforce and shops are functioning on alternate days. According to them, taxi or auto is the preferred mode of transport for last-mile connectivity. Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros suggested that taxis can be allowed gradually to operate in office areas and cater to office-goers . Malik Patel from Mumbai Bus Malak Sanghatana, which is also part of task force, said the government should allow buses for inter-district transport in a phased manner. “There could be few districts opposing this as they fear the infected people from Mumbai could come and spread virus there. Barring such few districts, the government can allow inter-district travel in other areas. There is a huge demand from citizens.” he said. He also demanded a crackdown on illegal buses from Gujarat and Rajasthan who were entering the state and transporting people in various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-likely-to-relax-curbs-on-taxi-auto-travel-after-june-30/articleshow/76593288.cms||Somit Sen
June 25, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Banarasi saree weavers join Covid-19 battle, make PPE kits||VARANASI: The nimble fingers skilled in weaving the famous Banarasi sarees known for their opulent, intricate embroidery and zari are nowadays busy making life-saving personal protective equipment (PPE) in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 20-25 artisans are busy making PPE kits at a unit in Patia locality of the city. Before the novel coronavirus outbreak, these craftsmen were engaged in traditional works like embroidery and garment making to meet the demands of the fashion world. Now, they are working to ensure protection of frontline corona warriors like doctors and health workers by making protective gears for them. “We have been in the business of Banarasi saree for generations. When the Covid-19 lockdown hit our trade, I thought of making PPE kits. We started working in this direction with the help of the industry department,” unit owner Govind Agrawal told TOI on Wednesday. “We utilized our existing manpower as they are skilled in making readymade garments and sent seven samples to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for testing and approval. All the samples were approved,” he said. “The samples were also certified by SIPRA Lab. We manufacture over 200 PPE kits per day and can make more as per demand. Presently, we have a stock of 3,000 kits,” Agrawal said. Since there was shortage of PPE kits, the industry department encouraged Agrawal. “It is the first DRDO certified unit manufacturing PPE kits in the whole eastern UP. The DRDO certification is essential for manufacturing PPE kits for government use,” said joint commissioner, industries, Umesh Singh. “The unit can manufacture 5,000 PPE kits in a month and can increase it to 10,000 per month. Process is underway to get the unit registered with Government e-Marketplace (GeM) for supply to government hospitals,” he added. “We manufacture over 200 PPE kits per day and can make more as per demand. Presently, we have a stock of 3,000 kits,” Agrawal said. “We imported a taping machine from Taiwan for this purpose. We will supply the PPE kits at a reasonable price within Rs. 500. Since starting this work, we are also feeling that we are contributing to the battle against coronavirus pandemic,” said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/banarasi-saree-weavers-joincovid-battle-make-ppe-kits/articleshow/76579332.cms||Binay Singh
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||ACB gets three days custody of Atchannaidu||Vijayawada: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has got three days’custody of TDP legislator and former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore ESI scam. The Vijayawada seventh additional sessions court on Wednesday allowed the custody petition moved by the ACB and gave three days’ custody with riders. The court directed the ACB to take custody of Atchannaidu in Guntur Government General Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. The court also said the questioning has to be done in the presence of Atchannaidu’s advocate. While allowing the custody petition by the ACB, the court dismissed a petition moved by Atchannaidu requesting that he be admitted to a super-specialty hospital of his choice for better treatment as he recently underwent a surgical procedure. The ACB in its petition argued that custody of the former minister is necessary as they are yet to obtain information from him for their investigation into the scam. Atchannaidu’s counsel stated that there is no need for custody as all information has been presented by the ACB in its remand report. After hearing both sides, judge in charge of ACB cases, Justice Venkata Ramana allowed the ACB’s petitions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acb-gets-three-days-custody-of-atchannaidu/articleshow/76588722.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Army medical teams called in for rail ‘hospital’||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Wednesday sent two Covid-positive patients to the isolation coaches set up at the Shakurbasti railway station, with the facility made operational in the afternoon. Medical staff from the army will be deployed at such facilities, while Railway Protection Force (RPF) will provide security. Four army medical teams have been provided, each comprising a doctor and two nurses. The patient management in the railway coaches will be done according to an agreement between Delhi government, the railways and the Indian army. DM (Northwest) Sandeep Mishra said the facility was part of the government’s plans to augment Covid-19 beds’ capacity. “More patients who turn positive but are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and do not qualify for home isolation will be sent to this facility depending on the requirement,” the DM said. Rajiv Chaudhary, General Manager (Northern & North Central Railways) said Northern Railway was responsible for maintenance of the premises, providing basic infrastructure and cleaning and sanitisation of platforms and inside the coaches. It will also provide watering and power facilities. “Catering will be provided by the railways. This will include meals three times a day and tea in the morning and evening. RPF personnel will man the station premises, while Delhi Police will be responsible for security arrangements outside the premises,” said Chaudhary. Coaches at the Shakurbasti railway station have been attached with Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital at Pitampura. “The hospital will provide the requisite medicines, medical equipment and material along with coach attendants. Coach sanitation and waste segregation & disposal will also be the responsibility of the hospital,” said a railway official. SC Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi told TOI decisions like when the patient is to be discharged or is to be shifted, or the line of treatment will all be responsibility of the state government’s health department. “The patients are to be treated as per the DGHS protocol, and have to be shifted to covid healthcare centre in case their health deteriorates by ambulances provided by DGHS or the hospital,” said Jain. The railways on Wednesday also said a reception centre had been opened at the station for administration of Covid-care patients, stating the coaches had been placed under a shed to protect it from direct sunlight. “Fans have been provided in each coupe for optimum air circulation and better temperature control. An emergency control room has also been set up at the station which will be manned 24x7 by railway officials for providing railway related assistance,” said Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had earlier inspected these isolation coaches and said that they were heating up inside and conditions could be difficult in the heat for medical staff wearing PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/army-medical-teams-called-in-for-rail-hosp/articleshow/76597342.cms||Alok KN Mishra
June 25, 2020||Goa||Nearly 5,200 stranded Goans have returned home||Panaji: The 21st repatriation flight landed at Goa International Airport bringing 153 stranded Indians from Sharjah on a Vande Bharat relief flight operated by Air India. The flight was followed by an Air Asia flight chartered by Carnival Cruise Line. The daily repatriation flights have ensured that around 5,200 seafarers and expats working in the Gulf region have been able to return home. “Screening facilities have been made in the multi-level car park. The Vande Bharat passengers have their swabs collected there while the seafarers are taken to the hotels and then tested as per the state’s protocol,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. Seafarers working with Florida-based Carnival Cruise Line returned to India on flights that landed at London. From there, special flights Air Asia were chartered to bring the seafarers to Goa. On Tuesday two Air Asia flights landed at Goa with 359 seafarers. On Tuesday, a Fly Dubai flight brought in 188 stranded Indians from Dubai. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has said that one more Vande Bharat flight is expected to arrive on June 27. Sawant said that the state government is in touch with the Union government to arrange for more relief flights to bring back Goans stranded abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nearly-5200-stranded-goans-have-returned-home/articleshow/76597327.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Injured man found near ATM dies||Nagpur: An unidentified man in his 30s was found injured with deep gashes on his hand and shoulder near Lokmanya Nagar Metro station at IC Chowk in MIDC area shortly before midnight of Tuesday. He later died. An ATM outlet’s glass door was found shattered with blood splattered on its floor around 200 feet away. MIDC police, which have registered a murder case, are now trying to probe the link between the injured man and the shattered ATM. Though the cash vending machine was not damaged or any amount dispensed after 9.06 pm, the broken glass façade of the outlet and the blood on the floor has the cops guessing. Police said a shop-owner, who runs an eatery on the floor above the ATM, had spotted the victim sleeping near the road divider at 11.25 pm. He was not having any injury on his body when the shop-owner had pulled him to safety on the roadside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/injured-man-found-near-atm-dies/articleshow/76593118.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Man with Covid kills self in home isolation||GHAZIABAD: Two days after testing positive for Covid-19, a 45-year-old man from Loni was found hanging from a ceiling fan in a room where he was isolated. The man worked as a sweeper with the Municipal Corporation of Delhi in Brahampuri, officials said on Wednesday. Ghaziabad health department did not have any information about the patient and found out only after his death. Subsequently, his body was cremated per the protocol. Meanwhile, 10 of his family members have been quarantined at a government facility. According to them, the man’s Covid test was done using a rapid antigen kit on Monday at a dispensary in Brahampuri. However, no report document was given to him. “He was worried. On doctor’s advice, he had isolated himself in a room in one of the rooms in his house. We had last spoken to him around 4am on Tuesday when we had gone to provide water. But two hours later, when we went to check on his health and provide tea, we found him hanging. He did not leave any suicide note,” said a family member. They added that he did not show any symptoms like fever, cold or cough. Afterwards, the matter was reported to the police and the local administration. The health department arranged an ambulance to take the body to a cremation ground. SDM (Loni) Khalid Anjum said, “The area will be sealed for disinfection and the family members will be shifted to a quarantine centre on the health department’s instruction.” Dr Saket Nath Tiwari, consultant psychiatrist from the National Mental Health Programme, said, “As for the past six months, coronavirus outbreak has been the centre of every discussion and activity, many people have developed an acute fear of the disease and think that this disease is the end of the world. This could be a reason for taking this extreme step.” Tiwari said people can seek advice and consultation on the mental health helpline number – 0120 4155313 – between 8am and 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/man-with-covid-kills-self-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76598614.cms||Aditya Dev
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Snake smugglers arrested near Melghat, sand boa rescued||Nagpur: Forest officials on Tuesday arrested three men who were trying to illegally sell an endangered species of snake near Melghat Tiger Reserve. Officials received information about a sand boa being smuggled out by three people, who were in the process of completing a deal. Based on the tip off, forest guards KA Choudhary, BB Khodve, SB Sarkate, AZ Hussain and Sujit Tayde laid a trap to catch the smugglers red-handed. Around 8.15pm the forest officials swooped in on the three and found the sand boa in their possession. Assistant forest officer LN Aware and range forest officer PD Patil planned the operation along with their team, which resulted in not only the arrest of smugglers but also successful rescue of the snake. The boa weighed approximately 2kg. Forest officials produced Liladhar Ingle (28), Akshay Panchang (25) and Bhanudas Kokate (50) before the court on Wednesday, which granted them forest custody till June 26. While Ingle and Panchang are from Akola, Kokate hails from Buldhana. Further investigations are being conducted by VS Chavhan, forest range officer (Narnala).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/snake-smugglers-arrested-near-melghat-sand-boa-rescued/articleshow/76593153.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chennai||CMDA to soon set ball rolling for Chennai’s 3rd masterplan||CHENNAI: The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) will soon kick-start preparatory work for third masterplan for the 1,189-sqkm area state capital whose contours extend into the hinterlands of neighboring Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. The second masterplan is valid till end of 2026, and work on the new plan will commence after the lockdown. According to housing and urban development department sources, the World Bank has granted funds for the purpose a month ago. Consultants will be appointed for preparatory work that would look into population density and climate resilience with focus on housing requirement for the next 20 years till 2046. Masterplan is a statutory broad-based plan prepared for a city and its neighbourhood incorporating infrastructure projects and land-use map to earmark institutional, industrial and residential areas that should be created in tandem with population growth. For instance, Inner Ring Road (Jawaharlal Nehru Road), Intermediate Ring Road (Chennai Bypass Road) and Outer Ring Road linking Vandalur and Minjur, MRTS and developing mofussil bus terminus and wholesale markets at Koyambedu as an alternative to Kothawalchavadi market were all conceived as part of the two masterplans in 1976 and 2008. “The third masterplan may explore expanding metro train connectivity and identifying new satellite towns to decongest the city,” said a former CMDA official who was associated with preparation of the second masterplan. Meanwhile urban development experts stressed that the new masterplan must have strategies for flood prevention and infrastructure facilities for migrant labours. “The way forward for the third masterplan may be a radical departure from the conventional concept to focus more on public services such as transportation, water supply, sewerage system and storm water drain,” a retired professor of urban engineering at Anna University K P Subramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmda-to-soon-set-ball-rolling-for-chennais-3rd-masterplan/articleshow/76597316.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Sawang appears before high court||Vijayawada: Director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang appeared before the high court on Wednesday in a case related to liquor smuggling, which involved the seizure of a few vehicles. Justice Devanand told the DGP that although the case was not serious enough for a DGP to be summoned, there seems to have been lapses in the functioning of the legal team as they did not properly convey the directions of the court. “The response was sought from the DGP over the procedural lapses in producing seized vehicles before the authorities. But the reply filed by the government pleader for excise is not satisfactory and did not contain proper details,” said Justice Devanand. He observed that the police and excise officials should not violate the rules while seizing the vehicles and the mistakes of lower rank officials need to be corrected. Justice Devanand directed the DGP to produce all seized vehicles before the respective deputy commissioners of excise within three days and they should take a decision on the vehicles in the next three days if the owners of the vehicle submitted an application. Justice Devanand said the officials cannot blame Covid-19 for all procedural lapses. It is to correct the mistakes in the system that they summoned the DGP and it should not be viewed as if the high court is against the government, Justice Devanand clarified, adding that they are not against anybody and the court treats everyone equally while serving justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sawang-appears-before-high-court/articleshow/76588839.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Moneylender booked for outraging modesty||Nagpur: Moneylender Abhay Patil and his wife Prajakta have been booked by the Bhiwapur police for outraging the modesty of a woman in Wakeshwar. A political furore over the issue led to legal action. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, too, had intervened in the matter. It’s learnt that Patil and his wife had gone to the farm of the survivor and her husband at Wakeshwar on June 20 to pressure them to settle the loan amount of Rs two lakhs. After an argument, there was a scuffle in which Patil and his wife dragged the woman and her husband out of their farm. The woman’s clothes were torn and she was left in a sorry state. Earlier, Bhiwapur police had failed to react positively, but later, registered and offence and arrested Patil after political intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/moneylender-booked-for-outraging-modesty/articleshow/76593240.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Lake squatters: Telangana high court seeks HMDA plan||HYDERABAD: Wondering if the state was serious about protecting lakes and public properties, the Telangana high court on Wednesday directed authorities to produce HMDA master plan to ascertain the extent of water bodies and their current status. It also asked them to submit details of eviction efforts by July 15. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing pleas which sought protection of lakes and government land from squatters. The bench said that a perusal of Google Maps showed the pathway and surroundings of Musi river all over city, including the buffer zone, were fully encroached upon and filled with permanent structures. “Worse still, pollutants are being released into the Musi making the lives of people living in its vicinity miserable. Hyderabad district collector too admits this in an affidavit, but fails to show an action plan to set right things,” the bench said, addressing advocate general BS Prasad. Conveying the resolve of the state, the AG said they would invite the bench to regularly monitor the situation. “We will furnish action taken reports regularly,” he said. Pointing out the discrepancies in the records of revenue, irrigation and HMDA, the bench cited the case of Brahmanakunta in survey number 345 of Puppalaguda in Rangareddy district. “Irrigation officials claim there is a lake here, but the revenue department’s sewari record shows no tank here. On the other hand, HMDA is contending that this is a 10 acre private land and even permitted construction of a multi-storied structure here,” the bench said. “You don’t act when construction begins, but would plead helplessness after five years when the area is full of constructions,” the bench said, asking why the state was unable to display its resolve from the beginning. “Do not allow construction in buffer zone, remove all of them,” the bench told AG Prasad. The bench also found fault with the authorities who initially started Shastripuram and Tatanagar as industrial belts, but later started permitting residential buildings. “Now, people are approaching courts to remove industries from this ‘residential area’,” the bench said. “When you admit that they are encroachments, what is the problem in removing them,” the HC questioned, seeking details of encroachments of lakes and public land and the details of eviction efforts by July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lake-squatters-hc-seeks-hmda-plan/articleshow/76601752.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||E-W tunnelling: 11 jewellery shops in two buildings shut||KOLKATA: Eleven Bowbazar jewellery shops and the two buildings they are housed in were evacuated for East-West Metro tunnelling on Wednesday. While the shops will remain closed for the next few days, 14 residents of one of the century-old structures have been shifted out. The East-West Metro connects Salt Lake Sector-V with Howrah Maidan and will pass under the Hooghly. The last-leg of underground tunnelling between Bowbazar and Sealdah resumed on Friday and unstable structures of the area are being evacuated for the purpose. Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), and ITD Cementation, issued temporary closure notices for 11 shops at 101 and 106 BB Ganguly Street. A family of three residing at 106 BB Ganguly Street was shifted to a central Kolkata hotel on Wednesday. Two other families living in the same house have moved in with their relatives. The shops can reopen on Monday and the residents can also return on the same day. Shibji Shahoo, a gunny-bag dealer and resident of 106 BB Ganguly Street, said: “The evacuation notice served by KMRC says we must stay out till Monday morning. But ITD officials, who brought us to the hotel, said we could go back after three days if the machine passes ahead of schedule.” The 24 residents, who were evacuated on Monday, came back home on Wednesday. Dipankar Dutta, a businessman and owner of 7 Durga Pituri Lane, said: “The machine has burrowed past our house safely. There are some minor cracks, which ITD engineers said they would repair.” This is the second time, the Duttas of 7 Durga Pituri Lane and the Malakars of 94 BB Ganguly Street, were evacuated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnelling-11-jewellery-shops-in-two-bldgs-shut/articleshow/76593257.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 25, 2020||Pune||Over 5k active patients in PMC limits, tally nears 14k||Pune: The number of Covid-19 active cases in Pune municipal limits surged past 5,000-mark to 5,009 on Wednesday, with the addition of 531 patients in the last 24 hours. With this, the total cases in PMC limits have increased to 13,760. Overall, 664 cases were recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, pushing the total caseload in the region up to 17,515. The Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 98 cases on Wednesday, while rural and Cantonment parts accounted for 35 fresh cases. Besides, 22 more deaths were reported in PMR on Wednesday. Of these, eight casualties occurred on June 23 and one on June 22, an official from PMC health department said. With the new casualties, the total toll on PMR stands at 639. The patients who succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday included a 53-year-old man from Dhankawdi, an 80-year-old man from Ganj Peth, a 29-year-old woman from the Kondhwa area, a 37-year-old man from the Sahakarnagar area, a 30-year-old man from Kothurd, a 60-year-old man from Yerawada, a 45-year-old woman from Kothrud, a 37-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 51-year-old woman of Rasta Peth, a 50-year-old man from Yerawada. PMC officials said 277 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals were critical, of whom 56 were on ventilator support. Over 155 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after being cured, taking the discharge tally in PMC to 8,100. District health officials said 3,416 swab samples were collected and sent for testing on Wednesday. The total cases in PCMC limits and rural parts stand at 2,325 and 1,430, respectively. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-5k-active-patients-in-pmc-limits-tally-nears-14k/articleshow/76593203.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Majority of works under Op Breakthrough completed||KOCHI: Work on Operation Breakthrough, a project which was implemented for avoiding waterlogging in the city, has been completed except for a couple of works. While Rs 10 crore was allotted for various works under the first phase of the project, Rs 15 crore was allotted for the second phase. According to officials associated with the project, they focussed on clearing the silt sedimented in mouths of canals which opens to backwaters over decades. “Almost all the works as part of first and second phases of Operation Breakthrough have been completed. We expect that this will reduce waterlogging in the city,” district collector S Suhas who spearheaded the project. Since the city has not received high rainfall this monsoon, the effectiveness of the works is yet to be ascertained. “We can take stock of the waterlogging situation only when rain intensifies. As the mouths of canals have been desilted as part of the second phase, flow of water to the backwaters from various canals will increase. This may considerably decrease waterlogging in many places on the banks of canals except Thevara-Perandoor (TP) canal. Desilting of TP canal has not been done properly,” said Ernakulam Vikasana Samithi president K S Dileep Kumar. A total of 17 works at a cost of Rs 15 crore had been undertaken in the second phase. Clearing of mouths of canals opening to backwaters at Thevara, Chilvannoor and Perandoor has been completed. At the same time, no long-term measures to contain waterlogging have been undertaken by the authorities so far. “It is a fact that the district administration and officials with minor irrigation department did a commendable work so far as desilting of canals are concerned. Unlike the desilting works done by the corporation every year, the works under Operation Breakthrough helped removed silt from the canals. Corporation’s desilting works, which they do annually, hadn’t served the purpose so far,” said K T Cheshire, RTI activist who fights against reclamation of backwaters. “But all the works done under Operation Breakthrough is just a short-term measure which can reduce waterlogging to a certain extent only. Unless long-term measures like eviction of encroachments and widening of canals are not done, waterlogging will persist,” Cheshire said. “Corporation also should have extended support to Operation Breakthrough,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/majority-of-works-under-op-breakthrough-completed/articleshow/76588870.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 25, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin victims’ kin won’t accept bodies, seek murder case on police||Tirunelveli: “We don’t want the Rs 20 lakh from the government. Give us back our father and brother alive. How can a sister even explain the torture her brother endured?” said a distraught Persis, the elder daughter of Jayaraj, who along with his son Bennix, died following alleged custodial torture in Tuticorin within hours of each other on Monday night. The father and son were in lockup at the Sathankulam police station the entire night on Friday after being picked up for keeping their shop open beyond the permitted time. Postmortem on their bodies was performed by doctors in the presence of a judicial magistrate here on Wednesday, following inquest with the relatives. Besides Persis, 34, from Vijayawada, Jayaraj’s other daughters Beulah, 30, from Pollachi and Berlin, 26, from Chennai were also waiting for the formalities to be completed. The family and relatives were firm on their stand that they would receive the bodies only if the police officers and personnel at the Sathankulam police station are booked for murder and dismissed from service. “We will take a call on receiving the body after autopsy based on the assurance they give,” says P Pon Sekar, one of Jayaraj’s sons-in-law. Persis and insisted that everyone in Sathankulam police station should be booked for double murder and torture. “It should not happen to another family. We want it in writing. What did the doctors at the Sathankulam GH and court observe when they were produced before them? The CM should help our family get justice,” she said. Earlier, Kovilpatti judicial magistrate-I M S Bharathidhasan, who conducted the inquest, assured the family a fair probe and justice. A senior police officer told TOI that during the videoconference with district collectors and police heads earlier in the day, the chief minister spoke about the incident. “The CM said that all the good work done by the government will be in vain when such incidents,” the officer said. In a statement, the CM said the government will take legal action based on the report of the inquest and orders to be pronounced by the high court that took cognisance of the issue. He also announced compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the family and a government job for a relative based on their qualification. Most shops in Tuticorin district and many in Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari were closed to extend support to the one-day closure announced by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai. Lawyers and political parties organised protests in various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-victims-kin-wont-accept-bodies-seek-murder-case-on-police/articleshow/76597350.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha officials using ‘6-minute walk’ test to shortlist Covid-19 suspects||Nagpur: Health officials of Wardha district, where the recovery rate is highest (85%) in Vidarbha region, are using an innovative ‘6-minute walk’ test for people to decide whether they need Covid-19 test or not. In contamination zone of Dattapur area of Wardha, officials conducted this ‘6-minute walk test’ of almost every adult in the zone on June 23 and 24. “After a walk or cardio for six minutes non-stop, oxygen concentration in human blood changes as body needs more oxygen. Just after completing this walk, we check a person’s blood oxygen circulation levels using a simple pulse oxymeter. If oxygen level falls below 90%, we test the person for Covid-19,” said civil surgeon of Wardha Dr Purushottam Madavi. This is WHO approved way to shortlist the more ‘at risk’ patients as testing of every individual in the locality/containment area is not always possible. Dr Madavi said even common people can use this method for self-assessment. “Walk or run for six minutes and check the oxygen levels in blood with pulse oxymeter. If levels are below 95, you need to see a doctor,” he said. The test was conducted in a local garden that ensured physical distancing of participants as well. All of them, including medical officers were wearing masks. Wardha has 30 patients of Covid-19 till date. Only 14 of them are natives of Wardha district while others are either from other districts or states. Here, Covid-19 patients are being treated at two big hospitals. Covid-19 testing facility is available at two laboratories in Wardha. Together, they can conduct 250 tests per day. Till date, 3643 samples have been tested. Pulse Oxymeter is a clip-on device that is attached to the fingertip to measure the oxygen level in the body of a person. The oxygen concentration in blood is supposed to be between 95% and 100%. If it falls to 90% or below, the person requires immediate hospitalisation. Coronavirus attacks respiratory system and if the infection becomes severe, a patient starts feeling breathless. Hence, doctors advise that patients and suspects should keep measuring the oxygen level regularly and contact district health teams if it falls below acceptable level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-officials-using-6-minute-walk-test-to-shortlist-covid-19-suspects/articleshow/76593219.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||DK records 10th fatality||Mangaluru/Udupi: Dakshina Kannada district recorded a Covid-19 related fatality, for the second day in succession, with a 57-year-old woman from Ullal, who was under treatment, succumbing to the disease on Wednesday. This comes a day after a 70-year-old fell victim to the pandemic. With this, the total fatalities due to Covid-19 in the district has risen to 10. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh confirmed the development, and said details will be shared on Thursday. The dozen Covid-19 cases that DK reported during the day also included a police sub-inspector attached to Ullal police station. Steps have been initiated as per laid down protocol to sanitise the police station and all primary contacts of the officer at the station have been directed to quarantine themselves, said P S Harsha, city police commissioner, surmising that the PSI could have picked up the infection while on duty at the check-post at Talapady. The two coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi recorded 26 positive cases, with Udupi accounting for 14 of those cases, and taking its overall positive cases to 1,102. Three of these cases have been described as primary contact sof P-3851, 10 are returnees from Maharashtra and the source of how P-9768 contacted the disease is being traced, said Udupi DC G Jagadeesha. Udupi presently has 113 active cases and 987 patients have been discharged. The dozen Covid-19 cases that DK reported during the day also included a police sub-inspector attached to Ullal police station. Steps have been initiated as per laid down protocol to sanitise the police station and all primary contacts of the officer at the station have been directed to quarantine themselves, said a senior police officer of the Mangaluru City Police, surmising that the PSI could have picked up the infection while on duty at the check-post at Talapady. Seven cases were reported in DK, including six from Mangaluru and one from Puttur, have been categorised as influenza-like illness (ILI), one a case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in a patient from Mangaluru, and four are Sharjah returnees. With this, the total positive cases in the district has gone up to 455, and active cases is now at 155. Health authorities discharged 45 patients during the day, including a patient under treatment in the ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-records-10th-fatality/articleshow/76583962.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 25, 2020||Pune||Flights too few a month after air travel resumes in Pune||PUNE: The city airport has seen a marginal increase both in terms of flight and passenger movement ever since air travel resumed on May 25. Before the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, the airport used to handle around 25,000 passengers a day. The number is now down to around 4,000, which is 16% of the daily footfall during the pre-Covid days. The number of daily flights to and from the airport is now around 50. This is a little over 29% of 170 flights leaving and reaching the airport a day before the outbreak of Covid-19 Altogether 42,370 passengers have arrived and 71,496 departed from the airport since May 25. “Going by the infrastructure constraints, we cannot handle more flights. We have to cap the number of flights from 10 per hour to three at the most,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said. An airline representative said any improvement in the situation was unlikely in near future because leisure travel was yet to resume. “People are travelling for business or essential purposes. Many stuck in Pune and nearby areas are flying back to their hometowns. So, number of departing passengers is more and trend is likely to continue till August,” he said. “People are still in two minds about travelling and the new (travel) regulations are complicated. Many people are avoiding travel that is not important,” the representative said, adding that flight cancellations were a concern as well. “On an average, anything between one to two flights are getting cancelled each day mainly because the number of passengers are few,” he added. Though number of flights in June has increased, the rise is negligible. “The airport had 170 flight movements daily. The numbers are down to between 23 and 25 departures and almost an equal number of arrivals. It is a small airport. With added security features and social distancing, it will be difficult to operate more flights,” a source at the airport said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flights-too-few-a-month-after-air-travel-resumes/articleshow/76593226.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 25, 2020||Pune||Rs 500 penalty for not wearing masks||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday issued fresh orders, making the use of masks mandatory and imposing a fine of Rs500 on those not following the rule. The ward offices concerned have been given the power to take action against the rule violators. “The Maharashtra Municipal Act, 2011, has given me the power to appoint officials for taking such action. The appointment of ward office-level officers for taking actions against the violators of the face mask rule has been done accordingly,” said Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-500-penalty-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76593301.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Mumbai firm faces job fraud charge||Pune: Assistant labour commissioner Mujammil Mujawar here on Tuesday filed a cheating case with the Khadki police station against an information technology and automation firm in Mumbai for fudging recruitment results of two candidates from here and depriving them of employment in 2017. Assistant inspector Purushottam Deokar of Khadki police told TOI, “Thef irm had signed an agreement with the labour commissioner’s office for recruiting staffers from western Maharashtra. The latter had since processed the recruitment forms, conducted examinations/interviews and completed the entire recruitment process before issuing joining letters to the selected candidates, including the two men from Pune.” “The firm neither told them to join, nor did it recognize the joining letters issued by the labour commissioner’s office. Probe revealed that the firm had employed two others by fudging recruitment papers of the labour commissioner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-firm-faces-job-fraud-charge/articleshow/76593310.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Every migrant labourer will be employed, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that every migrant labourer who has returned to the state during the Covid crisis will get employment in Madhya Pradesh according to their skills. While the Rozgar Setu portal of the state is providing jobs to the migrant labourers as per their skills, employers are getting labourers as per their requirement. Chief minister Chouhan was addressing more than 7 lakh migrant labourers and more than 19,000 employers through Facebook Live on Wednesday. He also interacted with migrant labourers and employers in some districts through video conferencing. He urged the employers to provide employment to maximum number of migrant labourers, the government will support them in their work. Chouhan said that every migrant labourer is being provided employment in the state and said so far, job cards of 3.37 lakh migrant labourers have been made and 1.62 lakh have been given employment. He said that 6004 migrant labourers have been provided employment through Rozgar Setu in the state, this process is going on continuously. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains said that “Rozgar Setu” has become an ‘automatic mode’ of providing employment according to skills. As many as 19,641 employers have registered on the Rozgar Setu portal. During a discussion with chief minister, they said that they are getting labourers as per their requirement through the portal. The ‘labour problem’ that arose following Corona crisis has been solved. Chouhan said that all migrant labourers have been linked to the Sambal Yojana. Now they will get financial assistance for education and in case of accident, death, funeral, daughter’s wedding, maternity assistance and rebate in electricity bills. He informed that in the process of enrollment in schools, 2.6 lakh children in 5 to 18 age group, who returned with migrant labourers were identified and the admission process of 75,385 children was completed. Free admission of the remaining children will be ensured under the School Chale Hum Abhiyan when schools re-open. The chief minister also interacted with employers across the state and inquired the problems faced by them. ACS Manoj Shrivastava informed that so far 45.96 lakh labourers have been provided work under MGNREGA in the state. On this occasion, Dr Rajesh Rajoura, Principal Secretary Shri Sanjay Shukla and other officers were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/every-migrant-labourer-will-be-employed-says-shivraj/articleshow/76588924.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Registrar-general passes away||Vijayawada: Registrar-general of Andhra Pradesh High Court B Rajasekhar died of a cardiac arrest on Wednesday. Rajasekhar had attended court duties in the morning. After some time, however, he complained of chest discomfort. With the help of a colleague he was taken to a hospital in Vijayawada from Nelapadu. However, his condition worsened and he collapsed in the car. Upon reaching the hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. Chief justice of the high court Justice JK Maheswari and other judges visited the hospital. Functioning of the court was suspended from afternoon. Justice Maheswari conveyed his condolences to the deceased’s family. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/registrar-general-passes-away/articleshow/76588903.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Engg student siphons off Rs5.5L from uncle’s a/c||Nagpur: A final year engineering student siphoned off nearly Rs5.5 lakh from her uncle’s account between November 2019 and June 2020. The family of the victim, clueless about the 22-year-old woman’s handiwork behind the online fraud, approached the cyber cell of the city police who helped them to unravel the mystery. Sources from the police department said the young woman used to go to her uncle’s residence frequently. During one of her visits, she pocketed his credit card, the details of which she used to download a money transfer app. TOI has learnt that the accused gave Rs two lakh to one of her friends and lavishly spent the remaining amount with another. She also purchased a high-end mobile phone and laptop with the help of the money transfer app. Shocked to see his account depleted by more than Rs5.5 lakh, her uncle approached the cyber cell. While seeking details of the bank account and the money transfer app, a mobile phone number and an IP address came to the fore. The complainant was stunned when he was informed by the cyber cell that the mobile phone number belonged to his niece. As the family did not wish to register an offence, the police ended the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/engg-student-siphons-off-rs5-5l-from-uncles-a/c/articleshow/76593324.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 25, 2020||Pune||40-year-old held for raping daughter in Pune||PUNE: A man (40) was arrested for repeatedly raping his 11-year-old daughter over the past five months on Tuesday, six years after the Hadapsar police had nabbed him in 2014 for sexually assaulting his stepdaughter. The man was in jail for two years in the earlier case before his acquittal on medical grounds in 2016. He had since started living again with his family, police said. The police said the man’s wife, who would be away from home for seeking alms at religious places, lodged an FIR on Tuesday after their daughter told her about the repeated assault. He has been charged under sections 376 (rape) and 354A (sexual harassment) of the IPC, and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Sub-inspector Chhaya Borkar of the Dehu Road police said, “On Monday, the woman disclosed to a lady doctor at the government hospital in Dehu Road that her daughter was being raped by her husband for the past five months.” The man had been remanded in police custody for five days, Borkar said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-yr-old-held-for-raping-daughter/articleshow/76593264.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kochi||‘Kochi corporation canal works cause waterlogging’||KOCHI: The corporation’s act of raising the canal beds using concrete is the reason for waterlogging in many areas, officials associated with the Operation Breakthrough has said. Corporation spent around Rs 8 crore to cover the 500m-long stretch of Mullassery canal using slabs. The civic body also raised the bed of the canal by concreting it. This has decreased the water carrying capacity of the canal and so the authorities are now planning to demolish the concrete slabs and remove the concrete used to raise the canal bed. As per a report submitted to the district collector by the officials associated with Operation Breakthrough, the reduction of water carrying capacity of the canal has led to waterlogging on the banks of the waterbody. At least Rs 2 crore would be required for the purpose. As per flood zone map, flooding in the areas like Ernakulam Junction railway station and KSRTC bus stand is caused by the reduction in water carrying capacity of the canals. “During a detailed case study, it was observed that the bed of this canal was concreted using the funds of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme. Original depth of the canal was 4m. Under Amrut scheme, the bed of this canal was raised by 2.5m for a length of 400m and covered with concrete slabs. It is envisaged to dismantle this concrete construction and to make the bed of this canal at the same level with that of Thevara-Perandoor canal. It has been decided to undertake the works regarding this after the rainy season,” the report states. The corporation is also raising the beds of other canals in the similar fashion, using Amrut funds. This is causing waterlogging in many areas like Changadampokkuthodu, officials associated with Operation Breakthrough said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-canal-works-cause-waterlogging/articleshow/76589010.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Covid fears dampen Sao Joao festivities across Goa||PANAJI: The annual feast of Sao Joao, during which Goans jump into wells, engage in playful water fights and soak in the rain, was amiss this year. Most revellers spent the day at home instead, by attending the feast Mass online and enjoying scrumptious Goan cuisine. “Owing to the pandemic, villagers are taking the necessary precautions. Each family is celebrating the feast within their own households,” Erica Sequeira, a resident of Saligao, said. Sao Joao commemorates the nativity of Saint John the Baptist, who baptised Jesus in the Jordan river. While thousands of people otherwise attend the annual celebrations at Siolim, the event was not organised this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The traditional boat parade, held annually in the river in front of St Anthony’s Church in the village, also stood cancelled. Compared to the 5,000-odd revellers that would assemble at the spot, there were only 50 present, representing the villages of Vagator, Chapora, Badem and Siolim, among a few others. However, the spirit of the occasion was intact. In Saligao and Pilerne, some revellers were seen singing traditional songs in Konkani while adorning their heads with kopel (crowns of flowers) and jumping in wells in their own backyards. In Bhatpal, only a small group of youth observed the feast by bathing in the village river for a while. Members told TOI that they had decided to do it to keep the tradition alive. With inputs from Denver D’Souza & Albert Fernandes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-fears-dampen-sao-joao-festivities-across-state/articleshow/76597402.cms||Nida Sayed
June 25, 2020||Varanasi||Dist’s tally climbs to 376 with 12 new Covid-19 cases||VARANASI: With the detection of 12 new Covid-19 positive persons, total tally of the district reached to 376 on Wednesday. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that reports of a total of 129 samples were received from BHU lab of which 12 were tested Covid-19 positive. The total figures of Covid-19 cases in the district reached to 376 of which 256 have been cured while 13 had died. Now, active cases in the district are 107, he added. A 46-year-old medical representative of Chandamri Shivpur, 54-year-old kidney patient of Sirhira Kapsethi who had returned from Mumbai two days ago, 39-year-old mechanic of Rasulpur Lamahi, 28-year-old salesman and his 22-year-old wife of Rohania, 40-year-old man of Bhuletan Chowk, 20-year-old woman of Sonarpura Bhelupur, 74-year-old cancer patient admitted at MMM Cancer Institute BHU and a 53-year-old textile trader of Soot Tola Chowk were tested positive. Besides, a 23-year-old relative of already infected person of Ausanganj, 55-year-old woman of Chowk and a 27-year-old medical practitioner of Sushrut hospital of BHU were also found infected. The CMO said that 14 patients admitted at ESIC and DDU district hospitals were discharged after being cured. A total of seven areas including Chandmari, Sirhira, Rasulpur, Rohania, Bhuletan, Baghada Sonarpura and Soot Tola were declared new hotspots after which the total number of hotspots in the district reached to 189 of which 78 are in active category. Reports of 649 samples are awaited, said the CMO. Tally goes above 500 in Jaunpur: The Covid-19 tally in Jaunpur district crossed the mark of 500 with the detection of eight new infected persons on Wednesday. District magistrate Jaunpur DK Singh said that among new eight infected persons four had returned from Mumbai while three had come from Delhi and NCR. Of total 501 cases, active cases in the district is 102. As many as 391 have cured so far while nine had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dists-tally-climbs-to-376-with-12-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76579445.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||As last train leaves, Fatorda shelter shuts||Margao: After the last Shramik special train carrying 1,636 passengers to different parts of the country left from Margao railway station Wednesday evening, the South Goa district administration closed down the shelter home at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, 91 days after the facility was set up. While, initially the shelter home was set up at the Manohar Parrikar Indoor Stadium, Navelim, it was later shifted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, ahead of the monsoons. The Shramik Special train that departed from Margao at 9pm on Wednesday has Nergundi Junction as its destination station and will have scheduled stops at Etarsi junction, Jabalpur junction, Satna Junction, Prayagraj Chheoki, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction, Patna Junction, Barauni junction, Katihar junction, Malda town junction, Asansol junction and Tatanagar junction, to allow passengers to disembark. The South Goa district administration had closed down the shelter home two weeks ago after almost all its occupants had left by Shramik special trains. However, it was reopened hours later following an outcry by migrant welfare volunteers. The state had set up a time limit of June 16 for stranded migrant workers in the state to register themselves so that travel arrangements could be made for them to return to their native states. Based on Supreme Court directives, the government then arranged more trains for the migrants to travel back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-last-train-leaves-fatorda-shelter-shuts/articleshow/76597503.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Books, films to mark ties with Bengal||Pune: Pune-based cultural organisation, Sarhad, will mark freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s death centenary on August 1 by celebrating Lal-Bal-Pal trio he was a part of. A two-year programme would be kicked off to deepen ties between Maharashtra and West Bengal through events like literary meets, mutual cultural tours, film festivals etc. Uddhav Thackeray, Mamata Banerjee, and Amrinder Singh, the chief ministers of Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Punjab, respectively, would kick off the series on August 1 through a video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/books-films-to-mark-ties-with-bengal/articleshow/76593348.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Heated exchanges take NMC GB meeting to record 4th day||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation general body meeting, that began on June 20 after a gap of three months due to lockdown, will continue on Thursday, making it a record four-day sitting. Even after two days and nine hours of discussion on the adjournment motion, the meeting remained inconclusive. A decision on the motion will be taken on Thursday. This is the first time in NMC history that a meeting has gone on for so long, said seven-time corporator Sunil Agrawal. He said in the past house continued at the most for two days and that too for discussion on budget. On Wednesday, the House witnessed three corporators -- two from Congress and one from Shiv Sena -- speaking in support of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, while others including those from Congress, BSP and BJP expressed anguish over civic chief allegedly ignoring the elected representatives. Most corporators squarely blamed the commissioner for projecting an image of corporators as corrupt, hooligans and uneducated. “We are concerned about the city. Urgent work must be done. Nothing has been done for three months,” BJP corporators said. Wednesday’s proceedings began with senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe objecting to allowing continuation of discussions on adjournment motion. NMC secretary Ranjana Lade informed the House that as per law, the House cannot hold discussions on adjournment motions on second day. It needs to end on the same day it started. Congress corporator Sandip Sahare asked the House what wrong did the party corporator Nitin Sathawane do that forced the NMC to file a police complaint against him that needs to be inquired. He asked if the commissioner had inquired into it. “Assistant municipal commissioner of Satranjipura zone Vijay Humne, who had lodged the FIR, was himself facing cases of alleged irregularities and in tubes and tyres purchase. He was also facing an inquiry in petrol and diesel scam and was shunted out when he was posted in education department too following some allegations,” Sahare said. “Similarly, deputy chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar (who too had given misleading information pertaining to containment zone in Satranjipura against Sathawane) and his wife, both serving in NMC’s health department (medicine) are also running a private clinic in Dhantoli,” he said. He demanded inquiry against the three and their suspension. BJP corporator Bunty Kukde said the mayor should seek legal opinion to allow corporators to file police complaint against officials if any citizen suffered due to potholes. If raising citizens’ issues like Sathawane did was a crime then either put all the corporators in jail or ask them to resign, he said. Kukde also warned he would erect banners if the municipal commissioner failed to address civic issues. Demanding unconditional apology from Mundhe, Congress corporator Ramesh Punekar said that the biryani party story in Naik Talao-Bangladesh cooked up by the civic chief had tarnished the image of the locality. “I along with former deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar visited the locality for four days and found no such party had taken place,” said Punekar. “Had he been sent to Nagpur city to harm elected corporators,” he asked. Congress corporators Kamlesh Choudhary, Bunty Shelke and SS corporator Kishore Kumeriya spoke in favour of Mundhe. Choudhary ridiculed the decision of the ruling BJP to hold the meeting when the city was seeing a spike in coronavirus cases. Shelke said it was unreasonable to blame the civic chief for so-called no development in his short tenure in NMC. Harish Gwalbanshi said the NMC’s move to change user of shopping mall and converting it into Covid hospital will set a wrong precedent. “Whether the NMC will allow converting such malls into hospitals,” he asked. Virendra Kukreja revealed that roof of quarantine centre being created on Radha Soami Satsang’s premises was leaking. BJP corporator Dharampal Meshram wondered how the Congress party leader Tanaji Wanve took a U-turn now when he was sharing similar opinion with the ruling party against Mundhe. Sathawane gets show cause notice Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve issued a show-cause notice to Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane for submitting adjournment motion against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. However, Sathawane had submitted the adjournment motion against Mundhe after the latter’s directives as FIR had been filed against him at Lakadganj police station. Confirming this, Wanve said on June 22 he gave the notice to Sathawane and said he did this following directive from MPCC president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, who had expressed his displeasure over the adjournment motion. “As per Thorat's order, Sathawane had been asked to withdraw the motion. But as he failed, I gave him the notice and sought his reply,” said Wanve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heated-exchanges-take-nmc-gb-meeting-to-record-4th-day/articleshow/76593413.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rain triggers landslides, blocks Yamunotri highway for 12 hours||Uttarkashi: Heavy rainfall in Uttarkashi district since Tuesday night triggered massive landslides at Dabarkot, Kuthnor, Kharadi and Paligad areas, blocking the Yamunotri national highway and leaving dozens of vehicles stranded for more than 12 hours. Traffic movement was restored by national highway authorities on Wednesday morning, after the rains subsided. Dabarkot area was the most affected by the landslide, officials said, adding that they managed to reach the area around 11 am and removed debris to restore vehicle movement there. Uttarkashi district disaster management officer Devendra Patwal told TOI, “Taking a cue from our past experiences, we have identified several landslide zones here, including Ojari, Dabarkot and Badeti Chungi. We have also deployed sufficient manpower and machines in these areas, so that highways can be cleared at the earliest in case of landslides in the future.” Meanwhile, rainwater and muck entered and stagnated at several houses in Singudi village of Dunda block on Tuesday night. Gram pradhan Sarita Rawat said, “We have called the revenue department in the village so that they can evaluate the loss and compensate the affected families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rain-triggers-landslides-blocks-yamunotri-highway-for-12-hours/articleshow/76579620.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 help desks to be set up soon in govt depts, affiliated units||Kanpur: A Covid help desk will be established in all departments and offices and affiliated units of the state government where employees would be deployed to help people. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Tuesday passed an order to this effect and said that an employee would be deputed at the Covid help desk for two weeks under a roster. The employees deputed at the desk would be taught about Covid and the precautions to be taken. They would wear masks, face shields and gloves and maintain a distance of two yards from visitors, the DM said. Sanitizer, thermal scanner and pulse oximeter would be kept at the help desk to be used for visitors and chief health officer or the nearest community health centre or primary health centre would be informed in case of pulse oximeter giving reading of a visitor or employee below 94 percent. The visitors would be asked to download the Arogya setu app in their mobile phones. The office superintendent would not allow anyone to use tobacco or tobacco products, he added.  Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde said that the health authorities had set up a separate counter for collecting samples of suspected corona cases. Kanpur is at the second place in the state in collection of samples, he added. At a review meeting held late Tuesday evening, the commissioner directed the additional director health and the CMO to obtain protocol/guideline for disposal of non- institutional suspected cases of dead bodies. He said till guidelines were not received, the CMO would dispose of the body without any delay if kin /relatives of the deceased refused to take the body. Taking cognizance of the reports published in newspapers, Bobde directed the health department to manage and use its manpower in such a way that positive patients were admitted at the Covid hospital and close contacts must be quarantined at the earliest or within twelve hours. Earlier, there were reports that bodies of suspected cases would lie unattended. Fresh plans would be chalked out if the number of cases increased, he added. He also directed officers of the health department, district administration and the CMO to regularly check sanitization and the quality of food supplied at Kanshiram and Rama Covid hospitals. SSP Dinesh Kumar suggested in the meeting to constitute a health team under the supervision of SDM and CO at the block and tehsil level. Hotspots and green zones of the city were also discussed in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-help-desks-to-be-set-up-soon-in-govt-depts-affiliated-units/articleshow/76589023.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||Cong protests fuel price hike, Diggy takes part in bicycle march||Bhopal: State Congress on Wednesday held demonstrations against the continuous rise in petrol-diesel prices across districts. In the state capital, the protest was led by Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, who rode a bicycle from Roshanpura Square accompanied by district Congress workers and submitted a memorandum for chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The bicycle protest by Digvijaya started at 11am from the Roshanpura Square and advanced towards the chief minister’s residence in the 74 Bungalows area. However, the administration stopped the march near the Apex Bank. The bicycle march was part of Congress party’s nationwide protest against the hike in fuel price. Speaking to reporters, Digvijaya said, “When crude oil prices are falling drastically in the international market, central excise duties have been increased in our country. The poor people are being adversely affected with the consistent rise in the prices of petrol and diesel.” The senior Congress leader said that when prices of diesel is increased, there is price rise of all commodities. “Cost of production increases for our farmers and expenditure on transportation also rise. But the Union government’s intention is only confined to filling its treasury,” Digvijaya said. Digvijaya recalled that in 2008, when fuel prices were around Rs50 per litre, Chouhan as chief minister of the state rode to the state secretariat in a bicycle to protest against the price rise. “Now, fuel prices are more than Rs80 per litre,” he said. “If Chouhan is honest, then he should again travel to the secretariat in a bicycle. We are ready to support and accompany him. And, if he doesn’t, we will know he is deceptive by nature,” he added. Former chief minister Nath also trained his guns on the BJP governments at the Centre and the state. He tweeted, “The most expensive petrol in the country is in Madhya Pradesh. And, today another record has been made – for the first time in Indian history, diesel has become costlier than petrol in Delhi. The price of diesel has increased continuously for the 18th consecutive day. People are suffering due to inflation.” Nath maintained that in the last 18 days, petrol has become costlier by Rs8.50 and diesel by Rs10.48. He said that the Union and state government should reduce the heavy taxation on fuel and provide relief to the people who are already suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Replying to Digvijaya’s bicycle march, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Congress party is lying and wants to divert people’s attention. This is a political drama. In its assembly election manifesto, they promised to reduce prices of petrol and diesel by Rs5 per litre. If Digvijaya is courageous enough, he will apologise to the people of the state for not fulfilling its promise.”Mishra claimed that during the Nath regime, fuel prices were increased by Rs2 per litre contrary to their manifesto promise. “They raised prices of fuel to spend it on Bollywood stars Jacqueline Fernandez and Salman Khan. When we raise price, we do it to spend on controlling corona,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-protests-fuel-price-hike-diggy-takes-part-in-bicycle-march/articleshow/76589067.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||96 cases in Haveli taluka||Pune: Two persons succumbed to the contagion, while active Covid-19 cases climbed from 40 to 96 in a week in Haveli taluka, one of the worst affected areas in rural Pune, since June 15. The spike in cases were reported from Dehu (17), Manjri (12), Narhe (6), Wagholi (5) and Uruli Kanchan (3). On Wednesday, 17 new cases were reported. Haveli sub-divisional officer Sachin Baravkar told TOI, “Most fresh cases were detected among people who travel to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/96-cases-in-haveli-taluka/articleshow/76593450.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Green move: NKDA plans to install solar ‘trees’, road studs||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is taking up an initiative to increase the use of renewable energy in New Town. The authorities have decided to install five solar ‘trees’ and about 1,300 solar road studs across the township to reduce consumption of conventional energy to some extent. The solar trees will be installed on the pavement beside New Town Mela Ground and Swapna Bhor Senior’ Park. The total power generation from these five solar trees will be 5 kWp. Tenders have already been floated for the job. Officials said that a solar power tree is an artificial tree-shape installation that has branches made of steel and holds the photovoltaic solar panels on the branches.  NKDA will also install a total of 1,340 solar road studs on several stretches, especially in the parking and service lanes of the main arterial road and in front of Swapno Bhor and mela ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-move-nkda-plans-to-install-solar-trees-road-studs/articleshow/76593458.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Woman found dead in Arossim, two held, get bail||VASCO: A woman from Arossim, who had objected to her tenants domesticating a male buffalo for bullfights in the property owned by her, was found dead next to the bovine on Monday evening. The tenants, Jose Pereira, 55, and his son Jason, 29, who own the buffalo, were consequently arrested by Verna police and released on bail on Tuesday morning. Although the police suspect she was killed by the buffalo, all possible angles are being investigated. Jeanette Da Costa, 52, is believed to have had a dispute with her tenants and was upset that they had decided to domesticate a buffalo in her property, prompting her to visit the area on Monday evening. One version is that Da Costa was carrying a koita (chopper), with which she intended to cut the cord fastening the bovine. She allegedly died after being attacked by the buffalo while attempting to sever the cord. A postmortem examination revealed that the woman had sustained major lung injuries and some injuries to other parts of her body, including her shoulder, which resulted in death. A case has been registered under provisions of IPC and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. PSI Riyanka Naik is the investigating officer. Although Verna police suspect that she (woman) was killed by the buffalo, all possible angles are being investigated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-found-dead-in-arossim-2-held-get-bail/articleshow/76601759.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||House-to-house survey in Delhi from June 27 to identify suspected cases||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital, the Delhi government has planned a house-to-house survey across the city to identify suspected cases and get them tested as part of the government’s elaborate plan to fight the coronavirus. The survey will start on June 27 and cover about 45 lakh households by July 6. On the face of it, this appears to be a herculean task, given the short span of time. The authorities are planning to constitute a large number of teams — around 1,000 to 1,500 — in each district, depending on the size of a district, to complete the task. Times ViewThe government’s announcement that all houses in Delhi are to be surveyed for Covid and the exercise will be completed by July 6 stretches credulity. Delhi’s current population is about 2 crore, which translates into something in the region of 45 lakh households. Given how much the capital has struggled even with ensuring complete contact tracing for all Covid cases, which involves a much smaller number of people, is it really believable that every house will be properly surveyed in barely two weeks? Can we have fewer grandiose announcements and more action on the ground?Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThis had been spelt out in a “Revised Delhi Covid Response Plan” issued by the Directorate General of Health Services on June 22. It committed the state, among other things, to carry out house-tohouse screening in containment zones by June 30 and in the rest of Delhi by July 6. It also stipulated a serological survey of 20,000 people to be carried out between June 27 and July 10. These timelines were set in the light of recommendations of the central government committee. Covid survey teams will look out for fever, coughAt a meeting held by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday, the 11 district magistrates were directed to constitute teams for the house-to-house survey. These teams will take down details of the family members and ascertain if anyone has Covid-19 symptoms like fever, cough and pain in the throat. Suspected cases will be later subjected to tests and necessary containment measures. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news At least four district magistrates, who wished to remain anonymous, confirmed to TOI that such a direction had been issued and that the survey had to be completed by June 6. "Hundred per cent compliance has been sought and we have been asked to ensure that no one is left out. It’s a mammoth task but will be completed," said one of the DMs. “During elections, teams visit all households to deliver voting slips and huge manpower is used,” said a source, claiming that it can be done. The authorities will be involving booth-level officers, municipal corporation workers, ASHA volunteers and anganwadi workers besides others. Around 1,000 to 1,500 teams will be constituted, with each team having two to three members. "If one team covers even 50 households in a day, 1000 teams will cover 50,000 in a day. This way we can cover 5 lakh households in 10 days," said a source. Delhi has 11 districts and around 45 lakh households. The teams going out for the survey will of course have to guard against getting infected. "All of them will be wearing masks and gloves and take all necessary precautions. They will be given a proper orientation," said an official. The revised plan includes strengthening of district-level surveillance teams, revamping the containment zone strategy, strengthening of contact-tracing activities, infection prevention, taking care of healthcare and other frontline workers and increasing awareness. The review and redesigning of containment zones will have to be completed by June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-to-house-survey-in-delhi-from-june-27-to-identify-suspected-cases/articleshow/76609189.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||Health team catches joggers off-guard in Bhopal||By Abdul Moeed FaruquiBHOPAL: On Wednesday, when parks in the state capital were opened for the public after a gap of more than three months, visitors at one park in Bhopal were shocked to be asked for a voluntary Covid-19 test. Expecting a jolly walk, these visitors — instead of spotting greenery and flowers — came across the health department’s Covid-19 sampling collection team, clad in personal protective equipment (PPE). The white lilies, roses and petals lost their charm as some took an about turn to walk back home to safety. An undisclosed number of people were tested. According to the employees at Chinar Park, the health department team was there to take samples of some of the employees. Besides, it turned out to be an opportunity for some random sampling. “It is a complete surprise. I did not expect a Covid-19 testing team to be in the park. It makes the visit to park after a long gap very worrisome,” said a visitor, Siddarth, standing near a huge tree. The health team created a base camp under the tree too, with about 20 swab sample collection kits laid out in the open. For some, it turned out to be a live demonstration of the test. Most of those who were tested were government employees. The park is managed by the CPA. Meanwhile, BMC parks did not open on Wednesday. The district administration’s directive to open parks was released on Tuesday. Large parks like Ekant park, Swarna Jayanti Park, Borvan park, Kanha Kunj and others are to be opened. Theme parks are prohibited under the order. BMC is likely to open its parks in morning and evening from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-team-catches-joggers-off-guard/articleshow/76589147.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: BPO employee pitches in with selling fish to support father in troubled times||PUNE: Kondhwa resident Sandeep Kevat currently holds two jobs — one as a call centre executive with a reputed company and the other as a fish seller. The lockdown imposed to control the spread of Covid-19 completely changed the 28-year-old’s life. Under normal circumstances, his father Lal Bahadur Kevat (52) would have been ferrying students to school in his van. But with schools remaining shut, the senior Kevat has started a business of selling dried and salted fish from the van. “I still hold a job at the call centre and we’re working from home. My father owns the vehicle that is registered as a school van. It has been three months that he hasn’t been able to pay the EMI for the vehicle. There are six members in our family and we thought that something needed to be done to make both ends meet. Hence, we decided to sell dried fish so that the money earned can be used to pay EMI,” said Sandeep, who sells fish at Salunkhe Vihar road. His office shift starts at 5.30pm and ends at 4am. “Once the shift is over, I rest and wake up at 9am and preparing the van. I reach Salunkhe Vihar road around 10am and sell fish until 2pm before heading back home to start the night shift. When I am tired, my father comes and sells fish,” he added. Although banks have allowed borrowers to pay instalments after three months, payments have to be made sometime. “I have a personal loan too. We will fall into even more trouble if something is not done. The schools aren’t starting soon and even if they start, parents may not be ready to send their children in the van,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bpo-employee-pitches-in-with-selling-fish-to-support-father-in-troubled-times/articleshow/76593506.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation to take action against shops violating Covid norms||KOCHI: In an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, Kochi corporation authorities have started enforcing stringent action against those violating Covid-19 protocol. Corporation authorities have decided to take strict action, including suspension of the licence of shops, if those above the age of 60 years or below the age of 10 years arrive at shops. The vendor should ensure that his or her shop is functioning following all Covid-19 protocols. Owners of shops, commercial establishments and other enterprises functioning with the licence of the corporation should abide by the Covid-19 protocols. Wearing of masks, social distancing, cleaning or sanitizing of hands using soaps or sanitizers as part of ‘break the chain’ campaign etc., should be followed by the employees of the shop as well as the customers. All the shops and other establishments in the corporation limits should strictly follow the protocols, the corporation authorities informed. The local body authorities have also decided to enhance the inspections to check the spread of Covid-19. Corporation authorities have already taken a decision to purchase around 100 PPE kits and other safety gears. The health departments staff of the corporation should wear the PPE kits while engaged in Covid control activities. Corporation authorities are also planning to impart training to health department staff on how to carryout Covid control measures. They have approached the state health department for providing experts for imparting training to corporation health wing staff in this regard. According to corporation authorities, this will help officials to reach out to Covid-19 patients and quarantined people with less risk. Two squads will be constituted for carrying out such activities. While one squad will be deployed for duty in eastern parts of the city, the other will be deployed in west Kochi. The local body will also buy two disinfectant machines which can be used in eastern and western regions of the city. Disinfectant machines can be used for cleaning public places like markets and streets. The local body will procure sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-to-take-action-againstshops-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/76589177.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||11 NMC & dist civil hospital employees test Covid positive||Nashik: Eleven frontline Covid-19 workers — including eight from the Nashik Municipal Corporation-managed Covid-19 hospital in the city and three from the district civil hospital — have tested positive for Covid-19. Eight employees from the NMC-managed hospital include three nurses, three security guards and two paramedical staffers, while the three from Nashik civil hospital include a nurse and two paramedical staffers. Additionally, five employees of the NMC headquarters too have tested positive. So far, 39 high-risk contacts of the patients have been quarantined. As part of the precautionary measures, two of the three entrances of the NMC headquarters have been closed. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has appealed to the citizens and corporators to not visit the headquarters and use an online app for any NMC-related work instead. “We have closed two of the three gates after the employees in the headquarters were tested Covid-19 positive. We have also restricted the entries of visitors and corporators into the headquarters,” said Game. The civic body also sealed 18 containment zones in the city on Wednesday. Of the total 328 containment zones drawn so far, 148 have been reopened after recovery of patients. Currently, the city has 180 active containment zones. Mayor cancels today’s GBM Mayor Satish Kulkarni has cancelled the NMC’s special general body scheduled on Thursday. The meeting was to discuss the Covid outbreak and measures to curb infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-nmc-dist-civil-hospital-employees-test-covid-positive/articleshow/76589124.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 25, 2020||Pune||50 guest cap for weddings||Pune: Collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday issued orders allowing marriage ceremonies on open grounds and non-AC halls with 50 guests and strict adherence to the Covid-19 health protocols. Wearing of masks, screening through thermal scanner, use of hand sanitizer at the venue and seat arrangement as per the social distancing norms are part of the orders. Violation of the orders can lead to action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which lays down punishment as per Section 188 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50-guest-cap-for-weddings/articleshow/76593475.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||MSRDC agrees to most wildlife mitigation steps on Samruddhi Marg||Nagpur: In a victory of sorts for the greens, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is executing the Samruddhi Expressway, has agreed to construct wildlife mitigation measures suggested by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), including most of the modifications recommended by the expert committee. “All hurdles in wildlife mitigation measures were sorted out after a marathon meeting on June 22 by the high-level committee set up by the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL),” said RL Mopalwar, MSRDC vice-chairman & managing director. Mopalwar with his team of engineers, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar with his team, wildlife experts and members Kishor Rithe and Anish Andheria, and WII’s Bilal Habib were present through video conferencing. The expressway is a proposed 6-lane highway connecting Nagpur and Mumbai. The 701km highway is 120-metre broad running across 10 districts. Of this 701km, 117km passes through wildlife habitats, tiger corridors and eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of three sanctuaries — Tansa (corridor of Harishchandragadh), Katepurna, and Karanja Sohol (called as wildlife focused area-WFA). Hence, mitigation steps assume huge significance. Overall, there will be 1,797 structures including minor bridges, culverts, canals, viaducts etc. However, importantly, there will be seven wildlife overpasses and 17 wildlife underpasses within the WFA and two wildlife overpasses and 26 wildlife underpasses outside the WFA. The DPR had included very few wildlife mitigation measures, which was modified by WII after collecting wildlife presence data through a study. “The expert committee had inspected the site in February and March 2020 to understand WII-modified proposed mitigation structures. We suggested changes to some wildlife passes and also proposed box culverts, bridges and viaducts considering some important aspects previously ignored. Knowing well that many such linear infrastructure projects will be planned in near future, the understanding generated by this project will be vital to find a win-win solution for both wildlife and the economy,” says Kishor Rithe, one of the expert members. Citing an example, Rithe said, “At one chainage, which cuts Bor-Tipeshwar corridor and is a chinkara habitat, a 120x32 metre wide overpass was proposed. We asked to construct two such passes but MSRDC agreed to build one 120x45 metre pass giving more space. Even culverts proposed were 3x3 metres but we asked to make it 5x4 metres.” Mopalwar said the highway is planned to be completely access controlled and they planned a 3.3-metre-high barricades on either side. “However, in 117km WFA areas, we will construct outer fence or expressway wall up to 4 metres. We agreed to all comprehensive steps suggested by the committee. This will be the country’s best mitigation measures,” he added. Mopalwar added, “Seven wildlife overpasses would be of 120x32 metres instead of 16-metre-wide earlier. We will also construct passes outside WFA area. We will spend over Rs57 crore on wildlife mitigation steps.” During survey, WII, appointed by the project proponent to design mitigation plan, had identified 35 WFA areas between Nagpur and Mumbai, including important tiger corridor of Bor-Umred-Karhandla, where mitigation would be done now. MSRDC agreed to show expressway stretches as per the ESZs separately for four sanctuaries and for tiger corridors between Bor-Tadoba-Umred-Karhandla and Pench. The agency also agreed to light and sound barriers for all underpasses and overpasses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrdc-agrees-to-most-wildlife-mitigation-steps-on-samruddhi-marg/articleshow/76593555.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Psychiatrists slam Fathima for using her kids in video||KOCHI: As activist Rehana Fathima takes the flak from social media users for the video uploaded in her YouTube channel that showed her children painting on her naked body, child psychiatrists slammed her saying she made the kids lab rats to experiment her own psuedo-moralistic concepts on respecting female body and sexual sensitivity. They said the attempt has not only failed to serve her intended purpose of teaching children about sexuality and how to respect a female body, but also would traumatise the children when they face the society. Senior psychiatrist Dr C J John said the only fact mentioned in the video description that one would agree with is that sex education to children should begin at home. "But what Fathima has done with the aim of educating her children is a clear example of how children are used as tools to express an adult’s philosophy about sexuality and gender respect. At this tender age children cannot understand sexuality. Their views on sexuality will be clear only when they grow older. Her kids wouldn’t even be able to understand why they were asked to paint on their mother’s body. This fact makes her attempt a mere unfortunate pseudo-revolution that clearly neglects the social and psychological impacts it could have on her children," he said. He also added that it could have been an artistic fun between the mother and children within the privacy of house, but another person shooting the video and publishing it online contradicts the purpose she claimed to have intended. Dr Philip John, a senior child Psychiatrist, said the video did not show any justice to art. “A child’s body is considered sanctified in our society and the video shows that sanctity of the kids was being destroyed by their mother herself. Children are taught of good and bad touches and what was shown in the video is undoubtedly a bad touch in the name of art. In a way, it is child abuse. There is a need to check this kind of actions on the social media,” he said. Doctors also warned that authorities should sensitise teachers of Fathima’s children in handling them once they return to school as their peers or seniors could respond to them negatively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/psychologists-slam-fathima-for-using-her-kids-in-video/articleshow/76589111.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Varanasi||Now, admin & police target Mukhtar’s armoury||VARANASI: Not only the economic empire, but even the armoury of the jailed mafia don- turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari, build up by his family members and henchmen through valid licences over years, has come on the target of administration and police in his citadel spanning Ghazipur and Mau districts. After making his 14 henchmen surrender their arms following cancellation of licences in past few months, the Ghazipur administration and police have intensified action in the last three-four days and suspended another 10 licences while seven are under investigation. Notices have also been issued to the don’s wife and others for providing details of frequent sale and purchases of arms and ammunition on the licences issued in their names. Providing details of the armoury maintained by Mukhtar to TOI on Wednesday, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Crackdown on organised crime is in progress against almost all the gangsters and their gangs in the zone.” “Under the drive, stock of their arms and ammunition has also been taken. Ghazipur police has collected details of the arms licences procured by the family members as well as direct or indirect accomplices of Mukhtar,” Bhushan added. “On the basis of the investigation, the Ghazipur police gave its report to the district administration, which initiated the process of cancelling the arms licences,” he added. District magistrate Ghazipur Om Prakash Arya said, “Initially, 14 arms licences of persons associated with Mukhtar had been cancelled in the past few months while 10 licences have also been suspended after getting reports from police in the past three days. We are also examining six-seven more licences.” As per police records, the licences suspended recently belong to Israil Ansari, Salim, Anwar Shehjad, Shah Alam, Rajesh Singh, Om Prakash Yadav and Rajnish Singh. Bhushan said that seven relatives and henchmen of Mukhtar had procured multiple arms licences in their names, which have been cancelled and their arms have been confiscated. As per the list of these seven, one Jamshed Raja possessed a double-barrel gun (DBBL), rifle and revolver, Anwar Shehjad kept a DBBL and rifle, Mansoor Ahmed was carrying pistol, rifle and single-barrel gun, Ebadurrehman possessed a rifle and DDBL, Sharjil Raja owned a revolver and rifle while Afroz Khan and Shaqil Khan were having rifle and DBBL gun, respectively. The ADG said, “Going through the records of the past six months, action had been initiated in 41 arms licences issued in the names of relatives and henchmen of Mukhtar. Initially, the Mau administration had cancelled seven such licences.” The name of a brother and former MLA Shibgatullah Ansari is also in the list of arms licence-holders, which are being examined by the Ghazipur officials. DM Ghazipur said the wife and brothers of Mukhtar have also been issued notices to provide details of repeated purchase of arms and ammunition on the licences issued to them. He said that arms licences of Mukhtar’s personal assistant Jakir Hussain alias Vikky Ansari and his four associates had been suspended as they failed to provide details of cartridges. SP Mau Anurag Arya said, “We are also trying to take Mukhtar on remand for interrogation in a case registered against him in January in an episode of issuance of arms licences to four persons including a criminal, who was gunned down in police encounter on fake residential address on his recommendation made on his letterhead.” The jailed don’s henchmen are in the line of fire as in the bid to hit his economic empire being strengthened with their help, the Ghazipur officials removed their illegal possession on the land of the proposed airstrip at Andhau on Monday. Earlier, Mau police had booked 11 henchmen of Mukhtar under Gangster Act for extorting money in the name of taxi stands and also busted an illegal slaughter house by arresting five, after which cash reward was announced on three others while three of his accomplices involved in illegal trade of fish were also held with over 10 tonnes of fish on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-admin-police-target-mukhtars-armoury/articleshow/76579685.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Fintech startup selected for Nasscom incubation||Kochi: HerMoneyTalks, a digital financial platform launched a year ago, has been selected for Nasscom 10,000 Startups Virtual Incubation programme in their Kochi hub. The startup with offices in Kochi and Bengaluru founded by Nisary M, an ex-banker and alumnus of Sacred Hearts College, Thevara, hopes to empower women by making them financially independent. Nasscom’s virtual incubation programme supports close to 400 startups every year and is designed to help early stage startups by creating an optimal environment for scaling up through a network of investors, accelerators and industry veterans. Problem is that many women treat financial management as an additional responsibility or something that they don’t understand. “If you look at existing financial product websites, 90% of consumers are men. We want to create curated products that would create a different financial experience,” said Nisary. HerMoneyTalks is the second venture of Nisary. The first venture is Hub Words Media, which specializes in content and branding. The startup, which has Hemanth Gorur as co-founder, would be developing their website with suitable technologies and also roll out a mobile app. HerMoneyTalks has peer groups in different cities. “We are now planning to reach out to women’s colleges to create awareness among students,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fintech-startup-selected-for-nasscom-incubation/articleshow/76589240.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Positive response to 5-day lockdown in Trimbak||Nashik: The decision of Trimbak Municipal Council (TMC) to lockdown the temple town for 5 days in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 has got positive response from the residents. Council president Purushottam Lohagaonkar and chief officer Praveen Nikam jointly took a decision in this regard and the lockdown was implemented from Wednesday. “We have cooperated with the administration on its call to stop the businesses for few days. The decision was taken in the interest of the people; hence, we have no issues to comply with it,” Sanjay Shinde, a local resident, said. The number of tourists and pilgrims in Trimbak increases manifold during monsoon. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the temple has been shut down and the villagers are also not welcoming the tourists. The lockdown will be in effect till June 30 and all businesses and shops involved in providing essential goods and services have been exempted from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/positive-response-to-5-day-lockdown-in-trimbak/articleshow/76589174.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Expect unruly flyers amid pandemic, keep them in check: DGCA to airlines||Mumbai: In the new normal for air travel, where passengers have to wear face masks at all times, maintain social distancing at airports and all the while fight through the fear of catching an infection; the rules that define unruly or disruptive behaviour have to be broadened. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday, instructed airlines to develop inflight procedures to prevent and manage a gamut of behaviour that could be classified as unruly during the Covid pandemic. “An increase in case of unruly passengers should be expected either prior to departure or in flight. Such behaviour, in the context of pressures imposed by Covid-19 pandemic, may be less aggressive or intrusive than the orally exhibited unruly behaviour, hence extra attention and steps need to be devoted for the prevention and management of unruly passengers,’’ said the DGCA circular. The DGCA circular said cabin crew should be made aware of new issues which may be encountered on boarding. This includes passengers refusing to continue wearing a face mask/cover in-flight; increase of disputes between passengers according to their ethnicity or country of residence, increased stress imposed due to airport processes and the overall travel experiences which may trigger exceptional responses to disputes.  Also, the impact of distancing and health screening of passengers through airports which may slow the passenger transit and increase the likelihood of missed connections, fear of infection which may cause more disputes between passengers due to non-compliance or poor hygiene etiquette or the presence of symptoms similar to those of Covid, might affect behaviour of flyers. The DGCA asked airlines to formulate standard operating procedures and communicate their new amended unruly passenger policy as widely as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/expect-unruly-flyers-amid-pandemic-keep-them-in-check-dgca-to-airlines/articleshow/76593645.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Civic body to procure 1L rapid antigen test kits||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved Rs3 crore for the procurement of around 1 lakh Covid-19 rapid antigen test kits to curb the transmission of the virus in the city. The rapid antigen tests will be used at civic medical facilities to screen citizens. The PMC will also spend around Rs4.5 crore on swab testing at private laboratories. “Nearly 40% of the total cases have been reported from outside containment zones since the ‘Unlock 1.0’ phase began. These non-containment zones were recording around 15% of the total caseload during the earlier lockdown periods. This spike in cases in non-containment zones has highlighted the need for aggressive testing across the PMC areas,” a senior civic official said. Hemant Rasane, PMC’s standing committee chairman, told TOI that they decided to conduct these tests after the Union government issued guidelines for the same. “Large-scale testing is required in view of the rising number of positive cases. Asymptomatic patients should be screened in large numbers so the option of rapid antigen tests was chosen,” Rasane said. He said these kits were available at Rs450 per unit in the market, but the PMC would get them at a discounted price of Rs300. Rasane said the PMC would also join hands with private laboratories to conduct swab tests. Over 15,000 tests would be conducted at these private facilities, the cost of which would be borne by the PMC, he said.  The senior PMC official added that the Union government’s expert committee, which visited Pune to review the virus spread in the city, had also suggested more tests be carried out. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said their strategy was to reduce number of deaths. “Citizens should be screened at a large scale to achieve this. PMC is ready to utilize public funds and make sure that more people are tested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-procure-1l-rapid-antigen-test-kits/articleshow/76593563.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Buzz on sites, migrant workers plan return||Pune: A little more than a month ago, Premshankar and nine of his co-workers had hit the highway to Agra on two-wheelers, covering 1,200km to reach home. Laid low by the lockdown, with no work in Pune, and money running out, all these migrant workers headed home. Now, they are planning to come back on the same motorcycles after the country has begun getting back on the rails. They are also buoyed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s assurance that more lockdowns are not on, and work opportunities in the Pune Metropolitan region are opening up. The district administration said some 1.25 lakh migrant workers had left Pune after the lockdown in trains, buses or on foot. As many as 53,000 left via buses and Tuesday marked the 100th Shramik Special train that left for Jharkhand from Pune. Railway authorities said so far 140 trains had left from Pune for different destinations since May 7 with about 1,000 migrants on each train. Nearly 8,500 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh have returned to Pune and the construction industry is expecting the number to increase in July, the authorities said. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday from Agra, Premlal said they want to return as their friends in Pune have started work. “Hamare paas yahan koi kaam nahi. Ab lautna hain,” (We have no work, we want to return) he said. Ramlal, a mason who returned from Madhya Pradesh in the second week of June, underwent home quarantine. He has resumed his tiling work at an incomplete project in Handewadi where his friends have joined him. Mahendra, who stayed back, has been called in by a contractor to commence work. He said they left when it was impossible to gauge when the lockdown would be over. “It was difficult to survive without work and without ration. We somehow managed till we got work this month,” he told TOI. Managing director of Gera Development Rohit Gera told TOI that the exodus of construction workers has led to multiplier effect on project sites. “Many activities are allied. If carpenters have left the site but bar benders are present, the construction activity cannot progress. At present, we have only 40% workers on the sites,”he said. He expects the workers to return once the fear around the pandemic recedes and full train services resume. Credai national president Satish Magar said unless more trains are provided, migrants’ return will become difficult. Meanwhile, to tide over shortage of workers, local persons are being trained to do the jobs, Magar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buzz-on-sites-migrant-workers-plan-return/articleshow/76593592.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 25, 2020||Mysuru||Seven fresh cases reported in Mysuru||Mysuru: In what could possibly be the first instance of a Covid-19 death in the district, an octogenarian who was admitted to a private hospital two days ago complaining of a respiratory illness died on Tuesday evening. Throat swabs collected after his death confirmed the infection, officials in the district said. The elderly man was cremated in accordance with the protocol prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research on Wednesday. Health department officials have now commenced the process of tracing his primary contacts, and are looking into his travel history. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that they would be able to confirm his death by Covid-19 only after senior officials in Bengaluru validated it. As many as seven individuals, including a nine-year-old girl and a cop with the Karnataka State Reserve Police division in Mysuru, were confirmed infected across the district on Wednesday. Of the seven people, five had returned to the district from other states – three from Tamil Nadu and one each from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. The girl who tested positive for the novel coronavirus was identified as a primary contact of an infected patient, who had returned from Tamil Nadu last week. All major markets in Mysuru city shut till Monday After a brief lull, Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Mysuru district and in the Heritage City. Taking cognisance of the sudden rise in the number of infections, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to shut the five major markets across the city for four days starting Thursday. The markets can resume normal operations from Monday, MCC officials said. MCC commissioner Gurudutta Hegde said that the spike on Covid-19 cases had compelled the civic agency to step up vigilance at all public spaces, and ensure that all safety measures were being adopted by the storeowners and customers. “In pursuance of this objective, MCC has decided to sanitise and clean Devaraja Market, Santhe Pete, Shivaram Pete, Mannar’s Market and Boti Bazaar from Thursday. We have held discussions with the traders and merchants of all the five markets and they have agreed to down the shutters voluntarily for four days,” Hegde said. The MCC commissioner said that all visitors to the markets would be subjected to thermal screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seven-fresh-cases-reported-in-mysuru/articleshow/76584292.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Archdiocese sets ball rolling for reopening of churches||PANAJI: The Archdiocese of Goa on Wednesday issued a circular mandating stringent norms for the reopening of churches and chapels in the state. The move comes a fortnight after its decision to defer the reopening despite a green signal from the Union ministry of home affairs. The reopening will be conditional to places of worship meeting the requirements stipulated by the Archdiocese and government authorities. Additionally, the circular states that even pastors wishing to hold private prayers must obtain written permission from the Archbishop’s office. This permission, the circular states, shall be granted only after an “on-site inspection” and after the diocesan authority is satisfied the church can comply with all requirements. “The places of worship should not be opened to the faithful before this permission is granted in writing. The time required to comply with the safety protocols may vary from place to place,” archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao stated in the circular addressed to to all parish priests, chaplains and rectors of churches and shrines in the Archdiocese, which includes Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu The Archdiocese has suggested opening churches for private prayer for a few hours daily, with timings announced to faithful in advance, followed by gradual celebration of the mass with a small congregation. Even when mass eventually commences, the Archdiocese has issued a slew of directions — faithful will need to have their temperature checked before entering, be seated six feet apart, wear masks at all times, sanitise their hands, receive Holy Communion on the palm after Mass, refrain from singing, and bow to (not kiss) statues. Also, those who fall in vulnerable categories like persons over 65 or less than 10, have been discouraged from attending church. However, while the Archdiocese has continued to suspend Catholics from the obligation of participating in Mass on Sundays and other holy days, priests have been asked to celebrate more masses and prepare a plan to ensure that all faithful can attend Mass, in turns, sector-wise, and ward-wise, spaced out over a period of time. “In order to enable a greater number of faithful to participate in the Mass, the number of Masses to be celebrated each day may be increased,” director of the diocesan centre for liturgy, Fr Afonso Mendonca, stated in the liturgical and paraliturgical guidelines. Community devotional practices, retreats and meetings and programmes of the parish pastoral council, associations and movements in the church have been suspended. “Catechesis and faith-forming programmes for children and adults that require them to gather together are to be deferred till further instructions. However, those meetings that are required for urgent consultation of decision-making and for charitable purposes could be held, seeing that only the strictly necessary number of members are physically present and the usual precautionary measures are taken,” Ferrao stated. Online meetings wherever feasible should be encouraged for the time being, he said. The Archdiocese has also said that apart from persons over 65 and less than 10, others who shouldn’t be going to church include those displaying symptoms, those who have someone undergoing quarantine at home, and those who reside in containment zones or have visited one during the preceding two weeks. Other age-old practices have also been held in abeyance — sprinkling of holy water, congregational singing, the priest venerating the altar with a kiss and touch, multiple readers, the procession of gifts, placing of hosts in the ciborium by the faithful, passing the collection box around, receiving holy communion on the tongue, blessing with physical touch, kissing the hands of a priest, offering of flowers and candles, etc. Ferrao has advised priests to form coordinating teams to monitor implementation of government and Church guidelines, and periodically evaluate them for the safety of the faithful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archdiocese-sets-ball-rolling-for-reopening-of-churches/articleshow/76597697.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Civic employees part of corona response team infected after contact with patients||KOLKATA: Several Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) employees who are part of the Covid-19 response team have been infected with the virus while many medical officers who have been fighting against Covid-19 have also either tested positive or have been sent to home quarantine for coming in close contact with infected persons. “At least five medical officers and a section of senior officials in the KMC health department at headquarters or at the ward and borough levels were sent into home quarantine after coming in close contact with Covid-19 patients,” said a civic official. The situation had worsened to such an extent that the civic brass had decided to shut down multiple ward health units in some of the worst-hit containment zones after several medical officers at the civic clinics tested positive for Covid-19. A health official attending a maternity home also tested positive, confirmed a KMC health department senior official. Similarly, some members of the Covid-response team from the solid waste management department were also infected while conducting sanitization drives in containment areas. “We have been conducting a major sanitization drive at hospitals, housing complexes, market places, government offices and slums for the past three months. Several employees of our special sanitization team had to be sent to quarantine centres after they either tested positive or came in contact with Covid-positive patients,” said an SWM department official. Besides collection of daily waste from households, SWM workers are also engaged in collection of bio-medical waste from quarantined households. From last Monday, this task has been handed over to a private agency. At present, employees at the KMC headquarters are in the grip of a coronavirus scare after a colleague died and another staffer tested positive on the same day last week. “We are taking precautionary measures at the headquarters to ensure that employees can get free of the virus scare,” said a KMC official. At Dhapa, a couple of civic employees managing the city’s only Covid-19 crematorium have been recently infected. Another assistant engineer posted at the Dhapa waste dumping ground tested positive, triggering panic among the SWM workers there. “We are taking extra care for our employees posted at Dhapa crematorium as they are highly exposed to infection. For the SWM workers at Dhapa waste dumping ground, we are providing protective gear as the crematorium is located within the dumping ground,” said a health department official. The official added that members of the KMC Covid response team were given a mandatory medical check-up and those who are showing some symptoms were being sent for swab tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-employees-part-of-corona-response-team-infected-after-contact-with-patients/articleshow/76593599.cms||Saikat Ray
June 25, 2020||Pune||Fuel prices soar, only a few rupees shy of historic high||Pune: Petrol and diesel costs per litre in the city on Wednesday were just a few rupees shy of the all-time record high prices of the fuels on October 4, 2018. In fact, the current retail price per litre of diesel (Rs76.75) in Pune city is just Re1.9 less than the record high cost of the fuel, which was retailed at Rs78.69 on October 4, 2018. The all-time record price of per litre petrol in Pune was Rs91.16 in October 2018, while the same quantity of petrol was on Wednesday being sold at Rs86.24 — just Rs4.9 less than the historical high. In 2018, the unprecedented fuel price rise was due to the rupee depreciation and spiking international crude oil prices. Though the reverse is true now, with crude oil prices dipping around $43.41 a barrel mark, petrol and diesel prices have seen a massive increase last few days, inching to the past record highs. Sources in Pune Petrol Dealers Association feel that consumers were the ultimate losers, as they ended up paying more for fuel both ways — when crude oil prices surge and even when they fall, because the government then slaps high taxes on petrol and diesel. Sameer Ladkat, president, Petrol Dealers Association, Pune told TOI, “During the pandemic, incomes have shrunk, unemployment is on the rise and citizens have to use their savings to meet their expenses. Buying fuel is burning a hole in consumer pockets, despite global crude oil prices dipping.” He said, “The benefit of lower crude oil prices has never been passed on to Indian consumers in the recent past. Governments, whether the state or Centre, have ensured that their revenue deficits are well covered by the increase of taxes/ cess on petrol and diesel whenever the crude prices drop globally. Ultimately, it’s the consumer who ends up covering the government revenue deficit.” Another petrol dealer told TOI, “The state government increased the cess on petrol and diesel by Rs2 per litre from June 1. The Centre on May 5 also hiked the excise duty by a record Rs10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs13 on diesel. Since June 7, the dynamic pricing in petrol and diesel is back and rates are being revised everyday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-prices-soar-only-a-few-rupees-shy-of-historic-high/articleshow/76593656.cms||Neha Madaan
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Four arrested for threatening actor Shamna Kasim||Kochi: Four people from Thrissur were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly threatening actor Shamna Kasim in an attempt to extort money from her. The arrest was following a complaint filed by actor’s mother. Police said the arrested men are Ramesh, 35, Rafeeque, 30, Ashraf, 52 and Sarath, 25. Police are in the lookout for two more accused in the case. The arrested approached the family of Shamna with a marriage proposal, police said, adding that the incident happened before the lockdown. According to police, the men, who brought the proposal, claimed that they are from a well-to-do family in Kozhikode. They grew close to the family through phone calls and a visit and gained their confidence. Later, the person who posed as a potential bridegroom, who was not part of the group that made a visit to their home, phoned them and demanded Rs 1 lakh, as per the complaint. Police officials said one of the arrested has criminal antecedents. But not all of the people arrested on Wednesday were part of the group who visited Shamna’s house. Shamna’s family did not prefer a complaint before because of the lockdown. According to the complaint, the visitors captured pictures and videos of the house and property raising suspicion, police said. This was revealed while examining CCTV footage. They also allegedly threatened to endanger the life of the actor and demanded money if she wanted to save her life. Shamna is out of state as part of a shoot. “All the four are remanded in judicial custody,” said a police officer. Kasim began her career as a dancer and a model. After becoming a success in the television industry, she entered films and in a career that began in 2004 she has acted in about 40 South Indian films. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/four-arrested-for-threatening-actor-shamna-kasim/articleshow/76589304.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||28 test +ve in Malegaon;dist collector allays fear||Nashik: Malegaon witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with 28 people testing positive, sparking off concern as the town had started returning to normalcy following an outbreak. Wednesday too saw positive cases, but they were restricted to five. “There is nothing much to worry about it as most of these cases were related to three families. Since each of them were joint families, the numbers appear to have risen sharply. All of them are from high-risk contacts,” Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare said. The rate of doubling in the Malegaon town has now increased to 111 days and active number of patient is hovering around 107. “The rate of recovery in Malegaon is 81.5%. The health, police and other departments are on guard to ensure things are kept under control,” Dhananjay Nikam, additional collector, Malegaon, said. The rise in cases is from Malegaon West. “Almost 50% of patients are asymptomatic and in home isolation . The hospitals are testing the patients and taking their swabs as per the ICMR guidelines,” said Nikam. The town had registered 24 cases on Saturday, following which there was a lull for two days before the new patients tested positive. The number of cases had reduced to single digit for most days since May 21, the figures on Saturday and Tuesday, adding up to 52, were the biggest in the recent times. Malegaon has 107 active patients while 784 have already recovered. The town reported 71 deaths and the total number of of patients were 962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/28-test-ve-in-malegaondist-collector-allays-fear/articleshow/76589227.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 25, 2020||Goa||Wet June hits month’s avg rainfall quota 10 days ahead||Panaji: With cyclone Nisarga in the first week and a three-tier system in mid-June triggering heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state, the daily average rainfall of 898.5mm for this month was exceeded by June 20 itself. “This year, June started with good rainfall in the first week itself, continued with a depression over Bay of Bengal in second week and cyclonic circulation over north Konkan in the third week,” Rahul M, scientist at India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. The torrential rainfall brought cheers to farmers, as agricultural activities received a boost. Last year in 2019, the onset of monsoon was delayed and the sluggish rainfall activity ended in a 14% deficit, though a bumper season later produced a 33% surplus, the highest for decades. The cyclonic storm between June 1 and 3 facilitated the monsoon onset, as the first four days of the month produced copious rainfall. IMD, Panaji, recorded 177mm of rainfall during the period. The highest of daily average rainfall of 100.9mm under the influence of Nisarga was during the 24-hour period till 8.30am on June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wet-june-hits-months-avg-rainfall-quota-10-days-ahead/articleshow/76602119.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||Video of cop pedalling ice-cream cart goes viral in Kanpur||KANPUR: Video of a policeman pedalling an ice-cream cart while its vendor running behind it went viral on social media on Wednesday. The video was shot by some passerby in Barra area of the city. Many people termed the police action as harassment of the poor amid the Covid-19 lockdown. According to sources, the vendor was parking his ice-cream cart when all of a sudden, two policemen on a Zebra bike approached him and started reprimanding him. Before the vendor could explain himself, one of the policemen got down from the bike and took the ice-cream cart into his possession. The cop then started pedalling the cart while the vendor ran behind him, and pleaded him not to harass him and return his cart. SP (south) Aparna Gupta, however, said that the video was shot when curfew came into force after 9 pm on Tuesday. “It was during this time that the policemen on the Zebra vehicle were imposing curfew in the Barra area. While patrolling, they came across a vendor selling ice-cream beyond the permissible timings. Taking it to be an offence, one of the policemen reprimanded the vendor and took possession of the ice-cream cart. The cop then started pedalling and asked the vendor to follow him to the police station. However, the policemen released his cart midway and warned him not to sell ice-cream in curfew hours,” said the SP. “During the incident, someone filmed it and made the video viral on social media,” added Gupta. SP Gupta further said that later it also came to the fore that some policemen on patrol were drunk. “An investigation has been ordered and further action will depend on the findings of the probe,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/video-of-cop-pedalling-ice-cream-cart-goes-viral/articleshow/76589275.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospitals adopt new measures, tweak strategies to protect healthcare workers||KOLKATA: More than a hundred healthworkers in Kolkata have so far been infected by Covid and two have died. Two leading hospitals had to shut down after more than a dozen of their doctors, nurses and other staffers tested positive. While the rate of infection has come down over the past month, healthcare workers continue to be infected and remain among the most vulnerable. This has led hospitals to adopt stricter strategies and alter their functioning to prevent transmission. Peerless Hospital, which had to shut down for a fortnight in April, admitted that it had failed to gauge the seriousness of the situation when the pandemic began. It led to a spate of infection among doctors and nurses. “Ever since, we have shifted our Covid unit twice and restructured it entirely to make sure that transmission is blocked. We now have a PPE policy in place and none is allowed to come in contact with those working at the isolation units without proper gear. Every nurse has to serve a quarantine period after a week’s duty at the Covid unit,” said Peerless CEO Sudipta Mitra. AMRI Hospitals has introduced robots to interact with Covid patients. These are controlled by doctors who don’t have to risk transmission by entering the unit. It has also helped to curb the use of PPE. “Being at the forefront, our doctors are at high risk and need to be protected. They are the most valuable resource at a time like this and we can’t afford to lose them. So we are always thinking of ways to reduce their exposure,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. Some, like Fortis Hospital, have drawn up another strategy to reduce doctors’ exposure to Covid patients. The hospital follows the ‘buddy system’, under which, a senior doctor is accompanied by a junior doctor or a nurse who are put in charge of a set of patients. “They stick to the same group of patients and can stand in for one another if necessary, thus reducing exposure time. Also, no healthcare worker who visits the Covid unit is allowed to enter the non-Covid sections,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. But it is not just at hospitals that healthcare workers have got infected. A senior private hospital medic — who was the second Kolkata doctor to die of Covid in April — had apparently contracted the virus at a private chamber. According to his colleagues, there was no Covid patient or suspect at the hospital where he worked. An oncologist had to quarantine himself after he came in contact with a senior government hospital medic who had got the virus from his neighbourhood. “Transmission at home or from residential areas is a major threat. This is why we have been trying to keep our Covid doctors at the hospital or in rented accommodations nearby,” said a private hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-adopt-new-measures-tweak-strategies-to-protect-healthcare-workers/articleshow/76593685.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 25, 2020||Goa||Parts of Curtorim’s ward 2 are now a containment zone||Margao: After 13 members of 6 families residing in Bhatti and Sandeul wards of Curtorim tested positive for Covid-19, South Goa collector Ajit Roy on Wednesday issued an order declaring certain parts of ward II of Curtorim as containment zone and the rest of the ward as buffer zone. The order was issued under provisions contained in the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. The areas extending from Jace wine shop to veterinary hospital junction, Jace wine shop to Regino Construction, Regino Construction to Government middle school, Bhatti, and Government middle school Bhatti to veterinary hospital junction, constitutes the containment zone. As per the action plan outlined in the order, screening of suspects, testing of suspected cases, quarantining, isolation, social distancing and other public health measures will be enforced in the containment zone. “Movement of inhabitants of the containment zone shall be absolutely restricted and the entire containment zone shall be sealed by deployment of adequate police force,” reads the order. The order stipulates deployment of Rapid Response Team “to investigate the outbreak and initiate control measures by assessing the situation.” Deputy collector and SDM Salcete, Dy SP Margao, health officer of Curtorim PHC, deputy director of panchayats, South Goa, fire station officer, Margao, Salcete mamlatdar, inspector of civil supplies, Margao and executive engineer PWD, Fatorda constitutes the rapid response team. The order also stipulates conducting door-to-door thermal screening of each and every person of all the households in the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-curtorims-ward-2-are-now-a-containment-zone/articleshow/76597768.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Now, Cidco traders join Janata Curfew||Nashik: After Old Nashik city, Panchavati and Nashik Road, traders in Cidco division started observing ‘Janata Curfew’ for five days from Wednesday in an attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city. The Cidco area wore a deserted look as all the shops, including grocery and vegetable, remained closed voluntarily and citizens choosing to stay indoors. “There is an overwhelming response to Janata Curfew in the area. Traders voluntarily closed their shops in a bid to beat coronavirus,” said Cidco traders’ association president Vijay Kulkarni. “Different parts of the city are resorting to Janata Curfew gradually. The concept is very good. However, when traders from old Nashik city took the initiative from Sunday, they should have informed us about it so that we could have started the same day,” he said. “Actually, Janata Curfew should have been observed across the city at the same time.” Meanwhile, the grocery traders in Raviwar Karanja reopened their shops from Wednesday, following a three-day closure , but they will operate between 9am and 5pm. “We have opened our grocery shops, but the shops in the old city area are still closed. Grocery comes under essential commodities and hence we have reopened our shops. We have, however, reduced the working hours,” said Rahul Daga, office-bearer of Nashik traders’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-cidco-traders-join-janata-curfew/articleshow/76589268.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||After intrusion, classes on hold for 3 days in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A day after intruders crashed into a Class VI online classroom of a reputable south Kolkata girls’ school, hurling sexually explicit abuses and threatening rape and murder, lessons for the group were suspended for three days as an inquiry was launched. Preliminary probe revealed that the digital platform that the school has been using was not hacked, but class password was shared, enabling the accused to enter the classroom. The school has decided not to shift from the platform. A notice saying Std VI online will resume from Friday has reached parents. The school is re-circulating its online class rules among parents, which had been in force for some time now. Teachers will not allow any student to enter the online classes with IDs other than their own and classes will be locked five minutes after scheduled time. Each child has to enter with camera and microphones on so that teachers know whom they are allowing in. These rules are being strictly followed in the boys’ section of the school, where sporadic incidents of intrusion in initial days had put the administration and teachers on alert. “From the initial reports of the inquiry, I am quite certain the password was shared, enabling unauthorised entry. This is not a case of hacking,” said the secretary of the school. Parents of the kids remained active in group chats throughout the day, expressing the need for greater security in online classes, for continuous upgrade, possible change of platforms and training of teachers in handling technologies. Times ViewSome new problems are bound to crop up when a new system comes into effect; the e-crime uptick is a natural consequence of so many of us working, or studying, from home. We need to be vigilant against such crime and keep in mind some standard operating procedures if we are targeted.Many city schools said breaking into online classrooms had become routine and so, respective IT departments were on alert and novel methods of monitoring had been introduced. “We had intruders with names, such as Osama Bin Laden, breaking into classes. At another stage, we had children of other schools entering and listening to our lectures. This happened due to password sharing. We not only switched the platform but also introduced IDs that the school provided to each child, minimising the chance of break-ins,” said Souvic Jati, academic co-ordinator at The Heritage School. Some schools, like DPS Ruby Park, are having each class additionally monitored by the administration staff, whose job is to alert teachers of any intrusion. A student monitors entries in every section The school had disabled the options of re-naming oneself, chatting and screen-sharing to stop students from playing mischief, said vice principal, Indrani Chattopadhyay. Schools said there was no point blaming platforms because even with the tightest encryption, unless safety protocols were followed , break-ins would take place. “We have gone for a paid platform, where school-controlled domain IDs were created. Even the content sharing rights are controlled by the school so that students can’t post or forward anything,” said Shatabdi Bhattacharya, principal of The Newtown School. DPS Howrah has changed its online platform and user ID/passwords have been created for students that cannot be copied; settings are changed by teachers before every class. Encrypted portals are being used at Asian International School and at Mount Litera Zee School, students are asked to keep their videos on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-intrusion-classes-on-hold-for-3-days/articleshow/76593669.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 25, 2020||Kochi||‘Online education has widened social divide’||KOCHI: Civil society members and activists working with adivasi-dalit-backward communities have written to the government, including the chief minister and other ministers, seeking changes to the online education system introduced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic to safeguard universal access to education. They said that online education has increased the economic and social divide in society. Calling for reforms to promote digital learning among marginalized communities, they asked the government to consider measures such as setting up learning centres at the ward level and ooru level in tribal regions, ensuring mentor teachers in tribal/ tribal dominated areas, special emphasis on tribal languages in online classes, etc. “Contrary to the policy of universal public education that has been followed by Kerala over a period of time, the reforms launched on June 1 appear to have denied the children from socially and economically backward communities – adivasis, dalits, students from families living in colonies, of fishworkers, agricultural labourers, and other marginalized groups -- the rights guaranteed by the Constitution as well as the Right to Education Act 2009. The haste in opening online/digital sessions without adequate preparations to include the marginalized sections, who lack access to such formats of education, has resulted in sending the wrong message that education for the marginalized can wait,” said the letter signed by more than 30 persons including M Geetanandan, convenor of Adivasi-Dalit-Sthree Pouravakasha Samithi, which works for the welfare of marginalized communities. Geetanandan said online education has been introduced in an unscientific manner. The state-run broadcast of television programmes cannot be considered 'online' classes. Apart from introducing lessons in the curriculum, TV programmes offer no possibility for teacher-student communication. Classroom education is imperative for ensuring formal education in lower classes.  Learning centres should be established in tribal regions at the ooru level by appointing mentor teachers with tribal language proficiency across Kerala. Digital facilities need to be provided in all these centres, the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-edu-has-widened-social-divide/articleshow/76589342.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik APMC to appoint 2 doctors for screening||Nashik: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), following instructions from municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, has decided to appoint two doctors for screening of people coming to the market. The Nashik APMC has published an advertisement to appoint two doctors and hire an ambulance. Game had recently held a meeting with the Nashik APMC officials and instructed them to ensure that crowd and social distancing will be monitored on the APMC premises during auction of vegetables and fruits. The meeting was held in view of the recent rise in Covid-19 cases across the city. “After instructions from the municipal commissioner, we have started the process to recruit two doctors to conduct health check up and screening of farmers and traders visiting the market for auction,” an APMC official said, adding that they are also hiring an ambulance. The NMC has also suggested the Nashik APMC to conduct auction of vegetables on open spaces in the city as part of precautionary measures. “We have also suggested Sadhugram land in Tapovan for auction of vegetables. Moreover, the APMC also has an open space of its own at Sinnar Phata. The crowd will be divided if Nashik APMC conducts auction of vegetables at various locations in the city,” an NMC official said. A delegation of BJP corporators had also recently met the municipal commissioner and urged him to temporarily shut down Nashik APMC temporarily in order to curb the spread of the Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-apmc-to-appoint-2-doctors-for-screening/articleshow/76589316.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 25, 2020||Goa||168 seamen sign off at Mumbai, land in Goa||Quepem: As many as 168 Goan seafarers from the cruise liner Carnival Ecstasy signed off at the Mumbai port on Wednesday afternoon and landed at the Goa International Airport, Dabolim, by a chartered flight the same night. The cruise liner had arrived at the Mumbai port on June 21 but had to remain anchored for three days as two other ships from the same company were in the process of disembarking Indian seafarers. As they had tested negative for Covid-19 at the Mumbai port, all 168 seafarers were instructed to home quarantine upon their arrival in Goa. Carnival Ecstasy, which departed from Jacksonville, US, on May 3, had dropped anchor at Bahamas on May 7 to pick up transit seafarers from other ships. She arrived Durban, South Africa, on June 5 for bunkering and stocking up on provisions before departing for Mumbai. Two other cruise liners from the same company had begun disembarking Indian seafarers at the Mumbai port prior to Carnival Ecstasy’s arrival. Carnival Liberty brought in 1,000 Indian seafarers, including 260 Goans, and Carnival Fascination repatriated 600 Indian seamen, of which 60 were Goans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/168-seamen-sign-off-at-mumbai-land-in-goa/articleshow/76597805.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Southern Command gives 250 PPE kits to Pune Cantonment Board||The Indian Army’s Southern Command on Wednesday handed over 250 PPE kits to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) at its headquaters. Lt Gen DS Ahuja, chief of staff of the Command, handed over the kits to PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar and resident medical officer V Gaikwad. The cantonment needs at least 50 kits daily at its Covid care centre at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital. “The kits will be used by those working in the hospital’s isolation ward,” Gaikwad told TOI on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southern-command-gives-250-ppe-kits-to-pune-cantonment-board/articleshow/76593714.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Rural health dept instensifies surveillance in Yeola, Nandgaon, Igatpuri||Nashik: The district health department has now focused its attention on Yeola, Nandgaon, Igatpuri and Nashik talukas where the Covid-19 cases are steadily rising. Health officials said the emphasis is more on intensifying surveillance so that infected people are traced early and brought under treatment to reduce chances of deaths, said Kapil Aher, the district health officer. He said so far, 582 coronavirus patients have been detected in the rural district, Of them, 240 are hospitalised and 31 have succumbed. The remaining patients have recovered and have been discharged. Aher said 111 cases were detected in Yeola alone. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-health-dept-instensifies-surveillance-in-yeola-nandgaon-igatpuri/articleshow/76589362.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold retains its glitter as price zooms amid coronavirus gloom||HYDERABAD: If there is one thing that’s glittering amid all the Coronavirus gloom, it’s the yellow metal. Gold has been on a record-busting spree and zipped past the Rs 50,000 mark per 10 gm (24k) on Wednesday. “There is panic about Covid-19 as cases are shooting up in markets like the US, which is why people are investing in gold as a safe haven. Also, despite gold prices peaking internationally at about $1,779 per ounce, domestic prices have not gone up as much due to the appreciation of the Indian Rupee compared to the US Dollar,” said Avinash Gupta, director, All India Gem & Jewellery Domestic Council. The high price has also not deterred gold lovers from showing up at jewellery stores since the easing of lockdown. “We have a wedding in the family in August and have come to select designs. We hope to buy our gold by month-end. I hope prices don’t go up further by then,” said Md Akram, who was shopping at a store in Somajiguda. “We had an instalment scheme that is set to expire next month. So, we have come to encash it. Gold is a good investment now, given that its price is on a constant rise,” said K V Lakshmi a gold buyer at a store in Panjagutta. According to Ajoy Chawla, CEO, jewellery division, The Titan Company Ltd, it is not a flash in the pan or pent-up demand that jewellery retailers are seeing. “We are seeing a good 65-70% recovery rate across stores as compared to the same period last year despite a 40% rise in gold rates. Ticket values have gone up as buyers continue gold purchases perhaps because of the uncertainty around the economy and Covid-19 and also because gold is the only investment class that is appreciating at a time when interest rates and mutual fund NAVs are falling,” he said. Another key factor spurring gold sales is the demand unlocked by deferment of weddings and restrictions due to Covid-19. “With DIY or intimate weddings emerging as a trend, the wedding-related expenses on venue booking, catering, etc. have reduced and customers have more disposable income at their end, which is now being allocated to investing in gold jewellery despite a surge in prices over the past three quarters. Additionally, shoppers who postponed their weddings are making purchases,” said Kalyan Jewellers executive director Ramesh Kalyanaraman. Pointing out that footfalls and sales have been steadily improving since the lockdown eased, Darshan Gupta, partner, Mangatrai Jewellers, said people are continuing to buy gold as they know prices are only going to go up. “Gold was at Rs 5,020 per gm (24k) today and even if it falls, it will be temporary. I won’t be surprised if prices shoot up to 6,000 per gm by the end of the year,” he said. Agreeing, PK Siraj, director & retail head, Malabar Gold said that though overall sales are down as compared to the same period last year, they are witnessing a 75% recovery which is a good sign as gold is not an essential commodity. City-based wedding planner Priyanka Ganeriwal Allahabadi said only 10% of the gold purchase is for weddings and the rest is for investment. “Instead of bars, most in the city are buying gold jewellery for investment and the rush in stores is mainly due to that,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-retains-its-glitter-as-price-zooms-amid-coronavirus-gloom/articleshow/76601919.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||45 fresh infections in city; 8 more test +ve in Raj Bhavan||Bhopal: A senior IAS official and his wife were among 45 people who tested positive for Covid-19, here on Wednesday. The 59-year-old IAS officer — posted in urban development department — and his wife were diagnosed with Covid-19 in a private laboratory. The officer’s condition is said to be stable. The situation in Raj Bhavan got more alarming after eight more people tested positive. So far, 24 people have been diagnosed with the infection in the high-security zone. Meanwhile, the Congress MLA, who had tested positive before the Rajya Sabha vote, tested positive in the repeat test, according to the health department. His condition is said to be stable. Roshanpura, near Raj Bhavan, is also reporting Covid-19 positive cases. Four families in the densely populated area have been shifted to a quarantine centre.Healthcare workers residing in a hostel tested positive for the infection at the Gandhi Medical College (GMC) laboratory. Three more cases were reported from Bairagarh. Slum areas, Rahul Nagar and Prabhu Nagar, also reported new coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases has started to decline in Idgah Hills. Two from a family tested positive for the infection. In Kolar area, sporadic cases continue to be reported. In a family which had earlier reported a Covid-19 positive, two more tested positive for the infection. Covid-19 positive infections were diagnosed in Anna Nagar, Khanugaon, Bharat Talkies, Baghsewania, Golpura, Budhwara, and Barkhedi Patra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/45-fresh-infections-in-city-8-more-test-ve-in-raj-bhavan/articleshow/76589347.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Businessman’s body found, five other ‘suicides’ in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city recorded six suspected suicides from Tuesday afternoon to Wednesday afternoon. The youngest victim was 18-year-old while the oldest victim was 72-year-old. The residents of Jodhpur Park were in for a shock after the body Amit Sen (72), a businessman dealing in old cars, was recovered from the Baje Kadamtala Ghat. He had reportedly gone missing for the last two days from the Strand Road area after asking his driver to wait for him. A missing case was lodged with Hare street police station. On Wednesday, the North Port police informed Hare Street police about the victim’s body. His family members identified him. An initial probe indicates that he might be debt-ridden, though cops refused to speculate anything, saying they will ascertain the cause of his death only after post-mortem. In the other five cases, the victims reportedly killed themselves by hanging. two of them were women while the rest were men. Police identified the youngest victim as Anurag Routh (18), a resident of Rabindrapally in Kasba. He had been reportedly depressed over the past few days but did not reveal the reason behind his depression. A 21-year-old woman from Gosaba in South 24 Parganas was found hanging at her employer’s residence at Auckland Square on Tuesday morning. No suicide note was found from the spot. She was identified as Dolon Pramanik who was declared brought dead at SSKM Hospital. Haridevpur reported two suicides. Trisha Duari (35) was found hanging inside her one-room home at Kalitala while the other victim Kalipada Basak (39) was found dead on the ground floor of his two-storey home on Baroda Sarani. The 56-year-old Annapurna Basak committed suicide at her home on Narkeldanga South Road. Cops said no suicide note has been recovered from her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bizmans-body-found-five-other-suicides-in-city/articleshow/76593742.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rise in home quarantine infractions, say officials||PUNE: Home quarantine violations by those who have returned to the city are on the rise, but their constant monitoring would be impossible, officials said. Since June 2, over 20,000 people have arrived in Pune by train — 8,500 are construction workers. The workers are registered, but officials said they will not be able to check if the workers have cut short the 14-day home quarantine rule. Nearly 1.25 lakh migrant workers left Pune by train during the lockdown. Another 53,000 left for their hometowns by bus. Officials said 5% of these workers have returned so far, with many more expected to arrive by the middle of next month. Returning migrant workers are screened via thermal scanners at train and bus stations. They are then stamped and advised home quarantine. However, ensuring compliance is a major problem, an official said. “We keep a register of names but it is practically impossible to constantly monitor such numbers. The thermal scanners have so far detected only one symptomatic person among the 20,000 returnees,” the official said. Pune municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad said according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, only symptomatics need monitoring. “It is impossible to monitor everyone. People must take responsibility too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rise-in-home-quarantine-infractions-say-officials/articleshow/76593691.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 25, 2020||Goa||In a first, Goa records twice as many recoveries as new +ves||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count dropped for the second day on the trot as the 42 new cases reported on Wednesday was offset by a record 84 recoveries, bringing the total down to 660. However, the virus continued its march to hitherto untouched areas, with Kundaim in Ponda and Sal in Bicholim reporting a case each. The case in Sal is connected to a former health minister who tested positive a few days ago. His driver’s swab sample was taken on Tuesday, and returned positive on Wednesday. A health official said that the government has traced two contacts of the driver, and that their samples have been sent for testing. “The driver has no family, but his two contacts have been traced,” he said. Meanwhile, the former minister’s wife and daughter have also tested positive. The Kundaim case, however, was labelled “isolated” by the health department as the patient didn’t have any travel history. Ganganagar, the slum area in Mapusa that reported a case on Tuesday, saw swab samples of 198 persons taken for testing. Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza said that part of the area had been barricaded to contain the spread of the disease. “The area is close-knit and houses are located close to each other,” said D’Souza. “We identified 230 persons for testing, and swab samples of 198 persons were taken on Wednesday.” The MLA said that Tuesday’s positive case was employed as a barber at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, and that his family members too have been quarantined after their swab samples were taken. “We shall know if the disease has spread after the test results are received,” he said. Meanwhile, Wednesday saw three more cases in Morlem, Sattari, bringing the total number of cases to 21. These three new cases, a health official said, were outside the Ghodemal containment zone, and thus, the department would take more swab samples from the village on Thursday. In Vasco, two municipal council members, along with one spouse, tested positive on Wednesday. It is suspected that one member got the infection from a parish priest he had driven to the testing centre a few days ago. Back then, the member tested negative. “The councillor had done a Covid test after the priest had tested positive, but had tested negative then,” an official said. He went for a test again after he began showing symptoms of Covid-19. The councillor had recently chaired a meeting attended by 22 members, who maintained social distancing. His wife, two children and elderly mother have also been tested, as have other staffers who attended the meeting. “The municipality premises will be sanitised on Thursday,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-records-twice-as-many-recoveries-as-new-ves-even-as-virus-continues-rampage/articleshow/76597777.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 25, 2020||Pune||Suicide claims lives of three men in a day||Pune: Three men ended their lives by hanging themselves in Pimpri Chinchwad on Tuesday. While two of these incidents happened in Wakad, one occurred in Nigdi. Police are yet to ascertain the identity of the man in the Nigdi case. “The deceased was aged around 30 and was found hanging from the ceiling of a house in the PMC colony in Nigdi. We did not find any suicide note and are still trying to ascertain his identity,” assistant inspector Ansar Shaikh of the Nigdi police said. Vishwambhar Shinde (40) of Ramabainagar in Pimpri was found hanging from a tree near the police colony in Wakad on Tuesday morning. “Based on the circumstances, we suspect his death to be a case of suicide. We have not recovered any suicide note on the deceased though,” sub-inspector Vishnu Hile of the Pimpri police said. In another case, Akshay Bansode (27) of Panchnath colony was found hanging from the ceiling bar of a room in his house in Kalewadi. Bansode’s family members were at home when the incident occurred. “He had used sari to hang himself,” sub-inspector Ravindra Mudal of the Wakad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/suicide-claims-lives-of-three-men-in-a-day/articleshow/76593749.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Performing on stage a satisfying, liberating experience, say artists||PUNE: It was an emotional moment for a dozen classical music artistes and more than eight accompanists when they stepped on the stage in an auditorium after a gap of three months to participate in two music festivals. The moment was also special because the festivals will launch the online platform of Pune-based SwaraZankar organization, which will facilitate virtual concerts to unlock classical music in the Covid-19 times. Prominent vocalists Rahul Deshpande, Raghunandan Panshikar, Anand Bhate, Manjusha Patil, Sawani Shende, Shounak Abhisheki, Aarti Anklikar-Tikekar, violinist Atulkumar Upadhye and sitarist Shakir Khan will regale the audience during the Bhaktiranga Fest from July 1 to 15 and the annual SwaraMalhar Festival from July 15 to August 16. Speaking with TOI violinist Rajas Upadhye said that the audience will get a front-row seat experience with top audio and video quality. “We have recorded all the 15 concerts, each lasting more than an hour, in an auditorium that was empty except the performing artists and technicians. Each artiste was given a time slot to record his performance so there was no issue of crowding. All safety precautions were undertaken, including regular sanitization. Artists came wearing masks and underwent thermal scanning. We provided home-cooked, fresh food to them,” he said. “Once an episode is released, subscribers can unlock it at any point and enjoy the concert. The validity of each episode will be 24 hours once unlocked. All concerts will be available on the website till August 31,” Upadhye said. “Stepping on stage and performing with the accompanists was liberating. Even if there wasn’t anyone in the audience, it was immensely satisfying”, eminent vocalist Rahul Deshpande told TOI. Violinist Atulkumar Upadhye said that an artiste derives real satisfaction when he performs on the stage. “It felt like performing a puja. Nothing beats the feeling of sitting between the two Tanpuras on the stage and unleashing the musical energy,” he said. Bookings for the concert open on June 28 on www.swarazankarhub.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/performing-on-stage-a-satisfying-liberating-experience-say-artists/articleshow/76593699.cms||Manjiri Damle
June 25, 2020||World||Poland to get some US troops withdrawn from Germany: Donald Trump||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that some of the 10,000 American troops he's pulling out of Germany will be moved to Poland on Nato's eastern flank against Russian aggression. "We're going to be reducing our forces in Germany," Trump said in the Rose Garden while standing alongside Polish President Andrzej Duda. "Some will be coming home and some will be going to other places, but Poland would be one of those other places in Europe." Trump has said he is determined to cut the number of troops in Germany from about 35,000 to 25,000. Shifting forces out of the country has long been rumored and is in line with Pentagon efforts to put more troops in the Indo-Pacific. But Trump's suggested last week - and again Wednesday - that the move is also tied to his anger over Germany's failure to meet Nato defence spending goals. Trump said unlike Germany, Poland is one of only eight members of the alliance that are fulfilling Nato's target pledge of spending 2 per cent of their gross national products on their own defence. He criticized Germany several times and said transferring the troops to Poland also sends a strong signal to thwart Russian aggression. "But I think a stronger signal sent to Russia is the fact that Germany is paying Russia billions of dollars to purchase energy from Russia and I'm saying 'What's that all about?' They're spending billions to buy Russia and then we're supposed to defend them from Russia. So that doesn't work too well." Neither Trump nor Duda said how many more troops would be sent to Poland. Under an agreement announced last year, the US already announced it was sending about 1,000 more troops to Poland, and progress is being made, officials said, to lay the groundwork for those moves. Based on the agreement with Poland, the US will add a division headquarters, a combat training center, a unmanned aircraft squadron and structure to support an Army brigade that could rotate in and out of the country. This was Duda's third visit to Washington since Trump took office and the first visit by a head of state to the White House since the coronavirus pandemic shut things down. The US and Polish delegations and members of the media were tested before the two leaders met in the Oval Office, although none of the officials wore masks. The visit came just days before Duda seeks reelection in a ballot on Sunday. Opinion polls show Duda with about 40% support as he seeks a second five-year term, ahead of Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski, who has nearly 30%. Much of Trzaskowski's support comes from Poles angry at a government they blame for corruption, inciting homophobia and xenophobia, and undermining the country's democratic foundations. If Duda falls short of the majority of the vote needed to win outright, it would trigger a tight runoff election July 12. Duda could get a boost from his White House visit - one so close to Sunday's vote that some view it as election interference by the US leader. Duda said he and Trump were just fulfilling their presidential duties. Trump said he thinks Duda "will do very well with or without us." Trump and Duda said they discussed energy security, including a natural gas pipeline Russia wants to transport more gas into Europe. US sanctions have obstructed construction of the pipeline, causing rifts between the US and its European allies that want the gas. Other topics included cybersecurity, telecommunications, 5G networks, civil nuclear energy and economic cooperation. As an example of the developing economic cooperation, Duda mentioned plans announced on Wednesday by Google to invest over $1 billion into an information technology center in Poland. Joining forces against the pandemic, the leaders said US and Polish scientists will be working closely together on developing medication and vaccine against the coronavirus. Duda also thanked Trump for the quick restoration of the monument to Poland's and America's independence fighter, 18th century Polish General Tadeusz Kosciuszko, whose statue before the White House was vandalized during recent protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/poland-to-get-some-us-troops-withdrawn-from-germany-donald-trump/articleshow/76609984.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bhopal||187 cases take MP tally to 12448||Bhopal: With 187 fresh cases, Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus count went up to 12,448. Nine deaths were also reported in the state — from Bhopal (5) and Indore (4). With this, the Covid death toll in Madhya Pradesh is now 534. The new cases were reported from 24 of the 51 corona-hit districts of the state. The districts were the cases were reported in double figures are Bhopal (45), Indore (34), Bhind (22) and Morena (19). Meanwhile, 138 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals across the state. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state is 9,473. So far, 76.1% of people who have tested positive in the state have recovered. As on June 24, there are only 2,441 active patients in the state. Reports of over 3.14 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 12,448 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/187-cases-take-mp-tally-to-12448/articleshow/76589443.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Police raid spa, rescue four women||Pune: The Chatushrungi police raided a spa operational in a row house in Baner and rescued four women from flesh trade late on Tuesday afternoon. A team headed by assistant commissioner of police Laxman Borate and senior inspector Anil Shewale raided the spa after receiving a tip-off. Police arrested the spa manager, Suresh Pralhad Ranvir (25), of Baner for illegally running the facility during the lockdown period. Similarly, the crime branch raided a spa in Koregaon Park and rescued three women. Police said the women were forced into prostitution by the spa operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-raid-spa-rescue-four-women/articleshow/76593764.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t pressure kids: CISCE to schools||KOLKATA: The CISCE has told parents that they do not need to fear that their wards would not be able to choose or change their options of evaluation if they fail to inform the schools by Wednesday whether they want to sit for the pending ICSE and ISC papers or go for pre-boards marks. CISCE has cautioned affiliated institutes against forcing candidates into submitting their decisions. The deadline for schools to upload the candidates’ choices was on Wednesday noon. But CISCE has assured that the options can be changed before the exams are held. In its circular to school heads, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said they had learnt that some schools were forcing candidates to select their choices by Wednesday, saying otherwise, the council would take action against such institutes. “...no such action is proposed by CISCE against schools,” read the circular. “On the contrary, if candidates are forced to make a choice, CISCE may take action against such schools.” “CISCE wishes to inform the Heads of Schools the matter is still pending in the Bombay HC and Supreme Court... the deadline of June 24 noon ceases to exist and the module has been deactivated,” the letter stated. A principal said, “We had to request parents to complete the formalities or how could we inform about the choices to the council?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-pressure-kids-cisce-to-schools/articleshow/76593789.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Drunk woman ‘abandoned’, rescued by cops||KOLKATA: In a 20-minute operation, cops rescued a 29-year-old woman from the Red Road area in the early hours of Wednesday. The Bhowanipore resident, partially clothed, was reportedly walking from the Fort William Gate towards BBD Bag in an inebriated condition. Cops said the woman had been abandoned by her friend, with whom she had gotten drunk in the Park Street-Maidan area. Some motorists and bikers who noticed her sought help from cops fearing she would get run over. “It took 15 minutes to locate her in the dark and she was close to the Mayo Road crossing. But when our woman officers tried to make her put on clothes, she became violent and started abusing everyone around,” said an officer. A combination of coaxing and threats finally convinced her to board the police van. A case of nuisance has been lodged against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drunk-woman-abandoned-rescued-by-cops/articleshow/76593755.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Globe-trotting seafarer turns fish seller for a living||QUEPEM: The coronavirus pandemic has crippled many, financially. Migrants, taxi drivers, motorcycle pilots, small shop owners, among others, took a beating during the national lockdown. Some of them looked at alternative jobs, but nobody seemed to think of doing what a globe-trotting seafarer did. Succoro Fernandes, 36, an Ambaulim villager, who worked on a cruise liner as store keeper has surprised other seafarers and his villagers by taking up fish selling. In November last year, Fernandes signed off from a cruise liner and planned to join another one four months later at the Miami port but the pandemic ruined his dream. “I received my joining letter on February 10 and was waiting to join the passenger ship on March 22. The worldwide lockdown shattered my dream,” Fernandes told TOI. With Covid-19 cases rising across the world and the national lockdown making it difficult here, Fernandes soon realised that he would not be able to join any ship for at least a year as most countries announced restrictions. “I rode my two-wheeler to Betul jetty to buy fish and then sell. I never thought what others will think of me. I had to think about my family. My wife is expecting our baby and I am in need of money,” said Fernandes. According to Fernandes, not everyone, particularly seamen, think like him. “They do not start such type of business after their signing off from the ship, but I showed them we can do any job,” he said. Fernandes' daily routine starts at 4am. With a case tied to his motorbike, he proceeds to Betul, picks up fish of his customers' choice and then sells it at what he calls is a reasonable price. He sells fish in Ambaulim while returning from Betul and then proceeds to the Igramoll and Devosa wards in the jurisdiction of Quepem Municipal Council. “Since I bring fresh fish and sell with a small profit margin, I am able to finish the day between 9 and 10am. The remaining time I spend with my wife and help her with household chores,” said Fernandes, who will continue with his new business till he gets a call to board a ship. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/globe-trotting-seafarer-turns-fish-seller-for-a-living/articleshow/76597862.cms||Johnny M
June 25, 2020||Pune||Cop data shows road accident fatality dip during lockdown||Pune: The Covid-19 curbs may have had some chance gains, statistics released by the city police on Wednesday revealed Fatal accidents between April and June dropped by 45% — from 31 during April-June 2019 to 17 during the same period in 2020. The number of casualties in accidents also dropped to 19 during the three months in 2020 as compared to 34 during the corresponding period last year.Senior police officers said though there were some cases of suicide during the lockdown, 170 from March to June 20. This is a 24% decline in the number of suicide, 225, during the same period last year.Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI, “Though the number of suicide cases dipped during March to June 2020 in comparison to the same period last year, two senior citizens took the extreme step out of fear of the pandemic. Also, there was the recent case of a couple and their children committing suicide. These cases have brought up many unanswered questions and we feel more research needs to be conducted on this issue. SNDT has been requested for a further analysis on this.”He said though fatal accidents in Pune city decreased between April and June 22, there was a rise in such accidents in June, especially in the Hadapsar and Bharathi Vidyapeeth areas. On the drop in suicide cases last few months, DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “Last year, as many as 54 suicide cases were registered in March and 64 in April. In comparison, 45 suicide cases were registered in March 2020 and 28 in April. There is an overall 38% decline in suicide cases during the two months. Among the reasons could be family support during lockdown, as people were together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-data-shows-road-accident-fatality-dip-during-lockdown/articleshow/76593824.cms||Neha Madaan
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Emotions run high as 145 students return from Moscow||NAGPUR: Even though asked to avoid close contact with anyone, first-year MBBS student Amar Khare couldn’t hold back his emotions when he spotted his parents at the arrival gate of Nagpur’s Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar international airport late on Tuesday night. Seeing each other for the first time after a span of eight months, Amar dropped his luggage as he walked out and rushed for a tight hug first with father, followed by even a longer one with mother. The Khares belong to Indore in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Like many others, they too had come to receive their only son, who was stranded in Russia following the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This was the fourth Vande Bharat flight to Nagpur, and second from Moscow to bring stranded Indians back home. Subdivisional officer Shekhar Ghadge said 39 students were from Chhattisgarh, 18 from MP and 88 from Maharashtra, including Nagpur. While 29 Chhattisgarh students went with state officials in a bus, parents of 10 took them in private vehicles. “Chhattisgarh students have been asked to report to district magistrate at Raipur, while all 145 returnees are to be quarantined,” said Ghadge. Confusion over e-pass for MP parents and Chhattisgarh parents directly reaching here despite state arranging a bus again marred the arrivals. While those from MP were in a fix over whether their children would be allowed to leave Nagpur at all, a couple of Chhattisgarh parents insisted on taking their children in own car. RK Nishant, a resident of Kanker in Chhattisgarh, slammed state officials for lack of coordination. “Kanker district magistrate has issued a letter permitting me to drive to Nagpur and take back my daughter,” he said. Initially, officials had informed him that as per state government directives, all flyers were being taken to Raipur together and kept in compulsory paid quarantined for seven days before moving to their respective districts. Nishant opposed the move showing the DM’s letter in which he has been asked to isolate his daughter in a government Covid care centre. Yet, the officials told him to meet them at Raipur. Parents and relatives from Jabalpur, Gwalior, Indore and Betul again faced tense moments when they were asked to show e-pass. “Police and district officials had told us issuance of e-pass has been stopped from June 1. Here, they are demanding an e-pass,” said a parent from Betul. MP parents also slammed their state government for not making arrangements for their children like Chhattisgarh has done. “This trip has cost us around Rs80,000 each, which is several times more than what we would have otherwise spent on their return. The children paid Rs8,000 air fare to Moscow from their places in Russia. Then, from Moscow to Nagpur we shelled out another Rs50,000. The travel cost from MP to here and then paid quarantine is around Rs22,000,” said the aggrieved parents. This time, MSRTC too had deployed three buses for students from Mumbai, Pune and Solapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/emotions-run-high-as-145-students-return-from-moscow/articleshow/76593914.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 25, 2020||Pune||4 arrested for auto driver murder bid||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Wednesday arrested four men for launching a murderous assault on a 22-year-old auto-rickshaw driver on Monday night over a petty dispute. Victim Sunil Zare of Mohammadwadi sustained stab injuries on his head and stomach. His condition is stable and he is recuperating at the Sassoon General Hospital, police said. The assailants, Omkar Ghule, Shivaji Shinde, Shatrughan Jadhav and Mukesh Mirkale, from Handewadi and Undri have been remanded in police custody till June 27. Police said Zare was passing via Sayyednagar when the four men chased him on two bikes and intercepted his autorickshaw. They abused and assaulted him for his association with Shankar Autade, a criminal. Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from Wanowrie police said, “Autade and his aides had earlier assaulted Shatrughan Jadhav, one of the assailants in the case, over a previous dispute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-arrested-for-auto-driver-murder-bid/articleshow/76593852.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||10 CHCs, 42 PHCS in the district to have Covid help desks||KANPUR: Covid help desks will be established in ten community health centers and 42 primary health centres to enable patients to reach the right place to get treatment. According to additional chief health officer Dr AK Singh, as per the government order, the covid help desk would be set up in all CHCs and PHCs of the district. A banner or poster installed at the desk would depict a picture of a doctor which could be visible from a distance, he said.  People suffering from fever would be examined by paramedical staff at the corona help desk by infrared thermometer and pulse oximeter, he added. Yogendra Pal, manager, district community centres said that all kinds of patients were reaching the health centres to get themselves examined and get treatment. “Now, with establishment of the help desk, flu and fever patients can be treated separately which will help in controlling the spread of coronavirus”, Pal said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/10-chcs-42-phcs-in-the-district-to-have-covid-help-desks/articleshow/76589428.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Class XII results at 5pm on June 26||PANAJI: Class XII exam results will be declared on June 26 at 5pm by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. The result is awaited by 18,150 students – 9,326 girls and 8,824 boys. “The result sheets will be mailed to schools on June 29. The marksheets will be available in schools from July 7,” Goa Board said. The list of websites from where students can access their results will be displayed on the Goa Board website gbshse.gov.in. Students had answered the exam in February-March, but three papers had to be deferred when the Covid-19 related pandemic lockdown was imposed. Exams for these were held from May 20 to 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-xii-results-at-5pm-on-jun-26/articleshow/76598536.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Amit Agarwal hid gun, hatched plot in flat bought by father-in-law||KOLKATA: A flat in Kankurgachhi that Subhas Dhandania had bought around eight years ago for his “happily married daughter and son-in-law” turned out to be the place, where their murder plot was hatched. Amit Agarwal, on landing in Kolkata from Bangalore after reportedly murdering his estranged wife Shilpi, holed up in the flat and chalked out his plan to eliminate his in-laws, whom he apparently held responsible for his failed marriage and his son being kept away from him. On Monday afternoon, he went on the rampage, shooting down his mother-in-law Lalita Dhandania before turning the gun on himself at his in-laws’ flat in an upscale Phoolbagan apartment. After he shot Lalita, Subhas had managed to escape from the flat. The police probe has established that Amit, after flying back to Kolkata on Monday afternoon with their 10-year-old son, whom he sent to his brother’s place in Belgharia, booked an app cab and drove directly to the Kankurgachhi apartment. There, he chalked out his next move, fixed his .7mm improvised pistol and magazines and stashed them in his laptop bag before walking down to his in-laws’ place in Phoolbagan. “Amit had visited Kolkata multiple times for 24 hours to 72 hours between January and March. By then, he seemed to have had decided to eliminate his wife and in-laws but the lockdown might have upset his plans,” said a police officer. “We are sure he had bought the weapon earlier and hid it in his flat. We have CCTV footage,” said a police source. Raids are on to nab the gun supplier. Amit has a friend who would pick him up from the airport whenever he was in the city. “His friend went to the airport even on Monday. He was surprised when Amit insisted he dropped his son at his father and brother’s place on MM Feeder Road near Belgharia but refused to accompany him, saying he had urgent work,” police said. Seeing them off, Amit went to Kankurgachhi. “He carried a folder while entering the flat, but left with a laptop bag. This was probably the time he sent emails to a few friends, telling them about the good times he had had with them and talking about his guilt and successes,” police said. Investigators on Wednesday accessed Amit’s mobile and a forensic team spent hours at the Dhandanias’ flat. Officers reconstructed the chain of events that took place in Bengaluru. It has emerged he had even considered murdering Shilpi in “an accident” or with snake poison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amit-hid-gun-hatched-plot-in-flat-bought-by-father-in-law/articleshow/76593857.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kundara murder: Two accused arrested||KOLLAM: Two men were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the murder of a gym owner at Peryam in Kollam district. Kundara police have arrested Prajeesh (23), alias Achu, and Binto Babu (21), both residents of Perayam, for allegedly murdering Shakeer Babu (28) alias Chikku of Ashtamudi, a habitual criminal, due to prior enmity on Tuesday. The murder occurred at 5.30pm near Kurisadi Junction, Perayam and soon after, the accused fled to Kochi. When Prajeesh and Binto were roaming in the city to find a suitable hideout, Elamakkara police chanced upon them. Police noticed wounds on the hand of one of the accused. Upon questioning, the accused revealed the incident to police. Elamakkara police then handed over the accused to their counterparts in Kundara. The team led by Kundara police inspector Jayakrishnan, sub-inspector Vidhaydhiraj, assistant sub-inspectors Ashik Kohoor and Ajayakumar effected the arrest. According to police, Shakeer had repeatedly insulted Prajeesh’s sister a few months back. Prajeesh warned Shakeer of dire consequences if he continued to target his sister. Shakeer along with a four-member criminal gang then kidnapped Prajeesh in a car and beat him up severely. Kundara police rescued Prajeesh from Shakeer's custody. Police arrested Shakeer, but he was later released on bail. He repeatedly violated bail conditions and got arrested and landed in jail again. However, he got bail from High Court citing that he had spent over three months in jail without being chargesheeted. On Tuesday evening, Shakeer once again entered into an argument with Prajeesh and assaulted him. Prajeesh’s friends and local residents managed to escort him back to his house. But Prajeesh returned to the spot within minutes along with his friend Binto and stabbed Shakeer. He sustained several stabs on the neck and other parts of the body. Though he was taken to a hospital, his life could not be saved. When police tried to take Prajeesh and Binto to Peryam for evidence gathering, Shakeer’s gang members came to Kundara police station and raised death threats against the accused. Following the incident, police deferred the evidence gathering and kept the accused in the station itself. They will be produced in the court on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kundara-murder-two-accused-arrested/articleshow/76589614.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools may reopen only in September, with trimmed syllabus||PANAJI: A recent meeting headed by chief minister Pramod Sawant witnessed hectic discussions on the possibility of schools reopening only in September, and with a trimmed syllabus. After the meeting on Monday, Sawant, who is also education minister, had said that the decision would be taken after July 15. However, school heads brought up the point that reopening may only be possible in September. While guidelines issued by the Centre favour reopening of schools for the academic year 2020-21 after August 15, the Ganesh Chaturthi festival will be celebrated earlier than usual this year, from August 22. This would mean declaring holidays for the festival within days if schools reopen around August 15. Additionally, parents already expressed apprehensions about sending their children to school anytime soon, as Covid-19 infections in Goa are on the rise. The meeting, attended by top education officials, also saw talks about curtailing the Diwali and Christmas vacations. School heads spoke to Sawant about the need to trim the syllabus for the year, since around three months of the academic year are likely to be lost. The CM, according to sources, agreed to the suggestion. Meanwhile, state officials said that the Union ministry of human resource development is expected to soon issue new guidelines on school reopening, and that Goa’s directorate of education would issue instructions based on them. As of now, the HRD ministry’s May 30 guidelines are in force, and as per these, reopening can be considered around August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-may-reopen-only-in-sep-with-trimmed-syllabus/articleshow/76598046.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Consumers seek more relief as MSEDCL allows instalments||Nashik: The MSEDCL has decided to allow consumers to pay their electricity dues in instalments, a move hailed by people but amid demand for correction of bills and discounts as well in view of the economic slowdown. The state power utility has been at the receiving end of consumers ever since it delivered the bills for the month of June, with many alleging that the same were inflated and wrong. Another issue that has been raised is that the lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic has affected the incomes of people. “The company has charged me average units for April and May. In June, it took into account all the units consumed from the month of April. This is not done,” said Prakash Vaze. The MSEDCL, however, said that consumers have failed to understand the bill in which the average units were deleted in the from of payments made for two previous months. “No additional units were charged. The problem is that people got higher bills only because of high electricity consumption during summer. The fact that all family members were at home during the lockdown and were using electricity through various equipment,” said Vikas Adhe, public relations officer of the company. Adhe added that the MSEDCL has decided to accept payment of bills in three instalments to reduce the burden on consumers Consumers are happy about the instalment facility but want the bills to be “corrected” or discounts offered at the same time. Vilas Joshi, a power consumer, cited the Delhi government while demanding subsidy. “The Delhi government has subsidized the energy bills in view of the fact that the Covid-19 pandemic hit the income sources of a large numbers of people. Hope the government of Maharashtra also goes a step further and provides relief to the additional consumption during the period,” added Joshi. Nashik city unit president of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Ranjan Thackeray and others also met the MSEDCL officials and urged them to clear the confusion of the people and issue them correct bills at the earliest. "People who have been at home during Covid-19 lockdown have their own concerns and the MSEDCL should clear their doubts," Thackeray said. Verify bills, say MLAs Nashik Central MLA Devayani Pharande and Nashik East MLA Rahul Dhikle on Wednesday met chief engineer of Nashik Zone, BK Janvir, and demanded verification of the bills issued to the consumers across Nashik district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/consumers-seek-more-relief-as-msedcl-allows-instalments/articleshow/76589573.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rajgad, Torna forts in Bhor and Velhe closed to tourists||PUNE: The sub-divisional officer of Bhor has issued an order closing all tourist locations, including the historic Torna and Rajgad forts, to tourists as a measure to contain the spread of the coronavirus. These locations are known for attracting tourists and trekkers in hordes from Pune, Mumbai and other cities during the monsoon season. Bhor and Velhe have recorded 17 and 34 positive cases till date since the outbreak. Bhor sub-divisional officer Rajendra Jadhav told TOI, “Recently, a man from Narhe Ambedgaon in Pune tested positive for nCoV after he had visited Torna fort. The authorities of the Pune Municipal corporation alerted us about the development. We had to undertake a contact tracing exercise immediately.” “The decision to close the tourist locations has been taken in view of a surge in fresh cases after June 8. A number of tourists and trekkers from Pune had started visiting the forts and other popular places,” Jadhav added. Bhor and Velhe tehsils are known for their hilly terrains and have six dams as well as 20 Kolhapur-type dams. Tourism forms the main source of income, particularly in the tribal belt of these tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rajgad-torna-forts-in-bhor-velhe-closed-to-tourists/articleshow/76593954.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 25, 2020||Pune||Use apps to make short films: FTII||Pune: From officials of the information and publicity department, to people from every walks of life, many have signed up for the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII)’s smartphone filmmaking course. Experts conducting the course said that mobile phone apps are readily available to make short films with decent production values. “In our most recent course that ended this week, 40 participants joined, 30 of whom made films according to the training from the resource persons in the course,” Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director, said. “Eleven of the films were screened and there were discussions on the films,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/use-apps-to-make-short-films-ftii/articleshow/76593893.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolkata||119 stranded in UK land in Kolkata; 260 return from Dubai, Kuwait||KOLKATA: Detained for 17 hours on a foreign land, homeless for a night and then three months in a London apartment, Namrata Das (22) had borne all of it with fortitude. But when she finally landed in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon she could not check her emotions any longer. Dressed in PPE she exited the terminal with tears rolling down her cheeks. She was one of the 119 passengers on board an Air India flight that brought back the Bengalis stuck in the UK — the third repatriation flight as part of Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission in two weeks. Meanwhile, around 260 more passengers also reached reached Kolkata on Wednesday in two repatriations flights operated by IndiGo from Dubai and Kuwait. “In March, on realising that the world was soon going to be locked down, I started making all attempts to return home. Finding no direct flights from the UK to India, I flew to Dubai and from there, I tried to book a flight to Bangalore and then to Kolkata. But I and three other Indians had been denied tickets. As a tiff broke out, we were shooting it on our cellphone when airport cops detained us for 17 hours for allegedly breaking protocol. We were finally put on a flight to the UK. Coming back, I found all my flatmates had left and for the next three months, I lived there alone till I managed a ticket to return home,” said Das, a Dunlop resident and a hotel management student. For the Beleghata resident Babita Singh, Diwali has arrived early as she came to the airport dressed in new clothes with boxes of fresh homemade sweets to meet her daughter Niyata, a first-year BSc student at a London University. “For us today (Wednesday) is Diwali as we have painted our home. We have been preparing sweets to welcome our daughter. I am glad she is finally back home,” said Singh who clicked a selfie with her daughter separated by an iron guardrail. Radhika Saraf, who had covered herself in full sleeve denim jacket and trousers and a pair of long suede boots and stepped back from her parents, onsisting”” on a leg-shake, said, “It feels great to see my parents after such a long time. We should take precautions."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/119-stranded-in-uk-land-in-kol-260-return-from-dubai-kuwait/articleshow/76593978.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik ZP building shut after staffer tests +ve||Nashik: Nashik zilla parishad office has been closed for visitors from Monday after a Class IV employee tested positive for Covid-19, Anand Pingle, deputy CEO of Nashik ZP said. Senior officials of the zilla parishad said that those having any kind of work in ZP should contact the concerned department through phone or email. A signboard in this regard has been put up at the entrance of the ZP office as per the instructions of ZP CEO Leena Bansod. In addition, the authorities said that the other staff of the ZP would work as usual. Senior officials of the zilla parishad’s health department said that last week an employee working in the rear wing of the ZP office was found positive of Covid-19. This wing comprises water supply, sanitation and education department. Subsequently, the entire building was shut down, cleaned, washed and disinfected. ZP officials have also kept a thermal scanner and a pulse oximeter at the entrance of the office for screening staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-building-shut-after-staffer-tests-ve/articleshow/76589618.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Education department holds webinar with state board principals||NAGPUR: Principals of both private aided and unaided schools in Nagpur district participated in a webinar on Wednesday with district education officials over issues ranging from online education to midday meals to affiliation with state board. School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) had organized the webinar which saw around 500 principals taking part. Speakers included top-level education officials not only from the administrative side (education department), but also the state education board. This webinar could be dubbed as the first for which professional studio-like set-up was done by the organizers, rather than just basic ‘mobile phone’ webinar. Sundip Gaikwad, principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School, hosted the studio on the school campus. “My son Prajwal helped us to set it up and doing it in a formal way ensured that the quality of the webinar, which went on for almost three hours, was good,” said Gaikwad, who is also executive body member of SHCA. The association’s founder-president Zafar Khan said having top-level officials present at the ‘studio’ helped in increasing credibility of the webinar. “When principals joined in from all over the district, they knew that what they hear in this webinar will be directly from official sources. Our interactive session also ensured that many doubts of the participants got cleared too,” said Khan. Shivling Patve, district education officer (secondary) and Umesh Rathod (deputy education officer) talked about steps to be taken from June 26 when academic session starts in Vidarbha. These included guidelines on holding meeting of school management committee, planning for online classes etc. Gautam Gedam, district incharge for midday meals scheme, talked about how the vital social benefit scheme might be implemented. TOI had reported on how the state education director will be issuing guidelines regarding this soon. Nagpur divisional board official Ravikant Deshpande told schools that there won’t be any need for physical inspection to get affiliation extended. Khan said, “The official told us that if the 5-year affiliation has lapsed, we simply need to route our applications through deputy director of education office after which board officials will extend the affiliation. No need for physical verification will be there this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/education-department-holds-webinar-with-state-board-principals/articleshow/76594075.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Epidemiological reports on Covid death unsatisfactory’||Thiruvananthapuram: The district collector termed epidemiological reports received from General Hospital (GH) and Medical College Hospital (MCH) unsatisfactory in the case of Rameshan, a resident of Vanchiyoor, who died on June 12 and whose Covid test results came positive on June 15. The patient was presented with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) twice at GH and once at MCH, but his samples were not collected. Usually samples are collected from persons coming with acute respiratory distress. “I did not find the reports satisfactory. It was fit to be tested. I am giving an administrative view. I will send my remarks to principal secretary, department of health. It is better to err on the side of caution. They should have tested him. But, the medical reason for not testing has to be commented by a medical expert team only,” she said. Meanwhile, the district administration and health team initiated area-specific sampling in selected pockets within corporation areas and added an additional category to be tested under sentinel surveillance on Wednesday. Five wards in corporation have been declared as containment zones and district administration, city corporation and police have imposed stringent regulations to ensure social distancing in the city. District collector Navjot Khosa said that area-specific sampling will be done to lay more focus on densely populated areas in the city. “Sample collection based on areas from corporation wards will help us determine the spread of infection,” the collector said. As many as 40 samples were collected from Edavakkodu ward, kick-starting area-based sampling in the city. The ward currently has the highest number of persons under home quarantine. Khosa said that area-based sampling in corporation is part of three-pronged strategy being implemented in city. A ‘war room’ will be set up on sixth floor of district collectorate for managing activities related to Covid control in district. The team, which presently functions at district medical office, will be shifted to collectorate. Seven mobile sample collection units will travel across the district, focusing on major markets and coastal areas, as part of pooled sentinel surveillance. Khosa said that till now sampling has been centred around target population but broadening it to specific areas will give an idea on whether there is community spread. Testing facilities have been decentralized with facilities coming up in taluk hospitals. “The planning required for human resources and mobile vehicles has been completed. Two more mobile vans were launched on Wednesday,” said Khosa. The state health department has included seven groups for sentinel surveillance; patients coming from general population with acute respiratory infection, healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure (food delivery executives, community volunteers, policemen, media persons, shop vendors), natives of Kerala without travel history (headload workers, street vendors, people at vehicle transit), guest workers residing in Kerala and epidemiological samples from specific group of people and asymptomatic expatriates. She said that a detailed surge plan has also been submitted to state disaster management authority which includes micro-detailed plans in case of huge surge in cases. Training will be given to doctors of primary health centres and other hospitals. They will be kept as reserve for Covid care in the district in case of a spike. Four cases were reported in the district on Wednesday. All of them have returned from foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/epidemiological-reports-on-covid-death-unsatisfactory/articleshow/76589684.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hundreds take IIIT Hyderabad exam near hotspot, probe ordered||PUNE: Hours after the entrance examination to the Hyderabad-based International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) was conducted at iON Digital Zone in Ramtekdi on Wednesday, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said no test can be conducted as per the state’s directive and an inquiry will take place. The exam was held between 9am and noon. The students reported at the centre by 7.30am and the gates were closed an hour later. The Pune police said they were not the right authority to grant permission for the examination. When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Suhas Bawache said the institute had submitted a letter intimating that such an examination will be conducted. “The centre is adjacent to a containment zone. We checked the CCTV camera footage and have not found any violation of the social distancing norms,” Bawache said. The Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday said the entrance examination was conducted outside the containment zone and no prior permission was required for such an exam if social distancing norms were followed. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “If the centre is outside the containment zone then no permission is required to conduct such an examination. They just have to maintain social distancing norms.” Samant said since the Disaster Management Act is in place, all decision-making powers reside with the district collector. “I will tell the Mumbai and Pune district collectorates on Thursday to find out why such an examination was allowed when the state itself has cancelled all examinations. The institute may not have sought any permission from the district collectorate as there is no way such an examination would be allowed under such circumstances,” he told TOI. The Maharashtra government has not permitted any exams due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The geography paper of the secondary school certificate (SSC) board exam was cancelled and the government has decided to make the final semester exams of colleges optional. Also, the education department on Wednesday said it was not in a position to conduct either the ICSE papers or the university exams in July. The Common Entrance Test for professional courses has also been put off. Parents and students have been protesting against IIIT-Hyderabad’s exam on social media as the centre is adjacent to a containment zone in Pune and some students had to walk through a hotspot to reach the centre. Students who attended the examination said they had to cross barricades to walk inside Ramtekdi which is a containment zone. “We knew this was a containment zone. Inside the examination hall, they had tried to accommodate over 50 students in one classroom. The person sitting next to me was coughing. It was stressful. By the end of the exam, it was so hot that almost all of us had removed our masks,” a student said. A concerned parent said hundreds of standard XII students along with their parents were required to assemble near the centre and invigilators were not well trained in keeping social distance. A person whose nephew appeared for the exam said the director of IIIT, Hyderabad was among those who have suggested cancellation of JEE. All protocols followed, says Dean Responding to a TOI questionnaire, Jayanthi Sivaswamy, dean of academics at IIIT Hyderabad, said there was no violation of rules from their point of view. “The entrance exam is conducted by a reputed agency which also conducts JEE, NEET and, more recently, the PG-JIPMER and PG-AIIMS. They follow strict safety guidelines provided by ICMR. The containment/micro-containment zone boundaries appear to be changing dynamically in many parts of India. There has been a free flow of two-wheeler traffic at least for the last one week including today in the neighbourhood of this (Pune) centre. Yet the agency has followed requisite protocols for the conduct of the exam. Further, it made arrangements to guide the candidates to the correct location and maintain physical distance in the vicinity of the centre,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hundreds-take-iiit-hyd-exam-near-hotspot-probe-ordered/articleshow/76593962.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||English medium schools to open in each block of Uttarakhand: Education minister||DEHRADUN: State education minister Arvind Pandey has directed the education department to chalk out a plan to open state-run English medium schools in every block of all 13 districts of Uttarakhand. The schools will have classes 1 to 12 and be affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “We are planning to open two English-medium schools each in all 95 blocks of the state. The project is expected to be completed before 2022,” said Pandey. “The schools will be named after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Several present state-run Hindi medium schools will also be converted into the English medium ones,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/english-medium-schools-to-open-in-each-block-of-state-edu-min/articleshow/76584807.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur’s Covid tally crosses 1,000 mark with 30 more cases||KANPUR: Corona cases topped 1,000 mark in the city on Wednesday. With the confirmation of 30 more persons as Covid-19 positive, the total Corona count reached 1,023 on Wednesday while one more Covid related death took the death toll to 43. The first Corona case was reported on March 23. Thus, in 94 days Corona cases crossed 1,000 mark. Of these 649 persons succeeded in defeating the virus and have been discharged from hospital so far. Now, the city has 331 active corona cases. Also in the past 94 days, the city has witnessed a total of 43 deaths of which 32 deaths occurred in June alone. One person (of 43 deaths) died on Wednesday. According to the district health department 35 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Now, there are 331 active cases undertreatment at Covid hospitals in the city. Sources with the health department said that the fresh 30 cases were reported from localities - Govind Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Sisamau, Chakeri police station, Purana Kanpur, Shyam Nagar, Kakadeo, Naubasta, Generalganj, UHM, Gwaltoli, Beconganj, Swaroop Nagar, KDA Colony, Shiwala, Khapra Mohal, Civil Lines, Nawabganj, Netaji Nagar, Ashok Nagar and Dada Nagar. The person who succumbed to Covid-19 was a 42-year-old resident of Basant Vihar, said the health department authorities adding that the man died during treatment at UHM hospital on June 21. Health department stated that his test report arrived late on Tuesday night confirming Covid infection. The health department collected 578 samples for tests on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/citys-covid-tally-crosses-1k-mark-with-30-more-cases/articleshow/76589570.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man kills self, was depressed over losing job||DEHRADUN: A 36-year-old hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his house in the outskirts of Dehradun on Wednesday. Reportedly, he took the extreme step because he was upset over losing his job. The family members rushed him to a private hospital, where he died during treatment. After the postmortem and other formalities, the body was handed over to the family on Thursday Isham Singh (36), a native of Patelnagar area of Dehradun, was staying in a house in Pashimwala area of Vikasnagar. According to Vikasnagar police, Singh used to work in a private firm but had lost his job due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The family members told the police that Singh was worried over losing his job. Meanwhile, the police have claimed that the death is being probed from various angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-kills-self-was-depressed-over-losing-job/articleshow/76584908.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp to escort bodies of Covid patients to crematorium||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital has decided to put to use a round-the-clock morgue van on the premises to take bodies of deceased Covid-19 patients directly to crematoriums or burial grounds. The decision was taken following an incident, in which the body of a suspected coronavirus patient was taken home and rituals were performed after unwrapping of the body from a sanitized body-wrapper. “We have now posted a morgue van at the civil hospital offering round-the-clock service. In case of any Covid-19 patient’s death, the body will be sent straight to the crematorium as per the state government guidelines. The teams present at the crematorium will take charge then,” additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said. Saindane said after the death of a suspected Covid-19 patient on Monday, the body was taken to the ‘dead room’ where it was sanitised, packed in a body wrapper. Thereafter, it was sanitised again and was ready to be sent to the crematorium. He claimed that the relatives of the deceased insisted that they would carry the body in their own vehicle. Then, instead of taking it to the crematorium, they headed home. In the evening, when they went to the crematorium, the staff refused to handle the body after they saw that it was unwrapped. The body was later brought back to the civil hospital where, after intense debate, a new wrapper was provided, he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosp-to-escort-bodies-of-covid-patients-to-crematorium/articleshow/76589661.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Tigress dies of kidney issues in Siddharth Garden zoo||AURANGABAD: The population of tigers at the Aurangabad-based Siddharth Garden zoo was reduced to nine on Wednesday after the death of six-and-a-half-year-old tigress called Kareena. According to a zoo official, the big cat was suffering from kidney-related ailments and had fallen sick on Sunday. “She had stopped eating and two days later, when her condition did not improve, we moved her to the zoo-based veterinary hospital,” he said. “Subsequently, we roped in senior doctors from the Government Veterinary Hospital for Kareena’s treatment. Civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey also visited the zoo to check on the big cat’s health,” he added. Not taking any chances amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the zoo authorities have collected the throat swab samples of the tigress and sent them for testing. An official privy to the overall monitoring of the big cat’s health said, “Watching the condition of the tigress deteriorate, even experts from the forest department as well as those from Parbhani-based government veterinary college were roped in.” He added, “The experts reached Aurangabad on Tuesday evening and started the treatment. Kareena, however, succumbed at around 5.20 am on Wednesday. The viscera samples were collected and have been sent to Khadkeshwar-based Regional Disease Investigation Lab (RDIL) for analysis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tigress-dies-of-kidney-issues-in-siddharth-garden-zoo/articleshow/76584921.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||No need for ordinance on co-op banks: Maha revenue minister Thorat||Mumbai: Maharashtra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Wednesday took strong objection to Centre’s proposal to promulgate an ordinance to gain control over the cooperative banks. “Since all the urban banks are controlled by RBI and district central cooperative banks by Nabard, there was no need for the ordinance,’’ Thorat told TOI. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said it was an attempt to dismantle the powerful cooperative sector in the state. “We have built a strong network of cooperative banks in the state. Ever since BJP came to power in 2014, it was making all out efforts to gain control over the cooperative sector. When it failed, it decided to go the ordinance route,” Sawant said. Sawant pointed out the state cooperative banks gave loans for the kharif sowing season to the farmers. “Cooperative banks have given crop loans to 60% of the farmers, while nationalized banks have given loans to just seven percent,’’ he said. In Maharashtra, there are 497 operational urban cooperative and 31 district central cooperative banks, with total deposits of Rs 2.93 lakh crore. Once the ordinance comes into force, the state cooperation department will lose control over the banks and they will be under RBI’s control. “It will be a setback for the Congress and NCP, which control most of the urban and district central cooperative banks,” a senior bank official said. The official said that the NDA government had introduced a bill on March 20 in Lok Sabha to provide for gaining control over the cooperative banks across the country. However, the bill was not passed since the Lok Sabha was adjourned due to the coronavirus pandemic. On Wednesday, the union cabinet approved an ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-need-for-ordinance-on-co-op-banks-maha-revenue-minister-thorat/articleshow/76598306.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Child rights panel chief posted despite protest||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State cabinet on Wednesday ratified social welfare minister K K Shailaja-headed committee’s selection of advocate K V Manoj Kumar of Thalassery court as chairperson of Kerala state commission for protection of child rights. The only child welfare-related experience of Kumar, who outshined other candidates including two district judges, has been documented as his experience as the president of PTA (parent-teacher association) of Government Brennen Higher Secondary School, Thalassery. The commission chairman’s rank is equivalent to that of chief secretary. There were allegations that the government, in order to accommodate Kumar, had diluted the qualifications required for the key post in the commission having quasi-judicial powers. The selected candidate is learnt to be close to the top echelons of ruling CPM in the state. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the allegations when questions were raised about the controversy behind the selection of Kumar. “The committee has selected the candidate that it deemed fit for the post. It’s natural for people to complain when they fail to clear the selection process,’’ Vijayan said. The chief minister claimed that no changes were made in the qualification criteria to favour any particular candidate. However, certain changes had to be made as it was found impossible to find out candidates as per central government norms, which demanded national- or state-level recognition in the field of child welfare as a qualification for the post. One of the judges who competed with Manoj to the position had been a Pocso court judge. Registering strong protest against the cabinet decision, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the government decision was highly unfortunate and could only be seen as an open challenge to Kerala society. “The cabinet decision smacks of limitless arrogance. It’s a wrong move. At a time when atrocities against children are on the rise and many Pocso cases remain unresolved, such a political appointment to a crucial post won’t have the approval of people,” he said. Senior Congress leader V M Sudheeran also criticised the government and asked its immediate reversal. Meanwhile, the commission for protection of child rights, which had at first flagged the impropriety in the selection of the new chairperson, said it would take legal recourse against the government decision. The post of commission chairperson was earlier held by a retired civil servant and retired post master general, they said. The committee also alleged nepotism in the shortlisting of other members in the commission. “Government has shortlisted a college lecturer who was accused of plotting for the mass failure of students in a law college and another person whom the HC had earlier removed from the commission,” they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/child-rights-panel-chief-posted-despite-protest/articleshow/76589749.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Signs of anxiety among stakeholders ahead of exams||Mangaluru: Notwithstanding several meetings on the dos and dont’s in SOP ahead of the SSLC exams, there were palpable signs of anxiety among teachers who will be on duty up to July 4. While the exam centres across Karnataka will receive students from 7.30am itself — well ahead of 10.30am, the starting time of exam — teachers and other officials must report to their centres earlier than that. On the eve of the exam, teachers doubled as students in the mock trial carried out as per the directions of the department of public instruction. This was to ensure that the stakeholders fully understood the SOP. Students will be given time up to 9.45am to eat any home-made snack. Social distancing markings are in place and so is the PA system to inform students about how they should take the exam in the new normal. Segregated rows had been arranged for them to undergo health checks before proceeding to their respective halls, where the question papers will be distributed at 10.30am. “Details of examination hall have been SMSed,” in-charge principal of the centre told TOI. Refreshments have been arranged for teachers and other officials on request, she added. Entry and exit points for officials and students have been clearly demarcated. Post examination, students will be let out room wise to help meet social distancing norms. Sanitiser dispensers have been arranged at the entry points and exam halls. Teachers, especially invigilators, though reassured about their safety, expressed their anxiety, saying: “We are hoping and praying for the best and safety of all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/signs-of-anxiety-among-stakeholders-ahead-of-exams/articleshow/76588912.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Cyanide Mohan gets life sentence in 20th case||Mangaluru: The sixth additional district and sessions court judge Sayeedunnisa on Wednesday sentenced Cyanide Mohan to life imprisonment for murdering a woman from Kasargod. Public prosecutor Jayarama Shetty told TOI that the court pronounced life imprisonment to Mohan and slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 for the murder (IPC Section 302). The serial killer has also been convicted for 10-year imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for kidnapping (IPC Section 366), one-year imprisonment for cheating (IPC Section 417), seven-year imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for rape (IPC Section 376), 10-year imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for causing hurt by means of poison (IPC Section 328), five-year rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for robbery (IPC Section 392), 10-year rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery (IPC Section 394) and seven-year imprisonment and fined of Rs 5,000 for causing disappearance of evidence (IPC Section 201). The court had examined 46 witnesses and 89 documents and directed that the gold chain (recovered from him) be handed over to the victim’s mother. District Legal Service Authority will look into compensation for the victim’s family. The 25-year-old victim from Kasargod was working as a cook at a women’s hostel when she came in contact with Mohan, a teacher. He took advantage of their togetherness and also killed her by making her pop a cyanide-laced tablet at a bus stand in Bengaluru. Mohan Kumar aka Anand was arrested on October 21, 2009, from Bantwal taluk for allegedly murdering about 20 women. Of the 20 cases filed against him, he is given death sentence in five cases, of which one has been certified by the high court, and another converted into life imprisonment, said Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cyanide-mohan-gets-life-sentence-in-20th-case/articleshow/76589128.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Clearance of Chinese consignments delayed at Cochin Port||KOCHI: As Chinese imports come under scanner in the view of the heightened security concerns following India-China standoff along Line of Actual Control, customs clearance and movement of consignments of from China are delayed at Cochin Port. Customs brokers based in Kochi said an internal instruction was reportedly issued by customs department to hold all consignments from China, including those that received clearance, and a manual examination is being done in the wake of intelligence report, hinting at possible national security threat. Meanwhile, authorities at Cochin Customs House said that no such order was issued and there was no targeted delay in case of Chinese consignments. But, they said that that there will be a delay in getting clearance for consignments as manual security checking has been strengthened instead to random cargo checks conducted earlier. Sources added that the move is possibly aimed at discouraging Chinese imports and promoting domestic manufacturing. But, officials played down this claim saying that delay could be there due to risk assessment based on intelligence input. “I don’t want to deny or confirm reports but CBIC (central board of indirect taxes and customs) has not instructed to hold consignments. There are some instructions to examine them a little closer. If consignments have to be held back, DGFT (directorate general of foreign trade) has to issue notifications, which has not happened yet. Yes, clearance time has increased due to security checks; but it is temporary,” said commissioner of customs, Cochin, Mohd Yousaf. A senior customs official, on condition of anonymity, said this clandestine move could be a precursor to increasing duty on Chinese products. “With increase in duty, traders would be discouraged to stop import of Chinese goods, which may be the intent here, if at all there is an instruction to customs brokers to hold the cargo from China,” he said, adding that the department has not received instruction from the Union ministry in this regard. Brokers are concerned that the move will affect business of Cochin Port as Chinese consignments form a major part of the import cargo handled here. The move will delay clearance, particularly due to low staffing in the wake of Covid-19. They said that tonnes of goods from China are awaiting clearance at the terminal. “Since Tuesday morning, the screenshot of a circular – issued by The Chennai Customs Brokers Association to its members regarding Customs’ internal instruction to port to hold Chinese consignments, including those received Out of Charge (OOC) – was circulated on social media platforms. Though the circular said that it is applicable to ports and airports across India, there was no such intimation from Cochin Customs.,” said the owner of leading shipping broker in Kochi. But, cargo handling staff at the port said Chinese cargo containers are held back for additional security checks and trucks were waiting more than their usual time. If the delay continues, agents have to haemorrhage money for not keeping the shipping contract with the customers, he added. President of Cochin Customs Brokers Association Alan Jose said that there were no confirmed reports of Chinese consignments, which received OOC, being held up in Cochin. “There is some sort of alarm from intelligence agency about possible threat. DRI and customs can check consignments even after clearance and security check is more rigid now causing delay,” he said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clearance-of-chinese-consignments-delayed-at-cochin-port/articleshow/76589876.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur realtors say market recovering faster than expected||NAGPUR: The coronavirus lockdown was expected to hit the real estate sector hard. However, city builders say they are getting a lot of enquiries and some of them are also materializing. According to them, there are various reasons for upswing in the business including the measures taken by central government. Mahesh Sadhwani, city president of Credai, said during the lockdown people had realized the value of having their own home. “Earlier, many people used to just come home for dinner and a night’s sleep. During the lockdown they had to stay at home round the clock. People who were not happy living in rented accomodation or a smaller flat are now thinking of buying their own decent-sized house. Those who are working from home have realized they need an extra room where they are can work in peace,” he added. “Many people from Nagpur, who work in other cities, had got stuck at the homes of relatives here during lockdown. Now they want to buy their own house so they don’t have to undergo the experience again,” the Credai chief said. Sadhwani further said since last two to three weeks he had received many enquiries from people. “One or two are on the verge of materialization,” he added. The builder thanked central government for extending the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) for another year. He also said that the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) move to reduce interest rates had helped the sector. Builder Ashok Chandak said the sector had already picked up in Mumbai and Pune and good days were ahead for it in Nagpur. “Many people from Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh had sent their kids to Nagpur for education. They used to stay in hostels and eat in messes. These closed down during the lockdown. The parents realized if their kids were staying in their own flat they would not have been forced to leave the city. Such people are also buying houses here,” he added. Chandak said those interested in buying a house should do it now. “Right now the market is down. If you have money, buy a property because when market improves in the coming weeks prices will go up. You must also take advantage of the low interest rates,” he added. Another builder Shravan Kukreja said that the position of his group was comfortable but overall the scenario was not good. “I got a lot of enquiries during lockdown. People whom I had been asking just to visit my properties called me up on their own and expressed interest in having a look at my flat schemes. Some enquiries are now close to materialization. Everybody has realized the importance of owning a decent home,” he added. Chartered accountant Deepak Heda, however, has a different take on it. “Shelter comes last after food and clothes. Right now food is the priority. Textile factories are closing down due to lack of demand. I dont think realty sector will pick up before Diwali 2021,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-realtors-say-market-recovering-faster-than-expected/articleshow/76594240.cms||Ashish Roy
June 25, 2020||Mumbai||Ruling puts popcorn in 18% GST bracket||Mumbai: A bag of popcorn is typically associated with fun times, be it at a movie or the beach. But for manufacturers of popcorn, it can be a different story in the realm of indirect taxes. A plethora of classification norms under GST provisions continue to confound taxpayers. Thus, Jay Jalaram Enterprises, a Surat-based manufacturer of puffed corn (popcorn), approached Authority for Advance Rulings to seek clarity. While the manufacturer contended that its products should be taxed at 5%, the AAR did not agree and held that GST of 18% should be applied. ‘JJ’s Popcorn’ was the brand name under which the enterprise manufactured and sold puffed popcorn, suitably seasoned with oil, spices and turmeric. In other words, its popcorn packets were ready to consume, unlike microwave popcorn packets that required customers to heat and pop the kernels. According to the applicant, its products fell under ‘Entry 50, tariff item 1005 of Schedule 1 of Notification 1/2017’. To translate it into GST classification terms: ‘It was maize (corn) put up in a unit container and bearing a registered brand name’. Thus, the GST should be 5%, it stated. It submitted to the AAR that the SC, in another judgment, had held ‘Atukulu’, or parched rice, to be the same as ‘Muramaralu’, or puffed rice. The same logic should also extend to its product — which was nothing but puffed corn. However, given the process of manufacture involved, which entailed heating of corn kernels, and addition of oil and seasoning, the AAR held that the product “does not remain grain”. The AAR, in turn, relied on other judicial decisions, including those of the apex court. The AAR held that JJ’s Popcorn fitted the description of ‘Prepared foods obtained by the roasting of cereal’ and would be taxed at 18%. It would be covered by ‘Serial No 15 of Schedule III of Notification 1/2017’. Incidentally, the Maharashtra AAR had held earlier in a case of popcorn premixes (which required heating by the customers) that the GST be 18%, albeit under a different category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ruling-puts-popcorn-in-18-gst-bracket/articleshow/76598503.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Goa||Young blood writes to govt, fights for Mollem’s green cover||Panaji: Destroying the forests in Mollem for development will not only spell doom for its fauna but also for Goans, said the Youth for a United World (Goa) in a letter addressed to the governor. “The Mollem Forest is home to myriads of species and considering that the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary is within those forests, it is a matter of deep concern that today, you, the authorities, are choosing to drive a bulldozer into this sacred space and expose these historic hinterlands to pollution and destruction,” the letter read. Their letter comes following the government’s decision to permit the four-laning of a highway and laying of a LILO transmission line in the western ghats. The highway and transmission line will be passing through Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park in Goa. There is a third project on the double tracking the railway line from Castle-rock to Collem that is also being considered. Sending the same letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, the North and South Goa MPs ,members of the state government like ministers of tourism and forests, and the chief secretary and other stakeholders, the group of young environmentalists appealed to the state government to save the forests by putting a stop to the developmental works there. They insisted that the people of the land need to come together and find ways to carry forward sustainable development and co-exist with other species. “Coal trade and coal burning is a thing of the past. Green technology can and must be our future,” they said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/young-blood-writes-to-govt-fights-for-mollems-green-cover/articleshow/76602361.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s science faculty take webinar route for counselling||Vadodara: M S University’s Faculty of Science is taking the webinar route to reach out to aspirants seeking admission in BSc courses. The faculty has been carrying out online admissions since the last couple of years but till last year subjects were allotted after meeting the students in person. This year, however, even the subject selection will be done online. “The faculty on Thursday will organise ‘counselling and guidance webinar’ on opportunities at Faculty of Science after class 12 through Facebook Live. Last year, we had organised the session at C C Mehta auditorium which is not possible this year due to Covid-19 pandemic,” said professor Kauresh Vachhrajani. “Details of the course structure, eligibility criteria and guidance for filling application forms, admission process and subject allotment modalities will be discussed with the aspirants during the webinar,” he said. In continuation, subject specific online sessions to discuss career opportunities and clarify doubts of students will be organised from July 1 to July 3 through Google Meet platform. The faculty has decided to carry out online verification of documents after which the final merit list will be declared. Since June 10, the faculty has initiated the online admission process for 1,020 grant-in-aid seats available at faculty in BSc (honours) programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-science-faculty-take-webinar-route-for-counselling/articleshow/76587590.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Don’t hide Covid death info: Fadnavis||Kolhapur: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday suggested the compilation of all information on Covid-19 patients and deaths in order to combat the pandemic. Speaking to the press during his visit to Solapur, Fadnavis, after meeting district collector Milind Shambharkar and municipal commissioner P Shivshankar, expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 deaths and insisted on fighting the crisis instead of hiding it. The comment comes after it was revealed that 42 Covid-19 deaths in Solapur city were not reported. He raised the issue in the meeting where the civic officials are believed to have confessed to the administrative lapse. “The reasons shown by the administration cannot be accepted”, said Fadnavis. He also criticised the Thackeray government. “There is no coordination between the CM, the ministers. and the administration,” he said, adding that elected representatives were not taken into confidence. The municipal councils in Maharashtra are unable to handle this crisis due to lack of funds, said the former CM. He suggested to set up a helpline to address the issues of exorbitant private hospital bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dont-hide-covid-death-info-fadnavis/articleshow/76584976.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Restrictions trigger panic buying||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation’s decision of allowing only 50% shops in the city to function on a given day seem to have failed to evoke desirable response from citizens. On Wednesday, the day designated for shopping malls and supermarkets, the city witnessed its residents going on panic buying mode. This forced police to initiate strong action at several locations, including booking shop or supermarket authorities for not regulating crowd. Long queues could be seen outside major supermarkets as the staff closed the shutter halfway, letting only limited number of people inside. Those who did not take such measures had to face police action. On Wednesday, police booked cases against numerous shops for not regulating the crowd and opening shops against restrictions. Despite giving instructions that vegetable shops must remain shut on Wednesdays, many vendors had opened their shops as they were unaware of the decision. Many of them claimed that the decision was not properly informed. Meanwhile, at major shopping spots such as Chalai market, there was strong presence of police. Cases were also registered against shops that failed to provide hand sanitizers to customers. Police have also decided to suspend trade license of 37 store owners who violated regulations. Police officers said despite this setback, the system will continue. From Thursday more police personnel will be deployed on streets for law enforcement. “The state police chief has decided to mobilize all special units of the department to law and order. This would help us enforce the new system more effectively from Thursday,” said sources at the city police commissioner’s office. The corporation had taken a decision to ensure only 50% open shops in markets and stores on alternate working days to reduce crowd. The decision was taken during a meeting convened by minister Kadakampally Surendran and city corporation mayor K Sreekumar. Also, on Wednesday, the city police barricaded roads leading to Karikkakom and Kadakampally wards that were declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/restrictions-trigger-panic-buying/articleshow/76589832.cms||---
June 25, 2020||India||‘More ultras killed this year than added’||NEW DELHI: New Delhi : More terrorists have been killed in Jammu & Kashmir than added on account of fresh infiltration or local recruitment so far this year, according to J&K DGP Dilbag Singh which he said is a marked improvement over the situation last year when the forces seemed to be playing catch up in neutralising terror operatives. "For an average 100 new terrorists produced in J&K on account of infiltration from Pakistan or local recruitment this year, 125 were neutralised, unlike the situation till 2019 when for every 100 terrorists produced, 70 were killed, leaving the remainder 30 in circulation," Singh told TOI. This, he underlined, has tipped the balance in favour of counter-terror forces and is essentially the result of the latter's three-pronged strategy that involves eliminating active terrorists in intelligence-based operations before they can strike while also cracking down on overground workers (OGWs) by booking and arresting them and thus making day-to-day survival of terrorists difficult. Apart from this terror associates who lob grenades for terrorists and arrange weapons have also be been arrested. Singh told TOI that while 119 terrorists were neutralised until June 23 this year, the number of fresh local recruits in the same period fell to just 49 from 100-plus and 120 in the corresponding period of 2019 and 2018 respectively. “Of the 119 terrorists killed in the last five-and-a-half months, 60 were from Hizbul Mujahideen, 20-plus from Lashkar-e-Taiba and 20 from Jaish-e-Mohammad,” he disclosed. Similarly, 250 overground workers – who arrange the logistics for terrorists, provide them rations, arrange their hiding places and act as their messengers – were booked and arrested over the past five-and-a-half months. This has affected logistics for terrorists and made their functioning difficult, said the police chief. Another 35-40 terror associates who throw grenades or source or operate weapons at the behest of terrorists, have also been arrested since January this year. Interestingly, in the counter-terror operations so far this year, local protests and stone-pelting, a common occurrence at encounter sites, have not been much of an impediment. “There is a decisive change in attitude of the people as the J&K police and forces are making a conscious bid to be pro-public and keep the operation as clean as possible. This means not allowing any collateral damage like killing of civilians during such encounters; remaining helpful to the locals during the encounter by ensuring that they are safely contained or evacuated; consulting the local religious leaders in case the encounter site involves a religious place; and giving the militant, in case he is a local recruit and inexperienced, an opportunity to surrender by also involving his family. This has increased public confidence in the police/security forces, who in any case have been helping and having positive interaction with the public as they deal with Covid-19, and brought down conflict with locals during ongoing operations. Information flow on terrorist activities and movement has also improved due to this,” said Singh. According to the DGP, local recruitment has been on the decline this year due to many factors. Firstly, the police have been making a conscious effort to deny the locals an emotional trigger to pick up the gun by avoiding civilian killings during encounters, getting families to appeal to new recruits for surrender and restricting attendance at militants’ funerals to only close family members. “Besides, many recruits are getting killed within a week to two months of joining militancy. For instance, 24 terrorists killed this year had been active in militancy for only 1-2 months. So there is a realisation that a recruit may get killed before he can carry out his first jihadi act,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-ultras-killed-this-year-than-added/articleshow/76610393.cms||Bharti Jain
June 25, 2020||Shimla||Centre withdraws order, keeps Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu highway with BRO||MANALI: The Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu highway, which was taken over by the state public works department (PWD) from the Border Roads Organization (BRO), will remain with the BRO. The Centre has withdrawn its previous order. The Himachal Pradesh government had to face public protests and hunger strikes over the acquisition of the highway by PWD. PWD executive engineer at Kaza, Tashi Giamcho said the road acquisition by PWD, which was still in process, has been stopped. “As per gazette of India, the ministry of road transport and highways, has cancelled its previous orders. However, we have not received official letter of the order from the higher authorities,” he said. The BRO officials have also not received any notification from the headquarters in this regard. “We have only heard about this notification by the government of India. We shall take further step only after order from our higher authority,” a BRO official said. The people of Spiti had been protesting against acquisition of this highway by BRO and sent dozens of memorandums to state government and the Centre. A large number of local residents who used to work with BRO and had lost their jobs had resorted to an indefinite hunger strike. Former MLA and former National Commission for Scheduled Tribes vice-chairman Ravi Thakur said this highway was first sanctioned by then defence minister Jagjivan Ram in 1972, when Lata Thakur was the Lahaul-Spiti MLA. “He connected Spiti valley by road from Indo-Tibetan road. The road was later transferred to BRO, which was doing a good job. But some politicians, for their personal interest, recommended that it be handed over to PWD. BRO had prepared a detailed project report to make it a super highway. National security and interest should always be our priority,” he said. The 209km-long Sumdo-Gramphu road, which connects Manali-Leh highway with the Hindustan Tibet highway, has its strategic importance. The defence ministry had recommended its acquisition by BRO in 2010 and it was made national highway on March 4, 2014. The highway was transferred to PWD in April, but BRO kept working on the road till last week of May until it received official letter from the government. The road remained unattended for over a week when BRO retreated with its machines, leaving the snow clearing works in the midway. Then PWD started snow clearing work on the highway without official acquisition and without provision of funds for maintenance of this highway. Now when Rs 200 crore was said to have been approved for maintenance of this road by the government, the road has again been transferred to BRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/centre-withdraws-order-keeps-sumdho-kaza-gramphu-highway-with-bro/articleshow/76594213.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Arogya Setu app must for wedding guests||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration has made it mandatory for all wedding attendees to install the Arogya Setu mobile application and fill up the required information, district collector Daulat Desai said. A senior district official requesting anonymity said, “It becomes easy to trace people due to the mobile application. Also, it will make guests aware about the potential high-risk zones and Covid-19 suspects near them.” In his order, Desai said that adequate quantity of the sanitisers has to be provided at the entrance, the main function hall and in the dining hall. It is compulsory for everyone to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. The operators have to use 1% sodium hypochlorite solution to disinfect the wedding hall and premise before and after the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/arogya-setu-app-must-for-wedding-guests/articleshow/76585043.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man ties knot, cops nab him in pending case||PUNE: A 23-year-old criminal on police record, wanted since January in an organized crime case, was arrested by officers of the Paud police station in rural Pune moments after his marriage was solemnized at his home in Mulshi taluka on Monday. “Two more criminals wanted in the same case, who were present at the wedding ceremony, managed to slip away from the spot, taking advantage of the scene created by the relatives to protest the police action,” sub-inspector Anil Lavte of the Paud police station told TOI. The suspect, Akshay Padalghare, a resident of Padalghar Vasti at Rihe village, had been booked by the police in a murder attempt case in January. The police had invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against him as he was also involved in another murder attempt case. Police constable Abdul Shaikh received a tip-off Padalghare had returned to his village on Monday to get married the same day. Due to restriction on gatherings, Padalghare organized the function at his house. “We were keeping a watch on his house and information about his movement over the last five months. There were occasions when he dodged the police team even after we visited his house, but this time we had a perfect tip-off about the wedding,” said Lavte. “We cordoned off the area and allowed the wedding ceremony to get over. Soon after, the newly-weds proceeded for their feast when we zeroed in on Padalghare and took him into custody. The bride fainted on witnessing her husband being taken into custody and relatives started creating a scene,” said Lavte. On Tuesday, Padalghare’s wife reached the police station. “She knew about the old case against him but she was not aware of latest case,” Lavte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-ties-knot-cops-nab-him-in-pending-case/articleshow/76594153.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||MKP College corruption allegation: Take action within 4 months, directs HC||Nainital: After hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which alleged misappropriation of funds at Dehradun’s Mahadevi Kanya Pathshala (MKP) College, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) directed the principal secretary of higher education to hear out the former principal of the college and secretary of the MKP Society and take action “with utmost expedition and within four months.” The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe was hearing the PIL which alleges that the funds allocated for infrastructure work in the college were either siphoned off or used for procuring items that were of no use. The petition further alleged that University Grants Commission (UGC) “stopped approving further grants for the college after the ‘scam’ and that directly impacted the quality of education at the institution.” According to the petition, the government had prepared an audit report of the college in 2014 which highlighted that no utilisation certificate was ever submitted to the UGC. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) also submitted a report in June 2016 which recorded how equipment worth Rs 47.08 lakh was purchased only on the basis of quotations. The petition further alleged that the equipments purchased were never entered into the college stock registers. Notably, a physical inspection of the college was conducted in June 2018 and a report based on it was drafted in January 2019. The report said that it could not find the existence of the equipment worth Rs 7.68 lakh even after six years of purchases being made. The police investigation (prima facie) had also found that the funds were misappropriated. Later, the secretary home was asked for further directions but no action was taken. Meanwhile, MKP Society secretary and the former principal of the college have said that the inquiries did not take their version and were therefore, one-sided. This is why the court has now ordered the secretary of higher education to hear both of them and provide them with an opportunity to rebut the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mkp-college-corruption-allegation-take-action-within-4-months-directs-hc/articleshow/76585039.cms||Prashant Jha
June 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Active Covid cases across Kolhapur dist stand at 41||Kolhapur: A week after no Covid-19 cases were reported across Kolhapur, the streak was broken on Wednesday as the district reported nine new cases.With addition of these new cases, the total number of cases has now reached 759. Of these, as many as 710 patients have so far recovered and got discharged, while the total number of active cases stands at 41.Three cases each were reported in Karveer and Harkanangle talukas while a case each was reported from Gadhinglaj and Kagal.The district administration has ordered the local authorities to ensure compulsory home quarantine of people travelling from other districts to Kolhapur. District collector Daulat Desai said the locals should ensure that the people arriving from outside the district observe home quarantine for at least 10 to 12 days. “The local health staff will also frequently visit them to check on their health status,” he said.Covid patient escapesA Covid positive patient escaped from Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital in an autorickshaw to his home in Ichalkaranji town on Wednesday afternoon. The 55-year-old patient, who works in a textile mill, was undergoing treatment at the hospital since Tuesday. He was brought back to the hospital by 108 ambulance service after the hospital got to know about his absence. Arti Ghorpade, dean of CPR Hospital, said, “We are tracking the people he came into contact with during his escape and travel. We are investigating how he escaped from the hospital. The patient was infected from another person who travelled to Ichalkaranji from Solapur.”16 cases in SangliSangli district reported 16 new cases on Wednesday due to which the district’s tally reached to 315. However, the total number of active patients across the district stands at 98.Of the 16 new cases, 8 are from Shirala, two from Mandur village, while the rest are from other tehsils. The district administration has decided to intensify door-to-door survey as people without travel history are also testing positive for Covid-19 at some places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-covid-cases-across-kolhapur-dist-stand-at-41/articleshow/76585150.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rain lashes U’khand, downpour predicted on Thursday as well||Dehradun: Rain spells lashed most parts of Uttarakhand on Wednesday and are expected to intensify on Thursday. District authorities have been put on alert and a special monitoring is being done in areas which are landslide-prone, the officials said. “A good spell of rain is predicted on Thursday as well. While light-to-moderate rains are expected in most parts, certain isolated locations may receive heavy rainfall,” Dehradun’s Met Centre Director Bikram Singh said. Authorities in districts of Pithoragarh, Champawat, Dehradun, Pauri, Rudraprayag, and Tehri have been asked to keep a constant watch on rain-related developments. State government has already directed all 13 district magistrates to monitor the situation and provide regular updates. Meanwhile, due to the rain spells on Tuesday, trees were uprooted at some locations — including Kaladungi-Haldwani route where traffic movement also got blocked for some time. Two passengers travelling on the route in a car had a narrow escape as a tree fell on their vehicle. Long queues of vehicles were formed on both sides. Soon after, the district teams rushed to the spot and the tree was removed and traffic was restored. Waterlogging was also reported in some parts of the state but as the rainfall stopped by the afternoon, the situation didn’t get worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rain-lashes-ukhand-downpour-predicted-on-thursday-as-well/articleshow/76585110.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 25, 2020||Goa||Panaji school halts e-classes as pupils morph teachers’ pics, post on Instagram||PANAJI: A prominent city school on Wednesday temporarily suspended online classes after students took screen grabs of teachers’ faces from live teaching sessions, morphed them into “unacceptable and demeaning images”, and posted them on Instagram. The school has lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police station regarding the offence. “We have decided to suspend live and recorded sessions for all classes scheduled for June 25 (Thursday),” the school informed parents. “We have also lodged a complaint with the cyber crime branch of Goa police as this behaviour is unacceptable and liable for criminal prosecution. The work assigned for June 24 classes will be done by students. Recorded sessions of the Zoom classes will only be given to those students who apply in writing for the same.” The circular also states that the online teaching sessions were started so that education does not take a backseat during the pandemic, but that teachers have now been left “demoralized and disheartened” by the behavior of a few students. “The efforts of the management and teachers should have been appreciated by students and parents,” the school said. “However, a few students have shown disrespect by using social media platforms like Instagram in a demeaning manner,” it said. “Teachers’ faces have been clicked during the Zoom classes as well as from recorded sessions and morphed into unacceptable and demeaning images and uploaded on Instagram.” The circular states that during live classes, students have also been mutilating PowerPoint presentations and passing disrespectful comments. “We will be taking a decision on our future course of action as some students have proved that they are not in sync with the school’s vision of a holistic education,” reads the circular. The school said parents should monitor their children’s online activities and study sessions. “This method of teaching is new for all teachers, and the preparation of lessons is quite tedious and strenuous for them, but they took up the challenge because uppermost in their minds was the future of their students,” the institute has told parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prominent-city-school-files-cybercrime-complaint-after-students-morph-teachers-pics-post-on-insta/articleshow/76598351.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||PTR awaits approval for wildlife rescue centre to stop sending rescued tigers to zoos||Pilibhit: The authorities of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) are eagerly waiting for a wildlife rescue centre to be approved by the state government so that straying tigers and leopards rescued here are not sent to zoo. The UP forest department in March this year had submitted proposals to the state government for setting up five rescue centers in different parts of the state, including one in Pilibhit, a wildlife destination in the central landscape.“Of these, the central zoo authority (CZA) has recently approved the layout of one at Etawah safari park. The final nod of the state government to these rescue centers will enable the forest authorities to keep the injured wildlife especially the leopards and tigers in their respective territorial areas for their medical diagnosis and the treatment instead of their shifting to zoo,” said Sunil Pandey, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP.According to the official records of PTR, as many as six tigers and three leopards have been shifted to Lucknow and Kanpur zoos as a result of man-tiger conflict since the PTR came into existence on June 9, 2014.In addition to Pilibhit and Etawah, the third rescue center had been proposed in Meerut where straying of many leopards has been reported, the fourth at Sohagi Barwa wildlife sanctuary in Maharajganj and the fifth at Chitrakoot forest division, Pandey said.Each rescue center would require around six hectares of land away from the core forest area and funds to the tune of Rs 5crore to develop the infrastructure such as quarantine, a hospital combined with an operation theater and well equipped with diagnostic machines, medical kits and apparatus, the front office with furniture and computers etc, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-awaits-approval-for-wildlife-rescue-centre-to-stop-sending-rescued-tigers-to-zoos/articleshow/76585121.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Canadian Punjabi, 89, ends life in Jalandhar gurdwara||Jalandhar: An 89-year-old Canadian citizen of Punjabi origin on Wednesday committed suicide at a gurdwara in Rurka Khurd village of the district by hanging himself, the police said. According to them, deceased Sohan Singh had come to the village in December last year, as he would do every year, was scheduled to return in April. However, he got stranded here due to the lockdown. He was living in Canada with his sons, while his daughter is settled in the USA. Villagers said the octogenarian apparently hanged himself after paying obeisance at the gurdwara early morning when nobody else was there. Local residents were not very clear if the delay in his return to Canada became the reason for his taking the extreme step. “He did not share with us if he was depressed for inability to go back to Canada,” said a village resident, who did not want to be named. Goraya police station SHO Kewal Singh said a case has been registered under Section 174 (suicide) of the CrPC and they are investigating to ascertain the reason of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/canadian-punjabi-89-ends-life-in-jalandhar-gurdwara/articleshow/76594273.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Nine contacts traced||Kolhapur: Throat swab samples of nine close contacts of Covid-19 patients from Kanherkar Nagar and Warna Colony in the city have been collected and sent for testing. After three cases were reported from Kanherkar Nagar (2) and Warna Colony(1), the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation declared the started containment zones on Tuesday evening. In Kanherkar Nagar, a woman and her son tested positive. On Wednesday, KMC's health staff was engaged in tracing the contacts. Nikhil More, the deputy commissioner of the KMC said, “We have traced eight people who came in contact with the two Covid patients from Kanherkar Nagar. The eight people have been put in isolation wards. .An elderly woman, who came to meet her daughter at Warna Colony, had tested Covid-19 positive. We have taken throat swab sample of her daughter and she has been put in isolation.” A door-to-door survey has started in these two localities and the residents have been asked to inform in case they have come in contact with the Covid-19 patients, said More. The roads approaching to these localities have been blocked and will remain so for at least seven days. The residents have been asked not to move outside unless there is an emergency. The local ward-level committee under local corporator has been asked to look after the essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nine-contacts-traced/articleshow/76585194.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur shelter girls test -ve for HIV, Hepatitis-C||KANPUR: The two minor girls of Swarupnagar Shelter Home in Kanpur, who had been found HIV and Hepatitis-C positive in a preliminary screening, tested negative for the two viruses in a confirmatory test at a city laboratory. Confirming the reports, district probationary officer Ajit Kumar said: "The two had undergone tests required for HIV and Hepatitis C and their report is negative." Although he didn't elaborate further, sources at LLR Hospital's maternity wing said that the two girls had been found positive for HIV and Hepatitis-C in a preliminary screening through kit when they were brought from the shelter home after being found infected with coronavirus. "Senior hospital authorities, thereafter, sent their samples to a local microbiology lab for Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) confirmation test, in which they were found negative for HIV and Hepatitis C," they said. On Sunday,shelter home superintendent Mithilesh Pal had told reporters that two minors, out of 57 inmates who had tested positive for Covid-19, had tested posative for HIV and Hepatitis-C respectively. Five out of 57 Covid-19 positive inmates, including these two girls, were also pregnant. They are all rape survivors, who had been brought to the shelter home under the Pocso Act. Meanwhile, the district probation officer lodged an FIR against unidentified people for allegedly circulating false information about the government shelter home where 57 inmates, including five pregnant minors, besides one staff, tested positive for Covid-19 last week. According to the FIR, false news about the shelter home was circulated on various platforms, including social media and news channels, and the identities of the inmates were revealed. The five pregnant girls are victims of sexual crimes. The case was registered at the Swarupnagar police station under relevant sections of the IPC, including 228-A (disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences etc), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). The police have also invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Investigating officer Amar Singh said that an investigation into the district Probation officer's complaint has been initiated. "We are collecting evidence to nail the person who circulated false information," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-shelter-girls-found-negative-forhiv-hepatitis-c-in-confirmatory-test/articleshow/76594350.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||41 old-age homes run by NGOs have no permission, Telangana govt tells HC||HYDERABAD: In a startling revelation, the state government on Wednesday admitted that 41 old age homes being run by various NGOs in Greater Hyderabad are running without permission from the government and that its welfare officials have not been inspecting them. State special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar, who also inspected some of the old age homes in tune with an earlier directive of the high court, said this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy and assured the court that they would now streamline the functioning of these homes with proper mechanism, that includes a helpline, in place. The bench sought to know from him the action the state is now proposing to take against the unregistered and poorly maintained old age homes along with details of the departmental proceedings it is launching against its own welfare officials for dereliction of duties. The bench which converted a letter written by GV Subrahmanyam, the member secretary of state legal services authority, into a PIL, appointed advocate Vasudha Nagaraj as amicus to study the conditions at these homes in one of the earlier hearings. She did undertake a study and reported that more than 100 old age homes run by NGOs that take money from the state but charge less from the poor are running in cramped shelters and the conditions prevailing there were horrible. The bench then ordered the principal secretaries of women and child welfare and social welfare departments to study the situation and report to the court. Sanjeev informed the court about this study that revealed about unregistered old age homes. We are in the process of setting up new homes under the provisions of senior citizens maintenance Act, he said. Out of the 130 old age homes, 41 are unregistered. The status of the remaining homes too was not disclosed properly. The bench rejected the state report saying it’s incomplete and sought a fresh report. Old age people are the most vulnerable section in our society, If the conditions in the present home are not conducive, shift them to a different home. Give them good food and medicines. Supply masks and sanitisers and ensure social distance, the bench said while posting the case to July 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/41-old-age-homes-run-by-ngos-have-no-permission-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76594333.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Konni sees red over China Mukku||KOTTAYAM: All these years it was considered a back-handed compliment to Konni town, conferred by someone no less than India's first prime minister, but has now become an embarrassment following the bloody Galwan clash last week. The Konni grama panchayat in Pathanamthitta district is demanding that one of its popular junctions called China Mukku (China Junction) be renamed. “The name should be replaced in the wake of the war-like situation created by China and the martyrdom of the Indian soldiers,” the vice-president of the panchayat committee Praveen Plavilayil wrote on Tuesday, while serving a notice to the panchayat president for moving a resolution on the name change. "After the Galwan clash, people here don’t feel like saying that name. Many want to change it,” he said. Local lore says the town’s name has more to do with Jawaharlal Nehru than China. Adoor Prakash Congress MP, who has represented Konni constituency in the assembly for 23 years, said it goes back to the election campaign for the first Lok Sabha polls held in 1952."Nehru was passing through the area in an open jeep. Congress flags were fluttering among buildings along the streets in most areas but when his jeep reached a particular area, he saw only red flags everywhere. It was a communist-dominated area. Nehru asked a person sitting next to him whether it is 'China Junction'. Ever since, the junction has been called China Mukku," Prakash said. Even if the panchayat passes the resolution, it is up to the state government to take a call on name change. “We will approach the collector and the government,” Prakash said. The Congress-led UDF has a majority in the 18-member panchayat committee with 13 UDF members and five LDF members. However, KM Seethi, dean of Social Sciences and former professor, School of International Relations and Politics, MG University, however, advised caution. "Even if the governments have done any mistake, people should not display such emotionalism,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/konni-sees-red-over-china-mukku/articleshow/76590057.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli tiger died in territorial fight||CHANDRAPUR: The tiger found dead in Chatgaon range in Gadchiroli had died in territorial fight with other feline, revealed postmortem on Wednesday. The carcass of a full grown adult tiger, aged around seven years, was found in the forest near Khursa (Navegaon) village in Chatgaon forest range on Tuesday. Sources informed that foresters detected the carcass while tracing the source of foul smell while patrolling the area. They informed the higher-ups following which deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Gadchiroli, Kumaraswami, and other officials rushed to the spot. The carcass was around two days old and had multiple injury marks. By the time inquest formalities were accomplished, it grew dark and hence the body was moved to Bramhapuri forest division for safekeeping in deep freezer overnight, said sources. Veterinary doctors in the presence of assistant IG, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Hemant Kamdi, DCF Kumaraswami, DCF, Bramhapuri, Kuldeep Singh, PCCF representative Milind Umre and NTCA representative Vivek Karamdekar on Wednesday carried out autopsy. Sources said the body had many scratch marks and deep injuries of canine bite. The esophagus was also found to be ruptured suggesting instant death in fight with other feline. In-charge CCF, SV Ramarao, ratified the death in territorial fight with other tiger. The remains were incinerated after the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-tiger-died-in-territorial-fight/articleshow/76594387.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 25, 2020||Business||Consignments from China piling up at ports as customs tightens scrutiny||MUMBAI: Consignments originating from China are being subjected to thorough scrutiny at ports and airports, leading to huge holdups and delays in clearing of goods ranging from electronics to pharmaceuticals. Customs officials across the country are conducting detailed examinations and rechecking all shipments from China, even though there was no official intimation on the exercise, sources told TOI. Earlier, random testing used to be carried out on the containers. Sources said the backlog at ports and airports seems to be so huge that even freight forwarding companies like Fedex and DHL have stopped taking fresh orders for export consignments on Wednesday. However this could not be verified till the time of going to press. India China standoff live updatesFor instance, a situation of shipments being held up is being reported by one of the busiest and largest ports, Nhava Sheva, which handles cargo in the western region. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Diplomatic talks on, but government sceptical of ChinaWhile the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs met, there is no illusion in the highest levels of the Indian government about the Chinese disengaging in any meaningful manner. Senior figures in government regard the current crisis as more serious than“No orders, verbal or written, have been issued to any port by customs or by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) to bar or not to accept containers from China. If, in some cases, some containers are held up, then they are for the intelligence input and, on the basis of risk assessment, as a routine exercise,” a senior tax department official in Delhi said. Read AlsoIndia-China standoff: Satellite images, reports indicate PLA’s set up camp at clash siteLatest commercial satellite images and ground reports indicate Chinese troops are back on Indian territory in the Galwan Valley region in eastern Ladakh, setting up a much larger camp with gun positions in place of the observation post that was destroyed by Indian troops in the bloody clash of JuneThe ‘scrutiny’ is being attributed to ‘intelligence’ received about illegal imports of narcotics at Chennai port a few days back. Officials are seeking stricter compliance and more documentation from importers, which is not a normal routine procedure, a Chennai-based company said. LAC face-off Complete coverageA few shipments of pharmaceuticals were cleared on Wednesday, after a detailed investigation and scrutiny of documentation at Chennai, while the bigger containers of other commodities and goods are still held up. “For the pharma sector, the situation seemed to be relatively better on Wednesday, and some cargo was cleared after stringent checks. This was after the issue was discussed with senior government officials,” Dinesh Dua, chairman, Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India told TOI. With major shipments stuck at ports and airports, pharma industry pressed the panic button. Critical raw materials and bulk drugs are imported from China, with the country accounting for nearly 70% of API (active pharmaceutical imports), while in certain cases, the dependence is around 90%. Delays or hold ups at ports and airports even for a few days lead to chaos in industry circles, and confusion among cargo handling agents, experts say. Watch Consignments originating from China piling up at ports as customs tightens scrutiny||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consignments-from-china-piling-up-at-ports-as-customs-tightens-scrutiny/articleshow/76598373.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 25, 2020||Amritsar||‘Indians manufacturers do not having matching quality, work culture’||AMRITSAR: Indo-China business sentiments have reached their nadir following Galwan valley clash between the forces of two nations, triggering nationwide anti-China sentiments and protests. But the importers and traders of Chinese goods here are of the view that unless Indian manufacturers develop work culture in their units, improve quality of their products and bring them on a par with Chinese products price, the trade between two nations, which has already suffered an all-time low due to coronavirus pandemic, will resume soon. “The business sentiments have been disturbed on both sides. Chinese industrialists who used to give us two to three months credit are now reluctant to even fulfil new orders and instead see us with suspicion,” said an Amritsar-based importer of Chinese products, who didn’t wish to give his name fearing being ‘identified and singled out’ upon return to China, where he has his office. He said India was a major market for Chinese businessmen and they couldn’t afford to avoid India, given the fact that Indian manufacturers have failed to make even ‘matching quality’ products. “We don’t’ have dedicated work culture, corruption rules the roost, politicians interfere in industry. How can we fill the vacuum if there are no Chinese products,” he said. An importer of Chinese furniture who has his showroom in Ludhiana on condition of anonymity said, “No doubt, the popular sentiments in India are against China over the recent border skirmish but trading relations will come to normal in due course as neither China could afford to lose a lucrative market, nor India buyers can avoid the Chinese products, given their price cost and quality unless Indian manufacturers improve on both the fronts and Indian government sincerely promote manufacturing units.” He said launching campaigns and harping on boycotting Chinese products could be a visual treat to sooth patriotic feelings, but actually refusing to use them was another thing. He said since lockdown, his office in Foshan in Guangdong province of China was closed but he was paying 50% salary to his both Indian and Chinese staff. “Majority of the Indian businessmen who have their companies in China were waiting and watching the turnout of events and are hopeful of normal relations in near future,” he maintained. Businessmen Sushil Balani, who imports goods from China, said the business sentiments had suffered a major blow following Indo-China stand-off but at the same time he said unless Indian manufacturers come up to the standard of Chinese manufactures, Chinese goods would continue to attract customers, both due to their quality and price range. He opined that the government must make manufacturing sector lucrative, give concessions to industrialists, provide quick and single window clearances and above all it should eradicate corruption and allow manufacturing sector to work sans political pressure. Reacting on the present Indo-China business ties, chairman, Punjab chapter of Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Assocham) Suneet Kochhar said despite a strong anti-China sentiment, it was a challenge for Indian governments to stop business with China immediately. “China bazars are spread across almost all major cities in India and people, particularly from low income group, prefer to buy cheap Chinese goods,” he said, adding that over 70% of the Indian mobile market had been captured by China. Suneet said a vast number of Punjab’s industries, including pharmaceuticals, garments, electronics, etc. were dependent on China for the supply of raw material. He opined that boycotting Chinese products would be successful only if Indian government extend support to local manufacturers by reducing taxes and increasing import duty on Chinese goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/indians-manufacturers-do-not-having-matching-quality-work-culture/articleshow/76594339.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Driver held for raping minor girl||Kolhapur: Gandhinagar police in Kolhapur city have arrested a driver for allegedly raping a minor girl for two years and blackmailing her. Police said the accused used to transport school students in his vehicle. Police have also seized his vehicle now. According to the police, the accused and the girl knew each other as she used to travel to school on his vehicle. The accused allegedly promised to marry the girl and tried to establish a physical relationship with her. The minor girl told the police that accused raped her when she refused his marriage proposal. He allegedly even shot a video of him committing the act to blackmail her. The girl said that the accused blackmailed her with the video and raped her on several occasions over the past two years. As per the girl’s police complaint, she was once also raped in the vehicle of the accused driver. The girl was sexually assaulted for two years as the accused allegedly threatened to kill her if she disclosed his crime to anybody. The minor girl finally approached the police two days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/driver-held-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/76585300.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Rural police team in Surat to trace suppliers of ‘Kutta Goli’||Nashik: The Nashik Rural police has sent a team of officials to Surat for checking the source of alprazolam tablets, popularly known as ‘Kutta Goli’ which are often smuggled into Malegaon. Aprazolam is a scheduled drug which can be sold only on prescription by a medical practitioner as it is taken to treat anxiety and panic attacks. According to the food and drugs administration (FDA) officials, the drug can adversely impact a person’s health if consumed over a period of time without doctor’s advice. Sandeep Ghuge, additional SP of Malegaon, said that these tablets have been smuggled into Malegaon even in the past. These tablets form addiction and can have adverse effect on a person’s health. “After a raid was conducted about a week back and illegal drugs worth over Rs three lakh were seized, we have sent a team to Surat to trace the suppliers of these drugs,” he said. Azadnagar police who had arrested four people in connection with the case said that they seized drugs and other articles worth over Rs three lakh in the recent raid. A few months back, they had seized this medicine and other articles worth over Rs 12 lakh. “The suppliers are same in both the cases. So far, four people have been arrested in the recent case registered with the Azadnagar police station and the police teams are on the lookout of the suppliers of these drugs in Surat,” Ghuge said. With life limping back to normalcy in Malegaon which saw a huge rise in Covid-19 cases over the past three months, the demand for these tablets among the worker community has increased, said police. Over the past few years, police have been consistently busting illegal sale of such tablets in Malegoan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-team-in-surat-to-trace-suppliers-of-kutta-goli/articleshow/76590104.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Experts warn of local transmission as accident, suicide victims test Covid +ve||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported 88 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday and five deaths, of which three were accident and suicide victims who tested positive when they were checked for the infection as a precautionary measure before postmortem. Claiming that more and more cases are among people with no travel history, experts warned that this could be a clear indication of local transmission. However, the health department refuted the claims and said that the victims testing positive for the virus is just a ‘coincidence’. According to the health department, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in the state has gone up to 2,623 while the death toll has touched 35. It said that 1,721 people have recovered from the infection so far. Commenting on the deaths, Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 war room at the health directorate, said that a 33-year-old man who had hanged himself recently tested positive before postmortem. He added that a 17-year-old and 35-year-old from Haridwar, who died in an accident, also tested positive for the infection before their autopsy was done. The other two deaths were of a 35-year-old woman in Tehri and a 75-year-old man in Devprayag, both Delhi returnees. Meanwhile, activist Anoop Nautiyal, who is tracking the virus in the hill state closely, said, “We have noticed that the cases of local transmission are increasing every passing day.” “The three deaths reported on Wednesday involving accident and suicide victims were a shocker. It is definitely time to be more alert and vigilant,” he added. However, Tripathi said that the cases with no travel or contact history are rare. “We are also looking for the cause of infection in these victims. It will be too early to suggest community or local transmission,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/experts-warn-of-local-transmission-as-accident-suicide-victims-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76585289.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Vehicle traffic density studies must to get central funding||Hyderabad: States and union terriroties will now have to mandatorily conduct vehicle traffic density studies for receiving funding to spruce up road connectivity in rural areas. The Centre has also the respective government to submit road safety audit reports. The union rural development ministry issued these guidelines while giving nod to the Rs 658 crore fund to improve connectivity from various villages to colleges, agriculture market committees and hospitals in Telangana. The move is aimed at constructing strong and safe roads that would facilitate the movement of heavy-loaded vehicles carrying machinery to industries, irrigation and other project sites in rural areas. The governments are also required to plant fruit bearing trees on either side of the roads that have been developed with central funding. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development chief engineer and in charge of PMGSY, Rajasekhar Reddy told TOI that the decision was taken as vehicular traffic is on the rise in the rural areas. “The roads in villages near the highways, industries, agriculture market committees, irrigation and other project sites are going through wear and tear because of the movement of heavy vehicles carrying machinery and loads of agriculture products,” Rajasekhar Reddy said. He added that the services of traffic and transport experts from reputed institutions such as JNTU, Osmania University, NIT would be hired to conduct vehicle density studies and road safety audit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vehicle-traffic-density-studies-must-to-get-central-funding/articleshow/76594447.cms||Roushan Ali
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 104 to keep eye on Covid patients||HYDERABAD: With contract tracing exercise of Covid-19 patients almost coming to a standstill in the state, tracking of patients in home isolation is going to get more active. According to highly placed sources, the government is planning to track these patients by using 104 call centre services, which is run by the Emergency Management and Research Institute. Contact tracing has become difficult for the authorities with the sudden spike in positive cases. “In many cases, Covid-19 patients are unable to tell where they likely contracted the virus,” an official said. Those who are in home quarantine are being approached by the authorities over phone. “Any medical advice is also given over phone,” the official said. The calls are made to one of the family members of the patients. Officials said they would identify one of the family members having no comorbidities as caregiver for the patient and monitor the patient regularly. To track all the patients isolated at home, officials said 104 service would be used since the call centre has an employee pool to track patients over phone. “We thought this arrangement will ensure proper coordination and also help us reach the patients quickly,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/104-to-keep-eye-on-covid-patients/articleshow/76594431.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC resumes bus services||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala state road transport corporation (KSRTC) has resumed bus services from Kattakkada depot on Wednesday. The services from the depot were restarted for public after one week of closure, after the district administration lifting the restrictions that had been imposed while declaring the region as containment zone. KSRTC had suspended the bus services from Kattakkada depot after a health worker in the region got infected by Covid-19. The buses plying the route were not permitted boarding and deboarding points in the region, following direction from district administration. Six grama panchayat wards- Thoongampara, Ponnara, Ettiruthy, Killy, Kavinpuram and Kollode in Kattakkada were declared as containment zones by the district collector. The disinfection work was conducted by the Fire Force at the depot. The unit has adopted measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Disinfection of the depot and its premises at frequent intervals and sanitisation of buses after daily schedule operation are planned at the depot. The depot, which used to operate around 35 bus services, operated only around 20 buses due to poor demand. “Sanitizer kiosk is provided at the entrance of the depot. Masks, sanitizers and gloves are also arranged for the employees. There is no crowd at the depot and social distancing is followed strictly. The containment zone declaration might have had an impact on people, as there were only few passengers on Wednesday. Even the 20 buses did not receive many passengers,” said C P Prasad, assistant transport officer, Kattakkada depot. On Tuesday night, the district administration had lifted restrictions in 10 wards of Kattakkada panchayat. The Pappanamcode depot of KSRTC, which was closed after a driver at the depot who came from Thrissur tested positive for Covid-19, was also reopened after disinfection works earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-resumes-bus-services/articleshow/76590199.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nashik||Man held for brother’s murder||Nashik: The Panchavati police on Tuesday arrested a 37-year-old man for allegedly murdering his elder brother by hitting him with a stone near RTO corner in the Panchavati area of the city. The suspect has been arrested on the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The suspect was produced before a city court on Wednesday and was remanded to two-day police custody. Police said that the deceased has been identified as Santosh Thore (40), a resident of Viyanagar, Panchavati. According to police, Santosh was creating a scene at the Sharad Chandra market yard in an inebriated state. When his brother Sunil learnt about it, he rushed to the spot. However, the duo got into an argument, following which Santosh attacked his brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-brothers-murder/articleshow/76590138.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Mangaluru||With judicial nod, accused to be produced electronically before courts||Mangaluru: A general emerging consensus between the judiciary and the police on greater use of technology will see Karnataka state police move towards video-production of accused before the jurisdictional courts. With the judicial luminaries in the Supreme Court and even in Karnataka high court being on the same page with state police in this regard, this will almost be the norm across police units by December, said Praveen Sood, director-general of police (DGP). A meeting that the police top brass had with Justice Mohan Shantanagoudar of the apex court has only firmed up the resolve of Sood to push for greater use of technology in police administration. The outbreak of Covid and his police personnel bearing the brunt while being in the frontline in the fight against the pandemic, and the push from courts for the initiative will also see the state police go for e-filing of FIRs/ chargesheets. Reaffirming his resolve to use IT extensively in all possible areas of policing, Sood told TOI: “Using IT solutions for routine policing like producing an accused before the court, filing of FIRs and chargesheet — that otherwise require manpower — will be pared down drastically. It will also reduce physical contact between the police and the accused and in the court rooms with members of the bar and court staff, thus keeping everyone safe.” The other tangible benefit, Sood said, is that the move will also drastically reduce chances of undertrials, accused and convicts giving police the slip while in transit. “The discussions that state police had with Justice Shantanagoudar has only proved that the executive and judiciary are on the same page and will help all those involved. The pandemic has only acted as a catalyst to what was always uppermost on the minds of the state police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-judicial-nod-accused-to-be-produced-electronically-before-courts/articleshow/76589801.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 25, 2020||Kochi||Seven districts get very heavy rainfall warning for Friday||Kochi: Seven districts of southern and central Kerala have been sounded alert for extremely heavy rainfall on Friday. The Indian meteorological department issued an orange alert of extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20 cm in 24 hours for Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam on June 26 (Friday) while Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Ernakulam are expected to have very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm in some places in these districts. This is part of the fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall that is likely over parts of south peninsular India during next five days. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala with coastal areas from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod feeling the impact of high waves in the range of 3.0-3.3 metres. Surface current speeds vary between 43 and 59 cm/sec. Fishermen have been asked to stay away from the sea. On Wednesday, there was not much rain though Kannur recorded 6.4cm and Perumbavur got 4cm of rain. Irikkur received 3.3cm while Hosdurg got 3cm of rain. Kerala state disaster management authority has alerted all district administration to be on alert. June 25 Yellow alert Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki June 26 Orange alert Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki- Extremely heavy rainfall Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam- Very Heavy rainfall Yellow alert Thrissur, Palakkad June 27 Orange alert Kozhikode, Wayanad- Extremely heavy rainfall Yellow alert Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/seven-districts-get-very-heavy-rainfall-warning-for-friday/articleshow/76590277.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad farmer offers his home for quarantine centre||AURANGABAD: A 30-year-old farmer from the Pisadevi area of Harsul located on the outskirts of Aurangabad city has offered his home to be converted into a quarantine centre. Kiran Dolare Patil took the decision after some residents from the surrounding areas recently tested positive for Covid-19. Considering the social stigma surrounding the contagion, people were reluctant to go to the quarantine centre set up by the district administration. “I convinced my parents. My wife also stood by me, following which we shifted to our Pokhri-based house neighbouring our farmland and gave our house to be used as quarantine centre,” Patil told TOI. In addition, Patil also asked a maid to stay in the house for ensuring upkeep, overall cleanliness of the house, providing basic things including tea and water from time-to-time. “We will not be charging even a single penny from those who are being quarantined or from the administration,” said Patil. After Patil took the decision to offer his home for turning it into quarantine centre, he reached out to the Pisadevi gram panchayat’s village sarpanch. The gram sevak then carried out an inspection of the basic amenities at the house, including availability of power supply, water connection, drainage line and readily granted him the permission for going ahead with the noble cause. Sarpanch Manisha Dhamne said that the house offered by Patil would be used as a quarantine centre for poor people who cannot maintain social distancing due to small size of their homes. The four-room house constructed on an area of about 900 square feet is all set to receive guests in the coming days. Taking inspiration from the farmer, police patils as well as sarpanchs from at least 10 villages have reached out to him seeking details about getting clearance for starting quarantine centres in their respective villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-farmer-offers-his-home-for-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76590176.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||Elderly man held for sodomising, killing 5-year-old boy||Bareilly: A 55-year-old man was on Wednesday arrested for allegedly sodomising and killing a five-year-old boy and dumping the body into bushes near railway tracks. Police said when the boy’s parents were busy at a wedding ceremony, the accused, Tejram, still a single, lured the boy away on the pretext of giving him candy. The post-mortem report confirmed that the boy was first sodomised and then he was strangled, said police. Additional superintendent of police (rural) Sansar Singh said, “After the body was found dumped into the bushes under Bhamora police station limits, the boy’s father lodged an FIR against an unidentified killer on June 9.” “During the investigation, Tejram’s name came to light and we detained him. After a brief interrogation, he confessed his crime. He disclosed that he was standing at the road leading to the railway line on the fateful day when he spotted the victim and lured him away on the pretext of giving candy. He took the boy to a deserted location, sodomised him and killed him, and dumped the body into the bushes,” said the ASP. Police said after an FIR was registered against the accused under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and later he was sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-man-held-for-sodomising-killing-5-year-old-boy/articleshow/76580744.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar’s centre for malnourished children remains shut for 3 months||Haridwar: The Nutrition and Rehabilitation Centre (NRC) of Haridwar has been lying shut for three months now as the centre is located in the Mela Hospital which has been made a Covid-19-dedicated medical facility, said the officials. The centre was the only facility where malnourished children were treated in Haridwar, a district which ranks low in infant nourishment indices. However, officials have claimed that NRC was shifted to the district hospital temporarily but no malnourished child was admitted to the alternate facility post shifting. Dr Shashikant, district's nodal officer for Nutrition and Rehabilitation Centre (NRC), told TOI, “NRC was very helpful in treating malnourished children but after the lockdown, the centre was closed because Mela Hospital is being used as a dedicated Covid-19 medical facility. We even shifted NRC to the district hospital but no admission has been done since then. However, we are now planning to restart the centre soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwars-centre-for-malnourished-children-remains-shut-for-3-months/articleshow/76585410.cms||MS Nawaz
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry hits 12k mark, 67 patients critical; 10 succumb to virus||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Wednesday reached 12,010 cases and 188 deaths as 490 more people were found infected with the virus and 10 died of it. Faridabad got the highest number of cases, 201, and its overcall tally rose to 2,797. The state’s recovery rate improved to 57.66% as 427 more patioents recvered from the virus and were discharged from hospital. While the number of recoveries in the state is 6,925, there are 4,897 active cases. Sixty-seven patients were in a critical condition when this report was filed. They were either on oxygen or ventilator support. Of the total 10 deaths, six were in Gurgaon, three in Rewari and one in Faridabad. The state’s death rate for Covid has risen to 1.57%. NCR districts continued to dominate in the number of cases as well. Faridabad was followed by 117 cases in Gurgaon, which continue to top the overall table of districts with 4,762 cases. With 48 new cases, Rewari emerged as the new hotspot. The district, which had been a green zone for long, passed the 200 mark and its tally reached 218 cases. Sonipat got 29 cases, followed by 22 in Rohtak, 19 in Bhiwani, and 17 in Palwal. Nine cases were reported from Charkhi-Dadri, seven each from Ambala and Jhajjar, five from Yamuanangar, three from Jind, two each from Nuh and Panchkula, and one each from Mahendergarh and Kurukshetra districts. The testing rate in Haryana improved to 9,139 tests per million per day, as 2,31,673 tests have been carried out so far. Though not confirmed in the state tally, district authorities in Kaithal said the district got five new cases. An official said all new patients had returned from other states. Similarly, no case was recorded from Karnal district in the state bulletin, but district officials claimed that 14 people, including six of a family, were found infected. The family members include a 45-year-old man, his 40-year-old wife, a 21-year-old daughter, two sons aged 20 and 16, and a nephew (18) from Jalala village. They had come in contact with a positive patient. Meeting to end standoff To end the standoff between the managements of private schools and education department on the issue of admissions to government schools without school leaving certificate (SLC), Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar will chair a meeting attended by representatives of private schools. (Inputs from Karnal and Kaithal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-hits-12k-mark-67-patients-critical-10-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/76594543.cms||Manvir Saini
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC zones to give nod for marriages in lawns, halls||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday issued a circular giving powers to assistant commissioners of all 10 zones for giving permission for marriage ceremonies with attendance up to 50 people in lawns, halls, community centres etc. In view of the rise in Covid-19 cases, Mundhe also suggested citizens to explore the possibilities of keeping the number of guests low. The state government had on Monday issued a notification allowing collectors and municipal commissioners to give permission for such functions. Those who wish to seek permission will have to submit an application with an undertaking that not more than 50 people will be present and all norms related to coronavirus including Covid distancing, masks, sanitizers etc will be complied with. Action will be taken if non-compliance of the norms is detected. Though the NMC’s order has not mentioned any time limit for holding functions, sources told TOI that it may be till 9pm when the night curfew starts. Similarly, the district administration has started to give permissions for functions to be held in rural areas from collector’s office as well as 13 tehsil offices. Till now, marriage ceremony with 50 people was allowed only at home. Considering the rainy season and space constraints at several households, the government has revised its guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-zones-to-give-nod-for-marriages-in-lawns-halls/articleshow/76594565.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 25, 2020||Goa||Bitter pill? State hints at sugar factory closure||Panaji: The state government inched towards the closure of the Sanjivani Sakhar Karkhana, offering to compensate sugarcane growers for their crops for the next few years during a two-hour long meeting with farmers on Wednesday. Though a final decision has yet to be taken, the government did offer farmers an incentive package to switch over from sugarcane to other cash crops or vegetables, sources said. Aside from the offer of compensation, farmers were also offered the choice of sending next year’s crop to the Khanapur sugarcane factory for crushing as was done this year. The third option before the government is to refurbish the factory, an unlikely choice given the paucity of funds, said sources. “The government has not taken any decision to close the Sanjivani Sakhar Kharkhana,” the government said in a statement in response to media reports that the factory may never reopen. In its nearly five decades of operation, the Sanjivani Sugar factory at Dharbandora has incurred losses which today stand at Rs 101 crore. The factory machinery is in total disrepair, and the government would require to invest in new machinery if it wants the plant to resume operations in the 2021 crushing season. The sugar factory has been closed since first half of 2019. With losses accumulating, the factory’s earlier administrator, Damodar Morajkar, has been transferred, and IAS officer Tariq Thomas has been appointed in his place. TOI reached out to Thomas, but he was unavailable for comment. Goa has around 811 hectares under sugarcane cultivation. “The decision to close the sugar factory is a political decision and has not been made. But once we explained the three options to the farmers, explained the financial situation, some of them were convinced that this (compensation) is the obvious choice,” said a government official. The surgarcane farmers, in a letter to the government, had demanded compensation for a period of 14 years. Though a decision has yet to be taken and the final modalities have to be worked out, the government has offered to compensate the farmers for four to six years for the sugarcane without procuring the crop and irrespective of whether the farmer grows sugarcane. A senior government official said that the option of transporting the crop to Khanapur as it happened this year is not a sustainable option. The option to repair or purchase new equipment for the factory remains tied up in the austerity measures announced by the government and the fact that if the government pumps in money into the factory, it will not be able to offer a good price for the sugarcane. Registrar of cooperative societies Vikas Gaunekar, director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso, and Thomas were present for the meeting, along with other factory officials. “For the factory to remain viable, Goa needs to produce 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane, which won’t happen because of the soil, the rainfall and other factors. The factory will remain in loss,” said an official. The differences between the administrator’s statements and the government’s assurances left sugarcane growers confused. Cooperation minister Govind Gaude had earlier claimed that a new plant would be erected at Dayanandnagar, Dharbandora, and that farmers had been assured that the government would procure their crop for the next three years. “Now, the new administrator of the factory has stated that the factory would not run during the next season, and that it would pay the farmers without harvesting and procuring the crop,” said Harshad Prabhudesai, vice-president, Sanjeevani Sugarcane Producers’ Association. The factory has even got prepared a detailed project report from the National Sugar Institute (NSI) at Kanpur for starting a new unit within the factory premises. While the new plant would cost Rs 96 crore, the entire setup would cost a total of Rs 187 crore. Prabhudesai also said that they have not even received the full amount for canes supplied to the factory by them. He said many farmers have already cultivated the crop expecting that the factory would procure it, and it would a great loss to farmers if the factory doesn’t do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bitter-pill-state-hints-at-sugar-factory-closure/articleshow/76598665.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||In the frame: Delhi Metro Phase-IV takes first stride||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday achieved a milestone in its much-delayed Phase-IV project. It commenced the casting work of U-girders which would be installed on the elevated section of the upcoming Janakpuri West–RK Ashram corridor. Over the years, DMRC has mainly used precast structures, such as Box-girders, I-girders and for some sections, U-girders to construct its corridors. U-shaped girders are precast and pre-tensioned on which track laying can be done quickly. For its Phase-IV project, DMRC has decided to standardise the usage of U-girders for the entire network to save time and also lower construction cost. Compared with other types of girders, the 28-metre-long U-girders drastically reduce construction time, but due to their length, require absolute precision during construction. Transporting these girders from the casting yard also becomes a tricky proposition. DMRC had earlier used U-girders for construction of Airport Express Line and on the Dilshad Garden–Shaheed Sthal. On the Noida–Greater Noida section, 27-metre-long U-girders had been installed. “This is a major milestone for DMRC, as despite severe crunch of workforce due to the ongoing pandemic and various other lockdown-related constraints, the casting yard was readied within a record period of 94 working days,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Dayal said every month 56 U-girders shall be produced at the yard in Mundka and total 2,200 different pre-cast components required for construction will be cast at this yard. Dayal said metro projects across the world are extensively using U-girders. “After casting, these girders are brought to the site and launched with the help of high capacity cranes or launchers,” he added. “Absolute care has to be taken regarding the maintenance of all measurements and technical parameters during the casting process,” he said. “At the casting yard, 10 U-girder casting beds have been put up for the job. A dedicated quality control laboratory has also been set up to monitor all quality related parameters.” Compared with conventional girders, which are 2.2 metres to 2.5 metres long, U-girders used by DMRC are 28 metres long. The longer length means one span between two pillars can be constructed overnight compared with five to six days in case of conventional girders. Apart from the benefit of saving time, the U-girders that DMRC plans to use for the Phase-IV project will also have built-in sound barriers, apart from built-in cable support. The 28.9-km long Janakpuri West–RK Ashram Marg corridor is an extension of the Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) and will come up with 22 stations. Construction work on this section had started in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-frame-metro-ph-iv-takes-first-stride/articleshow/76598724.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 25, 2020||Agra||At 7.5% and 7.1%, fatality rates in Meerut & Agra among highest in country||Meerut/Agra: At 7.5% and 7.1%, the fatality rates in Meerut and Agra respectively are among the highest in the country. Jhansi in UP is arguably on the top of the chart with over 10% mortality rate. These figures are way above the national average of 3.18%. In Mumbai and Delhi, the worst-affected cities, mortality rate is 5.6% and 3.5% respectively as on Tuesday. Meerut has reported 62 deaths out of the total 818 Covid-19 positive cases reported here so far, which translates into a death rate of 7.5%. And Agra has seen 83 deaths out of the total 1157 cases reported, so mortality rate stands at 7.1%. Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi slammed the UP government over the rising number of deaths in the state. Citing a report, she said that out of 15 districts in the country with the highest death rate, four are in UP. “Jhansi: One death out of every 10 coronavirus patients, Meerut: One death out of every 11 coronavirus patients, and one death out of every 14 coronavirus patients in Etah and Agra,” she tweeted. A recent audit by a UP government panel revealed that in Agra about 28 Covid-19 patients died within 48 hours of their hospitalization. A probe was set up and explanation has been sought by the SN Medical college authorities where the deaths took place. When asked about the high death rates, Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar said, “Majority of the patients who have died in Meerut were suffering from other diseases, so their immune system was already weak. Also, patients come extremely late, when their condition has already deteriorated. I appeal to people to approach the health authorities whenever they sense any symptoms.” Even senior officials from Lucknow were sent to Meerut to take stock of the situation and find out the reasons behind the increase in the number of deaths here. As many as 1,157 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Agra district till June 23. Out of these, 83.69% patients have been declared cured of the infection and discharged from hospital till Tuesday. The district administration had confirmed deaths of 83 Covid-19 patients. At least 36 people tested Covid-19 positive have died in Agra district in the last 23 days alone. On an average, 3 Covid-19 patients are dying every 48 hours since June 1. According to the health department, the majority of the Covid-19 patients died due to comorbid conditions and around 85 per cent were above 50 years of age. Besides Covid-19 infection, these patients were suffering from respiratory ailment, diabetes, heart and kidney problems. While Agra CMO Dr RC Pandey said, “Some of the patients who died were brought after much delay. Our doctors are trying hard to save the lives. The number of patients admitted under critical condition and getting tested positive for Covid-19 has significantly increased in the last few weeks. Patients having problems in breathing are being provided with oxygen support.” Earlier, following a petition filed by a city-based lawyer alleging inefficiency of the district administration in the containment of Covid-19, the Allahabad high court had sought a response from the state government regarding the status of novel coronavirus in Agra. Additional advocate general Manish Goyal was asked to submit the details before the court on June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-7-5-and-7-1-fatality-rates-in-meerut-agra-among-highest-in-country/articleshow/76580838.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 25, 2020||Goa||Decision on reviving tourism soon: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that his government is considering reviving the tourism sector and will take a decision in this regard in the next four to five days. “There has been a demand to restart tourism. It is a question of the livelihood of many who are dependant on it. The government is thinking of restarting the tourism sector,” Sawant told reporters on Wednesday after meeting a Goa Restaurants and Hotels Association (GRHA) delegation. Sawant said that about 230 hotels desirous to resume operations if allowed have applied for the tourism department’s nod. The tourism department has said that hotels will be allowed to operate once the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are finalised. Hotels will have to abide by all conditions and SOPs the government will roll out. On Tuesday, representatives of the trade body, Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) met the chief minister and urged him to restart tourism in the state at the earliest. President GRHA Gaurish Dhond, post his meeting with Sawant, said they have requested the government to restart bars and restaurants as well as hotels from July 1. “Not just tourists, but a lot of corporate clients regularly visit Goa due to commercial activities. It will take a lot of time before the danger of Covid-19 completely vanishes, but commercial activities must start,” Dhond said. He said it did not make sense to allow liquor shops to operate while keeping bars and restaurants shut. Dhond said that they have asked that bars and restaurants be allowed to remain open till 11pm. Closure timing of 9pm, he said, will not serve any purpose for people wishing to dine out. “If hotels close at 9pm, people will have to start by at least 7pm if living in the outskirts of the city,” he said. He said their association has also requested the government to provide them relief as hotels pay fees to various departments. “We want some relief in payment of excise fees for the next three months,” Dhond said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-decision-on-reviving-tourism-soon/articleshow/76598814.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 surge in Lucknow: 73 fresh cases, tally 916||LUCKNOW: In the biggest single-day spike of 73 cases, the state capital’s covid-19 tally touched 916 on Wednesday. Those infected included 25 PAC jawans, 11 employees of an insurance company, eight members of an Indiranagar family and domestic help of SP veteran and leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary. Majority of those who tested positive are contacts of those already infected, indicating virus spread in asymptomatic stage before Covid diagnosis. Four health workers acquired infection in the line of duty — a trainee nurse at Army Base Hospital, a staff nurse each at SGPGI and KGMU and a Community Health Centre (CHC) worker at Kakori. All nurses were posted in Covid isolation wards, while the CHC employee was facilitating Asha workers in tracking migrants. The 400-mark was breached on June 1, 80 days after the outbreak on March 11. The spurt in cases thereafter saw the tally cross 600 on June 15. Since then 100 cases have been added every three days. The cases were isolated and scattered till last week of May, but thereafter they are being detected in clusters with outbreaks in offices and barracks of security forces. “The pattern is clear. First, virus carriers were those who returned from abroad, then came the Tablighi Jamaatis, followed by migrant workers returning homes and now it has struck police and GRP personnel, who are handling them. This shows that cases multiplied wherever there were violations of Covid protocols, including social distancing,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Lucknow district, Dr Narendra Agarwal. On Wednesday, besides eight family members of a patient in Indiranagar and three related to another infected patient in Gomtinagar, other cases reported on Wednesday were from Jankipuram Sector A and Sector H, Rajni Khand, Rashmi Khand, Malihabad, Mahanagar, Maulviganj, Telibagh, Alamnagar and Mawaiyya among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biggest-single-day-spike-citys-covid-count-touches-916-with-73-fresh-cases/articleshow/76598701.cms||Yusra Husain
June 25, 2020||Agra||Agra police issues 374 challans for spitting, chewing tobacco & not wearing masks||Agra: Agra police on Wednesday issued challans to 374 people for spitting in public and not wearing face masks. A total of Rs 37,600 was recovered as penalty from such defaulters. Furthermore, 11 individuals, who were found tripling on a two-wheeler or exceeding the permissible limit of passengers in a car, were issued traffic tickets. A total of Rs 2,300 was collected. Agra police also recovered Rs 1,200 from five men, who were found roaming post 9pm without any purpose or were found chewing tobacco in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-police-issues-374-challans-for-spitting-chewing-tobacco-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76580805.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Two-day webinar on reverse migration concludes||Dehradun: The two-day international webinar, held to discuss the issue of migrants returning back to their villages in hills in the wake of Covid-19, concluded on Sunday. The webinar was organised by Dehradun-based Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Action and Research Society (DARS) and New Delhi-based Impact and Policy Research Institute (IMPRI). During the course of the webinar, the findings of the survey conducted among 323 returned migrant workers across the hill districts of Uttarakhand were discussed. Along with it, the issues of inter-state and international migration were also discussed. Professor Balwant Singh Mehta, Institute for Human Development (IHD) in Delhi, pointed out that Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000 with an agenda to develop the hill regions but even after 20 years, the hill districts are no match for plain areas in economic terms. "There is a huge economic disparity and inequality between the 10 hill districts and the three plain districts of the state. Consequently, a large number of people from hill districts migrate to other places for better livelihood opportunities," he added. Citing the census, experts underscored that as many as 734 villages, mostly in the hilly areas, have become uninhabited after 2011 due to migration. Taking about the major migration destinations, experts said that most of the state locals migrated to Mumbai (39%), followed by Delhi-NCR (10%), plain districts in Uttarakhand, and to Rajasthan (7%). Majority of them were engaged in informal low-paid salaried jobs (81%). They served as cooks, waiters, and security guards, among others in private companies. Professor IC Awasthi, IHD, stressed that most of the respondents (68%) said that they would like to go back to the cities from where they have returned from in absence of employment opportunities at their native places. “With thousands of migrants returning to their villages Uncertain of their future, these return migrants spending days and nights worrying about what life holds for them next. In this context, a telephonic survey was conducted among 321 respondents in Uttarakhand to understand their live and livelihood challenges, where estimated over 1 lakh migrants have returned to hill districts in the last one month period. Out of all the respondents, nearly two third were from Kumaon region and one third were from Garhwal region. An overwhelming majority of them were male migrants (90%) and only 10% were female reflecting male dominated migration in the state, 7 out of 10 respondents were youth 15-29 years and 3 out of 10 are from 30-49 years ‘middle aged’ indicating youth distress and high unemployment in the state,” said the professor. Ramesh Joshi (Survey Coordinator), Secretary, PanditDeendayalUpadhyaya Action & Research Society (DARS), Dehradun shared his field experiences of return migrants, by citing two cases of Migrants, one from Grahwal and one from Kumaon, who returned during covid pandemic-- one who returned from Germany to Pauri and now engaged in bakery and another from Almora, who returned from Chennai now opened a dairy farm and doing well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-day-webinar-on-reverse-migration-concludes/articleshow/76585487.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 25, 2020||Business||Hetero to begin Remdesivir supply across country||HYDERABAD: Days after bagging approval from Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and sell Covid-19 drug Remdesivir in India, Hyderabad-based pharma player Hetero on Wednesday said it is all set to deliver the first set of 20,000 vials. Covifor, which will be available in 100 mg injectable vials, will be delivered in two lots of 10,000 each by its group company Hetero Healthcare. It is the first generic brand of US-based Gilead Sciences Inc’s Remdesivir to be rolled out in India. While one lot will be supplied immediately to Hyderabad, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra, the second lot will be supplied to Kolkata, Indore, Bhopal, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi, Vijayawada, Cochin, Trivandrum and Goa within a week. Hetero Healthcare Ltd managing director M Srinivasa Reddy, said: “Through Covifor we hope to reduce the treatment time of a patient in a hospital, thereby reducing the increasing pressure on the medical infrastructure, overburdened currently due to accelerating Covid-19 infection rates.” He said the company is working closely with the government as well as the medical community to make Covifor accessible to both public and private healthcare settings across the country. Remdesivir, which has been indicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in adults and children that are hospitalized with severe symptoms of the disease, is expected to play a key role in bringing down Covid-19 mortality rates given its proven positive clinical outcomes, Hetero said. Apart from Hetero, other Indian companies like Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Cipla, Jubilant Lifesciences and Biocon’s Syngene too have bagged non-exclusive licences from Gilead to make and sell generic versions of Remdesivir in 127 countries, including India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hetero-to-begin-remdesivir-supply-across-country/articleshow/76594695.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Rejuvenation of British-era lake at Delhi's Lodhi Gardens begins||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has finally started rejuvenating the lake at Lodhi Gardens this month. The project, which was conceived 10 months back, aims at recycling of water; de-silting of the lake and making compost out of the sludge; and bio-remediation of the lake water using natural microbial or enzymes. The garden belongs to the British era and the lake has been one of the major attractions among the visitors. It is spread over 6,172 sq metre area and contains 50 lakh litres of water. Seeing the lake’s popularity, the civic agency regularly carries out beautification drive around it. The latest project aims at total rejuvenation of the lake. An NDMC official said, “The newly installed recycling plant near the bridge (on the other side of the lake) lifts the water and filters it properly. It then removes solid waste and dumps purified water back on the other side. This is a regular exercise. However, we might slow down the process in winters.” Prior to the installation of the recycling plant, NDMC was using borewells to fill fresh water in the lake at intervals, while the untreated old water was used for horticulture purposes, such as watering plants. “But the process was difficult and time-consuming. We also need to take care of aquatic life. With the installation of the treatment plant, there is no need to empty the water from the lake after frequent intervals as its quality gets improved automatically,” added the official. “A boat has been engaged for collecting sludge using a pump from the middle of the lake, while staff have been deployed for collection of soil and trash from the banks of the water body. The exercise will be intensified during the rainy season when the flow of soil into the catchment area increases. Collected silt is used as manure for plants in the garden area,” said the official further. For visitors’ attraction, NDMC has also proposed to increase the number of fountains from two to five with LED lights installed around them. During evening hours, people sit next to the lake, especially to watch a raft of ducks swimming on the water surface. “We have made their temporary shelters. The process for constructing a permanent wooden duck house has started and it will be completed in the next three months,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rejuvenation-of-british-era-lake-at-lodhi-gardens-begins/articleshow/76598677.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 25, 2020||Goa||Sawant lacks Parrikar-like authority: Sudin||Panaji: Former minister and MGP MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar on Wednesday said the government’s austerity measures are not being observed by cabinet ministers. Dhavalikar said chief minister Pramod Sawant lacks the authority of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, which can be gauged by the low collection of less than Rs 13 crore in the CM’s Covid Relief Fund. He said this is the lowest collection for any state and if the chief minister does not assert his authority soon, like Parrikar, the state will move towards a major financial crisis within the next three months. “The state government has declared austerity measures and the very next day it has issued tender notices for crores of rupees. It appears the ministers and MLAs are not obeying strictures laid down by the chief minister. I feel they are not bothered about Goa. Looks like they do not know what financial crisis we are in. Then for whom are the austerity circulars issued,” said Dhavalikar. If state transport minister Mauvin Godinho had not created hurdles in implementation of the amended motor vehicles act in Goa, today the increased fines for violations would have brought it revenue to the state, Dhavalikar said. The amended act has been implemented everywhere in the country, except in Goa, he said. “Every other day, the CM is selling security bonds of the state worth Rs 100 to 150 crore. Most of this money is going into paying salaries of government employees and there was no money even to pay the beneficiaries of social schemes the last couple of months. It is not right to impose austerity measures selectively by not making it binding on your ministers, corporation chairpersons,” said Dhavalikar. He said the chief minister lacks the command to generate enough donations to the CM’s Covid Relief Fund. “Not even Rs 13 crore came into the CM’s Covid Relief Fund. The BJP boasts of 4lakh workers in Goa, if each worker had to donate even Rs 1000, then we should have had Rs 40 crore in the relief fund. If we had Manohar Parrikar as CM, we would have collected at least Rs 50 crore as part of the fund by now. Once as CM, Parrikar was falling short of funds and within 24 hours a company donated Rs 25 crore. This kind of command needs to be demonstrated,” said Dhavalikar. If the CM does not exert this kind of authority as finance minister, then in the next three months, the state will not even have enough to pay salaries of its employees, teachers, he said Dhavalikar said that no enough testing and monitoring of Covid-19 spread was being carried out in slum clusters in Mapusa, Margao and Darbhandora taluka too, besides Vasco and Chimbel where cases are on the rise. “It looks like the government itself doesn’t know what it wants. Margao fish market has still not opened. Tourism minister says that hotels to should apply to him if they want to open,” said Dhavalikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-lacks-parrikar-like-authority-sudin/articleshow/76598823.cms||---
June 25, 2020||India||‘Pakistan high commission staff in terror links with J&K ex-DSP’||NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has stumbled upon an alleged terror link between suspended J&K deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh, currently in judicial custody, and Pakistan high commission officials in Delhi. Sources on Wednesday told TOI that the NIA, during its probe into a terror case relating to ferrying of terrorists by Singh in a car, had found that he was in touch with Pakistan high commission (HC) officials as regards his activities purportedly meant to aid terrorists and terror activities in J&K. The NIA has identified the ‘go-between’ through whom Singh was allegedly in touch with some junior staffers at the Pakistan HC, sources said. More details are expected to emerge in the chargesheet to be filed by the NIA against Singh in the first week of July. A source said Singh was in contact with Pakistan HC sta- ffers as part of his terror-related activities that included arranging safe passage for terrorists for monetary considerations, sourcing and transporting weapons and acting as a conduit for terror funds. Another source indicated that the Pakistan HC link found in terror cases being probed by the NIA was one of the factors that led India to ask Pakistan to reduce its stren- gth in the mission here by half. This is not the first time that NIA has traced links of terror cases to Pakistan HC staffers. In a 2017 terror funding case involving Hurriyat Conference leaders, the NIA had allegedly found the role of Pakistan HC staffers in supporting separatist networks in Kashmir through transfer of funds and in providing directions to foster the unrest in the Valley. The ‘go-between’ who put Singh in touch with Pakistan HC staffers is likely to be booked by NIA soon. Singh was granted bail in a separate case filed by the Special Cell of Delhi Police as NIA failed to file chargesheet within the mandatory 90 days after his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-high-commission-staff-in-terror-links-with-jk-ex-dsp/articleshow/76610861.cms||Bharti Jain
June 25, 2020||Agra||Despite presence of heavy police force, multiple rounds fired in ensuing dispute over ‘unmetalled’ road, three injured, video goes viral||Agra: Notwithstanding the presence of heavy police force, residents of Kharsuliya in Etah district and Naaoli in Farrukhabad district exchanged several rounds in the ensuing dispute over an “unmetalled” road on Wednesday, injuring at least three people. According to sources, one Chaviram sustained bullet injury on his head and was rushed to the district hospital in Etah. A video of the clash went viral. Supporters of Aliganj BJP MLA Satyapal Singh Rathore allegedly had dug an unmetalled road connecting the two villages for several decades and when Naaoli residents tried to repair the road a clash broke out. Speaking to TOI, MLA Rathore said, “The disputed land never was a road. It is part of Kharsuliya farmers' farms. Over the years, the land was converted into a temporary road mostly used by Naaoli residents. Due to regular use, the road developed big potholes and craters that Naaoli residents attempted to repair, following which Kharsuliya farmers confronted them.” “The confrontation led to the exchange of fire between the two sides and one villager of our area was injured. Naaoli residents have a couple of metalled roads, but they are adamant to use the farmland as unmetalled road,” said the MLA. After the clash, Etah district magistrate Shukhlal Bharti and superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Singh, accompanied by a heavy police force, reached the spot. Police said the video of the clash revealed that gunshots were exchanged by villagers even in the presence of police. The DM said, “The land dispute will be resolved based on the available land records. But, an FIR will be registered for firing bullets and disrupting the peace in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/despite-presence-of-heavy-police-force-multiple-rounds-fired-in-ensuing-dispute-over-unmetalled-road-three-injured-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76580863.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||Raut should issue order for power bill instalments: BJP||NAGPUR: The BJP has demanded that state energy minister Nitin Raut should issue an order asking MSEDCL to provide three instalments for the June bill. “People should not be required to approach MSEDCL officers and seek instalments. It will lead to crowding and even harassment of consumers by officials,” said MLC Pravin Datke on Wednesday. Datke slammed Raut for misleading people over power bills by using the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC). “Earlier, he (Raut) claimed that MERC had reduced power rates. Raut also promised to provide 100 units of free electricity to all. Now, MSEDCL is sending bills running into thousands of rupees to middle class people and the minister is blaming MERC for it,” he added. Datke and the other BJP legislators of the city have made it clear that unless Raut issues an order for instalments and waives off 100 units per month for March, April and May, the party would launch a vehement agitation from June 29. “Raut should take all the necessary steps by June 28. The June bill should be divided into three and three separate bills should be issued to consumers, payable over a period of three months,” said Datke. The city BJP president said that poor people who used to get a bill of less than Rs300 per month have got a bill of over Rs2,000. “People who earn Rs10,000 a month have received a bill of Rs7,000. How will the poor and middle class pay the bills,” he added. BJP leaders asked consumers not to pay their power bills unless Raut does the needful. “They should take a photocopy of their bill and submit it to BJP corporators, their public contact office or BJP’s Mangalam Tower office in Ganeshpeth. We will collect these bills and launch an agitation against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government,” said Datke. Many MSEDCL offices witnessed crowding on Wednesday following Raut’s announcement on Tuesday that people could seek instalments at the company’s offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-should-issue-order-for-power-bill-instalments-bjp/articleshow/76594662.cms||Ashish Roy
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Three air corridors spiking Delhi’s pollution: Study||NEW DELHI: Pollutants from at least three air corridors contribute to the spike in Delhi’s PM2.5 and PM10 levels each winter, a new real-time source apportionment study has found. The study, which was carried out by scientists from IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi, Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry (LAC) in Switzerland, Physical Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad and Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l’environnement in France, also found 35 different elements in the capital’s air, 26 of which were present in high quantities. Track the pollution level in your cityScientists said each corridor was contributing to a specific set of elements, the combination of which also allowed them to identify the sources of pollution. While the northwest corridor was found bringing in pollutants from as far as Pakistan, apart from Punjab and Haryana, it was also rich in chlorine, bromine and selenium. Similarly, copper, cadmium and lead were found present in large quantities through winds blowing from Nepal and eastern Uttar Pradesh and laden with chromium, nickel and manganese from the northeast corridor in UP. SN Tripathi from IIT-Kanpur said the readings were collected during the winters of 2018 and 2019 with real-time data analysed each day from equipment set up at IIT-Delhi. He said the findings were submitted to Central Pollution Control Board. “Unlike a conventional source-apportionment study, where we can only collect a couple of data points in a day and the filters have to be analysed to identify the particles present, through this model we got readings for both PM2.5 and PM10 every half an hour. As there were 24 data points for PM10 and PM2.5 each day, it allowed us to narrow down our results considerably,” said Tripathi. The data also helped analyse where the pollution was coming from, based on the combination of elements captured. “For instance, high lead could be due to lead smelting or battery-related operations in Nepal. We were also able to identify emissions from power plants as they emit sulphur along with lead and selenium. Simple coal burning only emits high amounts of sulphur, allowing us to pinpoint thermal power plants as a source,” said Tripathi. For non-exhaust and exhaust emissions in Delhi, zinc, which is present in engines, was analysed. This allowed researchers to separate non-exhaust emissions, which carry high amounts of zirconium, an element released due to tyre and brake wear. High amounts of aluminium and lead were found in Delhi’s PM10 concentration. While aluminium was around 25% of total PM10 mass, lead was around 19%. The study further identified two periods during the day when pollution levels spiked, late night and early morning. “Most of these sources had the highest relative contributions during late night (10pm local time) and morning hours (between 3am and 8am), which is consistent with enhanced emissions into a shallow boundary layer,” said the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-air-corridors-spiking-citys-pollution-study/articleshow/76598831.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Open book exams: Delhi University to wait for UGC’s word||NEW DELHI: Following reports about University Grants Commission (UGC) recommending against holding the examination for final-year students, teachers and students of Delhi University are hopeful that the scheduled online open book examination won’t be held. However, a university official said the decision would be taken only after receiving an official communication from UGC. The teachers and students protesting against OBE have made representations to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). OBE for the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of regular and distance learning programmes are to begin on July 1. “We have just heard media reports about this. The university will only take a decision after receiving an official letter. Moreover, we will have to see if the UGC communication is a guideline, an advisory or a recommendation,” the official said. Till then the preparations will continue, with colleges starting the scheduled mock examinations from Thursday. Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray, however, claimed it to be a victory for the protesting students and teachers. DUTA has been objecting to OBE as “it is discriminatory towards a large section of students and erodes the sanctity of the examination process. DUTA hopes that good sense will now prevail upon the DU vice-chancellor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-exams-du-to-wait-for-ugcs-word/articleshow/76598769.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||After Inamul Haq, ATS detains another terror suspect in west UP||Bareilly: Days after Uttar Pradesh's anti-terrorism squad (ATS) arrested terror suspect Inamul Haq, a Bareilly-based man with strong links to al Qaeda operatives in Kashmir, ATS sleuths from Lucknow detained another suspect Mohammad Hannan in western UP on Tuesday. Hannan was picked up from Thakurdwara area of Moradabad on suspicion of links with terror outfits. The man - in his 30s - was already on the police radar. He was arrested two years ago for sharing objectionable images of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. Now, he has been taken to Lucknow for further questioning. Hannan’s name surfaced days after Haq, who was active on social networking sites, was arrested in Bareilly on June 18. On Wednesday, Moradabad's senior superintendent of police Amit Pathak confirmed that the ATS had picked up another suspect from his Sharif Nagar house. ATS inspector Manjeet Singh, who was leading the team which detained Hannan, told TOI that after questioning him in Bareilly, he was taken to Lucknow by another team for further interrogation. “One of our teams took him [Hannan] to Lucknow in the afternoon where he will be questioned again. In our initial probe, his name surfaced along with a few others on Haq's contact list,” he said, adding that they would take further action if any links with terror outfits or Haq is found. Like Haq, Hannan was also active on social networking sites. He was sent to jail in 2017 for sharing objectionable images. He remained in a Bijnor prison for 45 days. According to a source, an ATS team is still camping in Moradabad to scan identities of more individuals - all part of Haq's social media friends' list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-inamul-haq-ats-detains-another-terror-suspect-in-west-up/articleshow/76580880.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||‘Missing’ Moradabad Covid-19 +ve woman located, taken back to hospital||Bareilly: Moradabad administration officials breathed easy on Wednesday after a woman, who had gone “missing” around the time the positive result of her Covid-19 tested arrived at the district hospital, was traced and later shifted to institutional quarantine. According to medical officials, a 23-year-old woman from Nawabpura was brought to the hospital by her parents after she displayed Covid-19-like symptoms on Monday evening. Doctors said at the time of admission, she was suffering from fever. “On Tuesday, her samples were sent for testing. The report arrived today [Wednesday]. However, we then found she had gone missing without informing anyone. Immediately, we informed police, who reached her home only to find she was not there. Later though, she was found at her maternal home in Daulat Bagh,” said district Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Dinesh Kumar Premi. Health officials said the woman has now been shifted to the quarantine centre at Teerthanker Mahaveer University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-moradabad-covid-19-ve-woman-located-taken-back-to-hospital/articleshow/76580913.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 25, 2020||Agra||Getting difficult to follow social distancing norms, says BJP MP||Agra: While the BJP government has been urging people to maintain social distancing in public places, their party MP from Hathras Rajvir Diler expressed helplessness about not being able to follow rules at railway station in Aligarh on Tuesday while flagging-off the Bihar bound trains. Diler said, “It gets difficult when the crowd is big but space is less. We are trying to manage the situation.” An administrative official said that they were trying to implement social distancing norms. However, it got difficult to do so as the labourers had a lot of luggage and the children were not listening to their parents. Many videos went viral on social media showing people sitting next to each other on the ground as the queue moved slowly. The videos make it clear that no social distancing norms were maintained. On Tuesday, three trains carrying over 5,000 workers pulled out of Aligarh railway station, all headed for Gaya in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/getting-difficult-to-follow-social-distancing-norms-says-bjp-mp/articleshow/76580886.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Agra||UP to scale up Covid testing, collect 22k samples a day||Agra: A day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) urged the state governments to scale up testing for Covid-19, the UP government on Wednesday directed all district authorities to fix a target of collecting more than 200 samples from each district on a daily basis. This measure would scale up the testing capacity to 22,000 per day. India’s apex body for the formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research said that the formula of ‘test, track and treat’ is the only way to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection. It is imperative that testing should be made available to all symptomatic individuals in every part of the country so that contact tracing mechanisms for containment of infection are further strengthened,” said ICMR in a tweet on Tuesday. The government directed all the districts to ensure that they send more than 200 samples on Wednesday as the chief minister had expressed displeasure over low sampling in some districts. Besides, health officials in districts across the state were also directed to double the number of pool sampling. On Wednesday, health officials collected 200 samples of chemists and health workers from each of the 16 districts which reported a large number of Covid positive cases. Earlier, the target for sample collection in these districts was 100. Similarly, 4,000 samples were taken instead of 2,000 from 40 districts falling in low risk areas like Rampur, Barabanki and Hapur. Forty samples were taken from each of the 19 districts including Mirzapur, Farrukhabad, Unnao, and Baghpat where prevalence rate of the disease is moderate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-to-scale-up-covid-testing-collect-22k-samples-a-day/articleshow/76580982.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Corona records highest number of cases in 50 days in Punjab, kills 8||Chandigarh: With the surfacing of 230 fresh cases of Covid-19, Punjab on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike in 50 days, taking the overall tally to 4,627, while eight deaths were reported. The state had seen 355 cases on May 2. Of the new cases, 115 were contacts of positive cases, while in 15 cases, the health department teams failed to trace the source of infection. In 16 cases, the source of infection was outside the state. Sangrur recorded the highest number of 64 cases, which include 52 contacts of positive cases, while in five cases, health teams failed to trace the transmission history. As many as 43 persons were found infected in Jalandhar, 33 in Muktsar and 27 tested positive in Ludhiana. Fourteen cases were reported from Amritsar, while nine cases each surfaced in Kapurthala and Patiala. Pathankot added another seven cases to the tally and six cases surfaced in Bathinda. Five persons were found to be infected in Mohali, four in Ferozepur, three in Ropar and one each in Mansa, Moga, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Nawanshahr. During the day, eight more persons died of Covid-19 — four in Jalandhar, two in Amritsar and one each in Kapurthala and Sangrur, taking the overall death toll to 113. A total of 52 patients were discharged after recovery. In Muktsar, five patients are of a family from Thandewala Road area, two from Abohar Road, three from Model Town, eight from Gidderbaha, one each from Gurusar and Jandwala villages, two from Rasoolpur Kera, 10 from Malout town. A sub-inspector of Punjab Police tested positive in Faridkot district. He had come in contact with a 22-year-old person from Gurdaspur who had been arrested in some case. While the state bulletin confirmed four cases in Ferozepur, district civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh confirmed five cases. He said the district’s tally had increased to 79, of which 47 patients had recovered. 34 shifted out of Jalandhar A total of 16 cases reported from Jalandhar were shifted to other states, while another 18 cases were moved to other districts (With inputs from Bathinda and Ferozepur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corona-records-highest-number-of-cases-in-50-days-in-punjab-kills-8/articleshow/76594701.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn delays contact tracing of Covid-19 patient||Trichy: An employee of a jewellery shop in Trichy city tested positive for Covid-19 on June 22, but the city corporation failed to act on it, it is alleged. The corporation officials initiated contact tracing of the 28-year-old male staff of the shop located on NSB Road only on Wednesday.However, corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian quoted the shop management as saying that the staff quit the job two weeks ago. “I was told by the shop management that he had resigned from his job 15 days ago. Yet, we informed them to disinfect the shop on their own,” Sivasubramanian told ToI.Going by the report of Thuraiyur tahsildar, the employee is a resident of Ponnusangampatti village. He was on duty on June 1 and stayed in a company-provided facility along with 300 employees. Since he developed fever on June 20, he had gone to a primary health centre in Uppiliyapuram and given his samples for testing. The result that came on June 22 showed that he was positive.The commissioner admitted that he has not asked them to shut down the shop for a few days after the infection. “But I have ordered our team to check the health condition of the employees,” he said.Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI that he had asked the officials concerned to quarantine the patient’s contacts.Responding to the matter, the proprietor of the firm P Mookkapillai said, “The staff left the shop on June 16. We have disinfected the shop. The corporation officials checked the health condition of around 100 employees who were staying with him in the hostel. We have been taking utmost care to ensure that both the staff and our customers are not affected by the virus,” he told ToI adding that thermal screening and face masks were made compulsory for the customers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-delays-contact-tracing-of-covid-19-patient/articleshow/76594708.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||Social organisations come in support of Van Gujjars||Dehradun: Several organisations working for the cause of women issues and nomadic communities in Uttarakhand, staged demonstrations in Ramnagar, Almora, and Khatima on Wednesday over the alleged thrashing of members of the Van Gujjar community by forest officials last week. The members of these organisations said that they condemned the attacks on the tribespeople and demanded action against officials responsible. Meanwhile, the Van Gujjar Yuva Sangthan, an association representing young members of the Van Gujjar community on Wednesday sent a memorandum to governor Baby Rani Maurya saying, "Some Van Gujjars are locked at a police chowki since June 17. One of our women was also beaten brutally by police personnel." Reacting to the allegations , forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that he has ordered a probe into both the recent alleged atrocities against the Van Gujjars — at Pauri, where around 20 settlements were said to have been burnt by the forest staff and the recent episode at Rajaji Tiger Reserve where two women Van Gujjars were beaten brutally and four forest officials also said to have sustained injuries. “A senior IFS officer has been tasked to give an inquiry report within 15 days so that the culprits can be punished. Forest officials asking Van Gujjars to vacate forest land dring Covid-times is surprising. If it is a matter of personal animosity, then the culprits will not be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/social-organisations-come-in-support-of-van-gujjars/articleshow/76585641.cms||Shivani Azad
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||After lockdown, diesel price hike singes TSRTC||HYDERABAD: Diesel price spike has dealt a lethal blow to TSRTC, which is already in losses. The fuel price on Monday was hiked by 58 paise to record high as the oil companies increased prices for the 16th day in a row. Diesel is up by Rs 9.46 due to which TSRTC has to shell out an additional Rs 172 crore per annum. The corporation consumes about six lakh litres of diesel per day. Normally, it operates 10,000 buses daily. “Though the diesel prices are jacking up every day, the RTC bus ticket fare is unchanged. It cannot be enhanced or revised in tune with the rising prices of diesel,” an RTC official said. The occupancy ratio in TSRTC buses is less than 40% due to Covid-19 fear. The per day revenue, which used to be Rs 12 crore before the lockdown, has now come down to Rs 4 crore. The only solace to TSRTC management is that it is not operating all its 10,000-bus fleet. Bus services have not been resumed in Greater Hyderabad. Only 5,000-odd buses were being operated daily now. Even diesel consumption is only three lakh litres per day. So, the corporation is spending Rs 25 lakh more per day towards enhanced fuel prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-lockdown-diesel-price-hike-singes-tsrtc/articleshow/76594734.cms||Roushan Ali
June 25, 2020||Agra||Spread awareness, do not put lockdown violators in jail: HC to Agra police||Agra: The Allahabad high court has advised the police to spread awareness on "adversities" of lockdown violation instead of putting violators in jail. The HC observation came after some Agra residents moved the court after they were booked by police for violating lockdown restrictions. Disposing of the petition filed by the Agra residents, who had moved the court seeking quashing of the FIR lodged against them by police for lockdown violation, the high court bench comprising of Justice Sunita Agarwal and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh stated, “In our opinion, it would be more advisable to create awareness and consciousness among people rather than putting them in jail or lockup which are already overcrowded.” The FIR was lodged against seven persons for violating lockdown restrictions in Tajganj area of the city on May 4. All of them were booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and also for violating prohibitory orders issued by the Agra police. While hearing the plea on June 19, the high court ordered that the petitioners should not be arrested till the submission of the police report in the case. The court observed that the only allegation against the petitioners was that the protocol of social distancing was not followed by a group of 8-10 people at a public place. It also stated that there was no allegation of any “untoward incident” occurring at the place at that time. In the plea, the petitioners had informed the court that they were distributing food packets to the poor in the locality when many people gathered at the spot. The petitioners also told the court that they had made all efforts to disperse the crowd. The court said the petitioners should be granted an opportunity to mend themselves, provided that all of them file an undertaking before the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Agra, stating that they would follow all norms and protocol of Covid-19 in future. The SSP shall do the needful considering the undertaking given by the petitioners, stated the court. “There is no doubt that denizens of the city are under obligation to follow the protocol of social distancing in the country's collective fight against Covid-19 pandemic. It is the responsibility of each and every person to be aware of the protocol and see that others also follow it strictly,” the high court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/spread-awareness-do-not-put-lockdown-violators-in-jail-hc-to-agra-police/articleshow/76580918.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 25, 2020||Agra||Three, including minor, found murdered in Kasganj and Firozabad||Agra: At least three, including a nine-year-old boy, were found murdered on Wednesday morning in Kasganj and Agra districts. In Kasganj, the victim was identified as Yanshu, resident of Bakner village. He was found strangulated to death inside his home which was locked from inside, while his parents and two siblings were out for work. The victim's father Rajendra alleged it to be a case of robbery-cum-murder. Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Pavitra Mohan Tripathi of Kasganj said, "A police team is probing the matter and an FIR has been registered against unknown accused." Meanwhile, in Agra, two men were found murdered in Shamshabad and Fatehabad police limits. One 60-year-old victim, idenified as Narayan Singh, was bludgeoned to death while he was sleeping on a cot outside his home in Hirner village of Shamshabad police, while a 40-year-old man Janardan Singh was shot dead in farm field of Fatehabad area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-including-minor-found-murdered-in-kasganj-and-firozabad/articleshow/76580940.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 fight hit by frequent transfers of key officials: AAP||NEW DELHI: The recent appointment of 1990-batch AGMUT-cadre officer Bhupinder Singh Bhalla as principal secretary (home) and nodal officer for Covid-19 management has become a flashpoint for the AAP dispensation, which has blamed the Centre for not taking it into confidence before taking such an important decision. Bhalla’s appointment to Delhi government was the latest in the string of transfers of several senior and middle-rung IAS and DANICS officers to the capital in the last few weeks by the Union ministry of home affairs, their cadre-controlling authority. As nodal officer for the “overall management of Covid-19” in Delhi, Bhalla replaced 1993-batch IAS Vikram Dev Dutt, who holds the charge of principal secretary in the department of health and family welfare. Interestingly, Dutt was given this responsibility on June 7, when he was shifted to Delhi from Andaman and Nicobar Islands where he was posted as chief secretary. Prior to Dutt, 1988-batch IAS Satya Gopal, who was posted as additional chief secretary in Delhi government’s home department, was the nodal officer for Covid-19 management. Gopal continues to hold the charge of land and building and services departments as additional chief secretary. As principal secretary of health and family welfare department, Dutt had replaced 1995-batch IAS officer H Rajesh Prasad earlier this month. Prasad, who had been given charge on April 15, was responsible for managing and coordinating with all health agencies and other departments involved in controlling Covid-19. A senior Delhi government official said that the Centre’s indecisiveness in posting of bureaucrats in key departments had cost the city as several initiatives suffered due to non-continuity of the heads. “In the last three months, key officers involved in managing the corona crisis have been changed frequently without taking the elected government into confidence. Removing officers from important posts without any reason affects their morale,” said a Delhi government spokesperson. The spokesperson added, “It also disturbs the chain of command as every new officer has to first get a hang of all the ongoing efforts. The continuity of officers in key positions is important to fight the pandemic proactively.” Reacting to the allegations, an officer in the LG’s secretariat said that efforts were being made to strengthen Delhi government to fight the pandemic effectively. “About eight new officers have been posted in various departments to handle the key issues,” he added. Another official added that a couple of officers were replaced on the request of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Since the services department is controlled by the LG, all decisions on transfer and postings are being taken by him for the past few years without discussing with the elected government,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-fight-hit-by-frequent-transfers-of-key-officials-aap/articleshow/76598868.cms||Atul Mathur
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Police crackdown on vendors for violation of safety norms||Trichy: The Trichy city police has registered cases against seven shops in Big Bazaar Street and other areas for violation of safety norms as part of the Covid-19 prevention measures. Two employees of two jewellery shops were also arrested and released on bail. One of the busiest commercial areas, Big Bazaar Street could prove disastrous in case the infections break out from there. The common offence committed by the shop owners was not wearing masks and switching on the air-conditioners despite the restrictions on their use in commercial establishments during the lockdown. Another concerning factor was the callous attitude of the people in maintaining social distancing. Sub-inspector of the Fort police station, Sivasamy said, “Some of them feel wearing mask causes disturbance to them. So, they avoid using it. We have been advising them to follow the safety measures strictly to avoid getting infected. If they continue to violate the norms, they are booked and arrested.”Health department officials pointed out the lack of ventilation in air-conditioned shops. They have insisted the owners to provide additional ventilation in such shops. Apart from Big Bazaar Street, police are also keeping a watch on other commercial areas like Thillai Nagar, Gandhi Market, Palakkarai to book the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-crackdown-on-vendors-for-violation-of-safety-norms/articleshow/76594774.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||Azam’s close aide arrested, stolen buffaloes, gold ornaments found||Rampur: One of Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan's close aides was arrested in Rampur on Wednesday. Khan's media in-charge Fasahat Ali Khan, alias Shanu, had 16 criminal cases against him. Police also recovered two stolen buffaloes and other stolen gold and silver ornaments from Fasahat's farmhouse in Koyala village. In September 2019, some residents of Yateem Khana had lodged FIRs against Azam Khan and his aides for charges of robbery. They had also alleged that their houses were vandalised by Khan's supporters and their animals were robbed. In one of the FIRs, a complainant had alleged that her four goats, three buffaloes, one cow and a calf were taken away. Rampur SP Shaghun Gautam told TOI, "Fasahat Khan, while questioning, had revealed that he had stolen the buffaloes and other items from inside the houses of the Yateem Khana residents on the instruction of Azam Khan. Most of the other accused involved in the crime are already on bail, while a few others need to be questioned." Police produced Fasahat before the court of the additional chief judicial magistrate on Wednesday evening. He was later sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azams-close-aide-arrested-stolen-buffaloes-gold-ornaments-found/articleshow/76581002.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||31 +ve, HP cases cross 800 mark||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 31 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, even as 34 patients were discharged from hospital after they recovered from the virus. With this, the state’s tally for coronavirus crossed the 800 mark. Among districts, Hamirpur got the highest number of cases, 16. It was followed by four cases in Chamba, three each in Solan, Kangra and Una, and one each in Bilaspur and Shimla districts. Patients who have been discharged include 14 in Una, 11 in Solan, three each in Shimla and Hamirpur, two in Kangra, and one in Mandi. Of the total 806 cases in the state so far, 321 are active, 466 patients have recovered, 11 have migrated out of state, six have died of Covid-19 and two others have died of reasons other than Covid-19. The number of cases in Hamirpur has reached 221, with 106 of them being active, 114 patients recovering and one dying. Chamba’s tally hit 50, with 14 cases active. Kangra’s count rose to 211, the second highest in the state. In other districts, the count is: Bilaspur (38), Kinnaur (3), Kullu (5), Mandi (24), Shimla (37), Sirmaur (34), Solan (84), and Una (99). So far, 68,899 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 67,420 have tested negative and results of 673 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/31-ve-hp-cases-cross-800-mark/articleshow/76594752.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Business||Labour dept officers donate to state relief fund||Kolkata: Members of West Bengal Labour Department Officers’ Association have decided to stand behind the people of West Bengal at the time of unforeseen crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. Accordingly, the members of West Bengal Labour Department Officers’ Association have started collecting contributions from the offices across the state and have been able to gather a sum of Rs 1.51 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/labour-dept-officers-donate-to-state-relief-fund/articleshow/76594759.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand Ayush department sends notice to Patanjali, says firm had taken licence to make immunity booster, not Covid medicine||Dehradun/Haridwar: The Uttarakhand Ayush department on Wednesday sent a notice to yoga guru Ramdev’s Divya Pharmacy, a unit of Patanjali Yogpeeth, asking the firm to “desist from making misleading claims in media outlets regarding the products, ‘Divya Coronil tablet’ and ‘Divya Swasari Vati’ as being a cure for Covid-19.” The notice, a copy of which is with TOI, says that a complaint has been received by the department regarding ‘Divya Coronil tablet’ and ‘Divya Swasari Vati’ being packaged along with ‘Anu tel’ (oil), another Patanjali product, as a ‘Corona kit’ for the cure of Covid-19. The notice goes on to say that the firm had been given permission by the Ayush department vide letter dated June 12, 2020 regarding production of Divya Swasari Vati for treatment of kasa (cough) and swasa (breathing order) and Divya Coronil tablet as an immunity booster, especially against respiratory tract infection and fever. “In the permission given by the department for the production of the aforesaid medicines, there is no mention of Covid-19 treatment at all. Neither has the licencing authority given any approval regarding the so-called ‘Corona kit’. Also, the label of ‘Divya Coronil’ packet has a picture of coronavirus on it which is a violation of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 and the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 — Rule 170 & Rule 161,” says the notice, adding that in light of the violations, the firm is being asked to reply why shouldn’t action be taken against it and permission given to it for manufacturing of related medicines be cancelled. Speaking to TOI, Dr YS Rawat, licencing officer (Ayurvedic & Unani) of the state Ayush department, who is the signatory of the notice, said, “Divya Pharmacy has been asked to reply with their clarification within seven days and has also been asked to remove all misleading claims regarding the ‘Divya Coronil tablet’, ‘Divya Swasari Vati’ and ‘Corona kit’ from media outlets on immediate basis.”  Incidentally, state Ayush minister Harak Singh Rawat while speaking to mediapersons regarding the controversy surrounding the medicines formulated by Patanjali, also maintained that the ingredients of these medicines are similar to what the Ayush department is distributing to Covid warriors and others to boost their immunity. “Such kits are being given to people in hospitals and to corona warriors since the past few months. They contain powdered herbs like tulsi, giloy and ashwagandha. We are specifying that these are meant as immunity boosters and are not a cure for Covid-19,” the minister said. Meanwhile, Dr Anurag Varshneya, vice-president of Patanjali Research Institute (PRI), the research wing of Patanjali Ayurved, said that they have sent “all requisite research documents and information to the Union Ayush ministry.” “After we received a letter from the ministry on Tuesday, all documents were sent to them on the same day itself,” he said adding that “the process prescribed by the ministry for clinical research on coronavirus drugs in its gazette notification dated April 21, 2020 was strictly followed.” He further said that “for clinical controlled trials, all 100 patients recruited were those who were RTPCR Covid-positive.” “All of them were asymptomatic and the severity of their infection was mild to moderate. For treatment, they were divided into two groups of 50 patients each. One group was given medicines and the other was given placebo. On the 3rd day, 69% of patients from the treatment group and 52% from the placebo group were found negative. On the 7th day, the percentage of patients testing negative was 100 and 65, respectively. That is to say, the medicine helped Covid-positive patients turn negative and facilitated 100% recovery,” Varshneya said. Regarding permission for research on medicine for Covid, Varshneya said, “We have the approval of Central Trial Registry of India (CTRI) for which the institutional ethics committee’s approval is a precondition.” He added that “the Ayush ministry had noted in a gazette notification dated April 21 this year that there was no approved treatment for Covid-19 infection and there were huge possibilities of use of traditional Indian medicines, ayurvedic, unani, siddh or homeopathic to check/manage Covid-19, provided there are proofs of their efficacy.” “After consulting experts, the ministry had decided to allow scientists of any recognised system of medicine, researchers or doctors to do research to develop a medicine for Covid-19. It had devised a protocol to be followed for such research. This included approval of the institutional ethics committee, registration with CTRI and observance of guidelines for good clinical trials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-ayush-department-sends-notice-to-patanjali-says-firm-had-taken-licence-to-make-immunity-booster-not-covid-medicine/articleshow/76581045.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||Man shoots wife, attacks her with knife & brick in Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: Police have arrested a man for killing his wife on Wednesday morning in Samimabad area of Lakhimpur Kheri district. The man first shot at the woman, stabbed her with a knife and later attacked her with a brick. After killing her in a field, the man came to the main road and told passersby that he murdered his wife. Police said that Ranjeet, a resident of Banda area, was married to Manju from Samimabad area. The woman had left her husband’s home nearly three months back as she was reportedly having an extra-marital affair. Ranjeet had gone to Samimabad to ask his wife to return home. On Thursday morning, the couple was returning on a bike when they had an argument and Ranjeet shot at her. He stabbed her with a knife and also attacked her with a brick. Soon after killing his wife, the accused came to the main road and informed passersby about the murder. According to a video which went viral, the accused can be heard telling passersby that he has been asking his wife to return home but she was not ready. On receiving news from locals, the police arrested the husband from the spot. Additional superintendent of police Shailendra Lal said, “The woman had eloped with someone. The accused husband went to Samimabad to bring her back home. The couple had a dispute on the way and the husband killed his wife.” The accused has been booked under section 302 (murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shoots-wife-attacks-her-with-knife-brick-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/76581118.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 cases go past 1,000 in Madurai, 2,000 in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: Covid-19 positive cases in Madurai crossed the 1,000-mark with 97 new cases on Wednesday, while the number of cases in the southern districts touched 4,417 with 334 new cases. A 70-year-old man died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in the central region crossed 2,000 with highest single-day spike of 219 new cases on Wednesday.The sixth casualty of Trichy was a man from East Boulevard Road in Trichy. Sources said that his relatives created ruckus at the hospital following his death.All the 97 cases reported in Madurai were local cases taking the total tally to 1,073. Among them seven cases were cross notified to other districts. Meanwhile, the first floor of the DRM’s office, Madurai Railway Division, was closed as an employee working in the engineering section tested positive on Wednesday. Only the signaling section is working on the floor now. As many as 23 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the Railway Hospital.Theni district, where restrictions were in place, reported 81 new cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 365.A 75-year-old man from Ramanathapuram died at Sivaganga Government Hospital on June 21, but the death was reported on Wednesday only.Eight districts - Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapapattinam - contributed 219 cases to the total tally of 2,107 in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-cases-go-past-1000-in-madurai-2000-in-central-dists/articleshow/76594822.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Dehradun||20-yr-old attempts to deliver baby on own, fails; newborn dies, girl rushed to hospital bleeding profusely||Dehradun: A 20-year-old girl allegedly tried to deliver a baby at home but when the attempt failed and she started bleeding profusely, was rushed to the Gandhi Shatabdi hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. According to doctors at the hospital, the girl arrived at the hospital bleeding excessively and in great pain. A doctor who was on duty at the emergency ward said, “After examining the girl, we found that there was a tear in her private parts which happens only in two cases — rape or delivery. When we questioned the girl---who is unmarried---she accepted that she had delivered a child a short time back.” Immediately, the hospital staff alerted police and the girl and her mother revealed that they were carrying the baby’s body packed in two polybags, which they had hidden in a bag with other clothes and stuff. According to the hospital authorities, the girl’s mother claimed that the birth happened in the hospital’s washroom and they rushed to the emergency after the baby was delivered accidentally. The doctor said, “It was such a horrifying scene. Their claim of delivering the baby in the hospital fell flat when we checked the washrooms which were all clean and without any sign of blood or stain which happens in the case of a delivery.” She added that the motive of the girl and her mother seemed to be to dump the baby, a plan that failed as she started bleeding excessively after the delivery. The hospital authorities, in a written complaint to police, have sought a postmortem of the baby. They have also admitted the girl who is now being treated in the hospital. Meanwhile, Dalanwala station house officer Mani Bhushan Srivastava said, “The girl has claimed that she delivered the baby in the hospital's washroom. We have sent the body for autopsy and things will be clear once the postmortem report comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/20-yr-old-attempts-to-deliver-baby-on-own-fails-newborn-dies-girl-rushed-to-hospital-bleeding-profusely/articleshow/76581122.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks govt reply on plea claiming wills not being registered||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the AAP government to respond to a PIL that claimed sub-registrars in the capital are not registering “wills”' and other documents of senior citizens, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women, citing risk of Covid infection. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to Delhi government seeking its response to the plea by a lawyer who highlighted the plight of this category of citizens who are unable to avail administrative services. Filed by advocate Gautam Gambhir, the PIL has also urged the court to direct setting up of a special help desk and facility for assistance to be provided to senior citizens and other vulnerable persons to get their wills and other important documents registered. It further seeks an end to “archaic procedures and to adopt suitable mechanism for registration of documents through digital or other means to avoid contamination as a preparedness to Covid-19 like situations”. Currently for registration of documents, a person has to appear personally before the sub-registrar concerned, the plea informs the court, adding that an applicant is required submit fingerprints using traditional Ink Pads which is same for all persons, making the “entire procedure unsafe and hazardous for all persons visiting the offices of the sub registrar in view of the Covid-19.” The PIL said “verbal refusal of the sub registrars to register testamentary Documents is causing immense hardship and undue harassment to the Senior citizens and due to the lack of proper guidelines / policy, the vulnerable persons have to risk their lives” for getting documents registered. Gambhir, in his plea, has contended that senior citizens and others vulnerable to COVID-19 “are being unlawfully deprived and prevented from getting their testamentary and non-testamentary documents registered in the office of the Sub-Registrars in New Delhi on account of misinterpretation of lockdown guidelines.” The petitioner cited his experience where one of his clients needed to register a will. When the lawyer enquired after relaxation of lockdown from May 18, he was initially assured that operations will resume from the first week of June. But when he reached the office earlier this month, after taking appointment, he was verbally refused by the official on the ground that “the process would take 10-15 minutes meeting and discussion with the sub-registrar in person, which will violate rules of social distancing and may lead to Covid-19 infection to either side.” The petition argues that "in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases the immediate apprehension to life has become even more frightening, thereby, leading to an urgent need for the making and registration of wills by senior citizens and such persons who wish to secure the bequest of their property among their rightful heirs"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-claiming-wills-not-being-registered/articleshow/76594920.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Trichy||BDU Kajahmalai campus to house low-risk patients||Trichy: The guest house and boys and girls hostels in Bharathidasan University's Kajahmalai campus in the city have been converted into Covid Care Centre (CCC) as per the request of district administration. A 100-bed facility has been set up in the Kajahmalai campus and handed over to the district administration, said G Gopinath, BDU registrar while speaking to TOI. The facility is meant for keeping asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients under observation. A total of 32 patients have been accommodated in the guest house of the university on Tuesday night. Earlier during the onset of Covid-19, hostels in the main campus of BDU were kept ready to be converted to a quarantine facility. However, it wasn’t used as cases did not spike during that time. The public health department staffs are anticipating a large influx of cases which has prompted them to look for alternative places to house the low-risk patients. Government hospitals in Trichy including Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) and primary health centres together have a total 530 beds. These beds with ventilator facility can be utilised to give treatment for aged, pregnant woman, comorbid condition and children. Government college of engineering in Sethurapatti village of Srirangam is being used as quarantine facility for those coming from abroad. While there are 300 beds, public health officials say that the facility too may be converted in to CCC soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-kajahmalai-campus-to-house-low-risk-patients/articleshow/76594870.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 25, 2020||Nagpur||APMC fined, told to shift bakra mandi in two weeks||NAGPUR: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) was slapped with a fine of Rs25,000 for not complying with the directives of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to shift the Bakra Mandi from Wathoda to Kalamna Market. During an urgent hearing of the application filed by Umesh Utkhede and others in an earlier PIL on Wednesday, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar asked the registry to transfer the amount to the ‘Chief Minister’s Relief Fund’. The petitioners, through their counsel Kartik Shukul, pointed out that despite HC’s specific orders to the APMC and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the mandi continued to operate from the residential area near Symbiosis International University. “The APMC has been directed to make the mandi functional at Kalamna Market within two weeks. The creation of all other infrastructural facilities can go on by permitting the sale of goats. We aren’t directing APMC to permit animals for slaughtering or sale of meat. We also direct NMC to close down the mandi from Wathoda after the expiry of two weeks and see that such activities are not carried out there,” the judges said. Earlier, on May 26, the HC had disposed of the PIL regarding the shifting of the Bakra Mandi after APMC, which filed an intervention, agreed to take it to Kalamna. However, neither the APMC nor the NMC took efforts for nearly a month. “In the absence of any claim for time to establish the mandi in Kalamna, we got the impression that all the infrastructural facilities are ready and the market can be made functional immediately,” the judges said. The APMC counsel then came up with an excuse saying the creation of all infrastructural facilities in Kalamna will require at least four weeks. “We’re unable to understand such a stand in the light of what transpired before us on May 26. We were made to carry an impression that the APMC is prepared to establish the Bakra Mandi immediately or at least in eight days. We find it to be total misrepresentation on the APMC’s part and direct it to deposit the cost,” the bench tersely observed. Considering the difficulties expressed by the APMC in creation of facilities, the HC granted it two weeks to shift the mandi. “In case of APMC’s failure, we direct NMC to take all such coercive measures as permissible in law to close down the market after two weeks,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/apmc-fined-told-to-shift-bakra-mandi-in-two-weeks/articleshow/76594888.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 25, 2020||Goa||How will reporting to schools improve e-learning, ask teachers||Panaji: The Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association of Goa (HISTAG) on Wednesday criticised the directorate of education circular which made it mandatory for all teachers to report to school from June 24. Association president Anant Pissurlekar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant and director of education Vandana Rao should explain how online teaching will improve if done from school premises. Pissurlekar said that teachers are at risk as the number of Covid-19 cases in Goa are rising. He also said that the manner in which the CM spoke about teachers during his press conference earlier this week, it showed teachers in bad light. “The government decision to call so many teachers to work without students being at school, in the absence of proper transport and other facilities, is very surprising and appears to have been taken without giving a second thought,” said Pissurlekar. He said teachers cannot be compared to other government servants whose work demands that they be physical present in office. “The attitude of education minister Pramod Sawant seen in the press meeting held on June 22 towards teaching community shows teachers in bad light. We request the chief minister and director to follow national guidelines, which encourages work from home, and to rethink the decision and kindly come out with a solution which involves the safety of the students and teachers,” Pissurlekar said. The government should decide whether it just wants to keep teachers busy or it is serious about imparting quality education through the online mode, he said. “Teachers have taken up online teaching considering it as duty without having any written instructions nor any guidelines in the interest of student community. We urge the government to justify how quality of online education can be improved by teaching from schools. On the contrary, forcing teachers to visit schools for online teaching will definitely affect quality,” said Pissurlekar. He said teachers have worked hard during the last few months to carry out student assessment, supervision for Class XII exams, to conduct door-to-door health survey and attend training on e-learning. “It should be noted that preparing one online lecture means four working hours for preparation. Was there a need to call teachers so abruptly when the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state and students are not called to schools?” said Pissurlekar. He said almost all teachers have bought a laptop, hotspot, WiFi connections at their residence to facilitate e-learning. “Teachers never asked for government support to acquire all required for online teaching,” said the HISTAG president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/how-will-reporting-to-schools-improve-e-learning-ask-teachers/articleshow/76599214.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||JAC demands govt to fill 2.5L vacancies||Hyderabad: The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the unemployed youth associations has demanded that the state government fill 2.5 lakh vacancies in the government sector. Until the vacancies are filled up, the government should give Rs 3,000 per month unemployment allowance to the 16 lakh youth who have registered with Telangana State Public Service Commission for jobs, JAC demanded. “Unemployment allowance is an election promise made by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and he should honour it,” JAC chairman Neela Venkatesh said and announced the meeting of the JAC has decided to conduct relay hunger strikes in all the mandal and district headquarters in the state on June 26. The JAC demanding that the government fill up 50,000 vacant posts of teachers in various schools, 1600 posts in Group I, 4,000 posts in Group II, 8,000 posts in Group III and another 40,000 posts in clerical cadre should be filled up immediately coming out with recruitment notification for these posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jac-demands-govt-to-fill-2-5l-vacancies/articleshow/76594974.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Agra||UP: Pregnant woman out to relieve herself in a field gives birth, newborn taken away by wild animal||AGRA: A pregnant woman, 26, who lived in a UP village declared open defecation free (ODF) by the government, delivered a child in an open field where she had gone to relieve herself on Tuesday morning. Tragically, the newborn was taken away by some wild animal soon after the birth as the woman lay unconscious there near Chambal ravines, far away from any medical assistance. There was no trace of the newborn, a boy, till Wednesday night. The incident took place in Jodhapura village of Agra. After the woman, Shilpi Chauhan, didn’t turn up for hours, her family members launched a search and found her lying in a pool of blood. She was rushed to a private hospital where her condition is stable now. She told later, “I had gone to the field to relieve myself. But I got labour pain there and gave birth to a boy. Soon after that, I fell unconscious. However, when my relatives found me after two hours, the baby was missing.” Speaking to TOI, her husband Sunil Chauhan said, “Every family in the village has a toilet built with the help of government aid. But when I contacted gram pradhan Gajendra Singh for financial aid, he refused to help saying my residential address in Aadhaar was of Ragunathpura. However, when I showed documents of ancestral property, including the farms, he accepted that my original roots are of Jodhapura village.” But the toilet was not built. Shilpi and Sunil had moved back to their ancestral home three years ago from Ragunathpura. After the incident, senior district officials comprising sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Bah, Abdul Basit, block development officer Pinhat, R K Singh met the family. Speaking to TOI, Basit said, “Jodhapura is a remote village with 12 families. Out of that 11 have toilets, barring Sunil’s home. During probe, we found that Sunil along with his wife and five-year-old daughter returned to village from Pinhat sub-urban area (Ragunathpura) three years ago. Since Sunil’s Aadhaar carries Ragunathpura address, he was not eligible to get toilet at his ancestral village Jodhapura.” “Once he updates his Aadhaar and ration card address, the gram pradhan will process his application for the toilet. However, it’s tragic that the family lost a newborn to a wild animal,” he added. Read this story in BengaliWatch UP: Pregnant woman out to relieve herself in a field gives birth, wild animal takes away newborn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/out-to-attend-natures-call-near-her-odf-village-woman-26-delivers-child-wild-animal-takes-it-away/articleshow/76585881.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan University teachers not conducting online classes, allege students||JAIPUR: Though Rajasthan University had issued orders to start the process of online classes for all departments on the campus, only a few teachers have implemented it. As part of the move, teachers were asked to purchase the required software and equipment, the expenses of which would be borne by the university. However, most teachers have neither purchased the gadgets nor installed the softwares needed to run online classes, sources said. NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said only a few teachers have started online classes. “We had our public administration class on Monday but the next class is not decided. Some teachers are taking classes on Google Meet, Zoom and Skype. There is no uniformity. Some are uploading content on YouTube or sending links of YouTube videos. The administration needs to monitor the faculty members as most of them haven’t started online classes,” said Bhati. The university administration has allotted Rs 5,000 to teachers for purchasing software. There is a high possibility that physical classes will not be possible for another two months, so to cover the syllabus online classes seem to be the only alternative. University vice-chancellor R K Kothari said that online classes are functioning properly. Students can file a complaint if any teacher has not started the classes. A senior professor of the university said that online classes are just on paper. “The vice chancellor took a meeting of all the heads of departments to conduct online classes. But who will supervise them whether they are doing their work diligently? A handful of faculty members have started online classes. The university has ordered all the constituent colleges, affiliated and government colleges to conduct online classes but when the university itself is not following it, how are they expecting the colleges to follow the order,” said a professor anonymously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-teachers-not-conducting-online-classes-allege-students/articleshow/76594911.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Medchal sees spurt in positive cases||HYDERABAD: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri district is rising rapidly. On Tuesday, as many as 112 new cases were reported in both the rural and urban areas of the district. The number stood at 55 on Wednesday. Officials attribute this to the increased testing. According to DMHO K Anjaneyulu, at least 500 tests are being conducted in the district every day. “We have been asking people to maintain social distancing. While this is being followed in the rural areas, the same is not happening in the urban areas where the density of population is high,” he said. In the tests done on June 22, only 16 positive cases were reported, but the number shot up to 112 cases the next day. On June 21, only nine cases were reported. “More cases are being reported from densely populated areas like Uppal, Quthbullapur and Balanagar,” the official said. At Kowkur, a family of three members tested positive for Covid-19. In Jalpally municipality, 11 positive cases were reported, including a municipal staffer. One of the most affected areas is Kapra, where so far 50 people have tested positive and 35 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medchal-sees-spurt-in-ve-cases/articleshow/76594981.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Eight of family test +ve in Pudukottai, take total cases past 100||TRICHY: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Pudukottai district touched 101, after 13 people, including eight members of a family, tested positive on Wednesday. “Eight people out of 13 are family members of a vegetable trader. The trader, who had a travel history to Kancheepuram district, had tested positive on Tuesday,” said Pudukottai collector, P Uma Maheswari. She said people coming from Chennai or contacts of people with travel history from Chennai are mostly testing positive. Health officials said that one person infecting eight others could have been avoided if he had exercised caution. “We must assume that every traveller is a Covid-19 positive person considering the pattern of spread. Therefore, people entering the district are being thoroughly checked before being quarantined at a facility. They would be shifted to hospital if they test positive,” an official said. Meanwhile, more than 10 contacts of a 68-year-old Covid-19 positive man, who died on Monday, were tested and their reports are awaited. Pudukottai district recorded the highest single day spike on Monday with 16 cases. On Tuesday, three cases were recorded taking the total number to 88. Seventy-one of the total 101 cases were reported in the last 10 days alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/8-of-family-test-ve-in-pudukottai-take-total-cases-past-100/articleshow/76594918.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gold hits all-time high of Rs 50,400||AHMEDABAD: The price of gold touched an all-time high on Wednesday in the Ahmedabad market, settling at Rs 50,400 per 10g, including 3% goods and services tax (GST). It rose by Rs 600 from Tuesday’s price of Rs 49,800. This is the first time gold has breached the Rs 50,000-mark here. Analysts attribute the increase to growing safe-haven investments in gold amid growing concerns of a global recession as a fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. “Gold prices have gone up in the international market owing to safe-haven investments in it. Prices touched $1,780 per ounce. Several central banks are heavily investing in gold given the recessionary trend and as a result, prices went up,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). Acharya said gold prices are expected to increase further in the coming months. “Investments by high net-worth individuals (HNIs) in gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are buoyant. However, demand for bullion or jewellery remains low key. Consumer demand for gold is not expected to revive for at least two months as the high prices are not palatable to consumers,” he added. Industry experts say demand for jewellery has already taken a hit due to high prices and falling incomes caused by the lockdown. “With the high basic customs duty on gold and rising prices, gold jewellery demand was already hit before the lockdown. However, after the lockdown, as people faced falling incomes and lower business revenues, demand is expected to dip further. Being a luxury commodity, gold jewellery purchases will be the last priority,” said Jigar Soni, vice president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Jewellers say customer footfalls have reduced greatly. Industry players say that the high gold prices will hurt employment in the sector. “Most gold artisans in manufacturing units here are migrants and have not yet returned to the markets. Some may not be called back because there is hardly any work,” said a jeweller, on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-hits-all-time-high-of-rs-50400/articleshow/76591378.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 25, 2020||Bareilly||Azam’s close aide arrested, stolen buffaloes, gold ornaments found||Rampur: One of Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan's close aides was arrested in Rampur on Wednesday. Khan's media in-charge Fasahat Ali Khan, alias Shanu, had 16 criminal cases against him. Police also recovered two stolen buffaloes and other stolen gold and silver ornaments from Fasahat's farmhouse in Koyala village. In September 2019, some residents of Yateem Khana had lodged FIRs against Azam Khan and his aides for charges of robbery. They had also alleged that their houses were vandalised by Khan's supporters and their animals were robbed. In one of the FIRs, a complainant had alleged that her four goats, three buffaloes, one cow and a calf were taken away. Rampur SP Shaghun Gautam told TOI, "Fasahat Khan, while questioning, had revealed that he had stolen the buffaloes and other items from inside the houses of the Yateem Khana residents on the instruction of Azam Khan. Most of the other accused involved in the crime are already on bail, while a few others need to be questioned." Police produced Fasahat before the court of the additional chief judicial magistrate on Wednesday evening. He was later sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azams-close-aide-arrested-stolen-buffaloes-gold-ornaments-found/articleshow/76581290.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Governor wants common platform for real-time info on varsity issues||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra has expressed the need to bring all state-run universities on a common platform for providing real-time information related to admissions, courses, degrees, fees and facilities to students. During a video conferencing with the vice-chancellors of all 27 state varsities, Mishra said every university should come up with an integrated management system to be able to connect with the integrated portal, which will act as a single window for providing all information to students. Expressing concern over the rising Covid cases, Mishra said, “Every university has to organise the admission process online given the present situation. I ask every institute to work in this direction.” The admission process in the state varsities begins in June and session commences from July first week. Due to the pandemic, the admission process is yet to start. Mishra, who is the chancellor of university, directed the varsities to be ready for online classes as soon as the admission process ends. During the meeting, most of the VCs expressed their inability to hold online exams as they lack technical resources and shortage of infrastructure. He said, “Since most of the universities would like to go for offline exams, they should make all preparations like proper sitting arrangements to ensure social distancing and thermal scanning of every student. Remember, utmost priority has to be given to the safety and security of the students.” Taking note of the slow pace of activities in the adopted villages by the universities, Mishra said universities should provide masks, gloves and sanitisers to villagers and create awareness programmes. “Every university should help their adopted villages in providing assistance in water conservation before the monsoon,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-wants-common-platform-for-real-time-info-on-varsity-issues/articleshow/76594997.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Trichy||Southern railway to use thermal cams to check passengers’ temp||Trichy: Railways plans to install thermal image screening cameras, which can simultaneously screen body temperature of up to 30 people, at stations and its workshops. This would help minimize the time taken for screening passengers before getting on to trains. Officials said the cost of the camera and its accessories would come to around Rs 3.5 lakh. It would be fixed at the entrance of stations and workshops before staff or passengers enter, officials said. The thermal module in the camera will detect the temperature of passengers who enter the platforms within a range of 5m. However, the monitor would highlight only those with above-normal temperature. Based on the reading, people with high fever can easily be identified, sources said.Staff monitoring the device will pick up the person who has a suspected fever and segregate him or her from the crowd. Their temperature will be double-checked with a thermal hand-held device and, once confirmed, the person will not be allowed to enter the station. Ticket will also be denied and he or she will be transferred to an emergency treatment centre, the sources said.The installation of the cameras is based on a letter from the railway ministry to general managers of zonal railways and production units asking to ensure that passengers at stations and workers at production units are scanned and identified at the time of entry itself. According to a senior official of Trichy railway division, there is a proposal to use a new modified device for screening instead of the present handheld temperature screening device.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/southern-railway-to-use-thermal-cams-to-check-passengers-temp/articleshow/76595015.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt to assist apple growers||In an attempt to save farmers from hardships during the ensuing apple season in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s horticulture department is busy arranging labourers, trucks, CA stores and carton boxes to bring apples to the mandis. The apple economy of state is pegged at around Rs 3,500 crore which is now facing a challenge during the corona crisis. A lot will also be expected from the outcome of a cabinet meeting, to be held on Thursday, in which a decision could be taken on the support price of apples and to open apple procurement centres under the market arbitration scheme. Though apple has already started arriving in the local markets, the apple season will start from July 1 and would continue for next three months. Due to spike in Covid-19 cases, there is apprehension that it might have adverse impact on the marketing of apple crop that has left the farmers worried. Sources said as apple economy hugely depends on the availability of labourers — right from plucking, grading and packing of apples from orchards till their transportation to mandis, therefore the horticulture department is working to ensure adequate availability of labourers. Senior officials of the department have talked to the contractors supplying labour. The department claims that there has been talk about the arrangement of thousands of Nepalese labourers. Horticulture department secretary Amitabh Awasthi said all arrangements are being done to ensure minimum inconvenience to farmers due to Covid-19 pandemic during apple season. He said not only labourers are being arranged but even the arrangements are being made for the compressed atmospheric (CA) and cold stores to keep the apple produce preserved for longer duration. He said around 70,000 trucks would be arranged for the season along with 2.5 crore carton boxes. He said the state is estimated to produce about 2.10 crore apple boxes this year. After tourism, apple is the mainstay of state’s economy. Apple constitutes about 49% of total area under fruit crops and about 74% of total fruit production. Area under apple has increased from 400 hectares in 1950-51 to 3,025 hectares in 1960-61 and 1,13,154 hectares in 2018-19. Around 3,68,603 metric tonnes of apple was produced in 2018-19 and average 1.5 crore to 3 crore apple boxes are exported from state every year and livelihood of about two lakh families depends on apple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-to-assist-apple-growers/articleshow/76595127.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt to hire KPMG for Rebuild Kerala consultancy at Rs 6.8cr||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Rebuild Kerala initiative (RKI) is set to execute an agreement with KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd for project management support services (PMSS) on a payment contract of Rs 6.82 crores for a period of two years. The high-level empowered committee (HLEC) of RKI had pitched the need for PMSS, citing the lean staff strength and lack of inhouse technical competency of RKI for project scrutiny/ execution/ management and monitoring. The minutes of the HLEC meeting in March 2019 shows that R K Singh, CEO, RKI, explained the necessity to have a PMSS entity with the objective of providing technical, management and secretarial support to RKI and line departments involved. The cost of PMSS will be met from the allocation of $2 million under the restructured component of World bank loan to Kerala state transport project (KSTP)-2. KPMG was shortlisted along with five other firms for PMSS and 14 firms that had submitted expressions of interest. The weightage given to the technical and financial proposals were in the ratio of 75:25. Minimum technical score required to pass was fixed at 75. Two bids which failed to achieve the minimum technical score were rejected. As per the combined score and final ranking, KPMG emerged was the highest ranked bidder. Deloitte was at 2nd rank followed by Tractabel. Deloitte, Pricewaterhouse Coopers Pvt Ltd, Tractebel Engineering Pvt Ltd, KITCO and Rodic Consultants were shortlisted for PMSS, of which KITCO and Rodic failed to make it to the final round. The combined scores for Tractabel and Deloitte were 77.41% and 77.82% respectively while KPMG scored 89.95%. Three other firms in the final round had submitted financial proposals in Rs 8.5-8.6 crore range. The opposition had earlier raised objections to selection of KPMG as consultancy for post-deluge reconstruction in 2018 and government had responded that KPMG offered services for free. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had written to the state government to verify the credentials of KPMG and scrutinize the complaints against the firm, although they offered free consultancy services. Singh of RKI said that the present assignment to KPMG is after competitive bidding, wherein they were the technically highest ranked and the lowest financial bidder. In the HLEC meeting in March 2019, then ACS Finance had said that RKI could have consultants on regular basis only in core areas and others may be hired on the basis of services rendered. The proposals were evaluated and ranked by the RKI Implementation Committee through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) mode of selection. The state government had earlier entrusted KPMG with third-party audit work for Kerala state wide area network for three years and state data centres for five years for Rs 6.79 crore. The firm was also given contract by the state to study ease of doing business reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-hire-kpmg-for-rebuild-kerala-consultancy-at-rs-6-8cr/articleshow/76586116.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Complete Samudram, SLBC: Cong||Hyderabad: Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy has written a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requesting him to complete works on the pending Udayasamudram lift irrigation scheme and Srisailam left bank canal project in Nalgonda district. The Congress MP stated that only tunneling works were pending. “If these works are completed, an additional one lakh acres can be irrigated through Udayasamudram project,” he said in the letter. Stating that the work was started on this project in September 2007, he said the pumping station was almost completed by the agency executing works. The 10-km tunnel excavation works were also completed, but concrete lining of it was pending for six-kilometre length of the tunnel. Works have come to a standstill from six months due to financial problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-samudram-slbc-cong/articleshow/76595437.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahead of civic polls, cabinet reviews projects||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat cabinet on Wednesday reviewed five major city infrastructure projects, with an eye on the civic elections in October-November. The chief minister expressed dissatisfaction at the slow pace of work in all five projects. The projects reviewed, worth over Rs 20,000 crore, were the Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara metro rail projects, the new airport at Rajkot and the Gandhinagar luxury hotel and railway station project. A source privy to the developments said that the chief minister and senior ministers were disappointed with the slow pace of work on all these projects and directed officials to expedite work and start new routes of the metro projects. “These could be showcased before the municipal corporation elections,” the source said. “Actual work on the Surat and Vadodara metro rail projects is yet to be taken up and the government aims to take up the foundation laying ceremony of both these projects at the earliest. The state government has also allotted 40 hectares of land for the new airport for Rajkot. Since work on the airport has not begun, officials were directed to expedite the processes with the Airports Authority of India and other government agencies at the earliest,” said sources. Regarding the five-star hotel at the Gandhinagar railway station, sources said the project is running behind schedule by about two years, but is likely to be completed before the 2021 Vibrant Gujarat summit. The CM reportedly directed all department secretaries to complete the major public works projects and plan inaugurations in the next two to three months, so the government can highlight them before the municipal corporation and panchayat elections, source added. All five projects have been behind schedule since November last year, much before the pandemic struck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahead-of-civic-polls-cabinet-reviews-projects/articleshow/76591847.cms||Kapil Dave
June 25, 2020||Jaipur||Be more professional, take cases to logical conclusions: Ashok Gehlot to ACB||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) must be professional in dealing with corruption cases as often the agency was found struggling to take cases to its logical conclusion. The chief minister said the ACB should ponder over taking up cases of disproportionate income cases to break the stranglehold of corruption in the government. The CM was speaking during the virtual inauguration of a new building of ACB and the foundation laying of a building for home security directorate at Vidhyadhar Nagar here on Wednesday. Gehlot expressing concern over increasing corruption in government said, “ now the officials come with the mind set of accumulating as much wealth as possible by whatever means. Earlier such a mind set developed at a very later stage in some employees and most of them employees retired honest.” He said the government has a policy of ‘zero tolerance to corruption’ and the ACB had a very important role. Urging the ACB had to strengthen it working system, Gehlot said the ACB acts only when the corrupt is caught red-handed. Even when an accused is caught red-handed, the agency has been struggling to take the case to its logical conclusion. He added that conviction in corruption cases had to improve. The chief minister said the helpline by the ACB has been a good initiative and complaints had to be pursued seriously. The chief minister lauded the service of home guards during the lockdown. He said since the home guards were given work based on requirement, officials should explore ways to utilise their services in more areas and give them more facilities. The chief minister said the demands of the home guards would be examined sympathetically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/be-more-professional-take-cases-to-logical-conclusions-gehlot-to-acb/articleshow/76595098.cms||---
June 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Five security personnel of state minister test positive||Hyderabad: Five security personnel of a Telangana minister tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. “All of them have been placed under quarantine,” said a source. The minister is scheduled to attend Haritha Haram programme in the city on Thursday morning. Additionally, a GHMC staffer, working in IT wing of GHMC head office, tested positive for Covid on Tuesday. A GHMC deputy commissioner also tested positive on Wednesday. “We are identifying people who were touch with him,” said a GHMC official. Meanwhile, deputy speaker, T Padma Rao Goud asked health minister Eatala Rajender to grant permission for treatment of Covid patients at Central Railway Hospital, Lalaguda. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-security-personnel-of-state-minister-test-positive/articleshow/76595143.cms||---
