June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Is Bengaluru ready for yet another lockdown?||Blame it on people who have shrugged off physical distancing at public places or those who stopped heeding warnings of Covid-19 during Unlock 1.0, several parts of Bengaluru are seeing a sudden spike in the number of positive cases over the past few days. This has brought public health officials back on their toes, as the government contemplates reimposing lockdown in the city as an immediate measure. In a poll conducted by Bangalore Times on Twitter, a whopping 82% responded in favour of another lockdown. While this seems to be the only feasible way to limit the spread of the virus, after months of isolation, is the city ready to crawl back into the stay-at-home mode once again? Experts share their views... Police are equipped to enforce new orders: Commissioner Bhaskar RaoAccording to Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, there are no orders for another yet. “Every city or country has its own way of dealing with the pandemic, as the situation varies from place to place. Our experts are doing a good job, and we are equipped to follow whatever orders are issued,” he explains. Another lockdown will have a serious impact on the economy: BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar“Given the current state of the economy, imposing another lockdown may not be a very good idea. What we need to do is strictly follow all protocols set by the government. By now, everyone is aware of how the virus spreads,” says Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner BH Anil Kumar, adding, “Thus, it is important that people continue to wear masks and avoid stepping out unless it is absolutely necessary. Also, it is necessary to put the system of reverse isolation in place for the elderly, children and others who fall under the vulnerable category.” He reiterated that it is not possible to contain the spread of Coronavirus if people don’t cooperate and take precautionary measures. “There’s only so much that the government can do. Until recently, Bengaluru was coping well, compared to other cities. But there has been an increase since people started moving about, and many travelled from high-risk states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and others,” he explained. Home quarantine needs to be effectively maintained: Captain P Manivannan from vigilance squadSecretary of Animal Husbandry Department, Captain P Manivannan, who is also part of the vigilance squads that were set up to monitor and enforce home quarantine, opines, “We are trying to improve the effectiveness of home quarantine with the help of citizen volunteers (citizen home quarantine squads at the polling-booth level). Violators are being informed to the police and shifted to institutional quarantine.” The HQ team of BBMP, he further says, is going to be very tough on those who violate the rules home quarantine. Speaking about people’s conduct in general, Captain Manivannan says, “So far, some people have been extremely good in following safety protocols, but there are violators too.” Businesses are not ready for another beating: Brand guru Harish BijoorBengaluru’s business sector is already suffering under the current situation of micro lockdowns, warns brand guru Harish Bijoor. “If things don’t go back to the normal soon, business will have to function at the suboptimal level. The low number of walk-ins at non-essential enterprises show that the economy is in mourning,” he says. Will Bengaluru be able to deal with another lockdown? “I don’t think any city in India is ready for another lockdown. If you look at Chennai, it is under lockdown till June-end. Before the second lockdown came into effect, hundreds had left the city. Lockdown is not like a toggle switch, which you can switch on or off at any time. It is a very difficult situation. We are living in a fear economy right now, and consumer markets don’t run well in such an economy,” he explains. At least, the new lockdown will not come as a shock to common people: Psychiatrist Dr Naveen Jayaram“In general, people are better prepared to handle another lockdown. As a community, we have done extremely well over the past few months in following isolation rules. The first lockdown came to us as a sudden shock. But a new one, if imposed, would be easier to cope with,” says psychiatrist Dr Naveen Jayaram. Restaurants and the F&B industry will not recover from another lockdownSpeaking on condition of anonymity, a member of National Restaurant Association of India, says, “We are already going through a tough time. It is turning out to be very difficult to convince patrons to return. Another lockdown will add to their fears. Many outlets are already shutting down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/is-bengaluru-ready-for-yet-another-lockdown/articleshow/76627397.cms||Sunayana Suresh
June 26, 2020||Kochi||These ‘auto chettans’ show the way in staying safe from Covid-19||Covid-19 cases are going up every day, but so is our disinterest in staying safe. At a time when people are getting too casual about masks, sanitisers and other safety protocols, despite mounting cases, these auto drivers are going the extra mile to ensure safety. From mask and hand-wash to thermal scanning and a tap to wash hands, they have added impressive ‘fittings’ on their vehicles to keep coronavirus away. Let’s say Namaste to them! Suresh Kumar M, ThiruvananthapuramJust before you step into the auto of Suresh Kumar from Pallimukku, he will open a tap for you that is fitted on to his vehicle with a 4-inch diameter PVC pipe. This is followed by soap and even sanitiser. What urged him to take the extra steps? Suresh says, “I installed them soon after we started plying post the lockdown. It’s for the safety of my family, myself and the passengers. I urge everyone to wash their hands before getting in.” He used to wear gloves earlier, but stopped because it was difficult to handle the gear. “But I apply sanitiser soon after I take the money from passengers, and also clean the seats with it.” Suresh says that more auto drivers have expressed interest for the same, though not everyone felt they could afford the cost. “It cost me around Rs 1,000 for the total installation, sanitisers and more. I am part of a group called Janamaithri auto drivers, who also serve hospital patients for free. In our group, we have ensured everyone at least has sanitisers,” he adds. Anil Kumar, ThrissurAnil Kumar has always gone the extra mile with his auto; it comes with fans, camera, karaoke mike, free wifi and more. When Covid-19 hit, he wanted to ensure safety too. Now, before passengers enter, he checks their temperature with a thermal scanner, and also offers sanitizer. Anil says, “It’s only been a few days since my daughter gave birth to a baby, and she is at home. I started thinking what can be done to keep her and my passengers safe. That’s when the thought struck me to buy thermal scanner, sanitiser and the like for the vehicle. It’s not because I have too much money. This is my bread and butter and I want to do my job well, in a safe environment.” He says that as people cooperate with the extra steps before getting into his auto. Hussain Koya, KozhikodeHussain decided to fit a water tap and sanitiser to his vehicle, when he felt people were too casual about safety. The auto driver says, “Around the time of the Break The Chain campaign, people were serious about it but not so now. When I ask people to wash their hands before entering the auto, they often say, ‘I had washed a few minutes ago,’ or ‘why are you so scared’ or ‘There is no point in all this.’ But then, I show them the ‘No mask, no service’ sticker on my vehicle.”  Just like many, he started taking the vehicle out after sitting at home for long, due to lockdown and fearing safety. “It’s my daughter who first asked, ‘Why not keep some water in the vehicle to make the passengers wash their hands, before entering?’ I felt it’s a good idea, but knew that keeping water in containers isn’t practical. That’s when I attached a water tap, and a tub of hand-wash to the auto,” Hussain says. Apparently, he spent just about Rs 240 for the total installation, and says he can’t afford sanitiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/these-auto-chettans-show-the-way-in-staying-safe-from-covid-19/articleshow/76626708.cms||Deepa Soman
June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Another lockdown in Bengaluru: Citizens say yes, Govt. says no||Blame it on people who have shrugged off physical distancing at public places or those who stopped heeding warnings of Covid-19 during Unlock 1.0, several parts of Bengaluru are seeing a sudden spike in the number of positive cases over the past few days. While the government contemplated reimposing lockdown in the city as an immediate measure, but eventually decided against it, a poll conducted by Bangalore Times on Twitter, had a whopping 82% responding in favour of another lockdown. While this seems to be the only feasible way to limit the spread of the virus, after months of isolation, can the city continue to function in the new normal or will that lead to another lockdown? Experts share their views... Police are equipped to enforce new orders: Commissioner Bhaskar RaoAccording to Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, there are no orders for another yet. “Every city or country has its own way of dealing with the pandemic, as the situation varies from place to place. Our experts are doing a good job, and we are equipped to follow whatever orders are issued,” he explains. Another lockdown will have a serious impact on the economy: BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar“Given the current state of the economy, imposing another lockdown may not be a very good idea. What we need to do is strictly follow all protocols set by the government. By now, everyone is aware of how the virus spreads,” says Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner BH Anil Kumar, adding, “Thus, it is important that people continue to wear masks and avoid stepping out unless it is absolutely necessary. Also, it is necessary to put the system of reverse isolation in place for the elderly, children and others who fall under the vulnerable category.” He reiterated that it is not possible to contain the spread of Coronavirus if people don’t cooperate and take precautionary measures. “There’s only so much that the government can do. Until recently, Bengaluru was coping well, compared to other cities. But there has been an increase since people started moving about, and many travelled from high-risk states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and others,” he explained. Home quarantine needs to be effectively maintained: Captain P Manivannan from vigilance squadSecretary of Animal Husbandry Department, Captain P Manivannan, who is also part of the vigilance squads that were set up to monitor and enforce home quarantine, opines, “We are trying to improve the effectiveness of home quarantine with the help of citizen volunteers (citizen home quarantine squads at the polling-booth level). Violators are being informed to the police and shifted to institutional quarantine.” The HQ team of BBMP, he further says, is going to be very tough on those who violate the rules home quarantine. Speaking about people’s conduct in general, Captain Manivannan says, “So far, some people have been extremely good in following safety protocols, but there are violators too.” Businesses are not ready for another beating: Brand guru Harish BijoorBengaluru’s business sector is already suffering under the current situation of micro lockdowns, warns brand guru Harish Bijoor. “If things don’t go back to the normal soon, business will have to function at the suboptimal level. The low number of walk-ins at non-essential enterprises show that the economy is in mourning,” he says. Will Bengaluru be able to deal with another lockdown? “I don’t think any city in India is ready for another lockdown. If you look at Chennai, it is under lockdown till June-end. Before the second lockdown came into effect, hundreds had left the city. Lockdown is not like a toggle switch, which you can switch on or off at any time. It is a very difficult situation. We are living in a fear economy right now, and consumer markets don’t run well in such an economy,” he explains. At least, the new lockdown will not come as a shock to common people: Psychiatrist Dr Naveen Jayaram“In general, people are better prepared to handle another lockdown. As a community, we have done extremely well over the past few months in following isolation rules. The first lockdown came to us as a sudden shock. But a new one, if imposed, would be easier to cope with,” says psychiatrist Dr Naveen Jayaram. Restaurants and the F&B industry will not recover from another lockdownSpeaking on condition of anonymity, a member of National Restaurant Association of India, says, “We are already going through a tough time. It is turning out to be very difficult to convince patrons to return. Another lockdown will add to their fears. Many outlets are already shutting down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/another-lockdown-in-bengaluru-citizens-say-yes-govt-says-no/articleshow/76629205.cms||Sunayana Suresh
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: One more MLA tests positive||TIRUPATI: Two days after a legislator from Vizianagaram district tested positive for Covid-19, another ruling party MLA’s sample returned positive on Thursday. The legislator is from Kurnool district, which continues to top the Covid-19 caseload in the state. Officials are now trying to identify all contacts of the legislator who need to be moved to the state quarantine facility. The MLA took part in last week’s assembly proceedings, and after returning to the district, he attended a series of development programmes in his constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-more-mla-tests-positive/articleshow/76632781.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 26, 2020||India||Moving Europe troops to counter China threat to India: US||NEW DELHI: In a statement that pitches the US as a factor in the India-China military face-off, secretary of state Mike Pompeo said on Thursday that China’s “threats to India” and Southeast Asia were among the main reasons for the US’s move to reduce its troops in Europe. The decision to draw down troops in Germany was part of a well-thought out strategy because they were being moved to other places, Pompeo told the Brussels Forum. US President Donald Trump recently announced that the US would be reducing troops from Germany, a decision that’s angered EU countries. The actions of the Chinese Communist Party, Pompeo said, meant there were “threats to India” and countries like Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and the South China Sea. “We are going to make sure we are postured appropriately to counter the PLA. We think that is the challenge of our time and we are going to make sure we have resources in place to do that,” he said. Pompeo’s marking out of China’s threats to its neighbours as a priority represents a significant policy statement and security posture. US, EU to start dialogue on threats from China: PompeoRunning through a list of aggressive Chinese actions, Pompeo spoke about the “bloody border confrontation with India”, Beijing’s activities in the South China Sea and its predatory economic policies. He also announced that the US and the EU would start a dialogue on China and the challenges it poses. It would help the trans-Atlantic alliance to build a “common understanding of the threat posed by China”. Pompeo said the two sides needed “a collective data set” on China’s actions so the two could take action together. Europe is often accused of being “naive” about China, taking a much more benevolent attitude to China’s designs. Asked whether Huawei was part of the Chinese “surveillance state”, he said Chinese security forces personnel worked on the top floor of the company headquarters and Chinese law required Huawei to pass any data, including personal, to the Chinese Communist Party whenever the latter asked. On Wednesday, Pompeo had flagged what he called “clean telcos”, that is, companies that were “free” of Chinese influence. “The tide is turning towards trusted 5G vendors and away from Huawei. The world’s leading telecom companies — Telefonica, Orange, Jio, Telstra and many more — are becoming ‘clean telcos’. They are rejecting doing business with tools of the CCP surveillance state, like Huawei,” he said. Watch LAC face-off: US pitches in, says moving Europe troops to counter China threat to India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/moving-europe-troops-to-counter-china-threat-to-india-us/articleshow/76633775.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 26, 2020||India||Indian Army alert to PLA build-up in hotspot Depsang||NEW DELHI: India is keeping a close watch on China’s military mobilisation in the Depsang Plains region, a major hotspot after Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Hot Springs areas, which can conceivably threaten a vast swathe of Indian territory in north-eastern Ladakh. Army chief General M M Naravane, during his trip to forward areas of eastern Ladakh over the last couple of days, directed further strengthening of patrolling to the 65 points on the Line of Actual Control to plug all gaps, while reviewing the operational situation in all sectors from Daulat Beg Oldie-Depsang in the north to Demchok-Chumar in the south. The Indian Army has also counter-deployed an adequate number of acclimatised troops and heavy weaponry in order to prevent any further Chinese ingress. ‘IAF conducting regular air patrols over Ladakh’India has also counter-deployed an adequate number of acclimatised troops and heavy weaponry to prevent any further ingress after a sizeable number of Chinese troops intruded deep into Indian territory in the strategically important Depsang Bulge area located at an altitude of over 16,000 feet. In a show of strength, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also deployed over 10,000 troops, with tanks and artillery guns, from its 4th Motorised Infantry Division and 6th Mechanised Infantry Division within its territory near the Line of Actual Control (LAC), sources said. The Army has already inducted three additional divisions (each has 10-12,000 soldiers) into Ladakh, along with more tanks and artillery guns, while others are being kept on standby. “Additional battalions of Ladakh Scouts and IBTP have also been deployed in eastern Ladakh. Enhanced preparations are in place for any eventuality, with our troops trained and geared for mountain warfare. Indian Air Force (IAF) fighters are also conducting regular combat air patrols over Ladakh to send a signal,” a source said. But the new front opened by the PLA in Depsang Plains, after Pangong Tso, Galwan and Hot Springs, is considered critical because it obstructs the two available routes through the tabletop plateau to the logistical hub and airstrip at DBO and the critical Karakoram Pass in the north. PLA troops, now camping near the ‘Bottleneck’ area in Depsang, have effectively been blocking Indian patrols to the LAC in the region, sources said. China has never been happy about Indian reactivating the DBO airstrip, which overlooks the Karakoram Pass and is just about 7km from the Line of Actual Control and the China-occupied Aksai Chin region beyond. The IAF has been regularly conducting flights of AN-32 and C-130J ‘Super Hercules’ aircraft to the DBO advance landing ground, which is the world’s highest such airstrip at an altitude of 16,614 feet. It was also the DBO sector and nearby areas that bore the brunt of the Chinese attack in the western sector during the 1962 conflict. The last major troop face-off in Depsang took place in April-May 2013 after PLA troops intruded 19 km across the LAC. Though it was resolved after 21 days through hectic diplomatic negotiations, China has always coveted the Depsang area, just about 35 km south of the Karakoram Pass, which in turn is at the tri-junction of the China-Pakistan-India border. Indian troops deployed on the Siachen Glacier-Saltoro Ridge region, in fact, prevent Pakistan from the west and China from the east joining forces through the Karakoram Pass to threaten Ladakh. China is also fast expanding its footprint in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project. Watch India keeping a close watch on China’s military mobilisation in Depsang||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-alert-to-pla-build-up-in-hotspot-depsang/articleshow/76633977.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 26, 2020||India||CBSE and ICSE cancel remaining board exams||NEW DELHI: In view of increasing Covid-19 infections across the country, CBSE has decided to cancel the remaining Board exams for Class XII and X which were scheduled to be held in July. The Board told the Supreme Court on Thursday that Class XII students, not happy with the marks to be accorded to the pending papers, will also be given an option of taking the exam to be conducted when the atmosphere becomes “conducive” while the re-exam option will not be available for Class X. The ICSE Board also cancelled the exams and informed the bench that it would not be giving re-examination option to students of Class X and XII and results would be declared on the basis of past performances. The bench asked CBSE to file an affidavit on Friday giving all information for it to pass order on the plea by a group of parents seeking scrapping of Board exams so that students are not exposed to the deadly virus. Noting that “conducive atmosphere” may vary from state to state depending on the spread of infection, the Bench asked the Centre and CBSE to give a time-frame when they will review the situation. It also asked them to file details of the scheme on how marks will be awarded for the pending papers and when the results will be declared. As per the new scheme of things being prepared by CBSE, marks will be awarded to Class XII students based on combined assessment of marks scored in the practical/internal assessment and those papers for which a candidate has already appeared in the exams, sources said. The sources said results will be announced for all Class XII candidates based on the internal assessment criteria. However, students not satisfied with the marks accorded for the papers for which exams could not be conducted will get another opportunity to improve their performance in an exam which will be conducted at a “conducive” time. Watch Remaining board exams cancelled by CBSE and ICSE||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbse-and-icse-cancel-remaining-board-exams/articleshow/76634239.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
June 26, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Total toll past 15,000, record 4,841 fresh cases in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: India crossed the tragic milestone of 15,000 Covid casualties on Thursday with 402 fresh deaths pushing the cumulative toll to 15,300. While the first death occurred on March 10 and it took 81 days to breach the 5,000-casualty mark, it took just 17 days to breach the 10,000-mark. It took even shorter — just nine days — to cross the 15,000-mark. Of the total, 9,896 have been recorded in June alone. Just five states account for 82.6% of India’s fatalities — Maharashtra with 6,931 deaths, followed by Delhi (2,429 deaths), Gujarat (1,754), Tamil Nadu (911) and Uttar Pradesh (611). India also recorded the highest single-day spike for the third straight day with 17,835 testing positive, taking the country’s caseload close to the five-lakh mark at 4,90,964. The surge was led by Maharashtra with 4,841 fresh cases — the highest reported by any state in India so far — as well as TN, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai death tally crosses 4,000On the positive side, 2,85,277 patients have recovered from the virus, taking the recovery rate to 58.1%. Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike for the second consecutive day, surpassing the previous record of 3,890 cases on Wednesday with 4,841 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 1,47,741. With 1,350 new cases, Mumbai accounted for 28% of Maharashtra’s numbers on Thursday. However, with 98 fresh deaths, the city accounted for more than half of Maharashtra’s 192 fatalities. Mumbai on Thursday crossed the 4,000-mark with fatalities reaching 4,062. The city’s case fatality rate is much higher at 5.73% against Maharashtra’s figure of 4.69%. A day after Delhi, Mumbai became the second city in the country to cross the 70,000-mark with a total of 70,878 Covid cases. Tamil Nadu crossed the 900-mark with 45 fresh deaths, taking the toll to 911, even as the state recorded the highest spike in fresh cases for the second consecutive day, which took the state’s caseload beyond the 70,000-mark to 70,977. Tamil Nadu crossed the 3,000-mark for the first time by adding 3,509 cases. Just a day ago, the state had registered a record 2,865 fresh cases. Gujarat recorded its second-highest surge in fresh cases with 577 patients testing positive (the highest, 580, was on June 21), taking the caseload near the 30,000-mark to 29,578. With 15 more deaths, UP crossed the 600-mark, taking the toll to 611. Bengal, too, crossed the 600-mark with 15 fresh deaths. Haryana recorded 10 more deaths, pushing the state’s toll to 198.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-total-toll-past-15000-record-4841-fresh-cases-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76634363.cms||---
June 26, 2020||India||Coronavirus: ‘Natural recession’ as share of active cases sees a slide||NEW DELHI: A “natural recession” is to be seen in the Covid-19 pandemic in India with the share of active cases – that are current carriers of the coronavirus infection and have a potential to spread it – declining steadily in the last two weeks, raising hopes that the fight against the disease is on track. Official sources said the trend of active cases is seen even as enhanced testing has resulted in a rise in overall detection of new cases. The share of active cases has declined by over 8 percentage points between June 11 and June 25, health ministry data shows. The daily rise in fresh cases is being primarily driven by three states – Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu – accounting for 61% of the daily case growth. On June 11, the proportion of active cases in the total number of confirmed cases was 48%, which has gradually declined to 39.4% on June 25. Data shows the trend is visible in more than half the states, while the number of states with less than 50% active cases is increasing, pointing to what government experts say is a natural downturn. They point out that the overall positivity rate (number of people testing positive in every 100 tested) in the country has remained stable at around 8% despite a big ramp up in testing over last few weeks. Testing remains largely symptomatic and of high risk categories. This indicates that only a limited number of people could be getting infected. India is now conducting over 2 lakh tests every day, as compared to around one lakh on June 1. The Indian Council of Medical Research has also enable more than 1,000 labs across the country to conduct tests for Covid-19. Besides, it has also asked states to use rapid antibody tests to step up surveillance, including in hospitals, offices and in containment zones. Testing is particularly needed in high incidence areas and is supported by other means of surveillance. “Testing has been ramped up substantially. Now, the focus has to shift on mitigation measures including standardized care protocol, effective clinical management and efforts to reduce deaths. We are aligning our policy interventions accordingly,” a senior official in the health ministry said. Adequacy of testing is linked to positivity. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), positivity rate of less than 10% with increased testing indicates testing is adequate. However, some states like Telangana, Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat have positivity rate of over 10%, raising concerns among officials. “More coercive action will be focused on states contributing more number of cases. Each of these states has a different issue. While some states like Delhi and Maharashtra have congested areas where containing the spread are a challenge, there are other states where still there is scope to ramp up testing,” the official said. On Thursday, the health ministry recorded a total of 1,86,514 active cases, whereas 2,71,696 people have recovered from the disease so far, taking the recovery rate to 57.43%. Around 14,894 people have died due to Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/natural-recession-as-share-of-active-cases-sees-a-slide/articleshow/76634555.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 26, 2020||India||CBI charges Rana Kapoor, Wadhawans||MUMBAI: The CBI on Thursday submitted a chargesheet before the special court against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his daughter Roshini Kapoor and Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in a cheating and corruption case it had registered against 12 people in March. The chargesheet also names four companies — DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, DHFL, Belief Realtors Pvt Ltd and RKW Developers Pvt Ltd. While Rana’s three daughters are 100% shareholders in DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd through Morgan Credits, the other firms are controlled by the Wadhawans. CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said , “We have filed the chargesheet against eight and continuing our probe against remaining accused in the case.” On March 9, the agency had searched the premises of the accused. Rana and the Wadhawan brothers are currently in jail. The CBI, in its probe, said that Rana received Rs 600 crore kickback from Kapil Wadhawan through his daughters’ company DOIT Urban Ventures. The probe agency also said that DOIT Urban Ventures is a wholly owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises India Private Limited, of which Bindu is the director and 100% shareholder. The Rs 600 crore was in by lieu of Rs 3,700 crore loan (debenture investment) Yes Bank, then headed by Kapoor, gave to DHFL group. DHFL had defaulted on repayment. Besides Rs 3,700 crore loan to DHFL, Yes Bank also gave Rs 750 crore loan to Belief Realtors. The money was transferred to DHFL through various group companies. All these firms were controlled by Wadhawan brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-charges-rana-kapoor-wadhawans/articleshow/76634699.cms||Rebecca Samervel
June 26, 2020||India||‘India to have say in Covid vaccine distribution’||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid diplomacy has moved beyond HCQ and paracetamol to ensure that the country can leverage its position as the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer to be part of the search and distribution of the Covid vaccine. After sustained conversations with their counterparts in key countries, the government has zeroed in on the Indo-Pacific group to cooperate on looking for a vaccine. The key players have been foreign minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla as well as the Prime Minister’s principal scientific adviser Dr K Vijayaraghavan and the government’s department of biotechnology. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesTalking to TOI in an exclusive chat, Vijayaraghavan said, “India will have a voice – even if there is no “Indian” vaccine — in terms of distribution because India’s role in providing vaccines to others will be very important.” Read AlsoCoronavirus: ‘Natural recession’ as share of active cases sees a slideOfficial sources said the trend of active cases is seen even as enhanced testing has resulted in a rise in overall detection of new cases. The share of active cases has declined by over 8% points between June 11 and June 25, health ministry data shows.Shringla has continued a sustained and regular conversation with his US counterpart Steve Biegun, as well as officials from Japan, Australia and South Korea, while Jaishankar has added political heft to conversations with US, Israel, the Quad countries, Brazil and South Korea. India, officials said, would work with “like-minded countries” on not only vaccine development, but production and distribution. Read AlsoDelhi-NCR Covid cases more than 167 countries’Delhi and its adjoining satellite cities have reported more Covid-19 cases than 167 countries, shows a comparison of NCR’s cases with countrywise data collated by Johns Hopkins University.Vijayaraghavan says, “Globally there are more than 125 vaccine development programmes today. … of these, 10 are in the first stage, eight in phase two (animal and limited human trials) and two in phase 3 (larger-scale human trials). We will know the results of the phase 3 trials in a few months time.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Apart from the Oxford University programme where India has a large presence and which is currently the most advanced, getting into phase 3, “There is a programme in the US called Warp Speed which combines phase 1 and 2. Vaccines in these programmes include those by Johnson & Johnson and Merck and others. A Chinese one also going into phase 3. There is an Australian one, also going into phase 3, by Murdoch Children’s Research Institute in Australia. That’s not really a vaccine for Covid 19, but it is new kind of BCG vaccine,” Vijayaraghavan said. Interestingly, while India has a presence in most of the international vaccine development programmes, it has no presence in the two Chinese vaccine programmes. Vijayaraghavan observes, “The size and extraordinary capability of the Indian vaccine manufacturing effort in bulk are enormous and well appreciated. Apart from the big multinationals, Brazil, Indonesia, China and India have enormous capabilities. India has the largest. So India will not be ignored no matter who makes the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-have-say-in-covid-vaccine-distribution/articleshow/76634738.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 26, 2020||India||Bids invited for 2 crore indigenous masks, 50 lakh RT-PCR kits||NEW DELHI: The central procurement agency HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL) has invited online bids for supply of personal protection equipment, viral transport and detection kits. The bid document lists a tentative annual requirement of 2 crore 3 ply masks, 50 lakh real time RT-PCR kits, 1 lakh pulse oximeters, 1 crore bottles of different quantities of hand sanitisers, 50 lakh Viral Transport Medium kits and 50 lakh Viral Lysis Transport Medium kits, 50 lakh RNA extraction kits and 50,000 dead body covers. The tender document was floated by HLL on June 23 and the last date for filing bids is June 30. The date of opening of e-tender is July 1. The finalised bidders will have to enter into a rate contract for 12 months. The products offered in the tender must be only manufactured in India and relevant manufacturing licenses along with product list will have to be submitted by applicants. The bid document makes it clear that suppliers must ensure strict compliance to all statutory regulations and quality standards. HLL is the procuring agency of the ministry of health and family welfare. It has been procuring PPE coveralls from manufacturers/suppliers after getting them tested and approved by one of the labs nominated by the government for testing the same. Further, HLL has also been undertaking random sampling of the supplies being made, for which a testing protocol has been devised. In case of any failure, the company is being disqualified for any supplies. Meanwhile, as part of its efforts to scale up Covid-19 testing, particularly through rapid antigen kits, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday invited applications for validation of such detection kits from all manufacturers who have developed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bids-invited-for-2-crore-indigenous-masks-50-lakh-rt-pcr-kits/articleshow/76634773.cms||---
June 26, 2020||India||Changing geography of Covid spread||NEW DELHI: The last month has seen daily additions to global Covid-19 cases rising faster though fewer deaths are being added on average every day. Unlike in the past, the countries with most fresh cases and deaths are no longer from the developed West, with the US being the only exception among the top five. In the last month, the world has seen an average of 1.3 lakh cases being added every day, up from just over 88,000 a day in the preceding two months. In contrast, additions to global deaths have slowed down even in absolute numbers, with less than 4,500 a day now compared to over 5,600 a day between March 26 and May 25. In the initial phase, Europe accounted for the biggest chunk of cases and deaths from Covid globally after the outbreak spread outside China, but the disease has of late surged in Brazil and the Indian sub-continent, which together account for almost a third of cases and deaths from the pandemic in the last month. This surge has led to the share of the US in cases and deaths shrinking to less than 20% of the global cases from almost a third earlier. Barring the UK, which still accounts for almost 5% of Covid deaths globally, no European country accounts for more than 1% of cases or deaths in this period, except France, Spain and Italy, with just over 1% of global deaths. Other than South Asia, Brazil, Chile, Peru and Mexico in the Americas are among the 10 countries now contributing the most to global Covid numbers. Mexico’s share in global Covid deaths (12%) in the period after March 25 is the third highest after Brazil and the US. The US and Russia’s shares in the global numbers are shrinking and the disease appears to be shifting to low and middle income countries. After having the maximum cases initially, China’s contributions to global numbers have been negligible. TOI looked at growth trends since the beginning of the pandemic in December last year. In the initial period of its global spread, in late January to early February, the base of both global cases and deaths was very low and hence growth rates were obviously very high. Watch COVID-19’s shift to middle-income countries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/changing-geography-of-covid-spread/articleshow/76634808.cms||Atul Thakur
June 26, 2020||Allahabad||Vending zones near Sangam to fix post-lockdown lull in economy||PRAYAGRAJ: As the city struggles to get back on its feet amid a lockdown, Prayagraj district administration will help out small businesses around Sangam who have been hit hard due to the restrictions imposed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Prayagraj Mela Authority has identified three separate vending zones and will allot spots to local traders, so that they could resume business while following social distancing. The vending zones would be similar to the ones created during Kumbh-2019 last year. The move would benefit traders selling items commonly used in religious rituals, vegetarian food and utensils. “Sangam has been a lucrative business centre for vendors as a lot of devotees visit its banks. There was an increase in the the number of vendors who set up shop on its banks during the Magh Mela. The increase followed our decision to set up vending zones in the area during the Kumbh-2019,” said Mela Adhikari and city magistrate Rajneesh Mishra. The Prayagraj Mela Authority has identified three vending zones at Quila Ghat Road, Mahaveer Road and Parade Ground. Mishra said that as part of arrangements for Unlock 1.0, the administration plans to lease out the 33 slots by June. The lots would be allotted for a period of one year. As the land belongs to Cantonment Board, the earnings generated from the leases would be shared between the board and the Prayagrag Mela Authority in a 60:40 ratio respectively,” he added. “Before the lockdown, Sangam welcomed around 25,000 visitors each day, of which around 5,000 came from other cities. On an average, visitors near Sangam manage to generate revenue of around Rs 1 crore every day for local traders and other businesses like hotels, restaurants, autorickshaws, taxis, pandas, boatmen and tourist guides,” said economist and former vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) GC Tripathi. The state tourism department is also pitching in to support the local economy. “We have decided to promote heritage walks around Sangam to boost the city’s religious tourism. These guided tours would include visits to attractions like Bade Hanuman temple and Viman Manadapam temple,” said deputy director of tourism (Prayagraj) Dinesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vending-zones-near-sangam-to-fix-post-lockdown-lull-in-economy/articleshow/76632417.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Heavy rain to lash Bihar over next 72 hours: Met||PATNA: The entire state was lashed by showers along with lightning on Thursday. The India Metrological Department (IMD) issued fresh red-colour warning for thundershowers along with lightning in the state, primarily in northern districts, on Friday and Saturday as well. Patna Meteorological Centre issued a warning for heavy to very heavy rainfall along with lightning at many places in the state over the next 72 hours. “The expected weather conditions, primarily in north and central Bihar, may cause waterlogging in low-lying areas, disruption in traffic and power supply and rise in water level in rivers,” it said. The all-India weather bulletin issued by IMD on Thursday stated that isolated extremely heavy rainfall is expected in Bihar till Friday. Besides, warning was issued for heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in the state till Sunday. With regard to showers on Thursday, the daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in north Bihar and at one or two places in south Bihar during the last 24 hours. It further stated that heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in north Bihar during the last 24 hours. The places which received significant rainfall included Kishanganj (100mm), Charghariya in Kishanganj district and Araria (90mm each), Bagaha and Musahari in Muzaffarpur (80mm each), Bahadurganj in Kishanganj, Motihari, Lalbegiaghat and Ramnagar (70mm each), Sheohar, Bhimnagar, Sonbarsa and Forbesganj (50mm) each. However, in Patna, only 2.4mm rainfall was recorded on Thursday. The ongoing rainy spell has been attributed to favourable position of trough line along with confluence of wind. The weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that a trough line was running from central Pakistan to Bihar across northwest Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Besides, a cyclonic circulation was situated over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal. The weather bulletin issued by IMD stated that northward shift of trough line and convergence of southerly and south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal over north- east and adjoining east India would result in widespread rainfall with very heavy to heavy rain at isolated places in this region during the next three to four days. “Moisture incursion from the trough line and cyclonic circulation in Bay of Bengal along with convergence of winds is leading to widespread showers along with lightning,” a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heavy-rain-to-lash-state-over-next-72-hours-met/articleshow/76631358.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 26, 2020||Patna||Several shopkeepers in dilemma as buyers boycott Chinese goods||PATNA: A wave of anti-Chinese anger is cresting in the state capital after 20 soldiers, including five from Bihar, were martyred at Ladakh’s Galwan valley recently. With customers shunning China-made goods, a sharp decline has been witnessed in the sales of automobiles and electronic items like cellphones, televisions, computers and laptops. Shopkeepers with stores in city’s electronics hubs like Hari Niwas Complex, S P Verma Road, Exhibition Road and Bakerganj are facing huge losses. Sanjay Nandkeolyar, a member of the Hari Niwas Management, told this newspaper on Thursday, “During the last one week, the sale of electronic products has gone down by 60%. Due to the violent clash between India and China, people have stopped using Chinese goods. The sudden rise in the cases of Covid-19 has also affected our business.” Now, many shopowners have started stocking up on electronic items of companies belonging to countries other than China. Mohan Bhargava, who owns a computer shop on Exhibition Road claimed, “My business has already been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The boycott of Chinese goods will make matters worse.” The employee of an electronics store near Bakerganj, Himanshu, said, “We have kept all the Chinese products in the storeroom as customers are not willing to buy them. When the situation gets better, we will put them on display to cover the losses.” There are, however, some shopkeepers who are trying to become ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) by promoting Indian-made products. Sanjiv Kumar, who owns an electronics shop in Hari Niwas Complex said, “Although we have faced a 30% loss because of the old stock of Chinese goods that we had, we have started selling only Indian-made products. People are also not interested in buying Chinese products.” He added, “Whenever people come to our store for buying laptops, computers, accessories and cameras, they first see where they were manufactured. Most of our DSLR cameras are made in China.” Sanjay Kumar, the owner of another electronics shop on S P Verma Road, urged the government to “stop importing Chinese items”. Few days ago, some locals had staged a protest outside a shop, which sold only Chinese cellphones and accessories. An employee of the store near Dak Bungalow crossing said, “We are not Chinese. We are only selling the products made in China. Patriotism is good, but shunning Chinese goods will do no good.” Traders selling Chinese lights are also in a dilemma. Dinesh Agarwal, president of the Bihar Electric Trade Association, rued, “First, it was Covid-19 and now, the boycott of Chinese products. Our business has been severely hit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-shopkeepers-in-dilemma-as-buyers-boycott-chinese-goods/articleshow/76631388.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||300 ponds reclaimed, 8k rid of squatters in UP's Lakhimpur||Bareilly: In many villages, there is a folk name linked with ponds and the childhood of many people is closely attached to it because of their cultural values. Using sentimental values, officials in UP's Lakhimpur have managed to revive nearly 300 dried ponds, and have removed encroachments from nearly 8,000 ponds. So far, 92 FIRs have been registered against squatters and action has been taken against them. During lockdown, the local administration utilised migrant labourers and provided them work under MGNREGA and used their services for reviving the ponds. Drains have been prepared to interconnect all the ponds with the nearest water body to ensure these ponds are recharged during monsoon. CDO Kheri Arvind Singh told TOI, "In April and May, Lakhimpur Kheri generated the highest number of mandays — 8,68,000 — under MGNREGA. Workers earned Rs 201 per day, and around Rs 17.5 crore were generated for labourers." “We want every person to be connected with villages’ ponds and safeguard it from squatters. There are 8,645 ponds in Sadar tehsil, but most of these ponds had disappeared. We started this drive in November 2019 and till now we have managed to locate 8,447 ponds distributed in an area of 5,777 hectare," said Kheri (Sadar) SDM Arun Kumar Singh. Lakhimpur is the first tehsil in Uttar Pradesh to receive ISO 14001 certification (international standard that specifies requirements for an effective environmental management system). The local administration has worked towards water conservation, water harvesting, saving electricity and eco-friendly work culture in the tehsil. The SDM told TOI, “During our drive, we took the help of elderly people of the village to identify the exact location of the pond and its name. And then we followed guidelines to rid these pond lands of the squatters.” Singh added, “Most of the ponds in urban areas had disappeared and people had built their houses and shops on those lands. In such cases, we have registered FIRs under relevant sections and served them notices. We will restore the ponds with their folk names and give the responsibility to locals to ensure their maintenance. Nearly 200 ponds were revived during the lockdown period, and continuous work is going on to ensure that most of the ponds have access to water from nearest water bodies during this monsoon. This revival work has given employment to many migrant workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/300-ponds-reclaimed-8k-rid-of-squatters-in-ups-lakhimpur/articleshow/76629641.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 26, 2020||Business||Amazon, Bigbasket ask sellers for ‘origin country’||Bengaluru: E-commerce platforms like Amazon India and Bigbasket have started asking sellers and brands to put ‘country of origin’ for the products on their platforms. This comes a day after government officials held a meeting with e-commerce players over the issue that has gained prominence due to the border conflict with China in Ladakh. Brands and merchants TOI spoke to said they have received email communications and notifications on seller apps to share relevant details on the origin of products. Platforms like Bigbasket have started the process of collecting this data, while its in-house labels like Fresho, in some categories, sport the ‘made in India’ tag already. Amazon India, which has 6 lakh sellers in India, has started notifying merchants and brands to share these details. “Some of my products already had the details, but now we are being asked formally to add this information, which would be available for users,” one of the brands selling on Amazon India said. For this label, some of the products had started reflecting their ‘country of origin’ on Amazon India. “As of now, this information will be displayed in the ‘other product info’ section. However, based on the decision taken by the (commerce) ministry, we have to display this information as a tag or on the image. This will be decided after announcement of the final legal metrology,” Bigbasket told one of the food brands on its platform. The Bengaluru-based firm added that, if a product is manufactured in multiple countries, then all of them need to be mentioned. “If, for example, Pampers is manufactured in India, Canada and China, we will need all the three country names as we may not at any point be sure the batch supplied to us was manufactured in which country,” the note added. Another merchant, who sells electronic accessories, said, “It’s not a long-term solution. I have over a lakh listings, so it would be a tedious task and most of my products are from China. As an Indian, this will impact sales for products that I have already paid for,” he said. An Amazon India spokesperson declined to comment on the matter, while an email sent to Bigbasket did not elicit any response till the time of going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-bigbasket-ask-sellers-for-origin-country/articleshow/76633112.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||School fee PIL hearing adjourned||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court, for the moment, has adjourned hearing of a PIL regarding the alleged upward revision of tuition fees, charging of late fees and other charges during the lockdown period by certain unaided private schools. The point of maintainability of the petition as a PIL has also been kept open on the basis of submissions by counsels of two educational institutions in Kolkata. The petitioner submitted that any such revision of fees will affect guardians adversely. While passing a direction to list the matter four weeks later, the court allowed time for dialogue between the state and the schools. During its submission, the state had stated that a dialogue has been initiated with private unaided schools on the issue of fee revision. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-fee-pil-hearing-adjourned/articleshow/76633030.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||No express, local train till Aug 12||The Railway Board has announced that no time-tabled mail/express or passenger train will run till August 12. Suburban services will also remain cancelled till then. However, special trains that are running now will continue. There has been no announcement for Metro services. The board has directed all tickets booked for regular trains from July 1 till August 12 be refunded. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-express-local-train-till-aug-12/articleshow/76633054.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Council polls: Sameer, not Tariq, is Congress nominee||PATNA: A day after announcing former parliamentarian Tariq Anwar’s name as its candidate for Bihar legislative council elections, Congress replaced him with party’s state acting president Sameer Singh on Thursday, the last date for filing of nomination papers. Congress’s state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil cited “technical reasons” for the last-minute change of the party’s nominee. “As per the Representation of the People’s Act, a person contesting Vidhan Parishad or Vidhan Sabha election needs to be in the voter list of that state from where he is contesting. Though Tariqji is from Bihar, he stays in Delhi these days and his name is in Delhi’s voter list,” Gohil told TOI over phone. Anwar had contested from Katihar Lok Sabha constutuency last year as one does not need to have his/her name in the voter list of the state concerned for contesting parliamentary election. Sources said Anwar reached Patna on Thursday and started readying his documents at the residence of Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh in presence of other party leaders. “We had some doubts regarding candidate’s name in the voter list. However, we decided to change the party’s nominee after discussing the matter with the Election Commission,” a party source said. “Since the nomination papers had to be filed by 2pm on Thursday, the candidates who were ready with all documents were asked to come forward. Eight or eleven people were ready with their papers. Sameer’s name was finalised in consultation with the party’s high command,” Gohil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-polls-sameer-not-tariq-is-congress-nominee/articleshow/76631485.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 26, 2020||Aurangabad||2 bureaucrats self quarantine as cook tests Covid positive||Aurangabad: After the cook deployed at the official bungalow of two senior bureaucrats in Aurangabad tested positive on Wednesday, the officers and their six-year-old child opted for self-quarantine. In Aurangabad, they are amongst the first senior officials to opt for home quarantine after an immediate contact testing positive. On Tuesday, the civic body’s health authorities said the throat swab samples of all the employees deployed at the senior officers’ bungalow were taken, following which, the cook tested positive. He was immediately moved to the Chikalthana-based covid hospital, while the bungalow was sanitised. Civic body’s health officer Neeta Padalkar said swabs of people who came in direct contact with the patients would be collected about four days from now. In the meantime, the contacts will be closely monitored to check for surfacing of any symptom. A few days back, collector of district in Marathwada and a superintendent of police superintendent had opted for quarantine after coming in touch with high-risk contacts of a minister who had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-bureaucrats-self-quarantine-as-cook-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76633725.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Fuel price protest: Howrah bridge blocked||Traffic came to a standstill on the Howrah-bound flank of Howrah bridge between 10.45am and 11.10am on Thursday after around 200 workers and supporters of Trinamool staged an agitation against the hike in prices of petrol and diesel. Led by state minister Arup Ray, the protesters burnt an effigy of Narendra Modi (in pic) and shouted slogans. Hundreds of commuters were stranded inside vehicles. An officer said, “The agitation continued for 25 minutes.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fuel-price-protest-howrah-bridge-blocked/articleshow/76633062.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 26, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 infections continue to rise in DNH, Daman||Surat: The Covid-19 cases in the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) and Daman are on the rise with about 20 new cases recorded on Thursday.Official sources said that nine new cases were recorded in Daman and 11 in DNH. The cases tally rose to 61 in Daman and 79 in DNH.In a statement, Dr Apurva Sharma, deputy collector of DNH said, “Out of the 11 new cases, six are symptomatic and are stable, while others are asymptomatic and under isolation. At present, there are about 19 containment zones in DNH, where the movement of people have been restricted.”Dr Sharma added, “The community sampling in DNH has been going and that people with mild or moderate symptoms are tested for Covid-19.”The 19 containment zones includes four in Dadra panchayat, one zone each in Naroli, Samarvami, Rakholi, Kharadpada, two zones in Khanvel and nine zones under the Silvassa municipal council. Sources said that majority of the Covid-19 cases have been detected among the migrant workers employed in the industrial units of Daman and Silvassa. Charmie Parekh, deputy collector of Daman said, “Out of the nine Covid-19 positive cases, five cases are asymptomatic and are high risk contacts of the positive persons. We have added three new containment zones in Kachigam and Nani Daman, taking the total containment zones to 23.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-infections-continue-to-rise-in-dnh-daman/articleshow/76632562.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Surat||NGT panel to hold public hearing on Dahej factory blast that killed 10||Surat: A public hearing in connection with the blast in storage tank of a chemical unit in Dahej that killed 10 people and injured over 70 others, is scheduled on June 29 at the auditorium of GACL in Dahej.The hearing has been called by the six-member committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) under chairmanship of retired Judge BC Patel, former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court.The June 3 blast at Yashashvi Rasayan Private Limited located in Special Economic Zone (SEZ)-2 at Dahej in Bharuch district had forced evacuation of over 2,000 people from the nearby villages.The six-member panel was constituted by the NGT while hearing a complaint filed by the Surat-based NGO, Aryavrat Foundation. It has to conduct an inquiry and submit report within a month to NGT by July 8. The NGT has also slapped Rs 25 crore penalty to the company. The panel will examine the extent of damage to human life, public health and environment, and steps taken for compensation. The affected people have been asked to submit their queries to the district collector’s office latest by June 26. The other members of the committee include representative of Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change, representative of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), head of Chemical engineering department of IIT Gandhinagar, representative of NEERI and representative from National Institute of Disaster Management, IIPA campus New Delhi.Official sources said that the committee will hear the affected people who have lost their kin, whose properties have been damaged etc to fix the compensation amount to be paid by the company in question. Dr MD Modiya, district collector of Bharuch said, “Due to the current coronavirus pandemic, we have requested the affected people to submit their queries to the administration in advance. The queries will be submitted to the committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ngt-panel-to-hold-public-hearing-on-dahej-factory-blast-that-killed-10/articleshow/76632599.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 51 GHMC employees test positive for Covid-19, officials battle to counter virus||HYDERABAD: So far 51 employees of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) tested positive for Covid-19 until Thursday. A personal assistant of an IAS officer, who himself tested positive last week, is the latest to join the list. At least five employees of head office, a deputy commissioner in Kukatpally zonal office and around 30 workers, who sprayed disinfectants, have been affected by the pandemic. Meanwhile, a cashier of a bank on premises of GHMC head office tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Meanwhile, conditions in GHMC limits could worsen if the spike in Covid-19 cases continue, revealed ground verification. There are 2,192 Covid-19 patients in home isolation.After the spike in cases, GHMC officials, who were unable to trace the secondary contacts are now unable take up measures to contain the spread of virus. Monitoring activity of home quarantined people, spraying sodium hypochlorite, sanitation are activities which went for a toss. The situation can be attributed to staff crunch. Keeping a vigil on home isolated people who had tested positive for Covid-19 and containing the house/ flat are the only activities which are being executed properly.  Residents complained of lack of sanitisation. T Narasimhan A, president, Golf View Apartments, Nanakramguda said they roped in a private firm for sanitisation. “Meeting deadlines and executing Covid-19 works, an additional task, has become difficult,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/51-ghmc-employees-test-positive-for-covid-officials-battle-to-counter-virus/articleshow/76633747.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 26, 2020||Patna||Lalu Prasad rejects resignation, but Raghuvansh Prasad adamant||PATNA: Even as RJD supremo Lalu Prasad rejected resignation of senior party leader and former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh from the post of national vice-president of the party on Thursday, the latter is adamant on his decision. “Jis party ki maine ki sichaee, wah kar rahi aaj meri khhichaee (The party which I had nurtured is pulling me down today),” Raghuvansh said. Singh had resigned on Tuesday and sent his resignation letter to the top leadership of the party, a day after don-turned-politician and former Lok Janshakti Party MP from Vaishali Ram Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh met leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Raghuvansh, who is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, for Covid19, said it was humiliating for a grand old man like him to be ignored. “Main apne nirnay par abhi bhi kayam hun (I am still adamant on my decision),” a confidante of Raghuvansh quoted him as saying. The information about Raghuvansh’s resignation rejected by Lalu was shared to media by none other than Tejashwi himself. “Unke istifa ko aala kaman ne kharij kar diya (His resignation was turned down by the high command of the party),” the former deputy chief minister told reporters. Tejashwi further said, “Raghuvansh babu is an old, honourable and trusted leader of the party and everybody respects him. The party leadership will look into his grievances, if any. We will meet him once his health condition improves.” Tejashwi, however, parried questions on induction of Rama Singh in the party. Sources said Rama Singh would be inducted in the RJD on June 29. Rama Singh, who had defeated Raghuvansh in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Vaishali, is vying for ticket either for him or his wife in the forthcoming state assembly election. The animosity between Raghuvansh and Rama Singh had reached its crescendo when the former petitioned the Election Commission after his defeat alleging that the newly elected MP, Rama Singh, had concealed facts in his affidavit on a kidnapping case that had allegedly taken place in Chhattisgarh. Following the application, the Chhattisgarh government took cognizance of the case and Rama Singh was put behind the bar for three years. He was later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-rejects-resignation-but-raghuvansh-adamant/articleshow/76631523.cms||Ramashankar
June 26, 2020||Patna||Gritty woman forces boyfriend to marry her||PATNA: An eight hour high voltage drama ended on a happy note late on Wednesday night when a 23-year-old woman got married to her 26-year-old boyfriend from Muzaffarpur who was being married off by his family to another girl. When the bride, stated to be a resident of Kudhani police station area in the district got to know that her boyfriend was going to get married, she went to the groom’s house at his village in Vaishali district, a day before the wedding was to be solemnized on Thursday. After the woman publicly accosted her boyfriend and told his family that they were already married. Enraged they thrashed her in full public view and confined her to a room. She, however, refused to budge and told the groom’s family that Vikev Kumar, a resident of Sahpur village in Muzaffarpur district, was her husband. The matter was then reported to the local panchayat, which summoned the bridegroom and his father. The man admitted before the sarpanch that he was indeed in a relationship with the woman for over a year and the girl also revealed that she was pregnant. The bridegroom’s family was asked to break off the marriage with the other girl and return whatever they had accepted for the marriage. The sarpanch of the panchayat Raghunath Singh said the bridegroom and the girl were then married at the village temple late in the night. Villagers, however, alleged that they had informed the Goroul police about thrashing of a girl by some influential people but they didn’t pay any heed. “Police only reached the village to inquire into the incident on Thursday,” alleged Manju Singh, district vice-president of RJD women’s cell. She alleged that though she had informed all top police and administrative officers about the ill-treatment meted out to the girl from Muzaffarpur. “What sort of policing is this,” she asked. The groom’s father, however, said that he was not aware of his relationship with another girl. “We were told by the girl (who was in a relationship) that the bridegroom had also married in the family court. Both the girl and the bridegroom earlier worked in a private company together and met each other there,” he said. No senior police officer of Vaishali was available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gritty-woman-forces-boyfriend-to-marry-her/articleshow/76631403.cms||Ramashankar
June 26, 2020||Surat||Surat city reports 152 fresh Covid-19 cases||Surat: Surat city reported 152 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 3,836 in the city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Katargam has continued to report the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases for the past few days. “Out of the 152 fresh Covid-19 cases, as many as 52 were from Katargam zone alone followed by 21 each in the Central zone and Varachha (A) in the city. Katargam zone has now 960 cases, followed by 913 in Limbayat zone,”' said an SMC official. Three more Covid-19 patients died due to the virus. Those who succumbed included a 72-year-old man and a 53-year-old man from Katargam and 54-year-old man from central zone in the city. Meanwhile, as many as 102 patients were discharged in Surat city, taking the total number of those who have recovered from the virus to 2,432 in the city. The SMC officials said that over 10,660 people were under quarantine including 62 in government quarantine facility centre in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-city-reports-152-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76632542.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Three children die as truck rams into thatched house||BHAGALPUR: Three children of a family were crushed to death by a speeding truck while they were fast asleep inside their thatched house on the approach road to Vikramshila Setu near Jahanvi Chowk under the Parbatta police station area in Naugachia sub-division in the wee hours of Thursday. Two cattle were also crushed to death, while other members of the family had miraculous escape with mild injuries. The truck rammed into the roadside thatched house of one Chandradev Mandal on the approach road, which connects NH-31 with NH-80 through Vikramshila Setu. The deceased were identified as Suraj Kumar (14), Chanda Kumari (11) and Puja Kumari (9), all children of Chandradev. Two other children – Himasnhu Kumar and Sonakshi Kumari along with Chandrdev and his wife Kaari Devi – escaped unhurt. Chandradev used to eke out a living by selling tea at a roadside stall and lived with his family in the thatched house on the roadside. Sources said the truck, while trying to overtake another vehicle on the busy road, lost balance and rammed into Chandradev’s house. Ismailpur circle officer Surendra Prasad and cops from Ismailpur, Parbatta and Naugachia police stations reached the spot soon after the accident and started rescue operations. Ismailpur CO Suresh Prasad said ex-gratia payment of Rs 4 lakh per deceased would be given to the family. “The bodies have been sent for postmortem and the process for issuing death certificates is on,” the CO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-children-die-as-truck-rams-into-thatched-house/articleshow/76631317.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Stored chats reveal state of Amit’s mind||Kolkata: On a day the police said they were closing in on the person who supplied the weapon to Amit Agarwal, officers added they have come across conversations between Amit and Shilpi stored in his phone. “In all of them, Shilpi appears calm. Amit’s tone is always on the edge,” said a source. According to sources, this mental uneasiness is also visible in emails that Amit sent to friends and former colleagues before he killed his mother-in-law. “He wrote about the time he spent with them. At one point, he wrote he was guilty. In the next sentence, he said he cannot be held guilty,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stored-chats-reveal-state-of-amits-mind/articleshow/76633016.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP workers to take part in virtual rally on June 27||Ludhiana: The district office-bearers of the BJP addressed a press conference on Thursday, where district president Pushpinder Singal shared that on June 27, Union minister Narender Singh Tomar would address a virtual rally. He said to make it successful they had deputed party workers and people would be asked to get connected through Zoom app, FB, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and WhatsApp. He said Tomar would be recalling the achievements of Modi government after completing its first year. While taking a dig at Congress government, BJP district president said the Congress did not fulfil even a single promise, whether it was checking the drugs menace, a government job in every house, unemployment allowance, etc. He said during Covid times even blue card holders did not get ration and their names were struck off. He said Amarinder Singh had announced to reduce electricity charges but instead of decreasing, these were increased. He said when people did not have money to buy food during lockdown, they were asked to pay electricity bills. Recalling the dark days of 1975, BJP leaders honoured a few party leaders and other persons who had gone to jail during the Emergency, after the press conference. BJP state cashier Gurdev Sharma Debi alleged that Congress leaders were trying to divert attention from the ration scam. Debi also conducted a press conference on Thursday, where he alleged that Congress concillors Ashwani Sharma and Gurdeep Neetu were trying to divert the attention from the ration scam. He claimed that they had presented documents to prove that ration was distributed in the name of dead persons. He said Neetu has two ration depots in his name but he was raising fingers on other persons. He said he would file a defamation case against Congress leaders in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-workers-to-take-part-in-virtual-rally-on-june-27/articleshow/76633076.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Business||Bigbasket hits annualised gross sale runrate of $1 billion||BENGALURU: Online grocer Bigbasket has crossed an annualised gross sale runrate of $1 billion for the first time in May, riding on strong consumer demand for grocery and essentials due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Bengaluru-based company will become the second sector-focused online retailer after fashion portal Myntra, and horizontal e-tailers like Flipkart and Amazon India that sell all goods, to cross the billion-dollar sales mark. Myntra has a gross merchandise value (GMV) of over $2 billion. Bigbasket co-founder and CEO Hari Menon told TOI it clocked Rs 650 crore, or almost $90 million of sales, after discounts, in May and that the sales growth trend remains steady in June too. The Alibaba-backed company is also looking to raise $250-300 million from new and existing investors, eyeing a valuation in the range of $1.5-2 billion. The aim is to shore up a war chest to fight the Reliance Industries-Facebook combine and diversify the investor base. Menon confirmed he has appointed Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs for the fund-raise, which are in the initial stages of the process, while declining to comment on further details. “We grew 35% on a month-on-month basis in April, and then the next two months we grew roughly about 18% and 20%. It (the demand) is holding really well. Including BB Daily, we are clocking 3.5 lakh orders, which was around 2.2 lakh orders a day (before pandemic),” Menon said. BB Daily is a separate micro-delivery platform of Bigbasket, which delivers milk, bread and eggs every morning on a subscription basis. The product mix has also changed on Bigbasket. In value terms, fruits and vegetables — which used to be 16-18% of its business — have now jumped to 20-22%. “The whole thing (business) got advanced by 12-15 months. Operational profitability is a few months away,” he added. Those tracking online retail said that the development is significant. “This is a massive milestone. Crossing $1-billion will open up more investment avenues for the company as well and help them move towards profitability as they increase scale in each of their micro-markets,” said T C M Sundaram, MD at Chiratae Ventures, which has backed several vertical e-tailers like Lenskart, FirstCry and e-Shakti. “What needs to be watched out for is Reliance Retail with Jio, and WhatsApp-Facebook ordering could be a huge disrupter, which will be an intense competitor.”Menon said the growth momentum will continue, based on the sales expansion of the last four months, and that it has been able to retain customers who came online to buy groceries. “Even now, for example, in Bengaluru with everything opened up, we continue to grow and retain customers whom we acquired in the last four months. Retention on both cohorts — existing users and new users — has been outstanding,” he added. Another factor helping Bigbasket currently is that it’s operating at 100% capacity since most of the people in its supply chain and delivery network are back at work. It has close to 23,000 people working in its delivery network. During the lockdown, several online platforms were struggling to fulfil rising orders as many of the workers had left for their hometowns. In select pin codes, it is now delivering the same day as well. “We never had infrastructure issues as we invested heavily in our dark stores and warehouses in the last four years. Our biggest issue was people. Now, we are at full capacity in terms of people. Old guys have come back now and productivity has gone up. The new hires had to be trained and it took some time, so productivity was lower,” Menon added. Bigbasket has about 54 dark stores, small retail outlets or warehouses acting as distribution centres in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bigbasket-hits-annualised-gross-sale-runrate-of-1bn/articleshow/76633133.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After buses and autos, cabs too become a rarity||KOLKATA: The 19 consecutive spikes in diesel price since June 6 have now affected metered and app cabs. Commuters on Thursday found it difficult to find taxis, and with a large number of buses staying off the road and autos charging exorbitant fares, Kolkatans have been left with almost no choice when it comes to transport. According to the taxi owners’ and operators’ association of the city, less than 10% of cabs could ply on Thursday, leaving a yawning gap between demand and supply. Friday may be worse since the trend of hike in diesel price continues unabated. “I searched for cabs for hours on an app without any result. Commuting has become a nightmare,” said Anirban Dasgupta, a marketing professional. “On Thursday, the PVD director asked us not to resort to strikes. He said he will forward the fare revision proposal to the regulatory panel,” said Sanjib Roy of Bengal Taxi Association. Diesel price on Thursday rose by Rs 0.13/L to Rs 75.17/L. Cabbies said their earning has gone down because of high operating cost. “We can’t save anything. In the past four days, I could not even return the daily rent of Rs 400 to the cab owner. I have thus decided to sit idle,” said Lakhan Singh, a taxi driver. “Because of the lockdown, there is demand only in the peak hours. Moreover, we get bookings far from our locations and end up with longer empty runs. We hardly save after paying the fuel bill,” said West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild secretary Indranil Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-buses-and-autos-cabs-too-become-a-rarity/articleshow/76632952.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 26, 2020||Patna||Prices of petrol, diesel in Patna touch year’s high||PATNA: Petrol and diesel prices touched this year’s high of Rs 82.96 and Rs 76.08 a litre, respectively, in the city on Thursday, stoking fears of inflation. Diesel prices went up by Rs 7.99 per litre and petrol by Rs 6.54 per litre in the city after enforcement of Unlock 1.0. Ajay Kumar, manager of a Bharat Petroleum outlet at Dak Bungalow, said the prices of petroleum products continued increasing trend for the 24th consecutive day on Wednesday. “Only on June 24, there was no change in petrol price. The sale of diesel was 20% low. Petrol sales, however, started picking up from Wednesday,” he added. K B Gandhi, manager of a petrol pump near Budh Marg, said as the prices of petrol and diesel are on the rise, sales have taken a plunge. “Usually, around 1,200 vehicles visit the filing stations, except on Sundays. However, with the increase in prices of petro products, number of customers has gone down substantially. Diesel sales have dropped by 20% and petrol by 25%,” he said. Experts said the rise in petroleum products would influence the prices of other essential commodities. D M Diwakar, an economist, said the surging fuel prices would put pressure on inflation and it would have cascading effect on prices of other commodities. “Now, there is no relation between the global crude oil prices and prices of petroleum products in the country. The international rate of crude oil is $38-42 per barrel. Accordingly, the prices of petrol and diesel should not be more than Rs 50 per litre,” he said, adding the Centre and the state government have increased taxes levied on fuel, including goods and services tax and VAT, leading to a rise in the prices. Diwakar, professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said the government was trying to mop up the losses they incurred during the lockdown by raising the prices of petroleum products. “In this situation, the price mechanism of other commodities would fail. Instead, the government should explore production capacity and generate employment to boost economy,” he said. Residents also feared that the continuous hike in fuel prices would affect the prices of other commodities. Anju Devi, a resident of Rajendra Nagar road number 12, said the prices of seasonal vegetables have started rising. “Although there is no effect on foodgrain prices at wholesale market, the retail shops have started increasing prices,” she said. Meanwhile, autorickshaw drivers have decided to stage protests across the state on Friday against the rise in petrol and diesel prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prices-of-petrol-diesel-in-patna-touch-years-high/articleshow/76631418.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 26, 2020||Surat||Surat: Cop-attack bank victim’s pain worsens, rushed to hospital||SURAT: The 31-year-old Canara Bank cashier, who was assaulted by a police constable, was rushed to a private hospital after the pain in her lower back became unbearable on Thursday. The victim, Santosh Kumari Purohit, had suffered a hairline fracture in her lower back after the unruly constable Ghanshyam Shyora (Ahir) had slapped and pushed her to the floor inside the bank on June 22. “My wife is suffering from unbearable pain. I had to bring her to hospital for treatment and detailed medical examination,” her husband Jayantilal told TOI. “Doctor has advised CT scan and only after the report, we can get to know the condition,” he added. While doctors at state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) doctors had said she was fine, examination at a private hospital revealed that she had a hairline fracture over the sacrococcyx (lower part of the spine) region. She has been advised rest for 10 days and medication. “Puna police station staff are responsible for my wife's condition. They did not register our complaint till 11.30 pm in the incident that happened 4.30 pm. Despite the pain, she was kept waiting,” Jayantilal claimed. Shyora had entered into an argument with Purohit’s colleague Harshad Tiwari over making entry in the passbook of his uncle. Purohit was making a video of the altercation when the cop entered the restricted area and hit her. Jayantilal also alleged that police did not register the complaint as per the details given by his wife on Monday. “The fresh complaint registered on Wednesday is not accurate. Police only added those sections in which the cop will get bail immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-attack-bank-victims-pain-worsens-rushed-to-hospital/articleshow/76632718.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 26, 2020||Patna||Man kills minor daughter over love affair in Bihar||PATNA: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly strangled to death by her father at Badgama village under the Sono police station area in Jamui district on Thursday because she had a love affair with a youth of another village. Police have arrested the man, Ravi Rajak, on charges of killing his daughter “After being arrested, the man admitted that he killed his daughter,” Jhajha SDPO Bhaskar Ranjan said. “During interrogation, Rajak admitted that he dumped the body of his daughter in a field near Simraghat forest. Police later exhumed the body from there and sent it to the sadar hospital at Jamui for post-mortem,” the SDPO added. Some locals had informed the police that Rajak’s daughter was missing for the last two days. She had a love affair with a youth of Dahiari village, which had made her parents angry. “The postmortem report is awaited,” the SDPO said. Two hurt in firing: One Birendra Kumar and a passerby suffered bullet injuries when a gang of criminals opened fire near Bazar Samiti under the Barh police station area in Patna district on Thursday. The victims were rushed to the Barh referral hospital from where they were referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital for treatment. Police said the reason behind the murderous attack on Birendra, stated to be the husband of a ward member of Sahri panchayat, was yet to be ascertained. The daylight incident sent shockwaves among local residents, who demanded immediate arrest of the criminals. Earlier on Wednesday night, a group of armed criminals had shot dead a youth and injured his sister in their house at Indranagar under the Kankarbagh police station area in the state capital. Police said the deceased, Sanjay Kumar alias Lala, had criminal antecedents. The deceased’s sister is undergoing treatment at the PMCH where her condition is stated to be critical. City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar rushed to the spot and inquired into the incident. Old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-minor-daughter-over-love-affair-in-jamui/articleshow/76632491.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Kids of many migrants enrolled in Bihar govt schools||PATNA: Five-year-old Ankush Sharma, son of a migrant worker from Rohtas district in south Bihar, is delighted after being enrolled in a government school at Mirzapur village under Tilauthu block in the district. Ankush’s father Ajit Sharma (33), who returned from Indore in Madhya Pradesh in May following Covid-19 lockdown, is equally happy. “This is the beginning of my son’s career. I am thankful to CM Nitish Kumar for providing this opportunity to my family. My son’s admission is complete. I am hopeful that he will get the benefits of the government schemes like uniform allowance and students’ scholarship in the days to come,” said Ajit Sharma, a carpenter. Ajit is not the only migrant worker whose ward has been enrolled in the government school after coming back home following the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Premjeet Sharma’s seven-year-old son Mohan Sharma also got admission in Class II at the government middle school at Mirzapur under Tilauthu block in Rohtas district. A delighted Premjeet said on Thursday, “My family is now settled in my native village. While my seven-year-old son Mohan Sharma is enrolled in the local government school, I have approached the principal of the school, Sumer Pal, for the admission of my second son, Shubham Sharma, who is just five-year-old.” Both the returnee migrant workers have vowed not to go outside again in search of a job. “The CM has assured the returnee migrant workers of providing job opportunities in the state according to their skills. I am confident that he will keep his promise,” said Ajit. Anil Singh, headmaster of the government middle school at Patluka in Rohtas district said the survey of children of returnee migrant workers was underway and the report would be submitted to the block education officer soon. Patluka middle school was earlier converted into a quarantine centre for returnee migrant workers. The headmaster of Upgraded Middle School at Gaura under Patepur block in Vaishali district, Jai Bahadur Singh, said till date 25 new children have been enrolled in the school. “The tola sevak is already on the job to identify the families who have returned from outside the state,” he added. Ajay Charan Pal, the headmaster of another government primary school at Jainagara in Rohtas district said, “Majority of the children of migrant workers are already enrolled in the government schools. However, two new admissions of the wards of migrant workers have been done recently. As the survey of such children is underway, the number may increase in future,” he added. Earlier, additional chief secretary of education department R K Mahajan had asked all the district education officers and the district programme officers in the state to identify such children and enrol them in government primary and upper primary schools depending on their age, learning skills and academic proficiency. The newly enrolled kids will be entitled to get the benefits of all central and state government schemes. According to the state government estimates, around 30 lakh migrants have returned to the state, many with their families, from different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kids-of-many-migrants-enrolled-in-govt-schools/articleshow/76631635.cms||Ramashankar
June 26, 2020||Patna||Nepal rain forecast triggers alert in Bihar border districts||PATNA: Bihar districts bordering Nepal between the Mahananda and the Bagmati river basins may see water levels rise as heavy rain has been predicted on the Nepal side. “Heavy rains have been predicted over the next couple of days in the Nepal area between the Mahananda and Bagmati river basins. The rainfall received in Nepal will be in the range of 60 mm to 150 mm,” a state water resources department official said. “This, however, does not necessarily mean that Bihar districts bordering Nepal will witness flood-like situations. The increase in volume of water through the rivers will not be menacing, because most of the rivers originating in Nepal and passing through these districts are empty of water,” he said. “They will hold whatever water flows into them from Nepal. Light to moderate rainfalls received in the Bihar plains by themselves do not cause any problems,” he added. The districts which might see a rise in the water level of the rivers passing through them are Kishanganj, Araria, Supaul, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Sheohar and Sitamarhi. Over and above the major rivers Mahananda, Kosi and Bagmati that pass through these districts are the minor ones like Kamla Balan. There are also quite a few small rivers that have the nature of suddenly acquiring menacing form, like in Araria and Kishanganj districts. The situation currently is manageable as water discharge through the Valmiki Nagar barrage across Gandak was 85,500 cusecs and through the Birpur barrage across Kosi 1.30 lakh cusecs at 4 pm on Thursday, but more rains received in their catchment areas in Nepal would change the situation. The water levels in Gandak and Kosi in Bihar have been showing a rising trend due to the changing water intake of their tributaries in Nepal, but most rivers have been flowing below the danger level. As to river Kosi itself, water discharge at Barahkshetra in Nepal, 60 km north of the Birpur barrage, was 94,775 cusecs with increasing trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-rain-forecast-triggers-alert-in-bihar-border-districts/articleshow/76631384.cms||Abhay Singh
June 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Students disappointed with cancellation of board exams||PATNA: Class X and XII students in the city were quite disappointed after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday cancelled the pending board exams in view of rising cases of Covid-19 in the country. The pending examinations were scheduled to be held between July 1 and July 15. After the CBSE’s decision, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has also decided to follow the suit. According to CBSE, the Class XII students will get the marks of their pending exams based on their performance in the last two examinations of the same paper. But if they wish to appear in the exam, they have to wait till September. Soumya Sahay, a Class XII (arts) student of Baldwin Academy, said she was well-prepared for her last paper – geography. “I would have loved to write the papers,” she said. Akshay, a Class XII (commerce) student of DAV Public School, said, “I’m quite worried as the board will give marks of remaining papers – business studies and informatics practices – based on the last two internal exams and pre-board exam. I have been preparing for the exam since January.” Sakshi Kumari, a Class XII (science) student of Krishna Niketan, said, “Since I had done well in all assessment exams and pre-board, there is nothing to worry for me.” Vijay Choudhary, whose daughter Ayushi still has four papers pending, said the CISCE has not made it clear how it will give the marks. “Students should have been allowed to write papers by maintaining social distancing norms,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-disappointed-with-cancellation-of-board-exams/articleshow/76631457.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Orphaned by Bengaluru-Kolkata murder-suicide, 10-year-old in shelter asks: ‘Where’s Mummy?’||KOLKATA: “Where is Mummy? Will you ask her to come over quickly. I haven’t ever been away from her for so long,” the 10-year-old boy told Child Welfare Committee Howrah chairperson Amrita Ghosh in a quivering voice. Four days after Shilpi Agarwal was murdered in the apartment in Bengaluru’s Whitefield, where she and her son lived, the boy is still unaware that he will never see her again. Neither does he know that his father and grandmother are dead. Childline officers took the boy to the crematorium for his father’s last rites on Wednesday. But by the time they reached, the body had been consigned to the flames. He met his paternal aunt before being taken back to the children’s home. He was brought to the home on Sunday night, hours after cops discovered that his father Amit Agarwal had shot the child’s grandmother and then committed suicide. The police also learned from cops in Bengaluru that Amit had murdered his wife Shilpi a day earlier. The boy will stay at the home till the CWC can take a call on where he will be most comfortable — at his maternal grandparents’ house in Kankurgachhi or at his paternal uncle’s home in Belgharia. On Thursday, Ghosh had gone to the home to find out where the boy preferred to stay. The boy’s answer had been prompt: “I don’t mind either, as long as my mom stays with me.” Ghosh, who has a child of the same age, didn’t have the heart to tell him about his mother. “I think it is better that someone close to the child who can comfort him gently tells him that his parents will not come back,” she said. For now, the boy has been told Shilpi had to rush back to Bengaluru for work. Speaking to TOI, Ghosh said the child was a little perturbed about Shilpi’s absence but otherwise was doing fine. “I had recommended a consultation with a clinical psychologist assuming he was in shock. But he is oblivious to the facts and is therefore fine. But once he does get to know, he may need professional help,” she said. The CWC, meanwhile, has initiated social investigation reports at both Belgharia and Kankurgachhi to check whether the homes are right for the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/orphaned-by-bluru-kol-murder-suicide-10-yr-old-in-shelter-asks-wheres-mummy/articleshow/76632984.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Appointment of new assistant professors likely to begin soon||PATNA: The newly constituted Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) is likely to initiate the process of appointment of assistant professors against 8,000 sanctioned vacant posts in the state. BSUSC secretary Upendra Nath asserted that the commission was ready to appoint assistant professors. “The vacancies will soon be advertised,” he said. According to sources, the commission is making necessary arrangements for advertising the vacant posts, receiving online or offline applications and holding interviews. It is waiting for the details of university-wise and subject-wise vacancies along with reservation roster to be furnished by the state education department. The education department, on its part, is busy receiving the details of vacancies of assistant professors in different subjects along with reservation roaster approved by the commissioner of the respective division. Most universities have already got clearance of reservation roster from the commissioner and sent it to the education department. Some universities, including Patna University (PU), have not been able to get roster clearance from the divisional commissioner. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper on Thursday, “There has been some misunderstanding between the university and the commissionary on the mode of calculating reservation as per government rules. However, the issue will be resolved soon and the vacancies with reservation roster sent to the education department.” In the meantime, the draft statutes relating to the appointment of assistant professors have been finalized and sent to the education department for its approval. The chancellor had earlier constituted a three-member committee, consisting of the vice-chancellors of Magadh University, Purnea University and Munger University, for drafting the statutes in the light of the UGC guidelines. The draft statutes, if approved by the education department, will be placed before the chancellor for his assent. The new statutes envisage selection on 115 marks, including 100 on academics and 15 on interview. Earlier, the selection was made on 100 marks, including 85 on academics and 15 on interview. PhD degrees have not been made mandatory for the aspirants, but they will now get more weightage on their research publications and post-doctoral work. The vacancies of assistant professors in colleges and universities of Bihar will be advertised after seven years. As many as 3,400 posts of assistant professors in different universities were advertised by the Bihar Public Service Commission in 2013 and the appointments completed only recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/appointment-of-new-assistant-professors-likely-to-begin-soon/articleshow/76631475.cms||B K Mishra
June 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: One more PMCH doctor, five health staff test Covid +ve||PATNA: With one more doctor and five other paramedical staff testing positive for Covid-19, the number health workers contracting the virus at Patna Medical College and Hospital has gone up to 13. An MBBS student of the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) was also tested positive for Covid-19. At PMCH, while seven doctors were earlier confirmed as positive on Sunday and isolated in the cottage ward, one doctor of the paediatrics department, who was tested positive on Wednesday, was sent to Patliputra Ashok Hotel isolation centre, hospital superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said on Thursday. Of the five other paramedical staff infected with the virus, one nurse was sent to NMCH, the dedicated Covid-19 hospital, for treatment. Two other nurses and a staff were allowed home isolation, he said. Taking serious note of spread of the virus among health workers, Dr Karak has ordered test of all doctors and staff of two more departments – paediatrics and clinical pathology. Earlier, doctors and other staff of gynaecology and anaesthesia departments were tested. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said as the student found positive for Covid-19 resided in the Junior Hostel, his close friends and boarders of the neighbouring rooms were being tested. NMCH principal Dr V K Gupta added all necessary precautionary measures were being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-pmch-doctor-five-health-staff-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76631584.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: New machine at RMRI gets operational||PATNA: Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna has started testing samples for coronavirus using the fully automated high-end machine, Cobas 6800, for Covid-19 tests. “Testing of coronavirus has started with the Cobas 6800 machine at RMRI, Patna. This machine will be able to test 1,000 to 1,200 samples per day (sic),” health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday. With this, the overall testing capacity for Covid-19 in Bihar has gone up from 6,500 to 8,500. In last 24 hours, 7,000 samples were tested, including 3,000 at RMRI. Altogether 1,82,000 samples have so far been tested at different facilities in the state. RMRI director Dr Pradeep Das said after successful installation of machine and two- day training, the experts conducted the testing of swab samples using the new machine. “Around 1,000 samples were tested on Cobas 6800 machine, which has the capacity to test 1,500 samples per day,” he said. Dr Das added, “Our testing capacity has increased from 2,000 to 3,000 per day. We will further increase number of tests after the experts become more accustomed to the new machine.” The machine can carry out 200 tests at once and produce results in just three hours. The manual procedure used to take at least seven hours to make the results available. The sophisticated machine minimises the human intervention and the chance of contamination as well. With less human intervention, it also reduces the risk of infection to healthcare workers. Presently, two RNA extract machines have been installed at RMRI and 87 TrueNat machines across the state at different health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-machine-at-rmri-gets-operational/articleshow/76631549.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 26, 2020||Patna||RJD holds cycle rally to protest diesel price hike||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and a number of other RJD functionaries held a cycle rally here on Thursday to protest hike in diesel prices. The cycle rally started from Tejashwi’s mother and former CM Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road residence around 9am and culminated at Dak Bungalow crossing. In another unique way of protest, the Yadav siblings and hundreds of other RJD members pushed a tractor using a rope to emphasise that farmers and common people cannot run them due to costly fuel. “People are already unemployed. They don’t have money to buy food and inflation is at an all-time high. Now, the prices of fuel have been increased astronomically. This is badly affecting poor people, farmers and traders. We have organised this protest march to create awareness among people to raise voice against whimsical attitude of the government,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi said it’s for the first time that diesel has become costlier than petrol. “Prices of petroleum products are increasing continuously from last 20 days, despite the fact that crude oil prices have plunged. It is badly affecting common people, farmers but benefitting industrialists,” he said. Training guns on the state government, Tejashwi said while the rate of employment in the country is 23%, it has touched a whopping 44% in Bihar. Meanwhile, JD(U) functionaries described RJD’s rally as “frustration” of Tejashwi in anticipation of loss of his party in the upcoming assembly elections. “RJD’s yuvraj has accepted his defeat. The exit of five MLCs from RJD and resignation of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh from the post of national vice-president of the party have shown that RJD is breaking now and Tejashwi’s leadership is neither accepted by his allies nor his own partymen. Tejashwi is not seen anywhere in comparison with popularity and development works done by CM Nitish Kumar,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-holds-cycle-rally-to-protest-diesel-price-hike/articleshow/76631437.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 26, 2020||Patna||All 9 MLC nominees set to win unchallenged||PATNA: Nine candidates from four different parties who filed their nomination papers for the biennial election to the nine legislative council seats are assured of their win even without the formal election as no extra candidate has entered the fray till Thursday, the last date for filing of nomination papers. “The scrutiny of the papers filed by the nine candidates will be done on Friday and the last date for withdrawal of names by any candidate is June 29,” state assembly secretary Bateshwar Nath Pandey said. “If no one withdraws their nomination papers by 3 pm on June 29, then they will be given certificate of election in half an hour or forty-five minutes the same day,” he added. The nine legislative council seats had fallen vacant due to the expiry of the six-year term of six JD(U) and three BJP MLCs on May 6. The Election Commission had deferred the biennial election to the nine council seats due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown. The EC recently announced the poll schedule, keeping the election slated for July 6. However, given the relative strength of the major political parties in the 243-member state assembly, the JD(U) could win only three seats, followed by three by RJD, BJP two, and Congress one. Each candidate would have required 25 MLA votes for the victory. In all, six candidates filed their nomination papers at the state assembly secretariat on Thursday. They included three form JD(U) – Ghulam Gaus, Bhishm Sahni and Kumud Verma – as well as two from BJP – Sanjay Prakash Mayukh and Samrat Choudhary. They were chaperoned by top leaders from their parties, including CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, respectively, among others. Congress candidate Samir Kumar Singh also filed his papers. The three RJD candidates – Sunil Singh, Rambali Chandravanshi and Farooq Shaikh -- had filed their nomination papers on Wednesday. The leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had accompanied them. The nine legislative council seats that had fallen vacant due to the expiry of the six-year terms of the MLCs concerned were Ashok Choudhary, P K Shahi, Satish Kumar, Sonelal Mehta, Haroon Rashid and Hira Prasad Bind from the JD(U), and three from the BJP – Krishna Kumar Singh, Sanjay Prakash Mayukh and Radha Mohan Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-9-mlc-nominees-set-to-win-unchallenged/articleshow/76631508.cms||Abhay Singh
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Jambuva landfill to be finally cleared||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will take up work to clear over 40 lakh metric tonnes of garbage dumped at its Jambuva garbage disposal site, freeing 4.5 hectares of land that will be available for garbage disposal in the future. The proposal for clearing the land was brought about two years back. Tenders were invited and bids were also opened, but the proposal never moved forward as it was never taken up by the elected wing. Sources said that a higher amount of garbage has now accumulated at Jambuva and this could be higher by 20 per cent as compared to previous estimates. The civic body is now looking to get work done at the previous rate without paying extra for the garbage added over two years. Sources said that even the contractor is not averse to the idea. Officials said that the waste will be segregated and products like refused-derived fuel (RDF), plastic and others could be made from the garbage. Material to level land at construction sites is also derived from the garbage. The proposal has been put before the standing committee for its nod. The proposal, however, was opposed by opposition Congress corporator Ami Ravat who has argued that if the data shared was an indication, a large amount of garbage was being dumped unscientifically across the city or its outskirts. She said that the daily collection of garbage would account to much higher that 40 lakh metric tonnes. VMC officials, however, countered saying that half of the garbage weight reported at the time of collection was moisture. This dried up after being dumped over the years and thus became lighter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jambuva-landfill-to-be-finally-cleared/articleshow/76631537.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Business||Preferential offers get more pricing options from Sebi||Mumbai: Sebi on Thursday introduced additional options to price shares during preferential allotments to promoters in order to ease difficulties that companies may face in raising funds in the current Covid-hit economy. The markets regulator’s board also said that, in case of open offers, large shareholders could use the block and bulk deal windows on the bourses to transfer shares to the acquirer. The board also removed a long-standing ambiguity about treatment of penalties collected by companies from its executives for violations of Sebi rules. Sebi said that in case of shares that are frequently traded, the price of those allotted through the preferential route should be higher of the two pricing options. One option is the average of the weekly high and low of the volume-weighted average price of the shares during the previous 12 weeks. The second option is the average of the weekly high and low of the volume-weighted average prices of the shares during the previous two weeks. Sebi said that the existing pricing guidelines for preferential issue would continue to remain in force. Once these rules are in place, the issuer could choose any of the formulas for pricing the shares. However, the shares allotted under the new rules will carry a lock-in for three years, a Sebi release said. According to corporate compliance firm MMJC & Associates partner Makarand Joshi, Sebi has indicated leniency for the company promoters and has strengthened the belief that they are outside the ambit of insider trading restrictions when it comes to subscribing to shares under the preferential allotment mechanism. “The move could see a spike in such allotments to promoters under this period,” Joshi said. The regulator also said in case of indirect acquisitions where public announcement of an open offer has been made, the full amount of the money to be paid during the open offer “must be deposited two working days before the date of detailed public statement”. This amount should be in an escrow account, either in cash or as bank guarantee, the release said. In case of any delay on the part of the acquirer, the entity will pay 10% simple interest to all the shareholders who tender their shares in the offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/preferential-offers-get-more-pricing-options-from-sebi/articleshow/76633097.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Surat||Surat diamantaires grappling with rising default cases||Surat: The coronavirus pandemic that forced a global lockdown has resulted in a weak demand and severe liquidity crisis in diamond cutting and polishing sector of Surat. But now the diamond industry in grappling with another problem; increase in payment defaults.In the last fortnight, about five defaults have been reported in Mumbai and Surat involving diamond merchants and a reputed angadia (local courier) firm worth over Rs 500 crore. Over 250 diamantaires in Surat and Mumbai have suffered huge losses that has resulted in series of defaults. Barely 20 days after about 20% of the diamond units in Surat resumed operations, a diamond merchant operating from the Bharat Diamond Boursee (BDB) in Mumbai defaulted on payments to the tune of Rs 80 crore due to its creditors in Surat, Mumbai and Antwerp.The industry got yet another shock on June 19 when the owners of a reputed angadia firm in Surat’s Bhawani Wad area, went bust with Rs 400 crore due to more than 100 clients from the diamond industry in Surat and Mumbai. Kirti Shah, a diamond exporter in Mahidharpura told TOI, “The coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown across world markets has resulted in the delay in the payments from the buyers. Due to the weak demand, the prices of polished diamonds have crashed by almost 10-15%. There is severe liquidity crisis in the industry, which is resulting into the defaults.” Shah added, “Only 35% of the units, majority of the big and medium units, have started operations post-lockdown. There are many diamond merchants who are yet to open their offices in the diamond markets, raising further speculations among the diamond circles.”Industry sources said that the increase in default cases will further destabilise the diamond industry when only 35% of the units have resumed operations that too with reduced capacity. The banks will continue to restrict lending to the sector over the next few months due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the export of polished diamonds and jewellery from India. Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “Coronavirus pandemic is worse than the global economic downturn of 2009. Diamonds and jewellery are the luxury items and will always come last on the purchase list of the consumers in the world when the economies are badly affected and people are losing job.”Lidbide added, “This is just the beginning of the default case as the industry may witness more such defaults in the coming months.”Distress Signal Jun 10: A diamond merchants in Mumbai’s BDB defaulted on Rs 80cr paymentJun 19: A reputed angadia firm headquartered in Surat defaulted on Rs 400 cr due to clients Jun 21: A diamond merchant in Mumbai defaulted on Rs 10 cr paymentJun 22: A rough diamond dealer in Surat defaulted on Rs 5 cr paymentJun 24: A diamond merchant in Surat defaulted on Rs 11 cr payment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-diamantaires-grappling-with-rising-default-cases/articleshow/76632514.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||Business bodies urge admn to amend protocol for shops||GAYA: Business bodies in Gaya have urged the administration to make few changes in the protocol for shutting commercial establishments in case any staff tests positive for Covid-19. Although the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce is supporting the official machinery in the ongoing fight against Covid-19, the members feel that some changes are required in the protocol. Its president said, “Instead of closing down the commercial establishments on the basis of TrueNat results, the officials should wait for the confirmatory report. In the meantime, only the person concerned should be quarantined without affecting the overall business activity.” Reacting to the demand of the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce, Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh said, “Business places have to be sanitized comprehensively. It may take 24 hours or even 48 as per the size of the area. As far as the other staff are concerned, their samples are taken as part of contact tracing.” Incidentally, four salesmen of a multi-storey hypermarket had tested corona positive in the TrueNat test last week, but the subsequent RT-PCR report came negative. The market with more than 50 salesmen and security staff was closed for three days. Even after it reopened, the footfall has been affected and is abnormally low as old customers are shying away from making purchases. According to Gaya civil surgeon Dr B K Singh, Covid-19 is “just another droplet infection and there should be no stigma attached to it”. “Civil society leaders must come forward to remove the misgivings,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/business-bodies-urge-admn-to-amend-protocol-for-shops/articleshow/76631608.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Surat||Jambusar constable succumbs to Covid||Surat/Bharuch: A head constable posted at the Vedach police station in Jambusar succumbed to Covid-19 in the Vadodara hospital on Thursday. Jagdish Solanki, 42, a head constable with Jambusar police was admitted in the Gotri hospital in Vadodara. At least four policemen, three in Ahmedabad and one in Surat have died of Covid since the outbreak of the pandemic. Solanki was serving in Jambusar for the past 10 years, sources said.Meanwhile, as many as 42 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Surat rural, Bharuch and Valsad districts on Thursday.The number of cases in Surat rural surged to 420 with 26 more testing positive. Official sources said nine cases were reported from Kamrej, seven from Olpad, three each from Palsana and Bardoli and two from Choryasi talukas."About 12 patients were also discharged from hospitals in Surat district on Thursday taking the total recoveries to 237 till date,'' said an official. Valsad district on Thursday recorded eight cases, taking the total number in the district to 88 . As on Thursday, there were 44 active cases in the district. Bharuch district also recorded eight cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 179 on Thursday. Of these, six were reported from Jambusar alone. All cases are close contacts of the previous Covid-19 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jambusar-constable-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76632477.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Varanasi||Swarms of locusts enter dist from Mirzapur, Jaunpur||Varanasi: Locust swarms have entered several villages of the district on Thursday. Besides, swarms have also entered some areas of Azamgarh and Bhadohi districts. Earlier, in the last week of May, swarms had hit Mirzapur district. The local administrations have geared up to ward off locusts by engaging spraying teams and fire brigade. Giving details, officials said two swarms of locusts, which entered the district from Mirzapur side, were seen in Chiraigaon block and Raja Talab tehsil on Thursday. Besides, a third swarm of locusts, which came from Jaunpur side, was seen in Pindra tehsil. Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the administration has made all the necessary arrangement to tackle the situation if the locust swarms settle anywhere in the district at night. The fire brigade, manual spray pumps for spraying insecticide have been put on ready mode to start operation after finding the locations of the insects at night. All the SDMs, BDOs and officials of agriculture department, and gram pradhans have been engaged in tracing the location of locust swarms. Meanwhile, swarms of locusts also entered Azamgarh district from Jaunpur. According to the agricultural department officials, the swarms of the insects were seen moving towards Deedarganj, Sikraur Sahbari and Sarai Mir. The teams of agriculture department are keeping a close eye on their movements. Earlier, the swarms of locusts had reached Kusiara village in Halia area of Mirzapur district on May 28. The district administration had taken preventive measures in view of locusts’ attack. Varanasi and Chandauli districts had alerted the farmers and government staff to take necessary measures for its control. The DM had also given some tips to the farmers on how to handle the situation. He appealed the farmers to remain on vigil and inform the district authorities immediately if the problem occurs. The locust swarms can be diverted by making noise. The sandy soil is fit for the breeding of locust, hence the field of sandy soil should be tilled or filled with water to evade the problem. The farmers were advised to use prescribed pesticide to save the crops. The Central government has also taken measures to control the locusts. According to a report of the department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare (DAC&FW), control operations are being run in the affected states including Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. For effective control of locusts beyond scheduled desert areas, temporary control camps have been established in Ajmer, Chittorgarh and Dausa in Rajasthan; Mandsaur, Ujjain and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh. According to the report, usually the locust swarms enter the Scheduled Desert Area of India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the advent of monsoon. This year, however the incursions of locust hoppers and pink swarms have been reported much earlier because of presence of residual population of locusts in Pakistan which they couldn’t control last season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/swarms-of-locusts-enter-dist-from-mirzapur-jaunpur/articleshow/76633736.cms||Binay Singh
June 26, 2020||Business||HUL’s call forces rivals to look at similar move||Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: By deciding to drop the word “fair” from its leading fairness cream brand Fair & Lovely, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has swiftly shifted the spotlight onto other players in the market. HUL’s move follows Johnson & Johnson’s decision to exit fairness creams, a category that is increasingly getting associated with colour discrimination globally. Other players could fall in line, said industry experts. When contacted, an Emami spokesperson said, “We, as responsible corporate citizens, value consumer sentiments and take cognizance of the holistic approach that is required to be taken to address their needs. We are studying all implications currently and evaluating internally to decide our next course of action.” “We are evaluating the situation,” said C K Ranganathan, MD of CavinKare, the FMCG company that makes the ‘Fairever’ range of fairness creams. Abneesh Roy, research analyst at Edelweiss Securities, termed HUL’s move as a positive step from an environment, social and governance (ESG) perspective. “In contrast to J&J’s complete exit from this segment, Fair & Lovely will change its brand name. Now the key question is, what will competitors Emami (Fair and Handsome) and Dabur (Fem Fairness bleach) do? Will they go after market share or give more emphasis on ESG?” said Roy. Roy said once Fair & Lovely’s new brand is launched, fairness brands of Emami and Dabur could potentially benefit, depending on how seamlessly HUL transitions the Fair & Lovely brand to the new brand architecture. Even beyond the FMCG sector, matrimonial website Shaadi.com has reportedly stopped asking users to declare the colour of their skin in their profile. Experts believe there could be more companies who would follow suit as the global backlash against racism gathers steam. The phenomenon is not new and the west is familiar with such changes that companies have been forced to take in the past. In 2017, Dove, another Unilever brand, had apologised for an advertisement that showed a black woman turning into a white woman. Darlie, a toothpaste brand, was originally known as Darkie. On the other hand, United Colors of Benetton broke these stereotypes long before consumers started voicing their thoughts instantly through social media. With Fair & Lovely being rechristened, skeptics said a rose by any other name will still be a rose. “It should not take 40 years for a brand to realise it may have propagated a societal stereotype. Will the company apologise for that?” asked an FMCG industry expert, who did not wish to be named. Harish Bijoor Consults Inc founder Harish Bijoor said, “HUL has bought into the game of semantics. As one traces the history of the brand, the vestiges of discomfort remained in the word fair. Now that it is purged, the brand steers a wee bit away from the eye of the storm.” Anuranjita Kumar, partner of IndusCap Ventures and the author of ‘Colour Matters?’, said renaming the Fair & Lovely brand could be tricky. “The point is how is it positioned to people and what does the brand stand for going forward,” said Kumar. Jagdeep Kapoor, founder-CMD of Samsika Marketing Consultants, has a different take on the renaming. Kapoor said there was no need for rebranding or change of name. “I understand the social pressure. That social pressure happens on many product categories, including cigarettes and liquor. But there are other ways of handling it, not rebranding. The brand can move from just tangibles in terms of colour of skin to intangibles of being ‘fair’ in your dealings or being ‘fair’ to each other. To be fair not only tangibly but also intangibly. Then it would be a ‘lovely’ world. Fair and Lovely is a strong brand and can extend its positioning in all kinds of fairness, including not looking down upon others. Fair and Lovely should be retained and the concept of fairness in all its senses can make this Rs 2,000-crore brand stronger, while still being sensitive to everyone’s feelings. Then it will be a ‘Fair and Lovely’ world. Rebranding is not the option in my mind. Brand Enlarging through intangible and tangible ways is,” said Kapoor. (With inputs from Rajesh Chandramouli)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/huls-call-forces-rivals-to-look-at-similar-move/articleshow/76633225.cms||Namrata Singh
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur-Mumbai air service to resume from July 1||Kolhapur: Air service between Kolhapur and Mumbai is expected to resume from July 1. According to an official from Kolhapur airport, they are also working to resume the Kolhapur-Tirupati service from the same day. Flights on both the routes are operated by two separate airline companies and the services was stopped on March 25 after lockdown was imposed across the country. “Online booking of tickets on both the routes — Kolhapur-Mumbai and Kolhapur-Tirupati — began on Thursday,” the official said. The Kolhapur-Mumbai route could not resume earlier as state government had restricted the number of flights at Mumbai airport. However, the Kolhapur-Tirupati air service, which was started earlier this month, was, suspended because of lack of response from the passengers. Kamal Kumar Kataria, director of Kolhapur airport, has said in a communication that as many as 3,429 passengers used Kolhapur airport since it was reopened on May 25. As many as 164 flights operated in the last month. Flights connecting Kolhapur to cities like Hyderabad and Bengaluru also resumed last month. “All precautionary measures as directed by the government are being taken at the airport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-mumbai-air-service-to-resume-from-july-1/articleshow/76633723.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||22 people fined for flouting mask rule||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday penalized 22 citizens of Rs 500 each for flouting the mask rule on the first day of action. “Special drives were conducted across the municipal areas to ensure adherence to the rule. Mostly, roads and other public places were inspected. The PMC has already issued instructions about compulsory wearing of masks when venturing out. So, those who were not wearing masks were directly fined on Thursday,” Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of PMC’s solid waste management department, told TOI. Molak said most of those who were penalised on Thursday were residents of areas like Ahmednagar Road, Hadapsar, Kondhwa and Mundhwa. On Wednesday, the PMC had issued fresh orders making masks compulsory. Powers have been delegated to ward offices to make the drives effective. Fine of Rs 500 is to be imposed on citizens not wearing masks. “The municipal law allows for filing of offence and the provision will be used if any citizen refuses to cooperate with the officials carrying out the drive,” Molak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/22-people-fined-for-flouting-mask-rule/articleshow/76633073.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||‘Name film city at Rajgir after Sushant Singh Rajput’||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday demanded that the upcoming film city at Rajgir be named after late Bollywood actor and Patna boy Sushant Singh Rajput. Tejashwi visited the residence of Sushant at Rajiv Nagar here and offered tributes to the departed soul. He was accompanied by his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh. Talking to Sushant’s father K K Singh and cousin Neeraj Singh ‘Bablu’, who is an MLA, Tejashwi said it was an enormous achievement for Sushant to go “from a place like Bihar and make a mark in Bollywood.” “Sushant was Bihar’s pride. He had achieved great success in the film industry even at a quite young age,” Tejashwi said. The film city at Rajgir is being developed by the state art, culture and youth affairs department over 20 acres of land with an estimated expenditure of Rs 10.76 crore. Meanwhile, yesteryear movie actor and Patna native Shekhar Suman has launched a campaign christened ‘Justice for Sushant forum’. “I’m forming a forum called #justiceforSushantforum, where I implore just about everyone to pressurize the government to launch a CBI inquiry into Sushant’s death, raise their voices against this kind of tyranny and gangism and tear down the mafias. I solicit your support (sic),” Shekhar tweeted. Shekhar, who had unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha elections from Patna Sahib constituency earlier, further tweeted, “Sushant was a Bihari that’s why the Bihari sentiment is at the forefront. But I am not taking away the fact that it concerns people from all the states of India and there should not be another Sushant kind of tragedy with any young talent (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/name-film-city-at-rajgir-after-sushant/articleshow/76631332.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 26, 2020||Business||Another month for secretarial compliance||MUMBAI: After receiving representations from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India about difficulty in completing paperwork for secretarial compliance, Sebi on Thursday allowed listed companies an extra month — till July 31, 2020 — to submit these reports to the stock exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/another-month-for-secretarial-compliance/articleshow/76633147.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Two Covid-19 patients give birth to baby boys in Ballari||HUBBALLI: Although the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise in Ballari district for the past few days, keeping the officials in the health department on their toes, the news of two women positive for the novel coronavirus successfully giving birth to healthy infants on Thursday helped lift the spirits of the corona warriors. While one of the women underwent a C-section, the other patient had a normal delivery. The successfully carried out C-section procedure brightened up the faces of the staff at the designated Covid hospital in Ballari. The woman had contracted the virus from her husband, an employee with a steel firm, who recovered from the infection and was released two days ago. Ballari district surgeon Dr N Basareddi said that the patient, 29, a resident of Nehru Colony, had been admitted to the hospital after her husband was confirmed infected. “She subsequently tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The woman, in her ninth month of pregnancy, started getting labour pains and we decided to perform a C-Section. The operation was a success, and she gave birth to a boy weighing 2.8kg in the wee hours of Thursday,” Dr Basareddi told TOI. The other pregnant woman, 28, was from Rayadurga. “She had also contracted the virus from her husband, who was cured and discharged. In her case, it was a normal delivery, and she too gave birth to a boy, weighing 3.2kg,” Dr Basareddi added. The district surgeon said that as many as eight pregnant women were still at the Covid hospital in Ballari. “Their condition is being closely monitored. Doctors and nurses at the hospital are ready to treat them if the situation arises,” said Dr Basareddi, adding that they were collecting swabs from newborn infants, which were being sent for medical examination. A team of doctors consisting of Dr Suyagna Joshi, Dr Vijayalaxmi, Dr Saraswati, Dr Rajeshwari, Dr Sangeetha, Dr Veershankar, Dr Sunil, Dr Mallanna, and other OT department staff and nurses performed C-section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-covid-19-patients-give-birth-to-baby-boys-in-ballari/articleshow/76632913.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Corpn hands out pamphlets on immunity boosters||Madurai: Madurai corporation has been raising awareness among the public using public address systems at the traffic signals and other public places insisting on consuming vitamin and mineral tablets to boost immunity amid the pandemic. Now, they have started distributing pamphlets with detailed dosages for these medicines. Pamphlets distributed by the civic body promotes consumption of allopathy, homeopathy and siddha medications. If one prefers allopathic medication, one vitamin C tablet has to be taken after breakfast. One zinc tablet should be taken after dinner. Vitamin D (60000 IU) tablets should be taken once a week for three weeks. The medicine prescribed in homeopathy is arsenic album. Three tablets have to be taken on an empty stomach, continuously for three days for every 10 days. Kabasurakudineer, a siddha concoction is also being promoted by the civic body. A teaspoon of the powder has to be mixed in a glass of cold water and boiled for about 10 to 15 minutes till it reduces to ¼ its original quantity. This can then be cooled and consumed, after straining. Children should be given 30 ml per day and adults 60 ml. Adhathodai manapagu, another siddha medicine has to be taken by mixing 10 ml in a glass of hot water, after breakfast and dinner every day. Two thalisadhi sooranam tablets are to be taken after breakfast, lunch and dinner thrice a day. Further information on dosages can be obtained by contacting the number 8428425000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-hands-out-pamphlets-on-immunity-boosters/articleshow/76634174.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Varanasi||Four henchmen of Mukhtar Ansari arrested in Mau||VARANASI: Four henchmen of jailed mafia-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari booked under Gangster Act for extortion in the name of taxi stands were arrested in Mau district. Police had announced cash rewards of Rs 25,000 for each of the 11 members booked under Gangster Act on May 31. Mau SP Anurag Arya said that Sarai Lakhansi cops on Thursday succeeded in arresting Suresh Singh of Bhiti area. Earlier on Wednesday, Kotwali cops had arrested Jhanku Singh, Samar Bahadur of Pardaha and Mahendra Chauhan of Sultanpur Banaura, he said. These four were among those 11 booked under Gangster Act on May 13. Search for the remaining seven including the gang leader Saud Abbasi continues. In a bid to hit the economic empire of Mukhtar, police had started identifying his henchmen. It was then when a gang led by Abbasi had come to light. This gang of 13 was busted when two of its members were arrested, and thereafter, the name of their gang leader and other 10 members were ascertained. “On May 31 Abbasi, Surendra Singh, Shivendra Kumar Singh, Samar Bahadur, Ashwini Kumar Singh, Jhinku Singh, Mahendra Chauhan, Makhanchu Yadav, Santosh Kumar, Mandhata Shukla and Dheeraj Rai were booked under Gangster Act and cash rewards were announced on them,” said Arya. “These 11 men had appeared on the radar of Mau cops in 2019 when three FIRs had been lodged against them at city Kotwali, Sarai Lakhansi and Dakshin Tola police stations. In the FIRs, it was alleged that they had taken contract of tax stands from Nagar Palika for financial year 2019-20, but were extorting money from people on that pretext. As many as 11 members of the gang including Suresh and Abbasi were sent to jail while contract of Rs 65.51 lakh was cancelled,” explained the SP. “However, in November 2019, when the process of floating fresh tender was initiated by Nagar Palika, Dheeraj Rai, who also belonged to this gang, grabbed the contract by quoting the amount of Rs 75 lakh. During police investigation, the earlier allegations of extortion in the name of taxi stand was corroborated. A fresh FIR under Gangster Act was then lodged against them. Process to register their separate gangs was also initiated,” said Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-henchmen-of-mukhtar-ansari-arrested-in-mau/articleshow/76633752.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||3,509 fresh Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, 1,834 in Chennai, authorities blame it on tests||CHENNAI: Fresh cases of Covid-19 infection in Tamil Nadu touched 3,509 on Thursday with authorities claiming increased testing had pushed up the numbers. The state’s case tally has now reached 70,997, though the number of people still under treatment is 30,064. The 45 deaths reported took the official toll to 911. With 1,834 cases Chennai remained the hotspot and its three neighbouring districts, Chengalpet (191), Kancheepuram (98) and Tiruvallur (170), together logged 459 cases. However, three other districts registered three-digit spikes in fresh cases Madurai (203), which also under intense lockdown like Chennai and its three neighbours, Vellore (168) and Ramanathapuram (140). The state is ramping up medical infrastructure in these districts. “The state and medical teams have done their bit, the incidence can be brought down only if people avoid going out without a reason, wear masks when they step out, follow hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette,” said former director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. On Thursday, 30,307 persons (including nearly 10,000 people in Chennai) were tested across the state compared to 25,234 on June 22. “We are going with the advice from medical experts that testing will help us isolate positive case and prevent the spread. People are being screened actively and brought to testing centres. We are planning to ramp up testing across the state. As we loosen lockdown, we expect an increase across the state including interior districts,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The spike in cases is already putting immense pressure on Chennai’s health infrastructure. While 18,969 people in Chennai were under treatment, Chengalpet had 1,986, Kancheepuram 782 and Tiruvallur 1,160 active cases. “Most people without symptoms are being advised to stay at home or go to Covid care centres so we can reserve hospital beds for patients who need drugs, periodic monitoring and intervention such as high-flow oxygen or life support,” said the health secretary. Many frontline workers including doctors and in nurses in Chennai continued to be affected by the virus. At the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital, at least eight undergraduate resident doctors tested positive on Thursday, according to hospital dean Dr P Balaji. “They were not on Covid duty, they are infected because they are working in a containment zone,” he said. The doubling time – period it takes for the total number of cases to double – has come down to 15 days (with a seven-day average) in Tamil Nadu compared to 16 days on June 22, as per calculations by epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. However, in Chennai, the doubling rate increased to 19 days during the same period. The doubling rate for TN was two weeks and a day less for Chennai on June 14. Of the 45 casualties, two died within hours of admission. A 62-year-old man from Chennai admitted to a private medical college on Monday with complaints of fever, difficulty in breathing, cough and diarrhoea died within three hours of admission. He had no comorbidities. A 60-year-old man from Chennai admitted to a private hospital on Wednesday morning with complaints of fever and breathlessness died by 12.30 pm. A dozen more people on the list died a day after admission. While 29 of them were above 60 years of age, there were three people in their 30s, three in their 40s and 10 in their 50s. The total death toll, however, did not include more than 200 Covid deaths in Chennai registered by the civic body, but not recorded in the state count. On Thursday, 2,236 people were declared fit for discharge by doctors. So far, 39,999 people have recovered from the illness and recovery rate touched 56%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3509-fresh-cases-in-state-1834-in-city-authorities-blame-it-on-tests/articleshow/76633748.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Rajkot||Road under 10ft water, farmers forced to ply on makeshift boats||Rajkot: For years now, monsoon turns these two remote hamlets in Badhada village of Savarkundala taluka in Amreli district into Venice of sorts. But, unlike the Venetians who use gondolas as the only means of commuting owing to Venice’s topographical necessity, 300-odd villagers in Surajwadi and Badhada villages have to commute in rubber dinghies thanks to the fury of nature and apathetic government authorities. The two villagers are linked by the Surajvadi River and around 10 years ago, a bund was built on the river, more than 10 feet higher than the road that runs parellel to it. The road is the only path that connects the villages as well as their farms. Villagers had then protested to the then BJP MLA Kalu Virani about the height of the dam explaining that it will create problems during rains. He had assured the villagers of help, but since then nothing moved and as feared, every monsoon the river gets flooded and water spills over the bund onto the road thereby creating misery. “The road leading to our farms gets submerged in 10 feet water during monsoon. The water remains here for more than six months, during which we are left with no option but to navigate this “man-made river” by dinghies,” said Hasmukh Patel, a farmer from Bhadada village. This has been a monsoon pain for around 20-odd farmers’ families that are forced to commute in the rubber flotillas to their farms travelling 14 kms up and down every day. And the problem plagues them throughout the sowing of groundnut and cotton to the harvesting season. “By the time we harvest our two crops, the road has residual flood water of 2-3 feet but we can drive our heavy vehicles on it. We somehow load our produce in the tractors but also have to suffer huge losses as both crops are not water friendly,” said Patel. He added that repeated entreaties to the authorities have not brought them any relief so far. “We have made several representations before the district administration, urging it to build a bridge on the river, but to no avail,” said another aggrieved resident of Bhadada village, Ansar Sahira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/road-under-10ft-water-farmers-forced-to-ply-on-makeshift-boats/articleshow/76632025.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Rain causes havoc in civic body’s health centre||Aurangabad: The late night rainfall that lashed Aurangabad city caused havoc in several parts, including civic body-run health centre at Kabadipura in the Barudgarnala area of the city. The furniture at the health centre remained under water. As per the Chikalthana-based observatory, the city has recorded 56.2 mm rainfall in the wee hours Friday. The rainfall, on one hand, caused serious inconvenience to the commoners, especially those residing in low lying areas as well as those near major nullahs while, on the other hand, it also exposed the civic administration’s lethargy towards making pre-monsoon preparations. In several localities, water entered several homes, resulting in walls collapsing in the Kala Darwaza area, causing damage to the vehicles parked there. Fire brigade officials said that they received dozens of calls about water logging in different parts of the city including Jai Bhavaninagar, government quarters at the Central Naka area, Cidco N-9, City Chowk based Shrikrushna nagar, Nageshwarwadi, N-12 Hudco, Jama Masjid area, Saptshrungi Housing Society, Fazalpura, Kala Darwaza, Jai Bhavaninagar, Balaji Nagar, Banjara Colony, Beed Bypass, Sara City society, Mayur Park, Dhawni Mohalla. Officials of the fire department said that they received a rescue call from the Sanjay Nagar area where a large tree had fallen on the road. Waterlogging was also reported from some houses as well as shops in the city on Friday. Locals blamed the civic administration for failing to clean the nullahs passing through the city. MP Imtiaz Jaleel, expressed serious anguish over the situation. “I noticed waterlogging in front my house. Also, I received calls from people from different low-lying areas. Corrective measures should be taken to ensure no loss of property or life during the monsoon season,” said Imtiaz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rain-causes-havoc-in-civic-bodys-health-centre/articleshow/76633749.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Secodary contacts of cloth shop owner still not traced||Ludhiana: Health department is looking for secondary contacts of the cloth shop owner, whose father used to give rehris on rent to vegetable vendors, of Khanna after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. Senior medical officer (SMO), Khanna, Dr Rajinder Gulati, had said a patient had tested positive for Covid-19, whereas the remaining 43 patients whose samples were taken on June 20 have tested negative. He had added that the 40-year male who had tested positive and had been shifted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Khanna. The SMO said the primary contacts of the person, who is a cloth shop owner, had been traced and that includes his father, who gives rehris to vendors on rent, his wife, sister and two sons. He added that their samples were taken by them on Thursday and they had been home quarantined. The health department officer said as per the patient, he didn’t go out of home for the last 10 days but they are still seeking the help of the local municipal councillor to identify other contacts of the person. He added that even as he had not gone out but still his other family members may have come in contact with other people. Health department officials said since the father of the positive patient gives more than 50 rehris on rent daily, the person collects money from them. They added that there are chances that the vegetable vendors might have contracted the disease from him and it was very necessary to identify them and get their sampling done so that they don’t spread disease if any of them had actually got the infection from him. Health department officials further said the patient came to the civil hospital on his own and complained of fever and soar throat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/secodary-contacts-of-cloth-shop-owner-still-not-traced/articleshow/76633083.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 190 workers among 300 test positive for Covid-19 in MIDC Waluj area||AURANGABAD: All the high-risk as well as low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients will henceforth be tested in Aurangabad district as the number of cases and casualties have been rising. A decision in this regard was taken during a meeting convened by Aurangabad guardian minister Subhash Desai on Thursday, said a source close to the minister. The meeting also discussed the issue of industrial workers contracting the disease. More than 300 people, including 190 workers, have tested positive for the contagion in the MIDC Waluj area in the past few days. Police have issued notices to the companies whose employees contracted the disease. People’s representatives, including MPs Imtiaz Jaleel and Bhagwat Karad, MLAs Atul Save, Pradeep Jaiswal and Sanjay Shirsath and MLC Ambadas Danve raised several issued with the guardian minister and pointed out lack of coordination and communication. It was also decided that every Monday, the administration will hold a meeting with the people’s representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-contacts-to-be-tested-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76633740.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||CICU extends loan mela helping hand for needy businessmen||Ludhiana: In an effort to overcome the problem of shortage of funds being faced by the micro and small scale units of Ludhiana due to the Covid-9 lockdown, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) has started organising awareness camps-cum-loan melas for the needy businessmen. In this event along with sharing knowledge on the businessmen eligibility criteria formalities, on-the-spot in-principle approvals will also be given by the representatives of the banks to the eligible borrowers. The first such camp was held on Thursday at Gill Road office of the association, in which 70 businessmen took part. Giving more information, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, said, “A large number of industrialists and traders have been severely jolted by the Covid-19 lockdown due to which the businesses have been fully derailed and it will take a lot of time for things to get back to normal. The biggest requirement of any businessman right now is easy financing but its not easy to get loans these days due to several reasons. Our association understands all these challenges and that is why we have started a new initiative under which we are bringing multiple banks under one roof, where they will give competitive quotes to the customers under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana Scheme.” He said, “Eligible businessmen who fulfil the laid down criteria can get approval for loans of up to Rs 10 lakh and that too on the spot In the first camp which was organised by us on Thursday. Representatives of various banks, including Punjab and Sind Bank, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC, ICICI and Canara Bank camped at the CICU office on Gill Road, Ludhiana, and assessed cases of businessmen for financing. More such camps will be organised by us in the near future as well at regular intervals.” According to Rajneesh Bansal, another senior office-bearer of CICU, “This camp was a huge success as more than 70 businessmen took part in it and discussed their loan requirements under various schemes with these banks. The bank officials after checking their documents and loan requirement gave in-principle approval to 32 cases to grant them the loans, subject to the completion of formalities.” He further said, “The remaining participants were advised on what documents they need to have to become eligible for financing under any of the current running loan schemes of the banks. Huge enthusiasm was witnessed among the participants and we have received requests from a large number of businessmen for organising similar camps on regular basis and bring multiple banks to them for financing rather than businessmen going to banks for their requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cicu-extends-loan-mela-helping-hand-for-needy-businessmen/articleshow/76633089.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rape survivor tests positive, 25 quarantined||Rajkot: As many as 25 persons including one inspector, five women cops, head constables and constables with Bhuj A-division police station were placed under quarantine on Thursday after they came in contact with rape survivor. The 20-year-old woman had come to the Bhuj A-division police station to lodge the complaint on Monday. “When we sent the survivor for medical test, we also conducted Covid-19 test on her, as it is mandatory. Her test report confirmed her as Covid-19 positive on Thursday morning,” said an official from the Bhuj A division police station. The girl had lodged a complaint of rape against a man from Anjar after getting to know that he was already married. Police said the woman and the man stayed in Bhuj for 10 days when he allegedly raped her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-survivor-tests-positive-25-quarantined/articleshow/76632042.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Three of gang held for mobile phone snatchings||LUDHIANA: The Crime Investigating Agency-II wing of the city police has arrested three members of gang of robbers and recovered 20 mobile phones from their possession. The accused were identified Kamaljit Singh Kambu (37) and Gurnam Singh Laddi (26), both of Bhattian village, and Ramandeep Singh Raja (25). Police said they had received a tip-off about the gang of robbers involved in illegal mobile phone trade. They added that finding the information credible, a police check post was set up at Jalandhar bypass and the accused were nabbed. CIA officials said the preliminary probe suggested that the accused had committed many mobile phone snatchings in various areas, including Tibba, Basti Jodhewal, Salem Tabri, Shivpuri on GT road, Bhadurke road, Bhattiyan, Noorwala, Sunder Nagar and Subhash Nagar. They added that Ramandeep, would buy stolen mobile phones from the other accused. Police said efforts were being made to find out about the other members of the gang and more arrests and recovery were likely to be made. Cops said that the records were being scanned to check whether the accused had more cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-of-gang-held-for-mobile-phone-snatchings/articleshow/76633098.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||Man, his sister-in-law electrocuted in Budaun||BAREILLY: A man and his sister-in-law were electrocuted to death in Alapur town of Budaun on Thursday. The woman, who was washing clothes, got electrocuted after she touched a table fan with her wet hands. When her brother-in-law rushed to recuse her, he ended up getting electrocuted him. The victims were identified as 50-year-old Saroja Devi (50) and her brother-in-law Raja Ram (50). Station house officer of Alapur OP Gautam said, “Family members took them to the nearest hospital where they were declared dead. Their bodies have been sent for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-his-sister-in-law-electrocuted-in-budaun/articleshow/76629659.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||MNREGA card holders to lion’s share in plantation work in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Migrant labourers who have MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Fuarantee Act) cards will be in the forefront of the sapling plantation drive in Pilibhit district this time. Though the date for the one-day drive is yet to be announced, Pilibhit has been assigned a target of planting over 23,15,070 saplings. Of these, 13,91,900 saplings are to be planted by MNREGA job card holders.Chief development officer (CDO) Shri Niwas Mishra said the task of planting over 13 lakh saplings assigned to the department of rural development has been earmarked for completion through MNREGA. The department has already managed to get 14,13,300 pits dug up. The MNREGA card holders were given preference in this work too, he said.Mishra said the district already had as many as 1.81 lakh active MNREGA job card holders. “In addition, we have issued over 11,500 new MNREGA cards to migrant labourers who returned home during the lockdown," he added.A total of 45,000 migrants have returned to Pilibhit and the process of issuing cards to them is on. "For their sustenance, a major part of the plantation work has been reserved for them,” said the CDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mnrega-card-holders-to-lions-share-in-plantation-work-in-pilibhit/articleshow/76629670.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Friends turn foes, tiff ends in murder||HYDERABAD: Fearing a history-sheeter might finish them, two brothers, in a pre-emptive strike, allegedly killed him at P&T Colony, Saroornagar on Wednesday night. They had a dispute over a mobile phone. Ironically, the three were friends till they moved to different areas. Saroornagar police said photographer Vinay Kumar,31, a resident of Chatrinaka, and the accused— Santosh Kumar and Sandeep Kumar— had a heated argument on Wednesday over a transaction about a mobile phone. “The accused and the victim during an argument on phone late on Wednesday night, decided to meet at P&T colony to have fight. The accused, who feared that Vinay might attack them, carried a knife and stabbed him on throat and other parts of the body,’’ Saroornagar inspector E Srinivas Reddy told TOI. After killing the victim, the duo called up Vinay’s family members and informed them about the attack. The worried family members called ‘Dial-100’ and police reached the spot and shifted a profusely Vinay to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. In the past, the accused and victim were friends and used to reside at P&T Colony before they moved out. The three were previously involved in criminal cases. Police said a case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/friends-turn-foes-tiff-ends-in-murder/articleshow/76633766.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||First Covid death reported in Kolhapur city, another 1 in dist||Kolhapur: The first Covid-19 death in Kolhapur city was recorded on Thursday morning. Another man from Chandgad tehsil also died on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 10. The 67-year-old Kolhapur city patient, a resident of Kanerkar Nagar, died around 7 am. His funeral took place in the presence of civic staff at noon. Officials said a member of his family has also been identified as a Covid-19 patient. The deceased man’s test report had come in on Tuesday and he was immediately admitted to the hospital. Civic administration had immediately sealed off the area. The first death in the city has made the local administration anxious as four patients have been identified in the Kanerkar Nagar area. In the other case, a 44-year-old man from Chadgad died at noon. He was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. Officials said the patient was being treated for Covid-19, though his report came in after his death. Shahuwadi Covid-free now Meanwhile, the Shahuwadi tehsil, which had the highest number of Covid-19 patients in Kolhapur district till the end of the last month, does not have a single active case at present. Three Covid-19 patients from Kasarde village in Shahuwadi tehsil were discharged last week, officials said. There is no active case currently and since the last week of March, 1,469 people have been asked to go on mandatory quarantine. So far, nine deaths have been reported in Kolhapur district, of which one was from Shahuwad. Ichalkaranji reports 5 cases However, Ichalkaranji, which is a major industrial hub, is gradually witnessing a rise in the number of cases. As many as five new Covid-19 patients were reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 12 in Ichalkaranji. According to the official information, three people from the same family in Ichalkaranji tested Covid positive. A 20-year-old student, who had come from abroad also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-covid-death-reported-in-kolhapur-city-another-1-in-dist/articleshow/76633759.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Most people lack information on coronavirus: PAU survey||Ludhiana: A survey by PAU scientists has found that majority of the people did not have complete information about coronavirus and had no specific opinion on lockdown. The survey conducted on 500 people from 12 states mentioned that a majority felt that the lockdown with its obvious safety measures was a positive step but it did have its negative repercussions. The scientists involved in the survey underlined that the people have made excessive use of the internet and television during the lockdown. How this exaggerated use of the World Wide Web has impacted their mental, emotional and physical lives, remains to be seen with the passage of time. “Television and internet turned out to be the entertainment mediums through which people kept in touch with family and friends and got to know about events in the country as well as the world. As the lock down progressed, so did the usage of internet and television,” said the scientists. They added that this was a unique phenomenon and to understand its deeper repercussions, PAU scientists Kiranjot Sidhu, head, department of extension education and management, Manjot Kaur and Preeti Sharma conducted an online survey on people’s view on the lockdown. “There were very few people who did not make use of social media during lock down. Contrary to popular belief, majority of the people said it was the slower pace of life that turned out to be the biggest boon of lockdown. Respondents said the lock down helped them strengthen family relations, led to a cleaner environment and better efficiency at office tasks which were being done from home.” The survey found that on the other hand, very few people reported increased mental stress and irritability. It found that majority of these included those who had trouble collecting food supplies, delayed medical intervention or those whose routine activities like walking, exercising had got disrupted due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/most-people-lack-information-on-coronavirus-pau-survey/articleshow/76633103.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: ‘Iruttu kadai halwa’ owner, 80, ends life after testing positive for Covid-19||TIRUNELVELI: Unable to come to terms with the fact that he had been diagnosed Covid-19 positive, Hari Singh, 80, owner of the famous “Iruttu kadai halwa” in Tirunelveli, hanged himself to death from the bathroom window of his room at a private hospital here around Thursday noon. The tragedy happened hardly an hour after the result of his swab sample test was conveyed to him and when he was about to be moved to an isolation facility. Police said Singh was admitted to the hospital at Perumalpuram with urinary tract infection two days ago. In keeping with the norms, swab samples were collected from him and his relatives for Covid-19 test. He and his son-in-law tested positive and the results arrived at 11am. Perumalpuram police are probing it as unnatural death. Police suspect depression may have driven the octogenarian to the extreme step as he was found hanging from a towel in the bathroom. Perumalpuram police registered a case of unnatural death and is probing, said deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Tirunelveli city S Saravanan. Investigation officer M Chezhian said the body was removed by two personnel in PPE kits and sent to the Tirunelveli MCH. It was handed over to his relatives after postmortem in the evening for cremation. The ground floor of the hospital was disinfected and doctor and hospital staff quarantined. Customers recall Hari Singh as a simple man clad in a white shirt and dhoti seen huddled near the wooden cash box of his small shop next to the Arulmigu Nellaiappar temple car. With a warm smile he served hot mouth-watering halwa which has come to be known for its unique taste. The nearly century-old ‘Iruttu Kadai, established by his Rajput family and consolidated by his father Bijli Singh, got its name for its ambience. Unlike the well-illuminated modern-day sweet shops, this shop was lit by a single bulb, which earlier used to be an oil lamp in the dark (iruttu), earning its name. The shop has a foldable wooden door, wooden table and shelf. Many others have tried to establish halwa business by indirectly identifying themselves with the little shop which didn’t have a name board. A few other brands opened multiple branches but their halwa failed to match Iruttu Kadai’s taste and its strong fan base across India and abroad. “The shop is open till 9 pm on regular days. During Sabarimala season and Deepavali, the stock hardly lasted 45 minutes,” says K Balaji, a resident of Bharathiyar Street. Hari Singh also did not sell more than 10 kgs per person during festivals as he did not want other customers to return. The halwa is prepared in a traditional stove fuelled by cashewnut husk that helps maintain texture and quality, from 6 am to noon. It is then packed in oil packets and kept in white carry bags in quantities of 1 kg, 500 grams and 250 grams and readily handed over to consumers at the shop. Priced at Rs 220 a kilogram, it also remains the costliest halwa in the city while others sell it for Rs 200 or lesser. Customers queued in front of the shop well ahead of the opening time of around 5.15 pm. Singh also enjoyed serving 50 grams of halwa on a banana leaf at Rs 10 by scooping it out of the metal vessel. “He sold it with a smile and this has a strong customer base for its direct connect,” says P Perumal, a local resident. He also used to hand over a handful of mixture free of cost when customers extended their hand after relishing his halwa. Not many know that the same halwa is sold in a sweet shop run by his relative ten shops away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iruttu-kadai-halwa-owner-80-ends-life-after-testing-ve/articleshow/76633768.cms||M K Ananth
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Recovery of 7 more brings no of active patients to 95 in Sangli||Kolhapur: Seven patients, including a five-year-old girl, were discharged in Sangli district on Thursday, bringing down the number of active patients to 95. Meanwhile, as many as three people in Bilur village in Jaat tehsil and another person from Miraj in Sangli district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally of positive cases to 319. The district administration has sealed Bilur village after positive cases surfaced from there. Officials from Sangli district administration said that as many as 101 people had been put in home-quarantine after a doctor from Miraj tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The doctor had quarantined himself at home after he started experiencing some symptoms of Covid-19. He sent his throat swab samples to a private laboratory, the reports of which returned positive on Wednesday evening. On learning about the developmen, a team of officials from the health department rushed to the Miraj hospital. 23 patients, who were admitted to the hospital being run by the doctor, was asked to quarantine in the hospital itself. 51 staff members have been advised home-quarantine. The remaining are those who had come in close contact with the doctor. Nine patients were discharged in Satara district on Thursday. The administration had sent samples of 166 suspects, all of which returned negative while the reports of 287 patients are still awaited. Currently, there are 136 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/recovery-of-7-more-brings-no-of-active-patients-to-95-in-sangli/articleshow/76633767.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||No curfew in Solapur, says Bharne||Kolhapur: Solapur guardian minister Dattatray Bharne on Thursday ruled out any possibility of enforcing strict lockdown in the city and said the civic body will instead opt for antigen detection test of people to identify Covid-19 patients at early stage. Bharne’s clarification assumes significance as the district administration was strongly pressing for stringent restrictions of lockdown including curfew to arrest the spread of coronavirus. Markets in Solapur witnessed panic purchasing of essential commodities owing to lockdown rumours. Bharne held a meeting with government officials, including district collector Milind Shambharkar, municipal commissioner P Shivshankar and superintendent of police Manoj Patil where all the aspects of extending lockdown in Solapur city were discussed. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Bharne said the administration would go for antigen tests of around1 lakh people in Solapur city. “Reports of the test will be available within half an hour and administration will be in a position to treat the patients without delay”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-curfew-in-solapur-says-bharne/articleshow/76633769.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Farmers won’t forgive those who shut down sugar factory: Sudin||PONDA: Following the news of government’s intention to close down the Sanjivani sugar factory at Dharbandora, Madkai MLA and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has warned the government not to play with the future of farmers. Dhavalikar suggested that the government should instead “repair and run the factory”. “Instead of closing down the factory because of a Rs4.5 crore loss, state government could focus on increasing sugarcane production inorder to make profits,” he said. “Whoever plays with the future of farmers will lose their powers, as farmers will not forgive them,” he said. He said the tallest leader of Bahujan Samaj and first chief minister, Dayanand Bandodkar, had set up the sugar factory to help the farmers earn their livelihoods by supplying canes to the factory. “The central government has been funding the state for several activities, and repairs to the factory can be carried out through these funds,” Dhavalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-wont-forgive-those-who-shut-down-sugar-factory-sudin/articleshow/76633770.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kanpur||JDA secy, 4 others test Covid +ve in Jhansi||JHANSI: A day after 14 Covid positive cases surfaced in the city, four more persons including the secretary of Jhansi Development Authority (JDA) also tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. As per Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi, the 56-year-old JDA secretary had recently travelled to Prayagraj and it is being presumed that he contracted the virus there from an already detected corona positive person. Apart from him, three more men were found positive on Thursday. Of these, one is a 27-year-old private bank employee from BKD crossing who came in contact with his colleague. He complained of fever and cough. Another is a 60-year-old from Atiya Talab who also had fever and cough. The third one is a 27-year-old from Unnao Gate area who also suffered fever. The total number of positive cases has reached 122 in the district, of which, 44 are active while 65 have turned negative and 13 have died. As per DM Vamsi, JDA office will remain shut for next two days for sanitisation. On Wednesday, 14 persons including seven women and a health worker were found Covid positive, following which the chief medical officer ordered a 24-hour-closure of Jhansi district hospital for sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jda-secy-4-others-test-covid-ve-in-jhansi/articleshow/76633840.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Man gets life imprisonment for killing wife||Kolhapur: A 26-year-old man was sentenced to life imprisonment by an Ichalkaranji court for killing his wife using the handle of a vehicle jack in the year 2017. According to the prosecution, the convict — Saddamhusain Balu Makubhai — worked as a driver at Rui village in Hatakanangale tehsil of Kolhapur district and used to have frequent fights with his family as he never gave any money home for meeting the expenses. Makubhai used to stay with his wife and parents in Rui village. On January 2, 2017, the convict had an altercation with his family members over some monetary issue. The altercation soon turned violent following which the convict took out a jack from his tempo and hit it on his wife’s head. The deceased, Praveen, was taken to a private hospital in Ichalkaranji where she was declared brought dead. Makubhai’s father had lodged a complaint against his son with the police. As many as 13 witnesses, including Makubhai’s parents, were produced during the hearing by the prosecution. After hearing all the witnesses the court pronounced him guilty and sent him to life imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-killing-wife/articleshow/76633776.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur gets own wildlife care centre||Vadodara: Forest department in Chhota Udepur district will now not have to send injured wild animals to Pavagadh centre as a new wildlife care centre was inaugurated in Pavi Jetpur taluka on Thursday. The new wildlife care centre will be helpful in treating injured animals including leopard, sloth bear, deer among others. “The new centre is not as big as the one in Pavagadh, but it has two enclosures and two cages. Also, there is a provision of increasing the number of enclosures to 10 in the future,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. He added that the wildlife care centre in Chhota Udepur was necessary as there are several incidents of animals getting injured by falling in well or pit or coming in conflict with human beings. Last year, 20 incidents of leopards getting injured were reported. The district has around 84 leopards and 56 sloth bears. At the centre the animals will be treated and can be kept from 10 days to two months before releasing them back in forest. A veterinary officer will soon be appointed for the centre. Pandya said that the centre can also be used as a breeding or mating centre for the animals. However, there is no such plan as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-gets-own-wildlife-care-centre/articleshow/76631560.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Lalahane to get Shahu award||Kolhapur: Director of medical education and eye specialist Tatyrrao Lahane will be honoured with Rajarshi Shahu award this year. Lahane has conducted 1.49 lakh eye operations, mostly in the rural areas. District collector Daulat Desai said on Thursday that Lahane would be present the award once the outbreak of Covid-19 subsides and the situation is under control. The award comprises a cash price of Rs 1 lakh, a memento and a scroll of honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lalahane-to-get-shahu-award/articleshow/76633778.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Exclusive OPD at Trichy GH for symptomatic patients||Trichy: An exclusive outpatient department (OPD) has been created at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, for patients with suspected symptoms of Covid-19, as the district is witnessing a steady spike of cases since June 1.The objective of setting up the department was to separate normal patients with other ailments from those with symptoms of Covid-19, dean of the hospital, Dr K Vanitha announced on Wednesday. Vanitha said that facilities were being readied at the ward to cope with the peak period of Covid-19. Patients with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza like illness (ILI) and fever would be diagnosed there.Nearly 500 patients have been queuing up daily in the OPDs ever since the lockdown was relaxed. The number would swell up to 1,000 on Tuesdays and Thursdays when the OP consultation for cardiology are held. On normal days, MGMGH used to handle more than 3,000 patients everyday. “Patients visiting the OPD for non-communicable disease like diabetes, cardiology and others also queue up along with those with fever, cough and other respiratory problems. To prevent this, the separate ward has been set up,” medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr R Yeganathan told TOI on Thursday.Patients with symptoms will be diagnosed and made to undergo Covid-19 testing after which they will be sent back home. If they are found positive, they will be admitted to the isolation ward for treatment. Meanwhile, a total of 24,042 samples have been tested at the laboratory of the KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College (KAPVGMC) in Trichy till June 24. The only authorised private laboratory in the district also carried out 2,250 tests till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/exclusive-opd-at-trichy-gh-for-symptomatic-patients/articleshow/76633772.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to plant trees on demand||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has launched a ‘Plantation on Demand’ scheme, under which its gardens department will carry out plantation at citizens’ doorsteps. The scheme aims to increase the green cover in the city and will begin from June 29. The rain in the city over the last fortnight had led to 346 trees falling over or getting uprooted. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said 228 of these 346 trees had fallen in a single day, during the heavy rain last week. He said that to prevent tree falls, the AMC has begun a drive under which 4,500 trees in the city will be pruned. He said that the AMC will also set up Aarogya Van sections in each of the 250 gardens in the city. This section will aim to increase awareness about plants significant in ayurveda. Moreover, AMC will also distribute five lakh tulsi saplings to residents of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-plant-trees-on-demand/articleshow/76633250.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable arrested for raping 13-year-old niece during lockdown in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A constable attached to a police station in the Hyderabad commissionerate limits was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping his 13-year-old niece at his house at the peak of lockdown. The 13-year-old survivor, an secondary school student, and the accused, who is her mother’s relative, live in the same neighbourhood in Secunderabad. On Thursday, the girl’s mother approached a senior woman IPS officer through a child rights NGO, complaining about the sexual assault on her daughter by the 33-year-old constable. DCP, North Zone, Kalmeshwar Shingenavar was informed about the offence. “The victim said in April when she went to the house of the accused, he raped her. The victim’s mother noticed change in the girl’s behaviour towards the accused and asked her what happened. The girl told her mother about the rape and intimidation by the accused not to reveal about the incident to anyone,” the DCP said. Based on the complaint of the victim’s mother, Bowenpally police registered a case under Sections 376 (3), 506 IPC and Section 5(a) r/w 6 of POCSO Act. “None is above law. We had to arrest a constable who molested a girl. He is being sent to jail. I feel ashamed that there are such black sheep in our department. Do Help Us improve. Your feed back at 9490616555 will be our strength and guidance,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted, while referring to the incident. Bowenpally police arrested the accused and sent the girl for medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-arrested-for-raping-13-yr-old-niece-during-lockdown/articleshow/76633783.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Two women face acid attack in separate incidents||KANPUR: In two separate incidents of acid attack, two women suffured burn injuries in Kannauj and Banda districts on Thursday. In the first incident, a 24-year-old woman suffered severe burn injuries when her alleged ex-lover threw acid on her on Thursday. The incident took place when the woman was alone in her house in Gursahaiganj area of Kannauj. The accused identified as Haseem, a resident of Sayyed Bada locality is on the run. After the incident, the woman approached the Kotwali police and registered a written complaint against the accused. The woman stated in her complaint that she was in a relationship with the accused around two years ago. Later, her parents got her married to a man in Jaipur, Rajasthan. When Haseem found out about this, he started visiting her house in Kannauj and kept asking her family about her whereabouts. “The woman came to meet her parents on Tuesday. On getting the information, Haseem barged into her house on Wednesday afternoon while she was alone in the house. Later, a verbal dispute broke out between them and Haseem threw acid on her and fled the spot,” said the investigators. An FIR under relevant sections of IPC was registered against the accused. The woman sustained severe burn injuries on her vital body parts including her face and was rushed to district hospital for treatment. Her condition is stated to be stable now and further treatment is on. Circle Officer (Sadar) Shrikant Prajapati said, “The accused was frustrated over woman’s marriage with someone else. We are conducting raids to nab the accused.” In a similar incident, a 24-year-old woman suffered burn injuries on her face and neck when three bike-borne men allegedly threw acid on her on Wednesday. “The woman, a resident of Sarvodaya Nagar, was returning home on an e-rickshaw after giving her statement to the CO city in connection with an ongoing dispute with her husband when three bike-borne men intercepted the rickshaw and threw acid on her,” inspector Kotwali Dinesh Singh said. “Investigations are underway following a complaint by the woman’s father. An FIR under relevant sections of IPC was registered against her husband Santram Tiwari, brother-in-law Jageshwar Shukla and one other,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-women-face-acid-attack-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/76633786.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Varanasi||Ist vulture conservation centre in Maharajganj||Gorakhpur: The central government has given its nod for Uttar Pradesh’s first vulture conservation centre—Jatayu Conservation and Breeding Centre—to be built in Maharajganj district. The government has asked the district forest officer to submit a detailed project report within 10 days. “CAMPA Budget for this financial year has been already approved,” DFO (Gorakhpur division) Avinash Kumar told TOI on Thursday. “Principal chief conservation of forest (PCCF), Uttar Pradesh, Sunil Pandey, informed on Wednesday that the project has been approved by the central government. He asked me to submit a detailed project report within 10 days,” said Kumar. “For technical knowhow, help will be taken from Bombay Natural History Society. Lab shelter, residential complex for doctors and other facilities will be built at the centre,” added the DFO. “As per our approximation, the entire project will require Rs 4-5 crore. However, the detailed report is yet to be prepared. A budget of Rs 82 lakh has been approved by the state government. The centre will be built on a 5-hectare land in Bhari-Baisi village in Farenda tehsil of Maharajganj district,” said Kumar. “In the first phase, infrastructure of the centre will be built, while work for conservation of vultures will be done in the second phase. At last, the breeding phase will start so that a certain number of vultures could be left in the forest,” explained the DFO. Mike Harigovind Pandey, environmentalist and Delhi-based filmmaker, said, “Vulture conservation is an urgent need of the hour as their numbers are decreasing rapidly. As many as 79 million vultures have died in the last decade. The main cause behind their death is an imported lethal drug called diclofenac which leads to crystallization in their kidneys.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ist-vulture-conservation-centre-in-maharajganj/articleshow/76633773.cms||---
June 26, 2020||India||One family’s greed led to Emergency: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: BJP marked the 45th anniversary of the Emergency imposed by the Indira Gandhi government by attacking Congress, with home minister Amit Shah attributing the suspension of democracy in 1975 to “one family’s greed for power". In a series of aggressive tweets, Shah also focused on the churn in Congress over the reported unhappiness of the Gandhi siblings, Rahul and Priyanka, with party veterans for the latter’s reluctance to attack PM Narendra Modi. “On this day 45 years ago, one family’s greed for power led to the imposition of Emergency. Overnight, the nation was turned into a prison. The press, courts, free speech... all were trampled over. Atrocities were committed on the poor and downtrodden. Due to the efforts of lakhs of people, the Emergency was lifted and democracy was restored in India but it remained absent in the Congress,” Shah said. On this day, 45 years ago one family’s greed for power led to the imposition of the Emergency. Overnight the nation… https://t.co/UW4MJtN568— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1593057249000“The interests of one family prevailed over party interests and national interests. This sorry state of affairs thrives in today’s Congress too,” he added. BJP chief J P Nadda recalled the atrocities committed on those who had resisted the Emergency. “I salute all those who fought against the Emergency and refused to toe the line despite atrocities being inflicted on them,” he said. In his tweets, Shah referred to reports about Rahul frowning upon party leaders for fighting shy of attacking the PM. “During the recent CWC meet, senior members and younger members raised a few issue but they were shouted down. A party spokesperson was unceremoniously sacked. The sad truth is, leaders are feeling suffocated in Congress,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-familys-greed-led-to-emergency-amit-shah/articleshow/76634863.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man booked for raping 19-year-old hospital worker||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old housekeeping worker of a private hospital became pregnant due to being sexually assaulted by a 45-year-old cook, who is her colleague. Based on the victim’s complaint, a rape case was registered against the offender. According to Kacheguda ACP S Sudhakar, the victim and the accused have been working in the same private hospital since the past several months. “The victim is now nine months pregnant. Her mother is also working as a housekeeping staff in the same hospital. On Thursday, they lodged a complaint against a 45-year-old hospital cook alleging that he raped the 19-year-old and because of the assault, she became pregnant,” ACP Sudhakar said. The victim also alleged that the accused raped her after making her consume lemon juice laced with a sedative. “The accused is a married man with grown-up children. We have registered a rape case and sent the victim for medical examination and counselling,” the ACP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-raping-19-yr-old-hosp-worker/articleshow/76633804.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Varanasi||Soon, UP’s popular ‘kala namak’ rice variety to be on Japanese menu||GORAKHPUR: Popular Indian rice variety ‘kala namak’ will soon tickle the taste buds of the Japanese. An enterprising Gorakhpur native Ganesh Kumar Yadav, who had gone to Japan decades ago and now runs several businesses and hotels in Tsukuba near Tokyo, will soon serve ‘kala namak’ in his restaurants. Ganesh has already sowed seeds of this popular rice variety in his farms in Scuba, and is hopeful that the aroma and quality of the produce will be an instant hit in Japan as well. The seeds for the rice variety were sent to him by his friend in Maharajganj, Hiralal Yadav, who is an internationalist cyclist. “During a visit to Japan last year, I met Ganesh and suggested he cultivates ‘kala namak’ as the climate there is quite conducive for this variety which is also grown in east Terai areas. He agreed to the idea as he knows about the taste and aroma of ‘kala namak’,” said Hiralal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soon-ups-popular-kala-namak-rice-variety-to-be-on-japanese-menu/articleshow/76633762.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||60,000 proposals on anvil for PM’s flagship job scheme||LUCKNOW: Four days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced launch of the Rs 50,000-crore Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme (PM-GKRS), the UP government was swift off the blocks in hammering out 60,000 proposals of Rs 870 crore in 10 sectors in the target 31 districts of the state. This comes just ahead of PM’s virtual launch of the programme from Gonda on Friday. Giving a head-start to the scheme, the state government picked sectors to boost employment opportunities, particularly for distressed migrants after the pandemic forced a lockdown. These include construction of anganwadi centres, rural roads, poultry and cattle sheds, farm ponds, water conservation projects, plantation, horticulture and vermicompost. The scheme is projected to create around 1 crore jobs through rural outreach and chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials earlier this week to examine possibilities of generating jobs in 31 districts, which are part of the scheme. TOI accessed the rural development’s proposals, which show a maximum of 26,926 proposals of Rs 471 crore linked to water conservation projects. This is followed by 10,936 proposals of Rs 218 crore for construction of rural roads. At least 6,860 projects of Rs 82 crore are linked to vermicompost, which is used for farming and small-scale sustainable and organic farming. Construction of cattle sheds is another thrust area to generate employment. Data shows around 4,896 proposals of Rs 49crore related to construction of cattle sheds have been drafted by the state government. A maximum of 3,587 proposals of Rs 61 crore have also been earmarked for Jalaun district in parched Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. Of 3,567 proposals chalked out for Jalaun, 2,536 proposals alone are related to water conservation, which include digging of ponds. This is followed by Kheri, where 3,369 project proposals of over Rs 43crore are on the anvil. The PM-GKR Scheme is also seen as government’s attempt to lend a thrust to state rural livelihood mission (SRLM) and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). Officials in the rural department said, the SRLM is being executed to create at least 5 lakh jobs through constitution of self-help groups (SHGs). Similarly, the department has managed to create around 60 lakh jobs essentially for migrants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-hammers-out-60k-proposals-of-rs-870cr-ahead-of-pms-launch-of-flagship-job-scheme/articleshow/76598440.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 26, 2020||Rajkot||ACB catches cop accepting Rs 30k bribe from bootlegger||Rajkot: A cop was caught red handed while accepting Rs 30,000 bribe from a bootlegger in Muli of Surendranagar district on Thursday. The officials of Rajkot anti-corruption bureau (ACB) said the accused, identified as Mahendrasinh Zala, assistant sub-inspector with Muli police station, had demanded the bribe from a bootlegger in order not to subject him to custodial torture and not to seize his cellphone. The bootlegger had promised to pay him the cash after his release on bail. The bootlegger was arrested after Indian-made foreign liquor bottles were recovered from his possession and subsequently, he was sent to police custody by a court. Zala was supposed to interrogate him. “Zala had asked the bootlegger to cough up Rs 50,000 in order not to beat him up in the custody and allow him to keep his cellphone with him. After haggling, the amount was reduced to Rs 30,000. However, after his release on bail, as the bootlegger did not want to pay the amount, he approached us with the complaint,” said M M Sarvaiya, inspector with Rajkot ACB. “We laid a trap at Muli bus stand, where Zala had asked the bootlegger to come to hand over the money. Zala had taken a person, identified as Mansukh Labakamana, along with him. Zala asked the bootlegger to hand over the money to Labakamana. When the bootlegger handed over the cash to Zala through Labakamana, the accused were caught red handed,” added Sarvaiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/acb-catches-cop-accepting-rs-30k-bribe-from-bootlegger/articleshow/76632144.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Rajkot||GETCO warns RUDA over road close to high tension power lines||Rajkot: State-run power transmission company Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation (GETCO) has warned the Rajkot Urban Development Authority (RUDA) over building a 4km road from Punitnagar to Kangashiyali in order to ease traffic congestion at Gondal Chowkdi.GETCO has stated in its letter that the place where RUDA has build the road has 66KV high tension overhead power transmission lines which could pose a danger to the commuters. The company has further stated that in case of an accident, RUDA would be responsible as the civic body had constructed the road despite warning from the transmission company.The road from Punitnagar to Vavdi Gaushala falls under Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and the stretch from Vavdi to Kangashiyali comes under RUDA’s jurisdiction. A new overbridge is under construction at Gondal Chowkdi that has been facing terrific issues during peak hour. This road built by RUDA provides safe passage to cars and two wheelers going to Shapar Veraval industrial area which on the outskirts of the city. GETCO has written letters to RUDA on March 7 and June 2. “During our field visit we came to know that your (RUDA) road is not in the safe distance from our 66 KV power line which could lead to an accident. Proper road clearance has not been maintained so if a heavily loaded vehicle passes and come under electricity conductor zone there is the possibility of an accident.” It also asked RUDA to maintain road distance as per Electricity Act. The letter further stated that the ground clearance as per rule was not maintained hence asked RUDA not to open the road for public use. “If you open the road for people and if any accident occurs, GETCO will not be responsible,” the transmission company warned in the letter.The road’s sanctioned width is 24m but currently, only 12m wide road has been constructed. It is being used as a short cut for vehicles coming from Gondal, Junagadh to enter into Rajkot city. Leader of opposition in RMC Vashram Sagathiya said “This high tension power line has been there since 1976. This road was inaugurated on Republic Day by chief minister Vijay Rupani. The BJP officer bearers and officers ignored warning of GETCO and are risking the lives of people.” When contacted RUDA CEO Chetan Ganatra said, “The draft town planning scheme of this road was sanctioned by the state government in 2017. The road is a part of 2031 development plan. GETCO should have raise objection at the time of draft TP. As per my knowledge GETCO has initiated the process to make the high tension power lines underground. We will consult GETCO and if needed we will ban movement of heavy vehicle on this road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/getco-warns-ruda-over-road-close-to-high-tension-power-lines/articleshow/76632182.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kanpur||2 shelter home inmates go missing, traced||Kanpur: Two girl inmates of city shelter home, who had tested positive for Covid-19 along with 55 others and were lodged at a quarantine facility at KDA Greens in Panki, went missing on Thursday but were later traced. The girls alleged that they had escaped following torture at the hands of other inmates. Reports said the girls had escaped from the quarantine facility on Thursday morning. On seeing them missing from the facility, the staff raised an alarm and alerted the police. The girls were recovered within a few hours from another nearby building. “The police got to know about the incident from district officials. We immediately rushed to the spot and launched extensive search operations. Both the girls were recovered from another building in the KDA Greens, where other girls are being quarantined. They were safely sent back to their rooms,” SSP Dinesh Kumar P said. “During preliminary questioning, the girls apprised officials that they escaped to another building to avoid harassment by other girls,” said another official privy to the investigation. Security was beefed up at KDA Greens, where 57 shelter home inmates have been quarantined after they were tested positive for coronavirus on June 19. SSP further said security had been tightened at the quarantine facility to avoid such incidents in future. “Those who were responsible for Thursday’s incident will be dealt strictly. After a detailed probe, they will face action,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-shelter-home-inmates-go-missing-traced/articleshow/76633807.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra goes Goa way, allows shacks on eight Konkan beaches||MUMBAI: Maharashtra cabinet on Thursday cleared a policy to allow temporary shacks on some beaches across Konkan coast, like in Goa. As per the cabinet decision, a pilot project on eight beaches will be undertaken and depending on demand it will be extended. Two popular beaches from four districts, including Bordi and Kelwe in Palghar, Varsoli and Diveagar in Raigad, Guhagar and Araware in Ratnagiri, and Kundkeshwar and Tarkali in Sindhudurg have been finalised. The policy has been under discussion since 2017. Officials said since the beaches fall under coastal regulation zone, shacks can be set up on some beaches after Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) clearance. Application forms will be available online. Only 10 shacks will be allowed per beach. “We will give preference to applications made by locals. The idea is to boost tourism and open up an alternative economy for locals,” said Shiv Sena leader and cabinet minister Anil Parab. Eighty percent of the jobs generated will be held by locals, said Parab. Each shack will be 15ft x 15ft and 12 ft high, and will allotted for three years with a non-refundable charge of Rs15,000. The applicant will have to pay Rs45,000 in the first year, Rs50,000 in the second and Rs55,000 in the third. A refundable deposit of Rs30,000 will be taken. The shacks can be open from 7am to 7pm and CCTV for each one will be mandatory. “Charges that tourists will pay and other guidelines will be issued by MTDC soon,” said an official. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted that eight beaches in Maharashtra were approved for eco-friendly shacks, which will be a major tourist facility, but 80% employment for locals was a must. Another decision taken by the cabinet was to give seven properties of MTDC to private players on lease or through a joint venture for up to 90 years. Thackeray said this will help the state increase revenue and build world-class tourism. The seven properties include five resorts in Mahableshwar, Matheran, Ganpatipule, Harihareshwar and Mithbab and two plots at Tadoba and Farbapur in Aurangabad will be put up for lease. Officials said the lease rent and period lease will be decided by a high-powered committee under the chief secretary. “The two land parcels are nearly five hectares and how much will be given will depend on interest of the private player and requirement of the project,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-goes-goa-way-allows-shacks-on-8-konkan-beaches/articleshow/76633346.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Elderly man hangs self at home out of Covid-19 fear||PUNE: A 68-year old man from Karvenagar, suffering from cold and minor fever, was found hanging from the ceiling of his house on Sunday, days after he tested negative for the Covid-19 contagion. His son told TOI, “My father had undergone the coronavirus test in a private laboratory and the report came negative. The result of the Covid-19 test conducted on him after his death was also negative.” The Karvenagar man is the fourth person in the city to end life out of Covid-19 fear since April 8. City police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We want to understand scientifically on why such incidents are happening and what needs to be done. We have asked the SNDT College to conduct a research and submit the report at the earliest. However, the number of suicides reported during the lockdown is less.” Assistant sub-inspector Shekhar Pathak of the Warje Malwadi police said the elderly man lived with his family in a house in Karvenagar. “Its first-floor was occupied by the family, while the ground floor was rented out. Currently no one was staying there,” he said. Pathak said when the man’s son woke up on Sunday morning, he did not see his father in the bed, nor anywhere else on the first-floor of the house. “When he came down, he saw the room on the ground floor locked from inside. When there was no response from inside despite repeated knocks on the door, the police were informed,” he said. Pathak, with police marshal Hrishikesh Kolap and Saddam Shaikh, rushed to the spot. “We broke the door and found the man hanging from the ceiling with a rope and a wire,” he said. Pathak said when the elderly man’s son told them that his father was suffering from Covid-19 fear, he immediately called for an ambulance. “We told all the people at the spot to leave and sent the body to Sassoon General Hospital,” he said, adding that the police locked the room as a precautionary measure. The elderly man was declared dead by the doctors in the hospital. “A Covid-19 test was conducted on him after his death. The report was negative. We have registered a case of accidental death,” Pathak said. The man’s son said his father was suffering from cold and minor fever for the past one month. “He had been regularly visiting a medical practitioner and was given proper treatment. After learning about the Covid-19 cases in the city, he feared that he was infected too. But that was not the case,” the bereaved son said. (With inputs from Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-hangs-self-at-home-out-of-covid-19-fear/articleshow/76633203.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||A/c payee cheques for homeless people||Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has started distributing account payee cheques (Rs 2,500) to homeless people under Covid relief fund in Mansarovar zone. As none of them has a bank account, it would be impossible for them to encash the cheque. To encash an account payee cheque, a person must have a bank account. It would have been prudent on the part of JMC to provide bearer cheques to the homeless people so that they would have been able to get cash directly from the bank. A senior official said, “According to the list of our survey, we got bank account details of some homeless people. We assumed that all of them have bank accounts. If they do not have bank accounts, they can get bearer cheques form the zone office after filing an official complaint.” Social justice and empowerment department on April 2 issued orders to grant Rs 2,500 to people affected by coronavirus pandemic in the state. Most of the homeless people earn their livelihood by selling small items on traffic signals. They are facing hardship due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Hence, they are eligible to get this amount. The JMC has been given this task to distribute money through their zonal offices. State office secretary of an NGO (PUCL) Bhanwar Lal Kumawat said, “Account payee cheques defeat the purpose. Most of the homeless people do not have bank accounts. What are they supposed to do with these cheques? JMC has made this a joke and is not serious to provide money to homeless people at the time of distress. We tried to contact officials but they didn’t respond.” JMC is already late in giving money to the homeless people by three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a/c-payee-cheques-for-homeless-people/articleshow/76633790.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Deaths outside hospitals not counted: Ex-Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis||MUMBAI: BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis alleged that patients who died waiting for a bed outside hospitals have not been accounted for. At least 1,000 people died here in this manner in three months and they have not been recorded as Covid-19 deaths, said Fadnavis, adding that it was another attempt to hide figures, particularly here. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, he said death certificates have been issued by ward offices but they have not been declared by BMC. “It is unfortunate that even after three months all deaths have not been accounted for and to ensure it suddenly does not spike, the number of unreported deaths is being released in phases everyday. This is bad strategy,” he said. Earlier, after a directive from chief secretary to reconcile death figures, Fadnavis alleged that at least 951 deaths were unaccounted for. BMC has ordered public and private hospitals to report deaths within 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deaths-outside-hospitals-not-counted-fadnavis/articleshow/76633347.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Anxiety in Valpoi as Mauxi gets its first coronavirus case||VALPOI: Valpoi town on Thursday witnessed trepidation after news that a resident of Mauxi village was found Covid positive spread like wildfire. The man, a police constable from Chinchmal in Mauxi, was had been deployed at the Mangor Hill containment area in Vasco. The cause for worry was due to Mauxi’s close proxmity to Valpoi town, while the other coronavirus-affected villages of Sattari taluka, such as Guleli, Morlem, Malpan and Shiroli are in the interiors, far from the town. Sources from Valpoi community health centre said that the police constable was posted at Mangor Hill since last week and earlier this week he had his swab test done at the sub-district hospital in Chicalim. He had returned home on Wednesday night, but after he developed fever on Thursday morning he visited the Valpoi heath centre. The constable was sent home after medication was prescribed. However, in the afternoon the health centre received information that the Mauxi resident had tested positive for the virus. The centre’s medical officer, Dr Shyam Kankonkar, said, “My team and I immediately rushed to Mauxi to trace the close contacts of the patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anxiety-in-valpoi-as-mauxi-gets-its-first-corona-case/articleshow/76633832.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 55-year-old booked for rape attempt on minor||HYDERABAD: The family members of a minor girl lodged a complaint with Chevella police, alleging that a 55-year-old man attempted to rape the minor on Wednesday. In the complaint, the family alleged that when they went home on Wednesday afternoon, they found a 55-year-old neighbour had barged into their house and when the girl was alone, attempted to rape her. When the girl started screaming for help, the accused fled from the place. “The girl informed her family members and a complaint was lodged with us on Thursday. We registered a case under the POCSO Act. The accused is a mason-cum-farmer. No arrest has been made yet,” Chevella inspector Ch Balakrishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/55-yr-old-booked-for-rape-attempt-on-minor/articleshow/76633841.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Video shows poor handling of Covid victim’s body; hosp files complaint||Trichy: A private medical college hospital in Trichy has lodged a complaint with the police seeking the arrest of unidentified people for circulating a “cropped video” of the body of a Covid-19 victim being buried in an undignified manner at a village in Trichy on Thursday. The 1.41-minute-long video of the body of a 74-year-old patient of Pennadam in Cuddalore district being thrown into a pit at Kottamedu village was in circulation on social media with a caption mentioning the scene. The body was seen being pulled out from the vehicle of Trichy SRM medical college hospital and research centre at Irungalur by three men. They then lifted it by its hands and legs and flung it into the pit instead of carrying it on a stretcher. The hospital administration came out with a statement as soon as the video was out in the morning saying its contents were absolutely false. Dean Dr N Balasubramanian said the body of the person was handed over to the relatives and government officials at 2.25pm on June 16. “The body of the deceased patient was taken to the burial ground by the government official in our ambulance as per the protocol,” he said adding the burial took place near Irungalur as per government stipulated norms and was done by government officials. “Throughout the process, the deceased person was handled with due respect and was not dishonoured,” he said. The hospital also shared the pictures of the body being buried on the spot. The video also showed one of the handlers wearing PPE while two others were in plain clothes wearing face masks only while handling the body. Deputy Director of health service (DDHS) Dr A Subramani held an inquiry into the incident. Asked how unprotected men were allowed to handle the body, why a stretcher was not used and the body thrown into the pit, DDHS Subramani said they would strictly advise the people concerned to follow “dead management protocols” and proper safety measures.  Meanwhile, Dean Balasubramanian lodged a complaint with the Trichy district police to take action against those spreading the video with the malicious intention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/video-shows-poor-handling-of-covid-victims-body-hosp-files-complaint/articleshow/76633806.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||New civic bodies to get commissioners following HC order||Jaipur: Following directions from Rajasthan High Court, the directorate of local bodies issued orders to appoint commissioners and deputy commissioners in each of the six newly created municipal corporations. For the municipal corporation of Jaipur Greater – V P Singh, for Jaipur Heritage – Arun Garg, for Jodhpur South – Suresh Kumar Ola, Jodhpur North – Ayub Khan, for Kota South – Kirti Rathore and Kota North – Vasudev Malawat have been appointed. Last year, the state government bifurcated the municipal corporations of Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur. With the creation of six new municipal corporations, the number of wards also increased and delimitation process was conducted. Hence, the urban body elections were postponed in all the three municipal corporations. After the completion of delimitation process, elections were supposed to be conducted in April, but due to pandemic they were further postponed. Till then, one commissioner was made in-charge of both the municipal corporations which is why a writ was filed in high court and it decided to appoint separate officials. JMC, Greater will function from Lal Kothi office, but for JMC, Heritage old police headquarters building in Walled City has been allotted, but its renovation work is yet to be completed. In lockdown, everything was put on hold, but with the relaxations in lockdown rules, renovation work will resume soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-civic-bodies-to-get-commissioners-following-hc-order/articleshow/76633799.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Rajkot||Illegally mined bauxite worth Rs 44L seized||Rajkot: A total of 3,546 metric tonne illegally excavated bauxite worth Rs 44.32 lakh was seized at Kenedi village of Bhatiya taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Thursday. “We raided the spot after we received a tip-off about the mineral theft racket in Kenedi village. We also seized one earth mover,” said N M Patel, official from the state mines and mineral department. “However, the accused had got a whiff of the raid and had fled before the raid was carried out,” added Patel. On 21 June, seven persons were arrested for the bauxite theft worth crores of rupees in Mevasa village of Kalyanpur taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-mined-bauxite-worth-rs-44l-seized/articleshow/76632219.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Restaurateur ends life after lockdown triggers depression, cops search for kin||Pune: A 43-year-old restaurant-cum-bar owner was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his house on the premises of his establishment in Dhayari, off Sinhagad Road, on Thursday morning. Senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police said, “We have recovered a suicide note from his house. It is a case of suicide owing to the depression caused by lockdown. We have registered an accidental death case.” The deceased restaurant owner has been identified as Premnath Krushna Shetty (43), having roots in Karnataka. “He was unmarried. We are searching for his relatives because none of them were with him,” Shelke said. He said Shetty wrote in the suicide note, “The situation is too bad after the hotel closed down because of lockdown, and I am committing suicide out of depression. Nobody is responsible for this. In my own intention, I am doing this.” Shelke said Shetty ran the restaurant successfully for the past seven years. “Shetty was concerned about the future and his business activities. He was depressed for the last few days,” Shelke said. He said, “Shetty stayed alone in the house and his house-cum-hotel worker visited him regularly for cleaning and cooking. The worker, Shridhar, visited Shetty’s house around 10am and found the door ajar. He pushed the door and found Shetty hanging. He raised an alarm, following which the police rushed to the site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateur-ends-life-after-lockdown-triggers-depression-cops-search-for-kin/articleshow/76633227.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt schoolteacher gets girl’s cleft lip surgery done||Ahmedabad: In January, when Covid-19 epidemic had not engulfed Gujarat, Niketa Vyas, a teacher in government school in Vejalpur, was surprised to see a nine-year-old girl wearing a handkerchief on her face throughout the class. She later came to know that the girl had a condition identified as a cleft lip due to which she was not willing to mingle with other kids or show her face.“The girl, Anita, is fourth in five siblings of a labourer couple that live in nine-member family. They had earlier tried to get her treated, but the cost was a deterrence,” said Vyas. “Through a few contacts, I got in touch with Dr Rishabh Shah. After getting to know the details of the case, Dr Shah agreed to do it for free.”As the couple was working, the teacher agreed to take her to the doctor and even be with her during the surgery and follow-up. “The first thing she asked after the surgery was performed was: Can I now move around without a handkerchief on my face?” Vyas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-schoolteacher-gets-girls-cleft-lip-surgery-done/articleshow/76633237.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Suspected Covid-19 patient ends life||Vadodara: A suspected coronavirus patient ended life at the isolation ward of SSG Hospital in the early hours of Thursday. Satish Nayak, (35) from Handod village of Karjan taluka, allegedly stabbed himself with broken glass pieces of the hospital’s bathroom window. Hospital sources said that Nayak went to the bathroom around 4 am in the isolation ward. When he did not come out of the bathroom, the hospital staff broke open the door and found Nayak lying in a pool of blood. “We immediately started to resuscitate him, but he succumbed during treatment. We have sent his body for postmortem and are awaiting the report and also his Covid-19 test result,” said Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, superintendent of SSG Hospital. Nayak was admitted to the isolation ward on Wednesday night after he complained of cough, cold, fever and breathlessness. His samples were collected but his reports were awaited. However, his treatment had already started. “He was suffering from severe breathlessness when he was admitted, but it is not known why he took the extreme step,” said Nayak’s cousin Kishan. Nayak worked as a farm labourer in his village and is survived by his parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/suspected-covid-19-patient-ends-life/articleshow/76631591.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 100 patients opt for home isolation||PUNE: More than 100 Covid-19 patients have opted for home isolation after the option was offered a week ago. The patients were admitted either at private hospitals or civic-run medical facilities and were asymptomatic. The patients will have to follow norms set by the union and state governments as well as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for home isolation. Availability of a caregiver, a separate room and toilet for the patient is a must while opting for home isolation. “The civic administration has decided to offer the option of home isolation. Those opting for home isolation need to give an affidavit stating that they will follow the rules and regulations made clear to them,” said Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of PMC’s health department. He added that the demand for home isolation is high in non-containment zones and from people living in housing societies. A few requests have come from residents of containment areas too. According to PMC officials, the civic administration had not offered the option during the second, third and fourth phase of lockdown as a majority of patients were from the lower economic strata. Finding a separate space to isolate the patient was not possible in such cases. However, the picture has changed after Unlock Phase 1. Around 40% cases are being reported from housing societies and in areas away from containment zones. “More and more positive cases are being reported and the number of tests has increased too during the last couple of months. All these factors have contributed to the introduction of home isolation option,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-100-patients-opt-for-home-isolation/articleshow/76633232.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Transporters differ over shifting base to Sikar Road||Jaipur: A verbal spat broke out between two groups of transporters on Sansar Chandra Road on Thursday. However, they were pacified after the arrival of police. The groups were arguing over the shifting of transport companies from Sansar Chandra Road and Chandpole Mandi to Sikar Road. Jaipur traffic police will submit a survey report on Friday seeking consensus of transporters regarding the issue. One group of transporters, which is said to have majority members, has agreed to shift to Sikar Road, while the other group in opposition is adamant to work from inside the Walled City where entry of heavy vehicles is banned during day time. The opposition group also wants at least three months’ time to shift to the outskirts Gopal Singh Rathore, leader of transporters who want to shift, said, “Majority of the transporters are in favour of shifting to VKI area on Sikar Road. That area is on the outskirts so there would be no nuisance to general public. During lockdown, all the work was anyways conducted from the outskirts of the city, but after lockdown, some people want to stay in the Walled City to cut costs.” When TOI contacted police commissioner Anand Srivastava, he said a decision will be taken to shift them outside on the basis the survey report. “We are expecting that the report will be submitted on Friday. If majority of the people want to shift outside by next month, then others will have to abide by this decision. Trucks create major problem of traffic in the Walled City.” Anil Anand, leader of another group in favour of staying inside Walled City, said, “The JDA had planned to allot lands to transporters on Ajmer Road, Agra Road and Sikar Road. However, plots are allotted only on Sikar Road which is not developed properly. We want some time to shift to Sikar Road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transporters-differ-over-shifting-base-to-sikar-rd/articleshow/76633817.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Bani Park to get flood control hub||Jaipur: The district administration has ordered the setting up of a flood control centre for eight zones of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) at Bani Park fire brigade office. Monsoon is here and JMC officials have been given charge of control centres in different zones and a special helpline number has been issued. Public can call on that number for waterlogging issues. Last week, collector Joga Ram asked the deputy commissioner of JMC to arrange for mud pumps, search lights, wireless equipment, boats, rope, rescue vehicles, divers, mud cutters to prevent erosion. Each zone will have at least two community buildings with necessary resources where people can be rescued in an emergency and to do mapping of all community buildings. Collector directed the officers of JMC to give this information to the district administration by identifying the raw settlements and other places expected to be waterlogged in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bani-park-to-get-flood-control-hub/articleshow/76633810.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Migrant workers look for jobs & transport to return||PUNE: Fifty days ago, when the first Shramik Special train from Uruli Kanchan railway station of the Pune rail division left for Madhya Pradesh carrying 1,093 migrant workers, Dinesh Kumar from Anjani village in Anuppur, was dejected when his name was not on the travellers’ list. Kumar, a fabricator in a company in Kondhapuri in Shirur, now thanks his stars. “I did try to go home. But the district administration kept telling me that my name was not on the list. Today, I am lucky that I couldn’t go back. I still have my job and we didn’t face many hassles. Now that the companies are opening up again, I made the right decision to cancel my trip home,” Kumar told TOI on Thursday. Anup Patel, who hails from the same district in MP and was able to go home, regrets leaving Pune. “I am at home farming. However, it doesn’t pay me much and I have not been able to get a job here. Three days ago, I got a call from my employer in Pune who told me that he could arrange my return journey. I agreed readily but he told me to arrange for at least 10 to 12 people willing to work so that he can send us a bus. Now, I hope there will be many like me who want to go back. My decision to come back home was wrong,” Patel said. Since May 7, as many as 140 Shramik Specials have left Pune rail division to different states carrying over 1.40 lakh migrants.  The Railways has decided not to ply any trains except the special ones till August 12. “The last train to Odisha and Jharkhand operated on Tuesday,” a rail division official said. Another railway official said there are 100 pairs of trains are running across the country. At the Pune station, the Pune-Danapur Express that runs every day is full, The return trains from Bihar and UP are bringing back people,” he said. Santosh Rathor, another MP resident, who had taken the same train to go home, said he was waiting for more trains to start. “Aane ka saadhan nahi hai. (There is no means to come back). The number of trains is less and buses are not operational. I have tried to check reservations on the Danapur Express as I can catch it from Itarsi. However, the distance between my district and Itarsi is over 500km. I cannot get a reservation and I will have to travel to the station. If the transport starts, I will come back without delay. Farming doesn’t help at all,” Rathor ,who worked as a mechanic in Pune, told TOI. Luvkush Kevat from Sarangarh village said he had sought help from friends in Pune. “I cannot sustain for long now. I am sure that I will get a job once I come back to Pune. I am just waiting for more trains to start,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrant-workers-look-for-jobs-transport-to-return/articleshow/76633242.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: ‘Broker’s arrest just the tip of bribe scam’||JAIPUR: Senior Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officers on Thursday said the arrest of a middleman for allegedly accepting Rs 5 lakh from an SHO is just tip of the iceberg in a deep-rooted bribery scam in Bharatpur range. Officials said they are likely to summon and question Bharatpur DIG Laxman Gaur in this connection. Pramod Sharma, who runs a private tours and travels agency, was arrested here on Wednesday. He had allegedly claimed to be an agent of a senior police officer and received Rs 5 lakh bribe from an SHO. “Primarily this is a simple trap case in which Sharma was arrested for accepting a bribe he demanded from Chandra Prakash, the SHO Udyog Nagar in Bharatpur, who is also the complainant. Such was his cult that this SHO was earlier sent to the lines through the recommendation of Sharma. Later, Sharma had even called Prakash from the landline of the official residence of the DIG and asked him to pay Rs 10 lakh bribe,” said a senior officer of ACB. ACB sleuths said they had got substantial evidence and are working to get deeper into the deep-rooted corruption racket in Bharatpur Range. “Gaur is likely to be questioned in this case as Sharma, who claimed to be close to the DIG, was extorting police officers in Bharatpur,” the officer said. Sharma frequented Gaur’s residence. “He had stayed at his house for almost a fortnight during lockdown which cleared his intimacy with the officer,” said a senior officer. Sharma was sent to judicial custody. “Whenever required we will question him again,” said Dinesh MN, addtional director general, ACB. “At this point, we can’t share much as we are probing various angles into the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brokers-arrest-just-the-tip-of-bribe-scam/articleshow/76633836.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Extra labour force for quality NREGA work||JAIPUR: Under convergence plan, it has been decided to engage up to 50% labour from other departments including - forest, water resources, PWD and others - to improve the quality of rural development work under MGNREGA. Officials say, if the labour engagement begins with 20-25% by other departments, it will improve the quality of work under various schemes run by these departments.  It was decided during a meeting headed by chief secretary D B Gupta with the heads of various departments.  “Now, most of the labourers have been engaged by panchayati raj department. Of the 50 lakh labourers engaged, only 2.50 lakh are engaged by the other departments. It should be increased so that burden on rural development and panchayati raj department can be reduced,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan.  “Therefore, it was decided up to 50% labourers should be engaged by other departments. Even if they engage 20-25% workers, it will be a good start. So, we will monitor this thing as well. Now, in terms expenditure, convergence is also not exceeding 10%. We will have improve this too,” he added. The labour engagement under MGNREGA in the state on Thursday was 50.31 lakh. Uttar Pradesh recorded highest labour engagement in the country on Thursday with 52.27 lakh workers. Over 53L workers engaged  Chief secretary (CS) D B Gupta on Wednesday instructed officials to increase the scope of employment and development works under MGNREGA. He directed the officers to make a list of what works could be started department-wise in this financial year and ensure sending them to the rural development and panchayati raj department so that those works could be taken up on priority.  He also asked the PWD to take up plantation of trees on both the national and state highways, increasing the width of rural roads to prevent accidents, levelling on the roadsides, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extra-labour-force-for-quality-nrega-work/articleshow/76633826.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls Rs 25,000 core 6-lane e-way parallel to Goa highway, coastal road||MUMBAI: Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s decision to study feasibility of a Rs25,000-crore greenfield six-lane Konkan expressway parallel to the Goa highway and coastal road was criticised as existing roads are awaiting expansion for decades. It’s nine years since the Rs10,000-crore Mumbai-Goa highway four-lane expansion began and it’s nowhere near completion. So is the marine highway, which was to be expanded between Rewas (Alibaug) and Redi (Sindhudurg) ports in March by adding 20-25 bridges over the creeks. Its initial planning was proposed four years back. MSRDC said the expressway, proposed in 1991, will have few tunnels and will bring speedy progress for the region as it can be quickly developed due to lesser efforts in acquisition. “Widening highways having properties along the way and their acquisition is a major task. Pune and Nashik expressways changed the economy of the region after getting developed fast,” said MSRDC joint MD Radheshyam Mopalwar. S M Deshmukh, president, Mumbai-Goa Highway Action Committee, said the decision to study feasibility was not needed when the highway and coastal road were enough, if developed properly and efficiently. “The highway is not 50% complete even after beginning work in 2011,” he added. Inordinate delays in completing four lanes of the narrow highway on its 460km stretch between Panvel and Goa border, which has seen most accidents in the state, is still a matter of concern for lakhs living along Konkan belt. So is the delayed recarpeting and reconnecting of missing links on the coastal road, now proposed to be a marine highway. “Distance between the coast and highway is 25km. Why do we need a new expressway in between. We have no issues if the four-lane highway is made six-lane but this expressway is not needed. In fact, the cost of land has gone up and people don’t want to lose fertile land and their livelihood,” said Deshmukh. Shirish Tamhankar from Shriwardhan said government should concentrate on strengthening connectivity of Konkan belt with western Maharashtra through Sahyadri mountain ranges. Alignments for the new expressway will have to be suggested by consultants along with technical, financial, environmental angles by August. Its design speed is proposed to be 150km/hour, with an aircraft-landing facility. MVA government had announced Rs 3,500 crore in its recent budget to develop the single-lane coastal state highway (MSH4), with 30km of missing bridges over creeks and rivers, into a concrete two-lane marine highway on the lines of Pacific Coast highway in US. The marine highway will run via Redi port, Malvan, Devgad, Ratnagiri, Ganpatipule, Guhagar, Harihareshwar, Murud, Kashid, Alibaug and Revas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-mulls-rs25k-core-6-lane-e-way-parallel-to-goa-highway-coastal-road/articleshow/76633352.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
June 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar suspends employment officer||KARNAL: Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar suspended a district employment officer for failing to turn up for the Janata Darbar on Thursday. He also ordered an inquiry against a Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) clerk for errors in the electricity bills of a consumer. As many as 100 complaints related to the police department, electricity, education, unemployment and revenue department were taken up in the Janata Darbar, most of which were disposed of on the spot by the chief minister. Interacting with media persons, Khattar said after starting unlock-1, he held his first Janta Darbar to hear public grievances in his assembly constituency of Karnal, which he could not visit due to lockdown. Khattar said, “”We heard 100 grievances, most of which were resolved on the spot. We assured to look into remaining issues after taking suggestions from the departments concerned. District employment officer has been suspended for remaining absent from the Janta Darbar.” On the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, he said, “ It is a matter of concern but most of the new cases being reported in the state are associated with Delhi. People from Delhi, who don’t get test and treatment there come to Haryana for Covid-19 test. It is also learnt that some people give their local address of Haryana and get test and treatment here, thus resulting in an increase in the total cases.” He also dismissed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s claims of people from other states getting treatment in Delhi. On a question of boycotting China, Khattar said, “The state government has already cancelled two tenders worth Rs 750 to Rs 800 crore with China. Now, fresh tenders will be invited and priority will be given to Indian firms only.” Responding to a query on sacked Physical Training Instructors (PTIs), he said, “It was the verdict of Supreme Court and appointment was made by then Congress government in 2010. But on April 8 Supreme Court upheld the decision of Punjab and Haryana High Court which had quashed the appointment of 1,983 PTIs. Now, the court has made a decision that fresh recruitment should be conducted, in which they (Sacked PTI teachers) should be called and given jobs on merit basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cm-suspends-district-employment-officer-during-janta-darbar-in-karnal/articleshow/76633858.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||72 of 159 Pune civic body staff who tested positive for Covid-19 now cured||PUNE: Nearly half of the 159 Pune Municipal Corporation staffers who have tested positive for the coronavirus so far, have made full recoveries.  Of the 159, 76 cases — 47% of the total count — were registered in the last two weeks. On June 11, the PMC had 83 staff with Covid-19. Since then, there has been an increase in the number of cases. At one point, the civic body was registering five new cases every day amongst staff. The number of cases now stands at 159, with 10 deaths. Seventy-seven employees are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Many of the patients — both permanent and contract employees — are from departments such as sanitation, health and solid waste control. An official said, “Among the 72 recovered workers, 53 are permanent staff; 19 are on contract. Nine permanent staffers are among the 10 dead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/72-of-159-pmc-staff-who-fell-ill-now-cured/articleshow/76633271.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Cops were scared of travel agency owner & DIG aide Sharma: ACB||Jaipur: Such was the fear among junior officers of Bharatpur Range that whenever travel agency owner Pramod Sharma called them, they used to greet him with ‘Jai Hind Saab.’ Sharma used to be greeted with a salute from junior police officers whenever he met them. He used to scold and threaten them and his role was more of a link between junior and senior officers in Bharatpur range. This was revealed by ACB officers while investigating the corruption case against the private bus owner who used to extort junior police officers claiming to be a close aide of Bhatatpur Range DIG Laxman Gaur. The ACB in a detailed FIR stated that accused Sharma used the official landline of Gaur to ask police officers to call him back via WhatsApp. “He used to enjoy Gaur’s patronage to an extent that he used to scold police inspectors over phone for not calling him back on time,” said a senior officer of ACB. Officers said Sharma was close to many political leaders in the state. “We have also got information that whenever he (Sharma) used to visit Bharatpur, he used government vehicles meant for police. He had even used the government vehicle of a senior officer to visit the parental house of his wife at Rudawal in Bhatatpur,” the officer added. Senior officers of ACB said Sharma was also involved in patronizing the syndicated racket of mining in Bharatpur and Dholpur. “The accused has a lavish lifestyle having a private swimming pool, home theatre and all the modern amenities at his house,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-were-scared-of-travel-agency-owner-dig-aide-sharma-acb/articleshow/76633845.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Central and Western railways ferry around 1.25 lakh essential staff daily||MUMBAI: Passenger figures breached the one lakh-mark after train services were introduced for those in essential services from June 15 on Central and Western railways. Both are running 362 services with an estimated 1.25 lakh passengers travelling each day. Till last week, the number was around 75,000. CR chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said, “We are having a ridership of 45,000-50,000 a day across main and harbour lines.” CR runs 130 services on mainline and 70 on harbour. WR chief PRO Ravinder Bhakar said, “We are recording 50,000-55,000 now.” WR runs 162 services between Churchgate-Virar, including 16 between Virar-Dahanu. Passengers have demanded more services, especially on the slow corridor. At present trains are running on the fast corridor with limited stoppages. Even on harbour, trains do not halt at all stations. These trains run at 15 (WR) and 15-20 (CR) minute frequency. Zonal divisional railway users’ consultative committee member Kailash Verma said railways must study peak hour travel and improve frequency accordingly, and slow trains must be introduced too. There is no plan to increase services or tweak timetable, railways said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-wr-ferry-around-1-25l-essential-staff-daily/articleshow/76633354.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan teen points firearm at MLA, says he wanted dad in trouble||JAIPUR: A 17-year-old, who had pointed a firearm and pulled the trigger at Congress MLA and former minister Bharosi Lal Jatav during a ‘Jan Sunwai’ on Wednesday at latter’s residence in Karauli, revealed a strange reason for his act. The teen, who is under detention, told police that he wanted his father to be in trouble for scolding him routinely. Since Jatav is a family friend, the boy believed that his act will not only put his father in trouble, but will also give a loud and clear message to his father for his scoldings. “He is been preparing for medical entrance exam in Jaipur. Due to lockdown, he was at home where he was regularly scolded. His father is a close friend of the MLA. The boy though his act of pointing a country-made pistol at the MLA will put his father in trouble. He actually wanted to shoot the MLA, but luckily the pistol did not fire,” Karauli SP Anil Kumar Beniwal said. He added that boy had a clear plan to open fire at the MLA just to disturb his father and family. “In the questioning the boy termed it an act of revenge too as he says he wanted to teach a lesson to his father,” the SP added. Police checked the age certificate of the boy who will turn 18 next month. Police said they have got leads in the case especially on persons who supplied firearm to the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-points-firearm-at-mla-says-he-wanted-dad-in-trouble/articleshow/76633851.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 26, 2020||Shimla||444 Himachal natives brought back from abroad||Manali: As many as 444 persons have been brought back to Himachal Pradesh from 71 locations under the Vande Bharat Mission till Thursday, an official said. A government spokesperson said stranded Himachalis were brought from the UAE, Kyrgyzstan, Philippines, Bangladesh, the US, Myanmar, Indonesia, Nepal, Oman, Malaysia, Canada, Maldives, Israel, Jordan, Germany, Japan, Cairo, Spain, the Netherlands, Ukraine, Nigeria, Russia, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, the UK, Singapore, Gabriela, Morocco, Australia, South Africa, Cambodia, New Zealand and Iran, among others. “In many cases, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur took up the matter with the external affairs minister to bring back stranded residents and the CM Helpline provided necessary assistance. All persons reaching the country were received by the officers of state government at New Delhi, Chandigarh and Amritsar airports and helped them in travelling to Himachal Pradesh where they were put in institutional quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/444-himachal-natives-brought-back-from-abroad/articleshow/76633881.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Focus on pool sampling to ramp up virus testing||Kochi: In order to increase testing capacity and save limited resources in the state (kits, reagents, etc), the government has now decided to go for pooled testing in a big way. Pooled tests will be conducted on asymptomatic people from the general population falling under high-risk categories, among others. Symptomatic patients who have undertaken international or interstate travel in the past 14 days and symptomatic contacts of Covid positive cases will be excluded from it. The state has so far conducted 5,986 tests per million population. An advisory by health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade states, “ICMR has recommended pooling of samples when the test positive ratio is less than 2%. The department of health & family welfare has studied the test positivity rates of various categories of samples.” Positivity refers to the percentage of positive samples in the total results declared. The test positivity ratio in Kerala is 1.8%. “It will help increase the testing in the state. Also, testing on a cluster of asymptomatic contacts can be done through pooling rather than individually. Only if the pooled test report comes positive, then everyone in the group needs to be tested again,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. Kerala now has 40 testing labs—24 in government sector and 16 in private sector—yet state’s relatively low number of tests per million population, which is very close to the national average—may look like running counter to WHO’s dictum: “Test, Test, Test”. “Districts like Ernakulam and Kollam need to ramp up testing. These places have the lowest test positivity rates,” said Dr Padmanabha Shenoy, who analysed the data on test positivity from different districts in Kerala. Despite the limitations in testing, Kerala has so far managed to control the spread considerably with strategic testing. But the problem is that though cases are detected in clusters in the community, state’s testing policy is aggressively focussed on domestic and international Malayalis returning to the state and their contacts. “It is now time to change our testing strategy and start testing large numbers of high risk groups and common people. It will help us understand what is actually happening on the ground,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal. Unfortunately, even samples collected through sentinel surveillance include those who came from outside the state and their contacts. Kerala government’s medical advisory panel on Covid management has also suggested that now testing should emphasise more on people in the community and the high-risk groups like policemen, health workers and shop keepers. In the last one week, about 15-20 % of the total tests were sentinel surveillance tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/focus-on-pool-sampling-to-ramp-up-virus-testing/articleshow/76632341.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||On Day 2, monsoon covers 26 districts in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after its arrival, southwest monsoon on Thursday covered 26 districts across the state. The districts which were yet to to touched include Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Churu, Bikaner, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Nagaur. Maandal (Bhilwara) received 100 mm rain, the highest in the state. Attributing the timely arrival of monsoon to active northerly winds and conducive humidity levels, Jaipur Met office said from Saturday onwards, many places in the eastern and western Rajasthan will get moderate to heavy rainfall. People in Jaipur woke up to a cloudy morning which converted into a dusty afternoon and evening. Except for some scattered bouts of rains, there’s wasn’t any heavy downpour in the city. “Southwest monsoon has arrived in Jaipur. However, the reason behind the low intensity of rainfall is the heavy dust storm due to the active western disturbances,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Jaipur recorded just 0.7 mm rains. Mandal was followed by Begun (Chittorgarh) where a rainfall of 100 mm was recorded, Rajsamand and Thanagazi (Alwar) 80mm each, Shahpura (Bhilwara) 70mm, Bhilwara 70mm, Baiytu (Barmer) 60mm and Sanchor (Jalore) 50mm. Jaipur Met office said there will be good monsoon in south Rajasthan including Kota, Jhalwar, Baran and Bundi districts. “It appears that southwest monsoon is going to cover entire Rajasthan by Saturday. From Monday onwards, heavy rainfall is likely at many places,” said an officer. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mild to moderate showers would be witnessed at many places in the western and eastern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-day-2-monsoon-covers-26-districts-in-state/articleshow/76633857.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||‘Failed’ IAS aspirant arrested for posing as MHRD officer in Bareilly||BAREILLY: An IAS aspirant, who dreamt of becoming an officer some day, was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly posing as a fake coordinator from the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) before the divisional commissioner in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. After a brief interaction, commissioner Ranveer Prasad became suspicious and alerted the policemen who then arrested him. Further inquiry revealed that the man, who could not clear the civil services examination, had been duping people for the past few months. SSP Shailesh Kumar Pandey said that an FIR has been lodged against the man, identified as Shashank, and he has been sent to jail. According to the police, the conman - in his late 20s - after meeting the officer of the divisional commissioner tried to hoodwink him by claiming that he was an IAS officer of the 2013 batch. Shashank, a native of Hardoi district and currently residing at Izzatnagar in Bareilly, had earlier made several phone calls to the SSP and DIG introducing himself as an IAS officer, the police said. “We have recovered two mobile phones and four SIM cards of different service providers from his possession which were used by him while making calls to senior IAS and IPS officers in the past,” SSP Pandey said. According to the SSP, Shashank confessed that after completing his graduation in 2014, he tried to compete in the civil services exams, but couldn’t succeed and so decided to become an imposter. The SSP further said that they were in the process of recovering his call details to know how long he had been deceiving people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/failed-ias-aspirant-arrested-for-posing-as-mhrd-officer-in-bareilly/articleshow/76629897.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Returning guest workers must pay for quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After sending home all willing migrant labourers, fondly termed ‘guest labourers’, with much fanfare, the government has decided to impose paid quarantine on these workers when they come back to Kerala. The state had extended free food and shelter to migrant labourers during lockdown and the workers – who were willing to return – were sent back in Shramik trains. However, those who are willing to return will have to shell out money to go on a 14-day quarantine here, unless their sponsors to bear the charges. “Paid quarantine should be imposed on migrant labourers who went back to their states by availing free travel facilities and are now returning, unless concerned contractor takes up the responsibility of the quarantine, in the facilities deemed appropriate by the district collector or the local self-government,” the minutes of the video conference of principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) A Jayathilak with the collectors last week said. As many as 3,07,218 migrant workers returned to their states in Shramik trains till June 19. West Bengal topped the list with 1,42,365 returnees, followed by Bihar (43,279) and Odisha (27, 016). As many as 4.34 lakh migrant workers had taken refuge in camps set up by the government during lockdown. In addition, many had returned home even before the lockdown on March 23 in connection with Holi festival. “It is not ideal to put these footloose labourers on paid quarantine. But then, they are unlikely to return immediately. Because of the acute shortage of labourers in many industries, many sponsors have expressed willingness to pay for their quarantine facilities,” said Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development’s executive director Benoy Peter. Almost all major sectors in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have migrant labourers as workers. These include construction, hospitality, plantation, iron and steel, wooden furniture, marine fishing, mining and quarrying, plywood, textile and apparel, seafood and footwear industries. Workers from West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are working in these industries in state. Meanwhile, state police chief Loknath Behera has instructed all district police chiefs not to refuse entry to migrant workers who are returning here seeking jobs. They should be sent to quarantine centres, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/returning-guest-workers-must-pay-for-quarantine/articleshow/76636144.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Patanjali’s claim a marketing strategy, bad joke: Rajasthan health minister||JAIPUR: Rebuffing Patanjali's claim to having found a cure for Covid-19, state health minister Raghu Sharma on Thursday said it was entirely a marketing strategy. Patanjali does not have ICMR’s permission for the medicine, Sharma said. “Who will be responsible if a Covid patient dies after taking this medicine,” the health minister asked. The state government is not against ayurveda and has been distributing 'kadha' (an ayurvedic syrup) to boost immunity to fight the disease, but ‘Coronil’ is merely a marketing stunt, he clarified. A day earlier, Sharma said the state government would not allow the medicine to be sold in Rajasthan. “We have started plasma therapy with permission from ICMR. Without any clinical trial, I don’t think it is legal. If the ICMR has given them permission, why has the Ayush ministry imposed a prohibition on it? The Uttrakhand government has clarified that they took permission to boost the immune system. The Rajasthan government, too, has not given any permission,” Sharma said. Sharma pointed out that if they are claiming to have a cure for Covid, there should be a basis for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patanjalis-claim-amarketing-strategy-bad-joke-health-min/articleshow/76633884.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Most cases, recoveries in PCMC ‘A’ zone||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Maximum number of Covid-19 cases as well as recoveries have been recorded in the ‘A’ administrative zone in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. The Covid-19 war room report on June 24 stated that the ‘A’ zone has reported 753 positive cases, of which 230 are active, while 518 have recovered. The zone includes sensitive slum areas, such as Anandnagar and Bhatnagar, which have recorded steady positive cases in the last few weeks. It has recorded five deaths so far. The ‘H’ zone is the second-highest sensitive zone with a total of 409 cases, followed by ‘F’ and ‘E’ zones with 292 and 208 cases, respectively. The total number of cases registered till June 24 is 2,161, of which 1,279 have recovered. There were 37 deaths. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, told TOI, “We have intensified contact tracing in the ‘A’ zone. The number of tests has increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-cases-recoveries-in-pcmc-a-zone/articleshow/76633290.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite Covid-19 devastation, Telangana still a rich state & will ride out crisis: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Though the government is facing financial crisis and could not pay full salaries and pensions for three months, Telangana is 100% a rich state even now, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Thursday. “Telangana has sound economy. The financial crisis is temporary due to Covid-19 and lockdown. Now, the revenues are steadily increasing,” he added. Even in the crisis, the state released Rythu Bandhu (input subsidy) to farmers and contributed 55% of the total paddy procurement in the country, the CM said, launching the sixth phase of Haritha Haram in Narsapur. The programme, which was initiated in 2015, aims to improve green cover to 33% in the state. He also inaugurated an urban forest park, developed on a 636-acre land parcel, in Narsapur. Speaking on the occasion, the CM said Narsapur was known for thick forest and even film shoots used to happen here. “Now, steps should be taken to rejuvenate the forest in Narsapur,” he added. “Every family should be given six saplings so that they can give them names of their family members, creating a sense of attachment. Nobody believed that every household in the state would get potable water. We proved it by taking up Mission Bhagiratha,” he said. Apart from raising the green cover, he said there was need to protect plants. “The government will act tough against timber smugglers. A police intelligence wing will be created to curb smuggling,” KCR said He said regulatory cultivation was proposed to benefit farmers. “The only community that was not affected in Covid-19 was the farming community,” he said. The CM said Rythu Vedikas would be constructed within three months, he said. Earlier the CM launched the programme by planting a black plum (Neredu) sapling in Narsapur forest areas in Medak district. He also sanctioned seven crore to seven mandal headquarters, Rs 25 crore to Narsapur municipality and Rs 20 lakh to each gram panchayats for taking up developmental works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-covid-devastation-t-still-a-rich-state-will-ride-out-crisis-cm/articleshow/76633287.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar: Woman kills minor kid, self in jungle||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old tribal from Jawhar taluka of Palghar district, whose husband was jobless since lockdown, killed her three-year-old daughter and took her own life in the jungle.  The bodies were found by locals who had ventured there for wood on Wednesday. They had gone missing on June 22 and her husband had searched for them. She earlier left her seven-year-old daughter at home. The bodies have been sent for autopsy. The woman was booked for murder of her daughter under IPC section 302.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-kills-minor-kid-self-in-jungle/articleshow/76633358.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Returning guest workers must pay for quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After sending home all willing migrant labourers, fondly termed ‘guest labourers’, with much fanfare, the government has decided to impose paid quarantine on these workers when they come back to Kerala. The state had extended free food and shelter to migrant labourers during lockdown and the workers – who were willing to return – were sent back in Shramik trains. However, those who are willing to return will have to shell out money to go on a 14-day quarantine here, unless their sponsors to bear the charges. “Paid quarantine should be imposed on migrant labourers who went back to their states by availing free travel facilities and are now returning, unless concerned contractor takes up the responsibility of the quarantine, in the facilities deemed appropriate by the district collector or the local self-government,” the minutes of the video conference of principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) A Jayathilak with the collectors last week said. As many as 3,07,218 migrant workers returned to their states in Shramik trains till June 19. West Bengal topped the list with 1,42,365 returnees, followed by Bihar (43,279) and Odisha (27, 016). As many as 4.34 lakh migrant workers had taken refuge in camps set up by the government during lockdown. In addition, many had returned home even before the lockdown on March 23 in connection with Holi festival. “It is not ideal to put these footloose labourers on paid quarantine. But then, they are unlikely to return immediately. Because of the acute shortage of labourers in many industries, many sponsors have expressed willingness to pay for their quarantine facilities,” said Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development’s executive director Benoy Peter. Almost all major sectors in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have migrant labourers as workers. These include construction, hospitality, plantation, iron and steel, wooden furniture, marine fishing, mining and quarrying, plywood, textile and apparel, seafood and footwear industries. Workers from West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are working in these industries in state. Meanwhile, state police chief Loknath Behera has instructed all district police chiefs not to refuse entry to migrant workers who are returning here seeking jobs. They should be sent to quarantine centres, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/returning-guest-workers-must-pay-for-quarantine/articleshow/76632362.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Returning guest workers must pay for quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After sending home all willing migrant labourers, fondly termed ‘guest labourers’, with much fanfare, the government has decided to impose paid quarantine on these workers when they come back to Kerala. The state had extended free food and shelter to migrant labourers during lockdown and the workers – who were willing to return – were sent back in Shramik trains. However, those who are willing to return will have to shell out money to go on a 14-day quarantine here, unless their sponsors to bear the charges. “Paid quarantine should be imposed on migrant labourers who went back to their states by availing free travel facilities and are now returning, unless concerned contractor takes up the responsibility of the quarantine, in the facilities deemed appropriate by the district collector or the local self-government,” the minutes of the video conference of principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) A Jayathilak with the collectors last week said. As many as 3,07,218 migrant workers returned to their states in Shramik trains till June 19. West Bengal topped the list with 1,42,365 returnees, followed by Bihar (43,279) and Odisha (27, 016). As many as 4.34 lakh migrant workers had taken refuge in camps set up by the government during lockdown. In addition, many had returned home even before the lockdown on March 23 in connection with Holi festival. “It is not ideal to put these footloose labourers on paid quarantine. But then, they are unlikely to return immediately. Because of the acute shortage of labourers in many industries, many sponsors have expressed willingness to pay for their quarantine facilities,” said Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development’s executive director Benoy Peter. Almost all major sectors in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have migrant labourers as workers. These include construction, hospitality, plantation, iron and steel, wooden furniture, marine fishing, mining and quarrying, plywood, textile and apparel, seafood and footwear industries. Workers from West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are working in these industries in state. Meanwhile, state police chief Loknath Behera has instructed all district police chiefs not to refuse entry to migrant workers who are returning here seeking jobs. They should be sent to quarantine centres, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/returning-guest-workers-must-pay-for-quarantine/articleshow/76639820.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Set up dedicated civil defence force to meet Covid-19 spike, Khader tells CM||MANGALURU: Former health minister and Mangaluru MLA UT Khader has urged chief minister B S Yediyurappa to create a dedicated civil defence force to deal with anticipated spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. Failure to rope in stakeholders — NGOs, social workers, philanthropists and medical experts ahead of the projected spurt will leave Karnataka in a pitiable state, he warned. The civil defence force should be a dedicated band of volunteers who could be selected after a thorough screening process. “We need people with dedication and willingness to be part of crisis management on the ground as it will be beyond the abilities of government machinery to handle the spurt on their own steam,” Khader said. The process must start now and not when the peak is on us as it will result in total chaos at all levels then, he said. The civil defence force must be trained to handle all aspects of the global pandemic including looking after patients in dedicated Covid care centres and the safe disposal of bodies of those succumbing to the virus. There are already several samaritans and NGOs doing this job across the state, Bengaluru in particular and this model needs to be scaled up to cover the whole state with advance and meticulous preparation, he said. At the district level, the deputy commissioners must take the lead in readying a force that can help the respective district administrations in dealing with the fallout of the spike in cases, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/set-up-dedicated-civil-defence-force-to-meet-covid-19-spike-khader-tells-cm/articleshow/76632431.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC garners about Rs 130 crore in property tax||AHMEDABAD: The scheme offering 10% rebate in property tax has helped the AMC garner a property tax of Rs 129.48 crore from 1.81 lakh property owners in the city. The AMC had in May announced that those property owners who were willing to pay advance property tax for the year 2020-21 would be given a 10% rebate. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the corporation announcement had evoked a good response, and with five more days to go, the AMC had collected nearly Rs 130 crore as an advance tax. Bhatt said that the scheme was only for those property owners who had paid their property tax for the year 2019-20 and wished to pay their advance taxes. The AMC officials said that in 2019-20, over four lakh owners had come forward and paid their property taxes in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-garners-about-rs-130cr-in-property-tax/articleshow/76633292.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Amritsar||4 of a family, help brutally murdered in Tarn Taran village||Tarn Taran: Four members of a family and their servant were brutally killed in Kairon village of Tarn Taran district on Wednesday night. The assailants however didn’t harm the four young children, who kept crying by the bodies the whole night. The victims were identified as Brij Lal alias Dhattu, his son Bunty, daughters-in-law Amandeep Kaur, wife of Paramjit Singh, and Jaspreet Kaur, wife of Bakshish, and family help Gursahib Singh. According to police sources, all of them were attacked with sharp-edged weapons and killed by slitting their throats. A local resident Nishan Singh, on whose complaint police lodged a FIR, said that Pari, daughter of Paramjit, knocked at their door at around 6.15 am on Thursday and told them that her uncle Gurjant alias Janta had allegedly killed her mother Amandeep Kaur and her grandfather Brij Lal. The latter had four sons. On reaching Brij Lal’s house, Nishan Singh said he found five blood-soaked bodies lying in different rooms and trails of blood on the floors. According to police sources, Brij Lal’s two sons Paramjit and Bakshish were drug addicts and were undergoing treatment in a drug de-addiction centre while his wife Ranjit Kaur had died on May 22 in Amritsar jail where she was undergoing 10 years’ imprisonment in a drugs case. While sources said that police had arrested Brij Lal’s son Gurjant after finding him in an inebriated condition near the house, police did not confirm this. Superintendent of police, investigations, J S Walia, said that Brij Lal and his family were involved in the drugs trade. "There is a possibility of involvement of some rival drug dealer gang in the killing or some family dispute but we are yet to investigate," he said, adding that the bodies had been sent for post mortem. Police have registered a case of murder and house-trespass to commit an offence, among others, against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/4-of-a-family-help-brutally-murdered-in-tarn-taran-village/articleshow/76633891.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 26, 2020||Patna||Three sisters die as cylinder catches fire in Bihar||ARA: Three sisters, all below 10 years of age, died and five other family members, including their parents, sustained burn injuries when an LPG cylinder caught fire at their house at Kushumaha village under the Aayar police station area in Bhojpur district on Thursday. One Gupteshwar Ram, who was among others to shift the burned people to Ara sadar hospital, said the accident occurred when Uday Shankar Ram’s wife Sunita Devi was going to prepare tea in the morning. “As soon as she lit the matchstick, the gas cylinder caught fire. Soon, the whole house was in flames. The neighbours informed police after dousing the fire and rushed all eight victims to Ara Sadar hospital,” he said. SHO of Aayar police station Vijay Prasad said after initial treatment, the victims were referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital. “Uday’s three daughters – Rima (5), Nidhi Kumari (3) and Shivani Kumari (9) – succumbed to their burn injuries, while Uday (30), his wife Sunita, younger brother Rakesh Ram (26) and elder brother Munna Ram’s two daughters – Khushboo Kumari (12) and Poonam Kumari (6) – are undergoing treatment,” the SHO added. Jagdishpur SDPO Shyam Kishore Ranjan said thankfully the cylinder did not blast. “Otherwise, the casualties would have been higher. When the fire broke out, the gas regulator blew away so forcefully that the roof was damaged and the dust falling from it helped in a way to douse the fire. I have talked to the SDO and he has said that the deceased victims’ family will get Rs 4 lakh each as ex gratia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-sisters-die-as-cylinder-catches-fire/articleshow/76632545.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||43 SRP personnel, kin test positive in Narmada in a week||Vadodara: As many as 43 Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in the state reserve police (SRP) camp at Kevadia in Narmada district with 10 more found infected on Thursday. All the cases reported were from residential colony of the camp. District health officials said family members of the SRP jawans got infected as they came in touch with the cops some days ago. On Wednesday, nine SRP personnel of the Narmada battalion that guards the Sardar Sarovar Dam were reported positive. These personnel were part of the group that was deployed in Surat during the lockdown. “The SRP group of 84 personnel returned from Surat to Narmada on June 7 and many of them began developing Covid-19 symptoms by June 15. We immediately began their screening and tests,” said Dr Rajendra Singh Kashyap, district epidemic medical officer. All 84 SRP men and their families were quarantined and tested. “Till date, there are 79 positive cases in Narmada of which 43 are of SRP men and their families,” Kashyap told TOI. A a 24-year-old man from Tilakwada also tested positive. Out of the 10 of the Covid-19 positive cases reported on Thursday, two are children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/43-srp-personnel-kin-test-positive-in-narmada-in-a-week/articleshow/76631634.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Student dies in accident after writing exam||HUBBALLI: An SSLC student, who was returning home, after writing the examination met with a tragic end when he was hit by a truck near Bagewadi village in Mundargi taluk, Gadag on Thursday. The victim Siddappa Talwar, 16, was returning to his home in Bellatti along with two of his friends Iranna Badigeri and Mailari Yalavatti on a bike, when the accident occurred. Residents of Bagewadi, where a speeding truck rammed into the bike, rushed the trio to the hospital. Police said that, while Badigeri and Yalavatti sustained injuries, Talwar succumbed to his wounds at the hospital. Police said that negligent and rash driving on the part of the driver of the truck was to blame for the mishap. A case has been registered at the Mundargi police station, and the driver arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/student-dies-in-accident-after-writing-exam/articleshow/76631952.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||16 succumb to contagion, 725 turn positive in PMR||PUNE: The Covid-19 tally breached the 18,000-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with the addition of 725 cases in the 24 hours. Besides, 16 more patients succumbed to the infection in the region, pushing the death toll up to 655. The total tally in the PMR now stands at 18,240. Among the new cases, Pune municipal limits recorded 560, the Pimpri Chinchwad areas reported 102, while rural and Cantonment areas accounted for 63. PMC health officials said 3,453 swab samples were collected on Thursday. With this, swab sample collection in PMC limits surged beyond 1 lakh on Thursday, rising to 1,00,677. “As many as 202 patients were discharged in last 24 hours in PMC limits after they were declared cured,”a civic health official said, adding that 8,302 people have been discharged so far. Citing the data, the civic health officials said the caseload of active patients in the municipal limits increased to 5,325 on Thursday. About 316 patients were at critical stage, of whom 63 were put on ventilator support, a report released by PMC said. Among the deceased, two patients died at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 60-year-old man from Hadapsar and a 65-year-old man from Ganesh Peth. The patients who died of the contagion at private hospitals include a 76-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 53-year-old man from Navi Peth, an 87-year-old woman from Shivajinagar, a 49-year-old man from Ravivar Peth, a 59-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 78-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 43-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 56-year-old man from Dattawadi and an 87-year-old man from Parvati Darshan, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/16-succumb-to-contagion-725-turn-positive-in-pmr/articleshow/76633296.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 26, 2020||Patna||Lightning strikes kill 83 in Bihar, Gopalganj worst-hit||PATNA: Altogether 83 people were killed by lightning in 23 districts across the state on Thursday. Gopalganj in north Bihar reported the highest number of fatalities at 13, followed by Madhubani with six deaths. Other districts where lightning deaths were reported are —Madhubani (8), Siwan (6), Bhagalpur (6), East Champaran (5), Darbhanga (5) Bhagalpur (5), Banka (5), Nawada (4), Khagaria (3), Aurangabad (3), West Champaran (2), Kishanganj (2), Jehanabad (2), Buxar (2), Kaimur (2), Jamui (2), Purnia (2), Supaul (2) and one each in Samastipur, Sheohar, Saran, Sitamarhi and Madhepura. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh for the next of kin of all those killed by lightning. The CM also made an appeal to people to take all necessary precautions during turbulent weather. “Follow all advisories and safety precautions issued by the disaster management department from time to time. Stay indoors and safe during bad weather,” Nitish was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister’s office on Thursday evening. PM Narendra Modi condoled the lightning deaths in Bihar and UP in a tweet. “Got to know about the unfortunate death of many people due to lightning in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. State governments are undertaking relief measures with all promptness. I express my condolences to the families,” PM Modi tweeted in the evening. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were also among those who tweeted their condolence messages at the largescale lightning deaths in the state. Sources said most victims in Gopalganj and other districts were out in their fields for paddy cultivation when they were struck by lightning on Thursday morning. Gopalganj DM Arshad Ajeez has appealed to people not to come out of their houses over the next 48 hours owing to an alert for lightning during the same period. Patna meteorological centre issued a warning for heavy rainfall accompanied by lightning over the next 72 hours. As per a statement issued by the meteorological centre, districts in north and central Bihar close to Nepal Terai region are likely to be affected the most by the turbulent weather. “The district likely to witness severe impact of the turbulent weather , including lightning and heavy rains, include West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Sheohar, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Saran, Madhubani, Supaul, Araria, Saharsa, Madhepura, Purnia, Kishanganj and Katihar. Residents are advised to take the required precautionary and safety measures,” the warning issued by Patna meteorological centre stated. In West Champaran, two persons were killed by lightning at Malda village of Shikarpur panchayat at Narakatiaganj subdivision while they were working in their paddy fields. In Khagaria, a woman in Medinagar village under Chautham police station died on the spot when struck by lightning while returning from the field after cutting grass. In another incident, five kids sustained burn injuries while 14 goats were roasted alive when lightning struck a brick kiln at Kaithi village under Chautham police station. Weathermen attributed the severe lightning to a confluence of winds along with the position of trough line over Bihar. “A red warning was issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s headquarters on Wednesday evening about extreme weather conditions, including heavy rainfall and lightning at many places in north Bihar over the next 72 hours. The warning is in effect over the next 72 hours as well,” a meteorologist at Patna meteorological centre. Accordingly, the state disaster management has launched a mobile application named “Indravajra”, which gives an early alert for lightning in a radius of 20kms 40-45 minutes in advance. The app Indravajra can be downloaded from Google Play store. (With inputs from Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha, N P Thakur in Khagaria and Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lightning-strikes-kill-83-in-bihar-gopalganj-worst-hit/articleshow/76631753.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 26, 2020||Pune||Pune cops chase, nab interstate gang of truck robbers||PUNE: The Pune rural police, after a high-octane chase, arrested a seven-member gang from Madhya Pradesh for robbing a truck loaded with cigarettes worth Rs4.51 crore. The incident occurred on the Supa-Shirur Road, about 90km from Pune, late on Wednesday. The cops have arrested the seven men — all residents of Dewas in MP and also recovered the consignment of cigarettes and two trucks, stolen earlier in the day. A team comprising senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat, assistant inspector Dattatray Gund, sub-inspector Amol Gore, and a few constables from the local crime branch were patrolling the Solapur highway, when they spotted a truck speeding on the Chowfula-Shirur Road, near Supa. The police noticed that the truck did not have a rear number plate and decided to check the vehicle. But as they attempted to flag the driver down, he started speeding away. The patrol vans gave chase — the truck kept heading towards Shirur, police said. When truck then joined the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, police teams sent an alert to inspector Pravin Khanapure of Shirur police station. In the meantime, the team noticed two trucks speeding in tandem on the highway. Following this, police blocked vehicular movement on the highway. According to senior inspector Ghanwat, on spotting the blockage, one truck driver crashed into the road barrier in an attempt to jump the blockade, but instead, the truck got stuck. The other truck, meanwhile, drove into nearby fields and also managed to get the vehicle stuck. The occupants of the truck jumped out of the vehicles and ran into the sugar cane fields, Ghanwat said. Teams of police combed the area and arrested seven men. Police recovered crates of cigarettes, two trucks, a fake revolver, duplicate vehicle number plates and sharp weapons. Ghanwat said that the consignment belonged to a private company, which has a manufacturing unit in Tembhurni.Police said the suspects waylaid the truck and hijacked it. After travelling few kilometres, the suspects dumped the driver at an isolated spot and started driving the truck towards Ahmednagar. Ghanwat said the gang had earlier robbed a truck carrying medicines worth Rs6.5 crore in Vadgaon Nimbalkar. “They had executed robberies in Karnataka, Telangana, Haryana, Delhi and Odisha,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-chase-nab-interstate-gang-of-truck-robbers/articleshow/76633279.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Active cases fall by 20% at Tondiarpet||CHENNAI: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases across the city, Tondiarpet zone in North Chennai, Chennai’s second biggest hotspot after Royapuram, has shown a dip in active cases. The number of active cases in the zone has dropped by almost 20% from the high of the past 10 days. The number of recovered Covid-19 patients has exceeded the number of fresh cases in the zone and this comes at a time when testing has been ramped up in the zone. Data from the past 10 days shows that the number of active cases in the zone was around 2,100 a day, with a high of 2,373 on June 24 and 2,351 on June 22. On June 25, this is down to 1891, recording a 20% drop. This figure is also its lowest in three weeks. K Pandiarajan, state minister who is looking after the zone, tweeted about it on Thursday. “Tondiarpet recorded the highest daily recovery of 757 patients leading to lowest active case figure of 1,891 in three weeks, improving its rank from first to fifth in a fortnight. Kudos to the dedicated field team and leadership,” he said. But Greater Chennai Corporation officials are watchful, they don’t want to celebrate too early. Officials said this can be attributed to pointed interventions in the zone. “Discharges are decided by the government hospital doctors, while corporation is involved in field work. So we can’t provide actual reasons, but only assumptions,” an official said. K P Karthikeyan, the nodal officer for the zone, said the R (naught) – infection rate -- is now officially below 1 for the zone. Karthikeyan said cases were being identified early by intensive testing in the areas as well as identification of the highest number of Influenza like Illness (ILI) cases in the city. “In areas where people are not able to come for testing, we sent mobile testing vans,” he said. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said this was a result of a combination of residents adopting a healthy non-medical behaviour of wearing masks and physical distancing along with the efforts of field support teams. The other zone that has shown a drop in the number of active cases over the past 10 days is Teynampet. It had 2,031 active cases on June 25, lower than the high recorded on June 18 (2,162 cases). Thiru-vi-ka Nagar has also recorded a drop, with the active cases on Thursday being 1,205 as compared to a high of 1359 on June 21. However, similar trends are not visible for Royapuram, which on Thursday recorded its highest active cases in the city. Active cases in Anna Nagar are also increasing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-fall-by-20-at-tondiarpet/articleshow/76633294.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Project for technical institutes launched||Ahmedabad: Amid the rising concerns of Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s education department on Thursday launched the Unlimited Digital Advanced Year Long Academic Method (Udayam) project to provide a uniform platform for the collection of data and creating a conducive environment for online education at the government and grant-in-aid higher and technical educational institutes in the state. As part of the Udayam project, a Common Gateway of Education and Technology (Cogent) portal platform has been developed for overall data management of various administrative offices, societies and other bodies as well as the government and grant-in-aid institutions under the purview of the education department, according to a press release. The portal will act as a single platform for managing central, digital, repository of all information pertaining to academic and non-academic staff. Moreover, effective implementation of the government schemes and policies introduced at the state and central level and exchange of information between the department and educational institutes will be more convenient, it said. The total 63 technical educational institutes, 109 government and 356 grant-in aid higher educational institutes and 12 Vidyapeeths will be covered in this portal. Moreover, as many as 5,000 academics and non-academic staffs from technical colleges, 1,700 from government higher education colleges, 5,700 from grant-in aid higher education colleges and 120 from Gram Vidyapeeths will be registered in this portal. Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat (KCG) has provided training to all government and grant-in aid colleges for hassle-free online education through Microsoft platform, the press statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/project-for-technical-institutes-launched/articleshow/76633297.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||No permission for Rajasthan devotees to carry out Kanwar Yatra||JAIPUR: Devotees from the state should not embark on Kanwar Yatra to neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana, said additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swarup on Thursday. The chief secretary of UP Rajendra Kumar Tiwari has written to chief secretary D B Gupta requesting him not to allow devotees on Kanwar Yatra from Rajasthan to UP. The neighbouring states have only given permission to hold the annual pilgrimage at the local level in the month of Shravan, He appealed to devotees to offer prayers at the local level and stay at home. He urged religious leaders, saints and social organizations to persuade devotees and common folk to perform religious rites like ‘jalabhishek’ and worship locally in view of the dangers posed by corona infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-permissionfor-raj-devotees-to-carry-out-kanwar-yatra/articleshow/76633890.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Patna||One death, 215 fresh cases take Bihar Covid tally to 8,488||PATNA: The death of a former JD(U) youth leader, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at the NMCH, took the death toll on Thursday to 56 while the number of coronavirus patients went up to 8,488 with 215 new cases reported on Thursday. With 6,480 recoveries, active cases in Bihar now stand at 1,950. Sources said the deceased was a resident of Bhattacharya Road in the city and had a shop at Bakarganj near Gandhi Maidan. This is the first death of a political party worker in Bihar. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the deceased, 50, was admitted at NMCH on June 19 and died at 11:55pm on Wednesday. “He had bronchitis and hypertension. After being referred from Patna Medical College and Hospital, he was admitted here on June 19. He was even shifted to the ICU on June 22 and on Thursday he was kept on the ventilator,” said Dr Mukul. On the other hand, a senior RJD leader who had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17 and was admitted at AIIMS-Patna, tested negative for the virus on Thursday. AIIMS-Patna nodal in charge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “His report has come negative on Thursday. However, he will be kept in the hospital for another three to four days because he is suffering from pneumonia.” As per information shared by the health department, 15 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Patna on Thursday, which included four from Daniyawan, two from Patna City, one each from Bakarganj, Bhagwat Nagar, Khusrupur, Jogipur and Digha, while the location of four others were not given by the health department. Coronavirus cases were reported from 34 districts on Thursday with maximum 28 cases from Muzaffarpur. Other districts which reported higher numbers of cases included Purnea (14), West Champaran (13) and Supaul (12).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-death-215-fresh-cases-take-bihar-covid-tally-to-8488/articleshow/76631829.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Gram panchayat in Belagavi to equip all staff with walkie-talkies||HUBBALLI: A small village in Khanapur taluk in Belagavi district will soon have the distinction of becoming the first gram panchayat to have all of its employees equipped with a walkie-talkie. Nandgad GP has decided on this course of action in order to ensure that all personnel in the local administration can be reached in the event of an emergency at any time of the day. Poor network coverage in the area has prompted the GP to switch to walkie-talkies. Nandgad gram panchayat development officer Ganesh KS said that providing all the staff with walkie-talkies would usher in more efficiency in the operations of the local governing body. “We have so far procured five walkie-talkies, and our staff are being trained to use them. Once all of them have been trained, MLA Anjali Nimbalkar will launch the system,” Ganesh added. Nandgad GP president Mohammed Shafi said that, owing to poor mobile and phone connectivity in their village it was hard to communicate with the staff during emergencies. “This is what decided us on employing walkie talkies. Nandgad will be the first GP to launch such a system in Karnataka. Once all our staff have walkie talkies, people will be able to communicate their grievances without any trouble,” Shafi said. Nandgad village, spread across 2.5sqkm, has a population of 9,500. The village’s chief claim to fame is that it was here that freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna was executed in 1831. Khanapur MLA Anjali said that the system was being launched in Nandgad as an experiment, and if it turned out to be a success, she said that it would be replicated across the taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gram-panchayat-in-belagavi-to-equip-all-staff-with-walkie-talkies/articleshow/76631034.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra preparing to deploy antibody test kits to screen frontline workforce: Health minister Rajesh Tope||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is set to roll out antibody test kits to screen frontline workers. Guidelines on use will be issued shortly, the minister told TOI on Thursday. The tests detect antibodies, or immunoglobulins, which the immune system generates whenever it fights pathogens — in this case, SARS-CoV-2. Antibody tests are done during sero-surveys, carried out to determine infection spread in a community. After a pilot sero-survey recently, the ICMR gave all states the go-ahead to expand the tracing programme. “The focus for Maharashtra will include high-risk or vulnerable populations,” Tope said. Health experts told TOI antibody tests play a key role during an outbreak. “The IgG antibodies — found in the blood after an illness — start to appear two weeks after illness. The IgG test can’t spot live infection but uncovers history of Covid-19,” one expert said. Giridhara Babu, a senior epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India said antibody testing among frontline Covid-19 workers will help authorities determine prevalence of the disease.  But he added that for frontline workers, antibody tests are of limited value as history of infection “does not provide direction on what to do next”. “Also, even if they have had the infection, frontline workers would still need to follow all precautions,” Babu said. Public health expert R Jotkar said the basic aim of this initiative is to assess the number of immunes among the said workforce. “This assessment will help in triaging, quarantining, isolation of the workforce and uninterrupted service deliveries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-preparing-to-deploy-antibody-test-kits-to-screen-frontline-workforce-tope/articleshow/76633306.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 26, 2020||Pune||Wadarwadi records most Covid cases in Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward||PUNE: Wadarwadi has again emerged as the worst-hit slum area in the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward office, with 331 cases and 21 deaths in just 37 days. The congested slum, with a population of 18,000, recorded its index case on May 18. After a brief lull, the densely populated pocket has again started recording fresh cases in double digits. “Till June 8, Wadarwadi had 151 cases and 14 deaths. The tally added another 150 fresh cases and seven deaths in the next 17 days. The total count has gone up to 331 cases and 21 deaths between May 18 and June 25,” Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said. He said, “After an initial surge, there was brief lull for a few days. The caseload has started surging again now. The increased screening and testing is the foremost reason for the spike in cases.” Most of the deceased were elderly and had co-morbid conditions. “Most of the people who died were elderly and had co-morbid conditions. Some presented to the hospital late despite having illness. Most hid illness for days altogether,” PMC ward medical officer Mrunalini Kolte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wadarwadi-records-most-cases-in-shivajinagar-ghole-road-ward/articleshow/76633300.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL for stay on university exams||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court (HC) has sought directions to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to stay its examination and admission process in all universities till a uniform method is devised for exams and admission during the Covid-19 pandemic. Two petitioners — Priyank Pandya and Harsh Patadia — have questioned the UGC’s permission to universities to hold exams.Earlier, a PIL challenged the physical exams to be conducted by colleges in the state. The state government told the HC that conducting physical exams was an effort to restore normalcy and to ensure that students’ careers were not affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-for-stay-on-university-exams/articleshow/76633304.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Delivery man arrested for harassing doctor||PUNE: A 28-year-old delivery partner working for an e-commerce company has been arrested on the charge of outraging the modesty of a medical practitioner on June 8 while she was out on a morning walk with her husband. A police team led by senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar traced the suspect, Harshal Bhegde, with the help of the registration number of his scooter. Assistant inspector Harish Mane of the Wakad police told TOI that the woman had lodged an FIR last week. “She had noted down the vehicle’s registration number. She, however, told us that Bhegde had put on a tape on the first and last digit of the vehicle registration number,” Mane said. He said his team then did permutation and combination of different numbers and tracked down the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delivery-man-arrested-for-harassing-doc/articleshow/76633285.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No more warnings, cops to act tough, says Loknath Behera||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the wake of Covid-19 cases increasing in the state, the government has decided to step up the vigil in six districts where the source of infection of many is yet to be identified. These include Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kasaragod, Kannur and Malappuram. The restrictions have come into force in the major markets in the capital city. While Thrissur city is under partial lockdown, the containment zones in Ernakulam like Sreemoolanagaram, Vengola and Nayarambalam, have been put on high alert. State police chief Loknath Behera said that from Thursday, police are going on a mobilisation drive. “Except those in technical division, all the others have been put on Covid-19 duty. Ninety percent of the 61,000 strong force, including those in the band, will work on Covid-19 duty,” he said. All the divisions in police, including those which are not in the law and order duty like the crime branch and telecommunication, have been pressed into Covid-19 duty. A section of police have been kept on reserve duty too if those on duty have to be replaced in case of any emergency.  “Recently, there is a surge in the positive cases.If community spread occurs, it will lead to a disastrous situation,” Behera said. During the lockdown, it was mandated that only five people can be present inside the shops that too by wearing masks and gloves. The shop owners as well as the public have the responsibility to ensure these. “We are not going for awareness any more but will enforce the law strictly. Cases will be registered, violators will be arrested and slapped with fines. Anyone can inform the police if they see any kind of violation,” Behera said. There are also several violations with regards to using the vehicles. Such vehicles also will be seized, he added. Police have already begun erecting barricades in all the major points and no one will be allowed to enter or leave the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-more-warnings-cops-to-act-tough-says-behera/articleshow/76632380.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Thane||Thane Municipal Corporation to build a 1,000-bed field hospital in shut firm||THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) plans to build a 1,000-bed field hospital within a shut company premises. A similar 1,000-bed facility at Saket was already flagged off this past week while two more are being developed at Mumbra and Kalwa. Civic records show currently there are 250 ICU beds along with 49 ventilators and 371 fitted with oxygen in the city. The new facility, say officials, will have 500 oxygen beds, 200 ICU beds and 300 regular beds. It will have separate facilities for setting up testing laboratories, CT scanners and dialysis centres along with stay for doctors and medical staff. “The new hospital will help us with adequate beds to tackle any sudden surge in numbers,” said a senior official. The location for the new setup, it is learnt, was finalized late on Wednesday, after a joint survey by TMC commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma and guardian minister Eknath Shinde. According to initial discussions, TMC will form three committees: One to look into civil requirements to convert the structure into a hospital, second to analyse the need for medicines and allied equipment, and the third will be entrusted with procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/tmc-to-build-a-1000-bed-field-hospital-in-shut-firm/articleshow/76633311.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: St Xavier’s selects AI, others hunt for online admission solutions||MUMBAI: Students sitting at home can appear for entrance exams for mass media (BMM), management (BMS) and four masters’ programmes offered at St Xavier’s College (Mumbai). For the first time, it will conduct an artificial intelligence-proctored test, that will allow aspirants to give it from anywhere in India. Principal Rajendra Shinde said the test was outsourced to an agency. “It has software that tracks a candidate’s eye movement and any other movement in the room. It gives three warnings and then logs the student out the fourth time,” said the principal. “We had to opt for the software, as conducting physical exams seemed impossible with Covid-19,” he said. While few have an online system for admissions in place, most city colleges are scurrying to set it up. Some offered forms online, but students had to physically submit documents and make payments. Covid-19 has compelled colleges to look for end-to-end online solutions for admissions. Some have outsourced the process to complete junior (class XII) and degree (second and third year) college admissions. D G Ruparel College principal Tushar Desai said they were finalising a software for admissions. "We released class XI results online but we cannot call students to the campus for admissions to maintain social distancing. Colleges will have to ensure the software is mobile-friendly, so that students are not forced to go to a cyber cafe. The idea is to enable students to complete admissions from home,” said Desai. The college is also used by BMC as a quarantine centre and therefore the process is slightly delayed. At Kelkar-Vaze College (Mulund), admissions had gone online last year. While students filled regular admission forms for degree colleges online, Google forms were circulated for students to fill choices of subjects now, said principal B B Sharma. Matunga’s Ruia College too had a system, but document verification for first year admissions was offline. A western suburbs college professor said many students were comfortable with online payment mode. “Since these are internal college admissions, the process was convenient. For first year junior and degree college admissions, colleges will have to get more features,” said the professor. Second and third year online classes are likely to start from July. TIMES VIEW: While some administrative processes had gone online, the state never invested much in campus digitization. Covid-19 poses a big challenge to colleges and universities, which have had students queuing up to get work done, be it admissions, revaluation or any documentation. As colleges look at reopening academic sessions online, getting systems in place is now a priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/xaviers-selects-ai-others-hunt-for-online-admission-solutions/articleshow/76633361.cms||Yogita Rao
June 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: 15 vehicles gutted in late night blaze at godown||PUNE: A major fire broke out at a godown packed with scrap material in Kondhwa late on Wednesday night, engulfing two neighbouring car service stations and damaging 15 parked vehicles. No casualties were reported in the incident that occurred on an open ground at Pargenagar near Welcome Hall in Kondhwa. Four fire tenders and three water tankers rushed to the spot. Fire officer Sameer Shaikh told TOI, “Around 30 to 40 vehicles were parked inside and outside the premises of the three facilities and their adjoining properties. Firemen gradually gained control over the fire and doused it completely. They sprayed neighbouring properties with water to cool them down and removed several vehicles to prevent the fire from spreading further.” PMC corporator Nanda Lonkar said, “A while ago, the civic body had reserved the open plot of over 2.5 acres for constructing a playground and a garden. Many illegal godowns, workshops and garages cropped up on the plot, meanwhile.” Senior officials from the fire brigade, police and MSEDCL inspected the three premises on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-vehicles-gutted-in-late-night-blaze-at-godown/articleshow/76633291.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLA alleges corruptionby cabinet min, writes to CM||Kota: Congress MLA Bharat Singh on Thursday alleged that a state cabinet minister was involved in corruption and officials at his department were extremely upset over this. The ruling party MLA wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot in this regard, but fell short of naming the minister. Singh has further demanded dismissal of corrupt officials trapped by the Anti-Corrupton Bureau. In his letter, Singh, a former minister, referred to his move during the previous state assembly to make a law to sack officials involved in corrupt practices and trapped by the ACB. Singh hailed the chief minister’s statement asking ACB to be more professional, but said the statement was not enough to improve the system. “A minister in your cabinet has crossed all the limits of corruption. Senior officials of the department are upset over the minister’s corrupt practices,” Singh wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mla-alleges-corruptionby-cabinet-min-writes-to-cm/articleshow/76633897.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mysterious call to Gujarat HC judge: Plot to get pre-arrest bail||AHMEDABAD: After a furious Gujarat high court ordered an inquiry into the mysterious call received by Justice Bela Trivedi asking her in the name of the Congress MLA from Petlad not to grant bail in a case, Anand district police on Thursday resolved the mystery and detained an engineer for making the call. The police probe revealed the petitioner himself had arranged for the call to the judge on Monday, posing as the Congress MLA, to get anticipatory bail. The judge had received a call on Monday morning with the caller identifying himself as Petlad MLA Niranjan Patel. Justice Trivedi received messages from the same mobile number asking her not to grant bail to one Vijay Shah, whose case was listed in her court on that day. The furious judge ordered an inquiry and Anand police traced the call to Alpesh Patel, a mechanical engineer. Patel was produced before the court through video conferencing and he told the court it was petitioner Vijay Shah and his wife Vignatriben, who tasked him to call the judge in the name of Congress MLA Niranjan Patel and offered him money to make the call. The court found his disclosure “startling and shocking” and recorded in its order, “He was told by Vijaybhai that if he made such a call and sent messages in the name of Niranjanbhai Patel, MLA, who was on the opposite side, he i.e. Vijaybhai would be granted anticipatory bail by the court.” Patel described how he was roped in by the petitioner and his wife through common friends and a meeting took place on June 16. After the HC ordered inquiry, he tried to escape but was nabbed by Gandhinagar police and handed over to Anand police. The high court has ordered Patel to file an affidavit and asked police to forward it to the high court so that action can be taken against those who were involved in this act. During the inquiry, the MLA told the cops that he was not the caller. He also said that Shah and his wife have family relations with him and they had helped him win the election. There was no point in pressurizing police to arrest him because he is a Congress party worker. However, Shah’s advocates had told the HC that he had no connection with the MLA who wanted Shah to be arrested. The cops traced the caller on basis of CCTV footage which showed him visiting a mobile shop owned by one Tofik Vohra, from whose mobile phone the call was made and messages were sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mysterious-call-to-hc-judge-plot-to-get-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/76633301.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Jalandhar man struggling to marry fiancée from Lahore turns to PM Narendra Modi for help||JALANDHAR: After waiting for over three months to send a sponsorship letter to his fiancée and her family in Lahore, a Jalandhar-based man has now appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for help. Jalandhar resident Kamal Kalyan had got engaged online to distant relative Shumaila of Lahore on January 2018. He is trying to send a sponsorship letter to his fiancée and her family so that they can get visas to travel to India for the wedding. “My father’s two maasis (mother’s sisters) were married in Lahore and Kasur and their families did not migrate during Partition. Shumaila is granddaughter of one of my father’s maasis. Our families were in contact with each other. My father had planned to go there to attend a family wedding in 2015 but somehow he could not go. We witnessed that marriage online and slowly interaction between the families increased. As a result, my interaction with her started and it turned into a friendship in 2016. We finally prevailed upon our families to approve of our engagement,” Kamal, a resident of Basti Bawa Khel area, told TOI here on Thursday. “We got engaged online on January 2018. Initially, her family wanted us to go to Pakistan for the wedding and we were ready. However, then we were told that the marriage should be solemnized here as only then would it be registered here. We then requested them to hold the wedding here and they got ready. They went to the Indian embassy in Pakistan and got the entire information about the documents and procedure required for their visit to India. They were provided a ‘performa’ and it took me close to 6-7 months to complete the formalities to prepare the sponsorship letter and related documents and I got them ready on March 21. However, then the lockdown started and I could not send these by courier. I have been checking with an international courier service but they are saying it can be sent only after flights resume,” said Kamal, who works as a car dealer in Jalandhar. Kamal, who belongs to the Valmiki community, has now appealed to PM Modi for helping to get his fiancée’s family here for the wedding after waiting for over three months. “Her mother, brother and his wife wanted to accompany her for the marriage. The three of them would be returning to Pakistan just after our marriage,” he said. Watch Jalandhar man struggling to marry fiancée from Lahore urges PM Modi to help||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jalandhar-man-struggling-to-marry-fiance-from-lahore-turns-to-modi-for-help/articleshow/76633896.cms||IP Singh
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Brothers stab youth to death in Meghaninagar||AHMEDABAD: A 20-year-old youth, Jignesh Patni, was stabbed to death, allegedly by two brothers, Suresh and Mahesh Patni, near Chamunda Bridge in Meghaninagar on Wednesday. Within a few hours of the incident, police nabbed both the accused, residents of Auda Housing Colony in the area. They have been sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests.  According to the FIR lodged by Hansa Patni, 40, her son Jignesh left the house on Wednesday evening saying that he is going to his maternal grandmother’s house, which is in the same area. “At about 5pm she got a call from Ajay Patni, the son of her elder sister Ramila, saying Jignesh has been stabbed by Suresh Patni and Mahesh Patni under the Chamunda Bridge and had been taken to Civil Hospital,” said inspector D J Chudasama of Meghaninagar police station. Police sources said Hansa rushed to Civil Hospital where she found Jignesh lying on a stretcher. “He told her that while he was near the Auda Housing Colony, Mahesh and Suresh called, telling him it was to strike a compromise in an old dispute. During their talks, Mahesh got agitated and started abusing Jignesh. He then pulled out a knife and stabbed him in the back and on his legs. Suresh ran into his house, emerged with a sword and struck Jignesh with it on the head twice. He later died,” added a police official. Chudasama said police rushed to the hospital on hearing about the incident. “We formed a team and within hours rounded up both the accused,” added Chudasama. On Thursday morning, when Jignesh’s funeral procession was passing by the accused persons’ house, some people in the procession pelted it with stones. “We have registered a separate offence regarding the stone pelting,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brothers-stab-youth-to-death-in-meghaninagar/articleshow/76633307.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||EOW of Pune police takes over cheating case against builder||PUNE: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the city police took charge of the investigation into a cheating case registered against a builder and two staff members. The EOW has also issued an appeal to any other people cheated by the builder to approach them with complaints. At the moment, police have received two complaints, involving booking amounts to the tune of Rs1.21 crore. A case against the builder was registered on June 25, 2019, with the Warje police station, who had been investigating it until it was transferred to the EOW. . “The builder floated a big housing society project on a plot on Karve Road in Warje. The builder showcased the project and many people booked flats,” deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Sambhaji Kadam said. “We studied the documents and found that the firm did not give possession to many people and also did not execute the agreement to sell the property to the customers. We are appealing to the people to approach the EOW with their complaints. The amount paid by each person for booking the flat is different, and we are assessing the total amount,” Kadam added. Ashish Ramshankar Dubey (41) of Warje had lodged the June 25 complaint, according to which, he and his sister-in-law booked four 2BHK flats in the scheme and paid a collective sum of Rs1.21 crore against the booking, inspector Swati Desai, who is investigating the case. Desai said the builder was supposed to give possession of the flats by the end of 2016. Dubey and his sister-in-law continued to ask the builder for possession of the flats and execution of the sales deeds. “When Dubey demanded his money back, the builder promised, but did not issue refund,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eow-takes-over-cheating-case-against-builder/articleshow/76633302.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Sanitiser nod extended till December 31||PUNE: The state government has extended the permission given to distilleries and sugar mills to produce hand sanitisers in bulk till December 2020. Around 110 sugar mills and distilleries in the state were allowed permission to produce hand sanitisers after the Covid-19 outbreak in March. The permission, valid till June 30, has been extended due to the current situation. A total 62 distilleries and sugar mills are involved in production of hand sanitisers in Pune administrative division. "Keeping in view the role of hand sanitiser in this long-drawn fight against the pandemic, we have extended the permission for another six months," state commissioner of the Food and Drug Department Arun Unhale said. S B Patil, joint commissioner, FDA, Pune division, said, "All the 62 manufacturing units, including distillers and sugar mills in the Pune division, have been communicated the directive."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sanitiser-nod-extended-till-december-31/articleshow/76633298.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Two fresh Covid-19 cases in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris’ Covid-19 tally touched 50 on Thursday when the district saw two fresh cases.While seven police constables and two home guards who were attached to Kolacombai police station in Coonoor taluk and an official with the office of a revenue inspector in Coonoor were also reportedly tested positive for the virus, the cases were not officially declared.However, both the Kolacombai police station and the office of the revenue inspector have been sealed.The new reported cases comprise a 35-year old woman from Coonoor, who is a primary contact of an earlier positive case, and a 34-year-old woman visitor from Coimbatore, whose throat swabs were collected for the test at Burliar check post.According to sources, the number of positive cases is expected to surge in the coming days as authorities have ramped up tracing of new patients’ contacts and testing them. The district administration has, meanwhile, asked all the shops in Ooty and Coonoor towns to down the shutters by 4pm. Restaurants could, however, serve parcels after 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76633309.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Private hospitals have beds, but not for Covid patients||CHENNAI: As the war against Covid-19 is getting intense, patient attenders in the city are hunting for beds while nearly 1,000 beds in private medical colleges of adjoining districts are lying vacant. While active cases in the city and adjoining districts climbed to 22,000, the state dashboard showed that all 215 Covid beds in four private hospitals in Tiruvallur district were vacant. ACS Medical College, which has allotted more than 195 beds, hasn’t admitted even one patient so far. At 10.30pm on Thursday, when TOI contacted the hospital on 9003060052 – displayed by the medical college on the dashboard – the spokesperson said: “We don’t admit patients. Our beds have been taken over by the government.” In South, just 24 of the 594 beds in hospitals and medical colleges in Kancheepuram were occupied. More than 300 beds in Sri Muthukumaran Medical College and Madha Medical College and Research Institute were vacant. The contact person at Madha Medical College said they had only six ICU beds and two ventilators and wouldn’t be able to admit those above 60 years or those with co-morbidities. “All are occupied,” he said. Eighteen of the 200 other beds in the hospital were occupied. At Sri Muthukumaran only six patients were admitted. Within Chennai, institutions such as Sri Ramachandra Medical College Hospital, Saveetha Medical Hospital and SRM Medical College were admitting patients, but many new colleges were turning away patients. An official at Bhaarath Medical College and Hospital in Selaiyur, where 60 beds have been allotted, when contacted on 8825664561, said they did not have adequate staff for Covid-19 patients. “Government said doctors and staff will be posted,” he said. In several other colleges, there was no response to calls. IMA state secretary Dr A K Ravikumar said many private hospitals were hampered in terms of infrastructure and manpower. “Government norms prescribe certain specifications for Covid wards.” If a hospital agrees to treat Covid patients, a third of its doctors and nurses must be in quarantine so they can be called for duty when others are infected. “Only large hospitals can manage this.” Doctors’ bodies and public health activists have been demanding a single window system to allot patients to the nearest hospital, but the health department says it could be complicated. “Most patients prefer a few big hospitals,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “These are overcrowded. We are now planning to come up with a call centre which will guide a patient to the nearest private facility in case the one he/she wants to go to government hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/private-hospitals-have-beds-but-not-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76633313.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Social distancing goes for a toss as people plant saplings, pose for pictures||SECUNDERABAD: Social distancing went for a toss in several parts of the city during the launch of the sixth phase of Telangana Ku Haritha Haram (TKHH) programme on Thursday. Cabinet ministers, deputy speaker, corporators and the GHMC top brass attended the programme on Thursday. For instance, deputy speaker T Padma Rao Goud planted saplings to mark the sixth phase at Prof Jayashankar Stadium at Lalapet but corporators, GHMC officials and TRS leaders did not follow the necessary Covid-19 preventive measures. Meanwhile, outgoing SCB CEO SVR Chandra Sekhar took part in the tree plantation programme at Marredpally. Matrusri Nagar (Madhapur ward), Krushi Nagar (Miyapur ward ), Adikmet division and Jayashankar Indoor Stadium (Malkajgiri) are a few localities where social distancing was not followed while saplings were being planted as part of the programme. People who participated in the programme were not wearing masks properly and were also seen posing for photographs in groups. IT minister KT Rama Rao planted a sapling in Bhoiguda GHMC Park in Secunderabad on Thursday. The park, built at a cost of Rs 20 lakh, was inaugurated just before the launch of the green drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-people-plant-saplings-pose-for-pictures/articleshow/76633310.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-H startup, Japan firm tie up for smart home products||HYDERABAD: The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad incubated startup CRIOT Innovations has struck a fully sponsored research collaboration deal with Technocorpus, Japan. The collaboration will set the stage for manufacturing of Internet of Things-based smart home products. According to a press release issued by IIT-H, the company is working on building dynamic smart home products that adapt to user behaviour. As part of the collaborative project named MITHRA-CRIOT, the company will be delivering its product named ‘CRIOT Interface’, which will play a crucial role in collecting data for the behavioral analysis of users. The data collected through the interface and MITHRA application will be used for lifestyle authentication research in Yamaguchi-Lab, Social ICT Research Center, the University of Tokyo. With enormous data generated during the project, CRIOT aims at progressing its R&D on machine learning. “Datasets collected are promising in bring security to daily life,” said Kotaro Kataoka, associate professor, department of CSE, IIT-H. The project, which involves 10 products, started on June 15 and will extend up to September 24 for phase 1. “Work trends are shifting. Smart homes operate by themselves with minimal human interaction,” said Varun Perumalla, CEO and co-founder, CRIOT, and a third year B.Tech student at IIT-H.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-startup-japan-firm-tie-up-for-smart-home-products/articleshow/76633319.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||HSP fines 200-300 vehicles daily for speeding on Pune-Mumbai expressway||PUNE: The Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) has been penalising, on an average, 200-300 vehicle users every day for speeding along the 91km Pune-Mumbai expressway ever since the Union and state governments relaxed the lockdown on June 1. Most of the vehicles found speeding are four-wheelers. HSP officials said they have issued e-challans to over 16,000 vehicles for a variety of violations, from speeding to lane indiscipline, along the expressway between June 1 and 24. HSP police inspector (Panvel division) Sudam Pachorkar said the department was extensively using e-challan machines and interceptor vehicles to crack down on motorists violating the expressway rules. “As many as 50 accidents have occurred on the expressway so far this month. The traffic volume is less than usual now and many cars can be seen violating the 100km per hour speed limit. We are issuing 200-300 e-challans for speeding every day,” he said. “Though most of the speeding cases involved cars, trucks have been mostly penalised for lane indiscipline. Dedicated lanes have been allotted for different categories of vehicles. The first lane along the median is for overtaking, the middle one is for cars and passenger vehicles and the last one for trucks. But trucks often occupy the first or second lane, which slows down other vehicles or leads to congestion. Most of the lane indiscipline cases were in the Bor ghat section of the expressway,” Pachorkar said. Traffic along the expressway has increased since the beginning of June. “From March-end to the beginning of June, the traffic volume was down to less than 10% of what it was before the lockdown. At the end of June, the traffic of cars and other passenger vehicles is about 60% of the volume during the pre-lockdown time. Movement of heavy vehicles has also increased,” he said. The HSP earlier had a limited number of speed guns, which were set up manually at strategic points to catch violations. “We now have more speed guns. Besides, the interceptor vehicles are fitted with speed guns. This makes it possible for us to catch more violators,” Pachorkar said. The HSP had started using the interceptor vehicles in November last year and issued 1,200 e-challans over a period of 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsp-fines-200-300-vehicles-daily-for-speeding-on-eway/articleshow/76633314.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||NIT-W inks MoU with ABB Power Grids||HYDERABAD: The National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NIT-W) on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding with ABB Power Grids India to drive smart electric grid (SEG) education. According to a press release issued by NIT-W, the institute will create an educational framework for reliable and clean power for all as part of the MoU. The institute is all set to develop a unique master of technology (MTech) programme in SEG from the current academic year. Recognizing India’s transformation in electric grid with penetration of renewables and need for reliable power under the ‘one nation-one grid-one frequency’ roadmap, the NIT-W will play a vital role in developing a talent pool in this area. “The development of India’s power network has become a driving force in meeting the demand for rapid growth. We aim to create the right educational framework and environment that enables cleaner, greener and smarter grid,” said NV Ramana Rao, director, NIT-W.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nit-w-inks-mou-with-abb-power-grids/articleshow/76633324.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Hotels dish out enticing offers to lure customers||Coimbatore: Hotels in the city are leaving no stone unturned in their efforts to bounce back into business, which has taken a downward drive since the Covid-19 outbreak. And they know “offers” are the best way to lure customers in. From ‘pay now, stay later’, discounts on room rates, renewed focus on food takeaways to offering work spaces for offices that had to shut down for some reason, they are exploring all possible options to steady the revenue flow. At least three star hotels in the city - Fairfield by Marriott near the airport, ITC Welcomhotel and Aloft Hotels – have introduced ‘pay now, stay later’ option. The offer is open until June 30, when people could book a room for any date till June 30, 2021. J P Menon, general manager, Fairfield Marriott, said, “We also offer unlimited cancellations and rescheduling until June 30 next year. We haven’t offered anything like this in the past.” Rooms are available from Rs 3,000 per night for a double occupancy, including breakfast. “The ‘pay now, stay later’ option offers rooms at around 20% discount, compared to our usual tariff,” said a manager with ITC Welcomhotel.Hotels hope the promotional offers would attract families that are considering a staycation on a weekend or a day off in the coming weeks, those who want to gift a newly-married couple a staycation, couples who can’t go on a honeymoon this year and families that are planning weddings. “Many households without maids may want to gift the homemakers a break on a special day,” said Menon. According to him, the response to the offer has been good. “Sales have been picking up.” A few hotels are, meanwhile, looking at the state government to offer temporary work spaces for offices that may have to remain shut in the future for disinfection purposes or due to infection cases.Presently, other than offering quarantine spaces for guests flying down to the city, most hotels don’t have any other business. “Business is minimal as flights are flying empty. Sometimes, only two to three rooms are occupied a day,” said a general manager of another star hotel on Race Course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hotels-dish-out-enticing-offers-to-lure-customers/articleshow/76633320.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Cutting-edge tech may speed up Covid testing||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore Medical College (CMC) has started using an automatic nucleic acid extraction machine for Covid-19 testing on a trial basis to see if that would yield accurate results and help speed up test results.Provided by the Tamil Nadu Medical Supplies Corporation, the machine is expected to reduce the time taken to run 96 samples (all the machines are tuned to process samples in the multiples of 24) for Covid-19 test to four hours from around six hours now. This would also allow the medical college to test more samples a day. Many private laboratories have been using this automatic extractor for years.Until Wednesday, microbiologists and other technicians at the medical college’s Covid-19 testing laboratory have been manually extracting the nucleic acid from the specimens for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.Manually extracting nucleic acid from 96 samples could take three to four hours. The RT-PCR test would then take another three hours. Roughly, the entire testing process would consume six to seven hours. The facility used to test around 400 to 500 samples a day.On the contrary, the automatic extractor would take only a few minutes to extract the nucleic acid from 96 samples, after which that would be fed into the RT-PCR machine. Microbiologist Mythili said, “We began trying it out on Wednesday and trained our 10 staff members, including technicians and assistants, in using the machine. We can now produce results in three to four hours for every sample we work on, and process 800 to 900 samples a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cutting-edge-tech-may-speed-up-covid-testing/articleshow/76633322.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Only one in 10 MSMEs got credit they applied for: Survey||Pune: Only one in 10 MSMEs who applied for additional credit under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) actually ended up receiving it, a wide-ranging survey conducted by industry body Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has revealed. Of the 125 MSMEs surveyed, only 20% had applied for the scheme. Of these, only 2% actually received it. According to the finance ministry data, only Rs 4,150 crore of credit has been sanctioned (not disbursed) to MSMEs in Maharashtra under the scheme out of the national share of Rs 75,000 crore. “That makes it 5.5% of the total funds sanctioned. This 5.5% is far lower than Maharashtra’s 16% share in India’s GDP,” MCCIA said. The survey found that in the current quarter, MSMEs expect to net only 25% of the business turnover that they achieved in the same period last year. Besides, the MSMEs expect to achieve only 37% of the business turnover in July to September quarter of 2020 versus same period of 2019. The companies are also facing huge challenges on labour availability. Data also show that the disbursements are less than half of the sanctioned amount. As on June 23, 2020, only Rs 35,000 crore has been disbursed out of a total sanctioned amount of Rs 79,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-one-in-10-msmes-got-credit-they-applied-for-survey/articleshow/76633323.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Baby born without arm, doctor booked||HYDERABAD: A woman lodged a complaint against a doctor in Vanasthalipuram after she gave birth to a baby girl with a physical defect. The doctor was booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust. According to Vanasthalipuram police, Goshika Uma, 22, a resident of LB Nagar had given birth to a boy in 2019, the boy died soon after delivery. Since then, she has been consulting doctors in Vanasthalipuram regularly after her second pregnancy. “The doctor had told her there were no complication. On Monday when she went to the hospital for a check-up, two days before the due date, the doctor insisted that she undergo C-section. However, the baby’s left arm was missing,” said a police officer. When the family questioned the doctor, he allegedly threatened them. Following this, a case was registered at the police station and police have begun an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-born-without-arm-doc-booked/articleshow/76633321.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Security agency owner booked for lack of licence||AHMEDABAD: In its drive against private security agencies running without licences, the special operations group (SOG) of the city police booked one Haresh Barot on Wednesday. Barot, a resident of Nikol had been running an agency, Rav Security Service, without required licence and documents. The FIR in the case was lodged with Nikol police by PSI, SOG, P K Bhoot, under the Private Security Agency Control Act, Section 20 (1) 22, and for violating prevailing notifications in city. On Wednesday, the SOG team questioned a guard, Takhatsinh Parmar, 60, outside Galaxy Homes behind the Maruti showroom in Kathwada. “Parmar, 60, a resident of Kathwada Road, said Haresh Barot was the owner of the security agency he worked in,” said an SOG official. On information received from Parmar, the SOG team also went to an adjacent building and questioned the security guard there. “The guard, Vinod Barod, 42, of Kathwada Road said he had been working with Rav Security Service for the last 15 days. We called up Barot, the owner, who said he didn’t have a licence for the agency,” said an SOG official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/security-agency-owner-booked-for-lack-of-licence/articleshow/76633326.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat universities in wait-and-watch mode||AHMEDABAD: The state government may have to revisit its recent guidelines for conducting college level exams after the University Grants Commission (UGC) panel recently recommended to the Union HRD ministry to scrap the final year examination for all colleges and universities, said sources close to the development. An announcement on this is likely to be made this week, the sources added. This is expected to have a major impact on the varsities of Gujarat, many of which have already announced the exam schedule and have even begun preparations to conduct them from the next month. The UGC decision comes after Union HRD ministry announced that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has been advised to revisit guidelines for intermediate and Terminal Semester examinations. Naveen Sheth, the vice-chancellor of Gujarat Technological University (GTU), said that in case the UGC revises its guidelines, they will have no option but to follow them. The GTU’s academic council had earlier this week reiterated its stand on holding college level examinations from July 2, onwards despite demands from some student organizations to cancel the exams. The varsity, which has about 550 colleges affiliated to it, has given three exam options to students, including two exams to be held in July and one to be held later once the Covid-19 crisis is over. Earlier, the UGC had recommended the varsities to cancel the intermediate exams but the new proposal asks them to cancel the final year or terminal semester examinations as well. This decision comes after many educational institutions expressed their inability to conduct final year exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Political organizations of students have been protesting to press for their demands to cancel the college level exams. Faced with protests against its decision to hold examinations in July, the Gujarat University examination committee recently decided to defer the exams and said new dates would be announced soon. The deferment is effective for all courses except medical and paramedical exams, which will be held according to the schedule announced earlier. GU vice-chancellor Jagdish Bhavsar said that they would wait for formal announcement from the UGC before taking the final decision about conducting exams. Other varsities including the Saurashtra University, M S University and Veer Narmad South Gujarat University have also seen protests from students demanding postponement of the exams. The revised guidelines of the UGC recommend universities and colleges to grade all students based on performance in previous years or semesters and internal assessments, said sources. For college exams, the state government had issued a set of guidelines in May as per which in cases where the situation did not appear to be normal due to Covid-19, the state government announced a scheme called Merit Based Progression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-varsities-in-wait-and-watch-mode/articleshow/76633331.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||CM lends an ear to industry representatives’ concerns||Coimbatore: Representatives of industrial associations in the district on Thursday submitted a representation to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at the collectorate.Fifteen representatives of industry associations spanning engineering units, pump industries and railway suppliers requested the CM to set up an industrial corridor in the region.R Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), said Coimbatore needs to be developed as an industrial corridor, as the city and the regions within a 100km radius, are a hub of MSMEs. “If Coimbatore is developed as an industrial corridor, Tamil Nadu’s GDP can be doubled in three years,” he said.A demand put forth by all associations was regarding power tariff. Industrial units are either in a state of complete lockdown or worked in reduced capacity, they said and sought concessions.Representatives of the Joint Council of MSME Associations in Coimbatore, said that the maximum demand (MD) charges and fixed charges for power connections should be removed. This, they said, can be adjusted against the security deposit with the EB.Representatives of South India Spinners Association (SISPA) said micro, small, and medium spinning mills were not able to function in full capacity due to the crisis. For one year, the minimum charges for maximum demand should be collected only for the actual recorded demand for high-tension power consumers, they said. Also, the fixed charged for low-tension consumers should be waived off for a year.Representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) said power tariff for the lockdown period or the months when the units were running in reduced capacity, be collected in instalments. “The memorandum of deposit (MOD) registration charges for registering new loan creations in banks should be cancelled. 12% interest is being charged on loans given through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (TIIC). 6% of this is paid back as interest subvention. The interest should be 6% directly. Micro and small units that have no existing loan transactions with banks, such as term loans, or cash credit loans, should be given loans considering the crisis.”The government should take steps to bring back the guest workers who are willing to return to Coimbatore, they added.Speaking at the meeting, the CM said that if the defence corridor project announced by former defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman is implemented, industries in Coimbatore will prosper. “Jobs will be created and the economy will get a boost. The state government will offer its support to the project,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-lends-an-ear-to-industry-representatives-concerns/articleshow/76633333.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||BJP MLA tests positive, spike in KDMC, Thane cases||Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane registered the highest number of Covid cases in 24 hours on Thursday. A Bhiwandi BJP MLA who had distributed food and vehicles for migrant labourers tested positive too. Kalyan-Dombivli had 326 new cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 4,515 and toll to 91, while Thane had 264 new cases, taking the tally to 7,091, and 12 deaths, taking the toll to 245. In Thane, most new patients came from Majiwada-Manpada (46), while the count continued to rise in Naupada-Kopri (42). Civic officials said the number may have risen due to easing of lockdown but they were confident of keeping it in check soon. Officials said 40,145 samples were sent for analysis, while 39,931 reports were received till Wednesday evening. “The recovery rate of patients here is 53%, with 3,606 people recovering and being discharged till Wednesday. As many as 103 patients were discharged on Thursday,” officials said. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 371 patients were discharged, taking the total to 20,59, while 2,365 are being treated. Meanwhile, KDMC decided to buy 10,000 antigen test kits for high-risk contacts. Health department officials said they can show Covid-19 results in 30 minutes. ICMR has recommended rapid antigen tests in containment zones and at hospitals. The MLA had on Wednesday got admitted to a private hospital in Mulund after he complained of fever, cold and cough. His test report came positive on Thursday. His family and staff were quarantined. Bhiwandi on Thursday reported 164 new cases, taking the total to 1,496, including 91 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-mla-tests-positive-spike-in-kdmc-thane-cases/articleshow/76633345.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad backwaters new haven for first-time winged guests||HYDERABAD: The backwaters in Nizamabad seems to have become the haven for two migratory bird species, sighted for the first time in Telangana. At the Sri Ram Sagar Project’s Nandipet mandal, about 500 greater flamingos and over 50 spot-billed pelicans were caught on camera by a photographer who has been visiting the site from past 12 years. Speaking to TOI, wildlife photographer Kyatam Santhosh Kumar said, “No one including myself has noticed them until this year. There are also other species of birds like the Oriental Practical, Black-headed Ibis, Glossy Ibis, Indian courser. This place is full of wildlife and should be protected.” Kumar, who is chairman of Navyabharathi Global School, was also the first person to document blackbucks in the backwaters of Sri Ram Sagar this year. “This is the first time that flamingos and pelicans were documented in this area. Their sightings have not been reported in the backwaters of Sri Ram Sagar Project before this. The backwaters which are shallow towards the fields are best suited for their survival of flamingos as well as pelicans,” said Sunil S Hiremath, divisional forest officer of Nizamabad. When asked about blackbucks, he said, “Blackbucks are here all around the year. They are only sighted by people when they enter the fields and that happens when the water level in the project increases and occupies the grasslands around the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-backwaters-new-haven-for-first-time-winged-guests/articleshow/76633329.cms||Moulika.KV
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Overburdened teachers seek more hands at SSLC camps||Coimbatore: Government schoolteachers have complained that the workload is enormous at the ongoing SSLC camps to tabulate marks for Class X board exams, and that it would be helpful if the number of personnel is doubled.The state government had cancelled the Class X board exams and announced that all students would be promoted. It said 20% of the marks would be awarded based on attendance and 80% based on scores in quarterly and half-yearly exams.Following this, the directorate of government exams had asked all schools to submit answer scripts and rank cards of its students. For this, the district school education had formed a camp each in the four education districts. The camps began on Monday and will run till Saturday.Teachers at the SSLC camps said they are being made to tabulate marks of 100 students every day, and five sheets for each students, making them tabulate 500 answer sheets in total. Teachers said they had to cross verify marks entered in rank cards, consolidated marksheet, mark register, top sheets, and answer scripts. “After verifying these, they have to enter it in ‘Part B’ on the top sheet. Doing this for 500 answer sheets every day is taxing. On certain days, they finish it only by 8pm. So we seek that either the workload be halved or number of personnel be doubled,” said a teacher from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/overburdened-teachers-seek-more-hands-at-sslc-camps/articleshow/76633328.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rebuild Kerala contract reeks of graft: Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged corruption behind awarding of consultancy contract of Rebuild Kerala initiative to KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd. Rebuild Kerala initiative (RKI) is set to execute an agreement with KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd for project management support services (PMSS) on a payment contract of Rs 6.82 crores for a period of two years. The then CEO, RKI, had explained the necessity to have a PMSS entity with the objective of providing technical, management and secretarial support to RKI and line departments involved in the high-level empowered committee meeting held in March 2019. Ramesh said that the state government, which couldn’t even lay a stone for reconstruction of the state after 2018 floods, is awarding contract to KPMG with dubious intentions. “The contract is for 24 months which means government aims to grab commission through awarding of consultancy. After 24 months the next government will have to give details of projects to KPMG for RKI. Opposition had earlier raised doubts when consultancy agreement was given to KPMG soon after the 2018 floods,” he said. The doubts raised by opposition turned true as KPMG dropped the work after six months and it was a reason why RKI was derailed, he said. Ramesh added that the renovation of village offices and local roads could not be begun even after two years. “It is condemnable on the part of the government to indulge in such splurge, especially when the government wails about lack of funds,” he said Meanwhile, responding to allegations of corruption, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that there was no irregularity in the contract. The selection was done through close scrutiny, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rebuild-kerala-contract-reeks-of-graft-ramesh/articleshow/76632439.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mangaluru||5 PG doctors from KMC on Covid duty test +ve||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Five postgraduate (PG) doctors of Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, on Covid-19 duty at the Lady Goschen Hospital and Wenlock Hospital, are among 43 people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Thursday. Dakshina Kannada accounted for 29 of the 43 cases, taking the total positive cases to 484 in the district. The 14 cases in Udupi took the tally of total positive cases in that district to 1,116. A statement from the college stated that all the five PG doctors who tested positive are asymptomatic, and are being treated at the designated Covid hospital in the city. Their health condition is stable. Contact tracing has been done, and all their contacts are being quarantined as per government guidelines. The areas where these doctors worked has also been sanitised. The doctors with signs of flu got themselves tested and the results came out positive for the novel coronavirus. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said the patient designated P-10274, a 68-year-old woman, who succumbed to the pandemic on Wednesday, was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). She was admitted to a private hospital on June 22 with complaints of abdominal pain and breathlessness, and shifted to the Covid hospital. She was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. District health authorities discharged 43 patients on Thursday, and the overall number of patients discharged in the district stands at 344, leaving the active cases at 140. A total 19 of the 29 cases were those who returned from Saudi Arabia, Sharjah, Muscat and Qatar, and one of them had influenza-like illness (ILI), one was a case of SARI, one was from outside the state and six people were the primary contacts of P-5988 and P-9589, and the source of the last case, P-10298, is being traced. In Udupi, 10 of the 14 cases were reported from those who returned from Maharashtra, and contacts of four patients are being traced. The authorities in Udupi have discharged 1,020 patients thus far, and there are 94 active cases as on date. Reports on 388 samples are awaited, said deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/5-pg-doctors-from-kmc-on-covid-duty-test-ve/articleshow/76632972.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Foundation stone laid for Pillur-III water project||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday laid foundation stone for the Pillur-III drinking water supply augmentation project, which will bring 178 MLD water to the city.The CM attended a review meeting at the collectorate on Thursday morning. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani and collector K Rajamani explained about the steps taken to control the spread of Covid-19. Palaniswami lauded the district administration for following the state government’s instructions. The pandemic is under control in the district, he said.The state government has allotted Rs 265.44 crore to extend the flyover from Karumbukkadai to Athupalam and tender has been floated for the project, the CM said. “Steps will be taken to start the work soon. Work on an elevated road worth Rs 1,621.30 crore from Upplipalayam to Goldwins on the Avinashi Road will start soon. A flyover will be constructed across river Noyyal at Chinthamanipudur on the Pappampatti Road and another flyover will be constructed on the Kurichi- Kannamanaickenur Road.”A sum of Rs 45.84 crore has been allotted to lay the western bypass road till the Pollachi town and land acquisition has started for the project, Palaniswami said. “Rs 62.59 crore was allotted to lay a 23.60km road from Pollachi to Chettipalayam . Rs 57 lakh will be allotted for preparing detailed project report for a road that will be laid from the Vellalore new bus stand to the L&T Bypass.”The CM also inaugurated parks on the Periyakulam and Valankulam lake bunds that were built under the Smart Cities Mission. He inaugurated a new building for the Annur taluk office and staff quarters, and new buildings for Anaimalai panchayat union, Pollachi North panchayat union and Chettipalayam primary health centre.Palaniswami, Velumani, AIADMK MLAs and officials visited the Gandhipuram town bus stand. The CM interacted with the passengers and advised them to maintain social distancing and wear face masks. He also interacted with some shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foundation-stone-laid-for-pillur-iii-water-project/articleshow/76633341.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Kingpins of online sex racket nabbed||VADODARA: Masterminds of an online sex racket which was busted last week in the city were arrested by police on Thursday. The three accused Sandeepkumar alias Paras alias Arya Joshi, Jeevan alias Garry Bul and Dharmesh Patel who were in the city and were active here since long were nabbed. Police said that Joshi and Bul used to collect photos of prostitutes from different agents and sent these to clients. Patel, on the other hand, used to manage the website as well as business on social media and collected money in his bank account. According to police, the trio’s names were revealed during the interrogation of Arjun alias Rohit Rajput and Bhavanishankar alias Raj Dayma. While Joshi and Bul are natives of Delhi, Patel is from Ahmedabad. The racket was busted on June 15 when Mitul Tailor, a resident of Sun Pharma Road, had stabbed a prostitute at a hotel on Waghodia Road. He then killed his father-in-law and attempted to kill mother-in-law too. The prostitute was Dayma’s sister-in-law from Jaipur who had come to Vadodara in search of a job. However, Dayma pushed her into flesh trade saying that there was no job opportunity due to the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kingpins-of-online-sex-racket-nabbed/articleshow/76631653.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Inter-district bus services suspended till June 30||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) suspended inter-district movement of buses from Wednesday night.The decision was taken following a meeting conducted by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and collectors of all districts on containing the spread of Covid-19. The services will be suspended till June 30.The division had been operating 120 vehicles from the city after the lockdown norms were relaxed. Of them, 80 were to other districts within the zone, and places such as Tirupur, Ooty, Udumalaipettai and Sathyamangalam. “We have suspended 80 buses and have been operating only 40, which ply to places within the district, such as Mettupalayam and Pollachi,” said an official.TNSTC is operating 130 buses in the city and they will continue to operate, the official said. “On Sunday, the number of buses might be a bit less due to lesser demand. We are following all safety precautions while operating the buses. We allow only one person per seat, which is, 22 people in a bus.”Meanwhile, private bus owners have also reduced the number of buses plying within the district due to a fall in demand. “Of the 500 private vehicles, only 40 are plying,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/inter-district-bus-services-suspended-till-june-30/articleshow/76633337.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: No. of micro clusters dips in Kolkata||KOLKATA: For the first time in June, the city witnessed a decline in the number of micro containment zones. According to government website, the micro containment zone count in Kolkata has declined from 1,714 to 1,616 in the past 24 hours with 168 micro units being declared Covid-free. Most of these are located in worst hit zones like Cossipore, Chitpore, Bhowanipore and Karaya. The city added 70 new Covid units during the same period. While the statistics is a morale booster for KMC, police and health workers, experts in virology and infectious diseases cautioned that the dip in number of micro containment zones did not mean that the city has achieved stability in terms of containment. “At best, this could mean that spread of the virus has been contained to a certain level in pockets. But then new micro containment zones are coming up. And with the lockdown appearing to be only on papers, the surge in cases in the city can only go worse,” said virologist Sumon Poddar, an associate professor at Institute of Child Health. TimesViewThe relaxations are necessary but need to be backed up with responsible behaviour from citizens. A few irresponsible acts from a few irresponsible citizens may be enough to create bigger problems.In Kolkata, 1,695 Covid cases were reported from May 19 to June 10. From June 10 to 23, another 1,687 cases were reported. For the past four days, either members of the same family are getting infected or the infection is limited within the nearest neighbourhood. While containment units were seeing an average daily surge of over 100 per day last week, it is now averaging between 70-80 daily. But not all statistics in the past 24 hours have been positive. The new list shows multiple areas in Shyambazar, Phoolbagan, Barisha and Sarsuna reporting fresh cases. They are located next to some areas where multiple cases have been reported earlier. KMC doctors believe mobility is the only reason for this sudden spurt. In Behala police division, there are now over 100 containment units. Till the beginning of June, the number was between 45-50. Medical expert Kaushik Chaki had earlier told TOI that while the migration problem had settled down, the unlock phase was impacting urban and semi-urban zones where mobility was higher. “There is a very stringent testing protocol for such zones. If such protocols were adhered before declaring those Covid-free then it’s good. But then we also need to know if the new micro containment zones are absolutely fresh pockets or not,” said infectious diseases consultant Debkishore Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-micro-clusters-dips-in-kol/articleshow/76633356.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||ZP executive engineer, driver nabbed taking Rs 2L bribe||Nagpur: State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday netted executive engineer of water works department of Zilla Parishad Vijay Taklikar for receiving a bribe of Rs 2 lakh through his driver Jayendra Rewatkar at the office premises. The demand was of Rs 6 lakh to clear sanctioned bills of the past and also accord approval in the newer ones. In the first installment, Rs 2 lakh was supposed to be paid. Rewatkar, who worked as a private driver, was caught while accepting the money. It is learnt a civil contractor had erected some water tanks and also laid pipes at several villages in the rural part of the Nagpur district during last couple of years. After completing the work within the stipulated time as per tendering norms, the Katol-based contractor had submitted bills of different projects worth Rs 80 lakh. He had completed more works in the last few months before submitting another few bills worth Rs 12 lakh. Taklikar was allegedly harassing the complainant for Rs 6 lakh for clearing the bills submitted earlier and also sanction the ones submitted recently. The complainant approached the ACB office following which the verifications were made and a trap was laid in presence of witnesses. DySP Sandeep Jadhav, under the supervision of Addl SP Rajesh Duddalwar and SP Rashmi Nandedkar, had laid the trap. A house search of the two accused, including the residence of Taklikar at Narendra Nagar, was conducted by the ACB team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zp-executive-engineer-driver-nabbed-taking-rs-2l-bribe/articleshow/76633367.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||One more elephant dies in Pethukutti||Coimbatore: The death toll of elephants in Pethikutti beat in Sirumugai continues to rise. In the wee hours of Thursday, anti-poaching squad officials found another carcass of a female elephant deep inside the forest range. This the second elephant to die in the beat in the last two days, and the third to die in the district since Monday. The cause of the death could not be ascertained by veterinarians.“On Wednesday evening, during routine patrol, forest officers and anti-poaching watchers came across a foul smell emanating in the area,” said district forest officer D Venkatesh. In the wee hours of Thursday, when watchers entered the forest and followed the smell, they came across the carcass of a female elephant. They immediately called a team of three veterinarians. “During the post-mortem, the veterinarians assessed that the elephant must have died at least eight to 10 days back. The organs were too decomposed for us to understand the cause of death, though we have taken a couple of organs for forensic studies,” said Venkatesh. There were reportedly no external injuries on the mammal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-more-elephant-dies-in-pethukutti/articleshow/76633350.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: These wonder women battle Covid-19 to make a difference||CHENNAI: There’s an important lesson R Padmaja inspires in her teammates every day during these difficult times – the spirit to find value in loss and make it the foundation for a new beginning. Since the coronavirus outbreak, the 27-year-old lost her teaching job at the local tuition centre, and soon after, her mother. A month on, she’s out every morning at 7.30am, masked, gloved and notes in hand, to show vulnerable homes in Ayanavaram how to stay armed against infection. Padmaja is one of the 15 women Covid warriors recruited by Neelam Trust in an intervention programme they are conducting with the Greater Chennai Corporation. The women are aged between 22 and 38, and an eclectic team comprising wives of unemployed husbands, child brides and homemakers with no previous work experience – all from poor families. Since May 19 when they first reported to work, each outreach worker has 300 households from slums and high-density population neighbourhoods to cover, conducting door-to-door surveys, enumerating seniors, children under 12 months of age and people with comorbidities. They distribute free masks, identify seniors with health ailments to see if they develop fevers, coughs or influenza-like symptoms, and refer them to Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. In addition, they take turns to script and perform awareness programmes on hand-washing and social distancing for residents of these neighbourhoods – an art 26-year-old worker S Ponneswari has mastered over the last month. “I’ve been a strict friend to them. Now, children, grandparents, see me around the street and rush inside their homes to emerge with masks on,” says Ponneswari, a mother of two, who dropped out of school to be married at age 16. The unforgiving patriarchy of the slum isn’t new to Muthamizh Kalai Vizhi, founder and CEO of Neelam Trust, who grew up in one such setting herself, watching her mother and others like her quietly shoulder the brunt of unemployment, alcoholism and abuse, just to keep life going for the family. “In a pandemic situation, this only gets compounded, as many men have lost jobs and found respite in alcohol. Forget finding a voice or identifying a passion, women in these homes barely make it through the day with the kind of workload and mental toil they undergo,” says Muthamizh. “One way I could break this mould was by employing an all-women team who could find the satisfaction of being changemakers during these times and earn their own salaries doing it.” Watch Chennai: 'Wonder women' battle Covid-19 to make a difference||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-these-wonder-women-battle-covid-19-to-make-a-difference/articleshow/76633363.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records lowest daily death toll in 56 days||Ahmedabad: It was the day Gujarat recorded the second highest Covid-19 positive cases in a day. But it was also the day for the state to record the lowest death toll in 56 days. Ahmedabad district recorded 12 deaths — 11 from Ahmedabad city and one from outside of it — whereas Gujarat cumulatively recorded 18. The state or district have not seen such figures in entire May or 24 days of June – on April 30, Gujarat had recorded 17 deaths, and Ahmedabad had contributed 12 of these deaths. To put the figure in perspective, in May Gujarat had recorded an average 26.6 daily deaths, whereas for June, the average deaths for Gujarat is 28.6. Likewise, Ahmedabad district had recorded 22.3 average daily deaths in May. In June, the average is 22. While health experts said that the numbers could go up or down, they have accepted that Ahmedabad is a major contributor to the state’s death toll. “The lower figure could be seen from the perspective that now doctors are more confident in their approach and treatment. Like all other parts of the world, it is a new infection and we tried several methods to see whether it works. Now we know the signs and symptoms and can save more critical patients,” said a senior city-based infectious diseases specialist. Analysis of the daily cases reveals that on Thursday, the number of cases recorded from Gujarat districts other than Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara was 22.7% of daily tally. The share of these districts was 15.4% on June 15. On Thursday, Vadodara became the third state district to cross 2,000 total cases (2,029) after Ahmedabad (19,839) and Surat (3,876). Cumulative share of these three districts in total cases so far is 87%. The new positive cases included 238 from Ahmedabad — making it the third straight day of below — 300 cases, 164 from Surat, 44 from Vadodara, 14 from Jamnagar and 11 from Narmada. Ahmedabad recorded 12 of 18 deaths in 24 hours, whereas Surat recorded three, Gandhinagar two and Surendranagar one death. Ahmedabad also led in discharged patients with 216 out of 410, followed by 46 from Surat, 52 from Vadodara and 36 from Gandhinagar. Gujarat carried out 5,198 tests in 24 hours to find out new Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total to 3.45 lakh. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 2.29 lakh persons under quarantine including 2.26 lakh under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-lowest-daily-death-toll-in-56-days/articleshow/76633401.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Goods train carrying diesel derails, catches fire||VIJAYAWADA: Five bogie tank wagons (BTPN) of a goods train carrying diesel caught fire when it derailed near Tangutur area in Prakasam district on Thursday. A large-scale mishap, however, was avoided given that the train was at a low speed and fire officials confirmed that there were no casualties. Of the five wagons, three of them have been gutted while the fourth was partially burnt. Each of the coaches was carrying around 65 kilolitres of diesel and officials claim that the total property loss could be pegged between Rs 80 lakh to Rs 1 crore. The incident took place at around 12.20 am when the train was heading towards Bhakarapeta railway station in Guntakal division from Gangineni in Krishna district. It derailed seconds after crossing the bridge across River Musi, according to district fire officials. Sources in the railways said they are yet to ascertain the cause of fire and the derailment. They suspect that given that the area had been earlier excavated to lay a new railway line that might have caused the land to cave in, resulting in the mishap. Five fire tenders, two from Ongole, one each from Kondepi, Nellore and Kandukur, reached the spot and managed to douse the flames after almost three hours. Prakasam DFO S Srinivasa Rao said they managed to prevent the fire from spreading to the remaining coaches, which were later transported to Tangutur. Later, addressing the media, additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) Ramaraju said the electrical arrangements along with 200 metres of tracks have been damaged in the incident. He stated that a detailed inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the exact reasons for the mishap. Meanwhile, officials diverted two trains — Howrah to Yesvantpur Express and Danapur to KSR Bengaluru City via Guntur, Nandyal, Dhone, Gooty and Renigunta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/goods-train-carrying-diesel-derails-catches-fire/articleshow/76632443.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Accident victim tests +ve, dies in KGMU||LUCKNOW: Two Covid-19 patients, including a 25-year old woman from Delhi, died at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Thursday. The woman, a resident of Prem Kunj area in Delhi, was critically injured in a road accident on Agra Expressway and was rushed to a private hospital in Lucknow on Wednesday. She tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) and was shifted to KGMU on Thursday morning where she died within 30 minutes after admission. “The woman had a head injury and had gone into a shock. Respiratory failure led to multi-organ failure and she died at 8.15am on Thursday,” said KGMU spokesman Prof. Sudhir Singh. Besides, a 62-year-old man, who was brought from Gonda in a critical state on Wednesday night and admitted to ICU in Covid ward of KGMU, also died on Thursday. “He died of acute respiratory distress syndrome,” said Dr D Himanshu. Health officers said the two deaths will not be counted as Covid-19 casualties of Lucknow district since the two deceased were not local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/accident-victim-tests-ve-dies-in-kgmu/articleshow/76633926.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Mahesan’s death: Kin demand probe into SNDP leaders’ role||ALAPPUZHA: The family of K K Mahesan has come out against SNDP Yogam leaders and told media that they would lodge complaints with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and DGP Loknath Behera demanding to probe into the role of SNDP Yogam leaders in the death of Mahesan. M S Anil, Mahesan’s nephew, said that his death was equal to murder. He said that details in Mahesan’s letters had all information on people who harassed and tortured him. “People, who severely tortured and harassed him, should be brought before law. He had earlier told us that some people were trying to implicate him in fake cases. We will lodge complaints with both chief minister and DGP and other people concerned, based on the documents he prepared and the information he gave us. His phone call list should be examined. We will continue our fight for justice. He was the cornerstone of our family and our society. Those who pushed him to death should be punished, and our family will continue this battle,” Anil said. Meanwhile, SNDP Yogam leader Vellppally Natesan demanded a CBI probe into Mahesan’s death. He said that Mahesan was innocent in the cases related to misappropriation of funds in the Yogam’s microfinance scheme. “Mahesan didn’t have any role in such frauds. He feared of being trapped in the cases. I tried to console him. Some people tried to mentally torture him and also indulged in character assassination for the past one year during Cherthala union election. Some, who couldn’t be office bearers of Cherthala union, tried to humiliate him by publishing notices. He gave me a letter about the problems he faced. I will not leak that letter. I assured him that all his problems would be settled. The day we decided to discuss his issues, his death occured. Mahesan was my right hand man and his death is an irreparable loss for me,” he said. Mahesan had posted two letters on social media earlier. One was addressed to circle inspector, crime branch, Alappuzha, and another to Natesan. As per the letter, with Mahesan’s signature on Kanichukulangara union office letter pad, crime branch tried to implicate him in the microfinance fraud case of Mavelikkara SNDP union. Mahesan had also sent a letter to crime branch ADGP Tomin J Thachankary in this regard. In the letter to Natesan, he levelled various allegations. He wrote that if he was targetted with government’s support, he would be left with no choice but to end life. He also mentioned that he could be a victim of goonda attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mahesans-death-kin-demand-probe-into-sndp-leaders-role/articleshow/76632489.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Cops launch ‘Operation Hands Off’ to disarm goons||Nagpur: City police chief BK Upadhyay kicked off ‘Operation Hands Off’ to put a brake on the increasing incidents of assaults and murders by goons by seizing their arms through pro-active actions. All police stations and the crime branch have been ordered to simultaneously start action. The aim is to reduce the impact of the gang enmities and also other rivalries that result in armed conflicts among gangs. City already has seen 14 murders this month and that has warranted a fresh restart from the police. The top brass also instructed the police stations to form special intelligence collecting unit. Upadhyay had commenced ‘Operation Crackdown Phase –II’ on June 5 during which 1,234 criminals known to keep weapons were checked till June 22. In all, 11,823 criminals, including 5,626 goons with murder and attempt to murder records were checked till June 22. Six offences of firearms and 131 for sharp weapons were also registered. CP Upadhyay said ‘Operation Hands Off’ was launched to disarm the body (assault cases) and property (theft, robbery and burglary cases) offenders. “Widespread searches have been ordered including at the residence of known goons and also check persons known to keep weapons,” he said. “If there are no weapons, the damage is less and usually not fatal. So this intensive drive is all about searching and seizing of arms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-launch-operation-hands-off-to-disarm-goons/articleshow/76633378.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Cleaning carved marble for Ram temple begins on a war footing||AYODHYA: Amidst the buzz and clank of stones at Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir Nirman Karyashala, a 15-member skilled team from Delhi arrived at the temple town on Thursday and began cleaning carved marble stones stacked at the workshop for over three decades. Dr Anil Mishra, member, Ramjanmabhoomi Trust, confirmed to TOI that temple construction could begin after monsoon recedes and the pandemic ebbs. Vishwa Hindu Parishad had set up the stone-carving unit in Ayodhya two years before the Babri mosque demolition when Mulayam Singh Yadav held reins in Uttar Pradesh and V P Singh was prime minister. At the peak of the temple movement, donations poured in from across the globe and tonnes of marble and stones were transported to Ayodhya from Rajasthan and specialized sculptors deployed from Gujarat. Talking to TOI, Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi and fast friend of Ram Lalla, said, “work at the karyashala continued unbridled during the non-BJP regimes of Mulayam Singh, Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav and we were always allowed to transport marble and stones from Gujarat and Rajasthan. Work was stopped briefly for a month just prior to the Ayodhya verdict for the first time in 30 years.” Annu Bhai Sompura, manager of karyashala, told TOI that the first floor of Ram temple can be built from the carved stones stacked at the workshop. “It will take at least nine months to transport the heavy stones from the karyashala to the Ramjanmabhoomi premises,” he said. “We are using water and special chemicals to clean and remove dust and moss on the stone carvings. It will take at least four months to bring the shine back on stones,” said Sanjay Jedia, manager of the company assigned by the Trust to clean the marble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cleaning-carved-marble-for-ram-temple-begins-on-a-war-footing/articleshow/76633931.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Northern districts devise micro-level management plans||CHENNAI: After Chennai, the northern districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Tiruvannamalai reported a high number of Covid-19 cases in recent days. Besides following the standard operating procedures to contain the virus, the authorities have devised their own strategies, focusing on the vulnerable sections. Tiruvannamalai district will take up random Covid testing in containment zones where positive cases were reported two weeks ago. If samples of more than two turn positive, the entire population in the containment area would be tested. The district has 67 containment zones. Lab technicians would be deployed in 29 primary health centres to take the Covid-19 sample collection facility close to the people. “So, we are taking the facility to their villages and encouraging them to come forward for testing. We are also going for aggressive testing to identify more cases in a limited period to contain the spread of the virus,” Tiruvannamalai collector K S Kandasamy told TOI. Tirupattur district administration has identified over 35,000 people with comorbidities through special medical camps and brought them under their surveillance. “We have also been regularly checking frontline workers. By protecting them, we are effectively carrying out disease containment measures,” said Tirupattur collector M P Sivan Arul. An exclusive sanitation campaign is also being carried out, covering every street in the selected area. It has been done in a phased manner, covering rural and urban local bodies, and it’s shown good results in limiting the spread of the virus, said the authorities. Neighbouring districts too ramped up testing and devised strategies. The door-to-door surveillance helped the authorities to pick up more number of Covid-19 cases in Chengalpet district. “We are conducting fever camps to identify the Covid-19 cases at the earliest,” collector John Louis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/northern-districts-devise-micro-level-management-plans/articleshow/76633374.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Fire at Raghuvanshi Mills, SoBo bank, Andheri godown; officer faints during firefighting operation, is found Covid positive||MUMBAI: The city witnessed three fire incidents on Thursday morning. Around 9.30am, a major fire broke out in a ground-plus-five storey commercial building at Raghuvanshi Mills compound in Lower Parel. As flames spread fast in the building that houses several offices, including that of a film production house, and two restaurants, thick smoke covered the ground, first and second floors, which affected firefighting operations. Firemen managed to douse the flames by 4.30pm, with the help of 14 fire engines. A fireman sustained minor injuries during the operation. He was treated in an ambulance on the spot and sent home to rest. However, around 7pm, the fire restarted and was brought under control around 11pm, after which cooling operations started. Two floors were completely gutted. Chief fire officer P S Rahangdale said, “We managed to ensure that the fire did not spread to the adjoining buildings.” He added that they will check if the building’s firefighting system was operational. Earlier in the day, a major fire erupted in the ground-floor office of Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait in the 14-storey Jolly Maker Chambers II at Nariman Point. Firefighters managed to control the blaze with the help of five fire engines after a two-hour struggle. The fire alarm system of the bank was working, but the sprinklers failed, said an official. The building firefighting system also was in working condition, which helped douse the flames faster, he added. In the third incident, a godown was gutted in a blaze at Nanddham Industrial Estate in Marol in Andheri (E) in the wee hours of Thursday. The blaze was brought under control after four hours. However, a divisional fire officer fainted during the firefighting operation. He was rushed to hospital where a Covid-19 diagnosis was made through CT scan. The test reports of his driver, a staffer and a family member are awaited. The fire officer was unwell since Wednesday, but had reported for work after the fire call was received a little after midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-at-raghuvanshi-mills-sobo-bank-andheri-godown-officer-faints-during-firefighting-operation-is-found-covid-positive/articleshow/76633402.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: House ceiling collapse kills woman, injures three||VIJAYAWADA: A 45-year-old woman died while three of her family members suffered injuries after a section of the ceiling of their house collapsed on them while they were asleep, in Gudivada town in Krishna district on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as V Lakshmi, wife of V Nageswara Rao, an assistant engineer working for state irrigation department. According to Gudivada One Town sub-inspector T Surya Srinivas Rao, the house was at least 20 years old and dilapidated. The incident took place at around 2.30 am. Lakshmi suffered critical head injuries and succumbed to them while she was being taken to the hospital and Rao and both his sons are being treated and are said to be out of danger, he said. Cops collected statements from the neighbours about the incident and sent Lakshmi’s body for post-mortem. A case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was registered at Gudivada One Town Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/house-ceiling-collapse-kills-woman-injures-three/articleshow/76632455.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s oldest Covid survivor goes home||Kolkata: A 94-year-old with co-morbidities like hypertension and high blood pressure beat Covid-19 to become the oldest Covid survivor in the state. Lal Mohan Sett was discharged from Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) on Thursday after 15 days of treatment. “He is already 94 and has got age related health issues as well. Hence when he tested positive to Covid, we had almost given up hope. His recovery is like miracle to us. We are thankful to the doctors and the hospital for the kind of care my grandfather got. We will take good care of him at home,” said Sett’s grandson. The elderly man from Bidhan Sarani was admitted to MCHK on June 9 that has been designated as state’s tertiary level Covid hospital by the government. He had come with symptoms like severe acute respiratory distress and hypoxia. He was shifted from the SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) ward in the Green Building for suspected cases to the superspecialty building on June 13 after his test reports confirmed Covid infection. “We had to put him in the ICU because of hypoxia and also his co-morbid conditions and age. We managed him on oxygen therapy without putting him on mechanical ventilation. We are happy that we could send him back home in good health,” said a doctor at the hospital. Family members said that the senior citizen led a very disciplined life and hence he had not got into any kind of major health issues apart from the hypertension, high blood pressure and age related problems like hearing woes. “I am proud of the doctors, who successfully treated a 94-year-old man for Covid infection. Since the hospital started functioning as tertiary level Covid hospital on May 6, 941 Covid patients have been cured and discharged so far,” said Nirmal Maji, a physician who is also the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti at MCHK. A family member, who had been infected earlier and from whom the 94-year-old got the infection, was also treated at MCHK. She was cured and discharged a few days ago. Doctors have told family members to put the nonagenarian on home isolation for the next two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-oldest-covid-survivor-goes-home/articleshow/76633389.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Second middle-aged man dies of corona in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 45-year Covid-19 patient died of acute respiratory distress syndrome at King George’s Medical University, taking the city toll to 17. This was second middle-aged victim of the novel coronavirus, which has mainly claimed lives of elderly with comorbid conditions so far in the city. Earlier, a 45-year-old laundryman from Raheemabad had died of Covid. The deceased Vinod was a resident of LDA Colony on Kanpur Road. He was admitted to ICU in KGMU with acute breathlessness and high blood pressure on Tuesday. Test report confirmed that he had Covid-19. He went into shock during treatment and died of respiratory failure around 9pm on Wednesday. The death was confirmed by KGMU authorities on Thursday. Doctors said Vinod was brought in the late stage of Covid-19 when the infection had severely affected his respiratory track and lungs. “The patient came in a critical condition. Even after all the attempts his oxygen levels could not be maintained. We had to put him on a ventilator but he did not survive,” said isolation unit incharge Dr D Himanshu. “No other comorbidity was found in the patient,” he added. The body was handed over to the family with full safety protocol. Health officials said the family members of the deceased have been asked to home quarantine and are being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/second-middle-aged-man-dies-of-corona/articleshow/76633939.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway helps 94 migrants from Bihar leave for home||HYDERABAD: After the intervention of the Telangana High Court, 94 migrant workers from Bihar, who were stranded in temporary shelters near Secunderabad railway station, finally left for their native places by trains in the last two days. The High Court on Tuesday had pulled up the South Central Railway (SCR) officials for failing to arrange seats for these migrant workers in the regular passenger trains, as the services of special Shramik trains were stopped by the state government. During the hearing, the bench also recalled that it issued a direction earlier that they (migrant workers) should be sent to their destinations either through Shramik specials or passenger trains. Following which, SCR arranged seats for these workers under the Emergency Quota (EQ). Speaking to TOI, advocate Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for one of the petitioners and a member of Covid Advocacy Lockdown Collective, said, “They have sent 54 people on Wednesday and another 40 people on Thursday. These arrangements are being made by the government and SCR. While the revenue department has paid for the tickets, SCR released the berths in EQ. It looks like another 20 people will leave on Friday.” Meanwhile, on Thursday, 20 more migrants arrived at the shelter. “Every day we have at least 20 migrants coming to the shelter. All those who are going to Secunderabad railway station to catch a train are being sent here by the railway protection force or the traffic police. Many of them have recently lost jobs and have no money to go home. It is very important that the government continues to provide transport for these people,” said Nagaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-helps-94-migrants-from-bihar-leave-for-home/articleshow/76633384.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Restaurants are open, but patrons stay away||VISAKHAPATNAM: It’s been over two weeks since restaurants and hotels have reopened in Visakhapatnam, but business has been far from usual. The Covid-19 pandemic and its associated curbs continue to bleed the hotel industry. On June 8, when hotels and restaurants were given permission to resume business, only 50% of the nearly 1,500 restaurants in the city reopened. Now, they are once again considering closing down as there is hardly any business and bearing power costs and staff wages is becoming unviable for the industry. Speaking to TOI, AV Ramana Murthy, president of Andhra Pradesh Hotels Association (APHA), said the restaurants are seeing only about 30% of usual business. With low footfall, restaurants aren’t finding it feasible to stay open, he said. “What is really hurting the restaurant industry is the 9pm curfew. This is affecting the dinner segment that brings in over 50% of the revenue. Since restaurants are downing shutters at 8pm, we are missing out on customers,” said T Satyanarayana, former APHA president. The owner of a restaurant at MVP Colony said, “Call it fear of Covid-19 or loss in income due to the lockdown, the enthusiasm to dine in restaurants is missing. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, we used to do business of nearly Rs 2.5 lakh per day. Now, we manage to do business of just around Rs 80,000 a day.” G Sowmya, another restaurant owner said, “People don’t seem to be ready to spend money in restaurants. We have observed that people have cut down expenditure on food. They are going for simple food items. This clearly shows that the virus outbreak has affected revenue sources of consumers.” With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to increase and new disease clusters forming every day, the restaurant business is looking at a hard time ahead. “We are appealing to the GVMC and the government to give us some relief, may be waive our property taxes and power bills,” said another APHA member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/restaurants-are-open-but-patrons-stay-away/articleshow/76632490.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||State yet to start antigen tests||Ahmedabad: On June 19, Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general (DG) of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), sent a letter to the chief secretaries of all Indian states, asking them to ramp up testing for Covid-19 in containment zones and hospitals. The state health department confirmed that they had received the notification. However, they are yet to begin performing these tests. The DG advised the use of rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19 in containment zones or hotspots and in healthcare settings. “Symptomatic individuals who test negative by the antigen test should be tested with RT-PCR to rule out Covid-19,’ the letter said. It also advised that testing be made widely available to all symptomatic individuals and contact tracing mechanisms should be strengthened. “We have not received antigen testing kits from ICMR. However, it is not an issue as the state has optimal testing capacity and we are doing as many tests as needed through the government labs and private laboratories,” said a senior health department official. “We have not requisitioned antigen kits from the Centre yet as there is no pressing need.” Rapid antigen detection tests are advised for persons showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and asymptomatic individuals with direct and high-risk contact history of a lab-confirmed case.  In medical settings, ICMR suggested testing of all ILI patients, patients in high-risk groups with co-morbidities and asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol-generating surgical/ non-surgical interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-yet-to-start-antigen-tests/articleshow/76633394.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||64-year-old doctor contracts virus in line of duty, dies||Kolkata: Covid-19 claimed the life of another doctor in the state on Thursday. An ophthalmologist associated with a hospital in Howrah died during treatment for the infection. This is the third known case of a doctor who died in Kolkata and its surrounding areas after being infected by the virus. TOI is not revealing the identity of the doctor after appeals from his family members, who fear social ostracisation. According to sources, the doctor, who is 64 years old, is a resident of Howrah and that he had started attending to patients a few days before getting the infection. When he started developing symptoms like breathlessness he was taken to the hospital. He was first admitted to West Bank Hospital in Howrah with severe respiratory distress and cardiac problem. While his first Covid test showed negative result, a second test confirmed the infection. He was then shifted to a Covid designated hospital in Howrah. Doctors said that his condition was already bad and that his cardiac condition made treatment all the more challenging. He died on Thursday afternoon. “He got the infection in line of duty. We have appealed to the state government to declare him as Covid martyr and ensure all support to his family in these trying times,” said cardiologist Koushik Chaki, secretary West Bengal Doctors’ Forum. Earlier two senior doctors had succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Kolkata. The first case was Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, as senior official of the state health department who was in charge of the state’s Central Medical Stores at Moulali. Sixty-year-old Dasgupta had been busy with the store that is responsible for disbursing medicines, equipment and PPEs to state-run medical colleges. The second case was that of orthopaedic surgeon Sisir Mandal (69), who had died towards April-end, two days after the death of Dasgupta. Despite a large number of healthcare workers (HCW), majority of them being doctors, getting infected, there had been no report of death of infected doctors for almost two months. Various doctors’ bodies have been demanding a specific hospital for the treatment of these infected healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/64-year-old-doctor-contracts-virus-in-line-of-duty-dies/articleshow/76633407.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Showcause notice to developer for disrupting natural gradient||Mohali: Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan issued showcause notice to a real estate developer in Jharmari village of Derabsassi, for causing hindrance to natural gradient, leading to water stagnation. He along with other officers of the district administration and the drainage department visited the flood-prone areas at Bhankharpur, Tiwana, Jharmari and Nagla villages near Handesra in Derabassi and inspected the vulnerable spots. He identified four spots which could cause flood during the upcoming monsoon season and directed the drainage department to take timely action to strengthen such spots. The DC said he has also sought Rs 52 lakh as funds from the Punjab government to carry out the work on strengthening of embankments and cleaning wild growth from the banks of the rivers. During inspection, the DC found that construction done by a private developer has caused hindrance to the natural gradient, which leads to water stagnation during rains. He issued a showcause notice to the developer, asking him to remove the hindrance or action will be taken against him. He also instructed the officials of the drainage department and the estate officer of the municipal councils to identify the commercial complexes and colonies whose construction causes obstruction into the flow of rain water. The officers have been asked to identify and submit a detailed report within a week. He also instructed them to initiate timely action for cleaning the Sukhna choe in Zirakpur to save nearby agricultural land from overflow in case of heavy downpour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/showcause-notice-to-developer-for-disrupting-natural-gradient/articleshow/76633405.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lower Covid test charges to be effective immediately||Gandhinagar: With pressure mounting on the state government over exorbitant rates being charged by private laboratories for Covid-19 testing, it slashed the charges by almost half on Thursday.Deputy CM Nitin Patel announced that private laboratories will now charge Rs 2,500 per Covid-19 test instead of Rs 4,000 that they had been charging so far.The opposition Congress party had been demanding lowering of Covid-19 testing charges by private laboratories in Gujarat.Patel said, "If a person visits the lab with a doctor's prescription, he or she will have to pay Rs 2,500. The charges will be Rs 3,000 if a laboratory assistant is called home to collect samples."He said the new charges will come into effect immediately. “Private laboratories will lose their licences if they charge more than the stipulated charges,” Patel said. Although Covid-19 testing in government-run facilities is free, about 500 persons prefer to go to private laboratories on a daily basis to get themselves tested for Covid-19, said Patel, who also holds the health portfolio.The Congress, however, was not satisfied with the downward revision of Covid-19 testing charges. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani said that private labs should not charge more than Rs 1,000 for the coronavirus test.Earlier, in a tweet on June 15, Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel had asked why Ahmedabad-based private laboratories were charging Rs 4,500 for a Covid-19 test, when the rate for the same was Rs 2,200 in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lower-covid-test-charges-to-be-effective-immediately/articleshow/76633412.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||21 foreign-returned medical students test positive||Nagpur: Twenty-one medical students who landed in the city from Russia and Kyrgyzstan in Vande Bharat flights last week have tested positive for Covid 19. Of them, 20 MBBS students belong to Chhattisgarh and were quarantined in private hotels in Raipur before their swab samples were collected. Another student from Nanded too tested positive. Raipur chief medical officer Dr Meera Baghel confirmed to TOI that 20 foreign-returned students have so far tested positive. “Nine of them tested positive on Thursday. Results of rest came before and 11 were positive,” she said. Asked about alerting Nagpur officials, Dr Baghel said state officials are updating details on Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) portal. Dr Ashish Bainalwar, in charge for private quarantine centres in city, said all the MBBS students from Nagpur who were in the flight with the Nanded student were tested. “Nagpur students from June 17 have been released for home quarantine now,” he said. However, the Nagpur officials were not aware about the 20 Raipur students, who landed here on June 17, 20 and 23 from Moscow and Bishkek. The Chhattisgarh government had arranged a bus for students belonging to the state. The first trip had 41, next 74 and the last one 39. Students from Madhya Pradesh and rest of Maharashtra are among the 437 medical students to land at Nagpur in the special flights. Nagpur’s SDO Shekhar Ghagde, who is monitoring the Vande Bharat flyers, said the district office didn’t receive any information about the medical students from other states. All flyers from Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Dubai are placed in institutional quarantine and there was no need to worry, he said. A district health official too said that the alerts of other states are communicated through IDSP portal. “Otherwise also, we are testing all foreign travellers arriving in city. There will be no point again tracing contacts,” the official said. The medical students testing positive in Raipur had a major impact on the minds of parents from Chhattisgarh. On June 23, around 10 parents and relatives had come to Nagpur airport in personal cars to receive their children who were coming from Moscow. The parents were apprehensive about their children getting infected during their road trip to Raipur. TOI had reported how parents had a tough time convincing state officials to let them take their children in their own vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/21-foreign-returned-medical-students-test-positive/articleshow/76633427.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||15% fewer new cases in western A’bad||Ahmedabad: There is a little respite for the residents of the western part of the city. There was a 15% decline in the registration of new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday evening against the previous day. This small decline was witnessed after almost 10 days. Of the total 205 Covid-19 cases reported in the city on Wednesday, 72 cases belonged to the western part of the city. The western part of the city, which consists of the west, north-west and south-west zones of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), saw six deaths of the total 15 deaths reported from within the municipal limits. What has left the AMC officials worried is that the largest number of cases reported in the western part of the city were from the AMC’s west zone. Of the 72 fresh cases and six deaths, 51 fresh cases and four deaths were reported from the AMC’s west zone. This zone includes areas like SP Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna. In the posh north-west zone of the AMC, there were 10 fresh cases, but no deaths were reported till Wednesday evening. This zone includes areas like Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. In the AMC’s south-west zone, which consists of areas like Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Mamatpura and Sarkhej, 11 cases and two deaths were reported till Wednesday evening. “In the last 10 days, the western part of the city, which is the west, north-west, and south-west zones of the AMC, had a share of 45% of the total fresh Covid-19 cases in the city,” says a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-fewer-new-cases-in-western-abad/articleshow/76633392.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vacant cops’ colony to house jail inmates||NEW DELHI: A few days after an inmate of Mandoli prison in northeast Delhi died of Covid-19, the Tihar Jail authorities are planning to convert a vacant Delhi Police colony into a temporary lockup facility to reduce overcrowding in the city prisons. A plan will be sent to the Union home ministry proposing to house criminals jailed for petty offences in the police colony, which is close to Mandoli Jail. It proposes a multi-layered security comprising Central Armed Police Force personnel and jail guards. The colony has 360 apartments in 12 towers, and the jail authorities are working to make these escape-proof. Jail sources disclosed that an approval request has already been sent to Delhi Government. Under the plan, each apartment will be converted into a cell to lodge prisoners convicted for petty theft, cheating and misappropriation of funds. In order to prevent them from escaping the apartments, the premises would be patrolled by CAPF men, while the perimeter would be secured with CCTV cameras. A section of the space would also be converted into a quarantine area for new inmates. According to the Tihar Jail authorities, 1,500-2,000 prisoners can be shifted to the temporary jail to reduce the burden on Mandoli jail. The police colony was apparently selected by the jail authorities due to its proximity to Mandoli Jail. “It will be logistically easier for us to ensure essential services and medical care since the apartments are located just beyond the jail premises,” said an officer. Tihar Jail held more than 17,000 prisoners before the lockdown period. The number was reduced to 14,065 after the first batch of prisoners were released on bail or parole for an eight-week period. The authorities aim to reduce this further to the jail’s sanctioned capacity of 10,060 prisoners in order to create space to facilitate social distancing among inmates. Jail sources said that apart from giving them more space, the inmates will also be confined to their respective jails in order to reduce contact with outsiders and with inmates from other jails. The total number of Covid-19 positive prisoners on Monday was 40, of whom 16 had recovered and one had died. Among the jail staff, 45 tested positive of whom seven have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vacant-cops-colony-to-house-jail-inmates/articleshow/76633430.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Schools in Kolkata enforce e-discipline, tackle web classroom issues||KOLKATA: Two months into the system of online classes, most institutions are now introducing disciplinary actions considering the unprecedented situation the pandemic has landed students and teachers in. South City International School awarded “zero” to a student in class test because he switched off the webcam during the online exams despite being warned by the teacher. Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said that pranks and even some amount of indiscipline are part of kids. “We urge teachers to be as much empathetic as they can. But they must understand the technology well and outsmart the students. So we are asking teachers to check on individual students and ask them to respond to questions and, thus, make the class as much interactive as much possible.” All schools are asking for leave letters whenever a child misses a class. The “compulsory attendance per class” and a host of other regulations have helped students take academics more seriously and the propensity to bunk is much less these days, the heads of schools said. “If a child is absent for an online class for a valid reason, parents will send a letter as they would have done in a normal situation, citing the reason for the child’s absence,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal, La Martiniere for Girls. Her school has made uniforms compulsory for online classes. “Learning cannot be without discipline,” Sarkar said. He added that they did make exceptions in extraordinary situations, such as one needing quarantine. Gems Akademia International School director Hilda Peacock said, “We are very strict about absenteeism. We immediately send warning letters to parents, reminding them of the attendance requirements.” The same policy goes for South City International School. Principal John Bagul said, “The subject teacher is in touch with the parents on WhatsApp groups. She informs them about their wards’ absence over e-mails as well.” “For dance and music, we don’t insist on attendance. But a line has to be drawn for curriculum classes,” he said. Till Class V, kids are obedient and don’t need to be disciplined much, he felt. “But classes VI, VII and VIII are the most difficult. That’s where the webcam comes in. The teacher can see when kids are being naughty. They are simply sent out of the class and the parents are duly informed,” Bagul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-enforce-e-discipline-tackle-web-classroom-issues/articleshow/76633406.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Low demand, accruing rent make 10% of CG Road retailers shut shop||AHMEDABAD: ‘This shop is available on rent’ reads a board at a decades-old complex on CG Road. The store, which used to sell footwear, is on the verge of shutting down, whether temporarily or permanently, only time will tell, says the shop owner. Low customer footfalls and falling sales have hurt the revenues of retailers across the city, while operating costs have remained constant. Estimates from the CG Road Retailers’ Association suggest that at least 10% of shop owners on CG Road have already shut shop. “Due to the fear of getting infected, people are reluctant to go out for shopping. Moreover, the timing restrictions imposed by the government are also deterring footfalls. As most people have started working, walk-ins during the day are minimal and revenues are down. On the other hand, rentals and other costs are turning unaffordable, causing many shops to close,” said Vasant Tirodkar, vice president, CG Road Retailers’ Association. At least 1,500 shops and showrooms selling clothing, accessories, electronics, footwear, bags, toys, home décor, among other items are situated on CG Road, from Panchvati Circle to Stadium Crossroads. “Revenue has come down to barely 20%. More shops will close if sales continue to remain low,” said Tirodkar. Industry estimates say rentals for office spaces, shops and showrooms on CG Road range from Rs 25,000 to Rs 3 lakh a month, depending on the size and location. “The complete closure for two months of lockdown hit revenues, while rent piled up. This has led to severe cash flow problems. Several clothing stores and back offices of jewellers have closed. We are also hearing of showrooms laying off sales staff to reduce overheads,” said Ashish Zaveri, media convener, Amdavad Vepari Mahajan (AVM). Industry estimates show a similar trend across the city. “It is not just CG Road. Several showrooms, stores and eateries in posh areas such as Sindhu Bhavan Road and SG Road have now put up advertisements for space available on rent. This reflects the retail situation, where demand was low even before the lockdown.,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/low-demand-accruing-rent-make-10-of-cg-road-retailers-shut-shop/articleshow/76633466.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 2,800 final-year medicos to join battle against Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: With the number of Covid-19 cases crossing the 29,000 mark, the state government worked out a new strategy to deploy as many as 2,800 final-year MBBS students and interns with the health department. With Gujarat being among the top three states in the number of Covid-19 patients, the state is facing an acute shortage of frontline medical teams to battle the coronavirus crisis. “We have started region-wise training for around 2,800 final-year MBBS students who will be deployed for treatment of Covid-19 patients. By next week, they will be assigned duty in different regions,” said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Gujarat government. The state government’s decision is in line with the ministry of health and family welfare’s recent guidelines which allow services of interns and final-year medicos for tackling the Covid-19 crisis. The ministry’s guidelines, based on recommendation of Board of Governors (BoG) with Medical Council of India (MCI) suggest that interns being provisionally registered doctors, may be trained in clinical management of Covid-19 cases under the supervision of their faculties in Covid health facilities. The BoG-MCI has also suggested that the final-year MBBS students may also be taught about Covid-19 management in theory and practice, under supervision of their faculties in Covid health facilities, but they cannot be assigned any clinical duties. The BoG-MCI has compiled data according to which two lakh duly qualified and trained doctors are already available. The gujarat government is also planning to use the services of final year nursing and physiotherapy students for Covid-19 patients, said sources. A central team led by ministry of health and family welfare’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal is set to visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and June 29. The team will interact with state government officials and coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for the management of Covid-19 in these states. This decision came on Thursday after India registered its worst single-day increase in Covid-19 cases, recording more than 16,000 coronavirus infections, to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities also jumped by 418.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2800-final-year-medicos-to-join-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/76633410.cms||Bharat Yagnik
June 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Containment zone residents slam high prices charged by vegetable vendors||Bhubaneswar: Residents of the Subash Nagar slum, a containment zone in the city, have protested against the exorbitant prices of vegetables and other staples sold by vendors authorized by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC). The residents tried to remove the barricades put up at the entry and exit points to the slum. They complained that the vendors were charging exorbitant prices for the vegetables, which they could not afford. The slum dwellers also said they were not getting access to the essential items on time. Subash Nagar was declared a containment zone after six persons — all of them locals — tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The authorities brought it under containment to scan the people of the area. “The residents have been demanding vegetables at prices lower than that in the market. It is not possible,” BMC deputy commissioner Kamaljit Das said. “We have checked with the vendors and they are not charging a penny more than what is available in any other part of the city. We have deployed two vendors each for supplying vegetables and groceries, and one vendor each for supplying eggs and milk in the area,” Das added. BMC sources said the residents felt that the vendors were selling the veggies at exorbitant prices because the prices themselves have gone up in the past week. “In a regular market, potatoes are being sold at Rs 25/kg. However, the residents have been demanding them at Rs 20/kg. Some even demanded free groceries and vegetables,” a BMC official said. Brinjal is currently being sold at Rs 60/kg, while it was being sold at Rs30/kg a week ago. One kg of tomatoes is available at Rs 50, but earlier it was available at Rs 20-30/kg. Resident Raju Bhue said they used to get a chance to bargain when they went to the market. “We can’t do that any more as the prices are fixed. The BMC should provide us vegetables at a subsidized rate,” he added. “This apart, the supply is also delayed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/containment-zone-residents-slam-high-prices-charged-by-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/76588290.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Transport assn for road tax waiver||Nashik: The tour and travel operators, plying private buses and cars for passenger transportation, have appealed to the state government to waive off the road tax as they have incurred huge losses due to the lockdown.The office-bearers of the tourism wing of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, who recently met transport minister Anil Parab, said the waiver will provide huge relief for the vehicle fleet owners. “The vehicles are standing still since lockdown was announced. We believe that even if the economy opens up fully, the travel and tourism industry will not revive for another year,” Dileepsing Beniwal, chairman of the tourism committee, said. The committee held discussions with the transport minister on Wednesday where they put forth their demands. The road tax for a non-AC bus is around Rs 1 lakh per year and that for an air-conditioned bus is about Rs 3 lakh per year. “The buses haven’t moved for four months and the situation is likely to remain the same for the next few months. So the government should first allow movement of buses and passengers with the health advisories and then waive off the road tax with immediate effect,” Beniwal said.He added that allowing transportation will help drivers get back to work and earn some money. “The state of Gujarat and Rajasthan have already waived off the road tax for six months. The state government should also take similar steps and also extend the insurance period by six months,” Beniwal added. There are about 10,000 passenger vehicles in Nashik district. Beniwal also demanded better health car facilities for the people engaged in transportation sector at this point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/transport-assn-for-road-tax-waiver/articleshow/76631274.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Date for submission of plaints by parents advanced to July 2||CHANDIGARH: A day after issuing letters to parents, asking them to file paper-based individual complaints along with affidavit within a day, the UT education department has extended the date for submission of complaints to July 2. The UT education department had sent letters to parents on Wednesday and many did not receive it even till Thursday. Parents have even criticised the department’s one-day deadline and said the department has given multiple deadlines to schools to act on the directives. The department has asked parents to file individual complaints. Earlier, parents had filed complaints against schools through emails and in groups. The complaints have been filed to the fee regulatory committee formed under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to UT Chandigarh in 2018, after schools continued to charge fees from parents without disclosing their financial statements on their websites. Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh parents’ association, said, “The education department continues with its goof-ups. Yesterday, they gave us one-day deadline and today they have extended it by a week. They took over a month to ask for affidavits after receiving these original complaints. They had mentioned in June 24 letter that they will not consider complaints received after June 25, which is insane. They can give repeated extensions to schools to comply with the directives. However, they want parents to follow one-day deadline.” “Even individual complaints, which were submitted with signed affidavits, are kept pending for over a year, and parents are being asked to submit fresh complaints with affidavits in one day,” he added. In an email sent to parents on Thursday, the education department stated that, “In continuation of this mail dated June 24, 2020, time limit for submission of reply or documents has been extended to July 2.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/date-for-submission-of-plaints-by-parents-advanced-to-july-2/articleshow/76633416.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Do not halt irrigation work for monsoon: CM||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to not stop irrigation projects work during this monsoon. The chief minister ordered officials to follow the calendar set for them to complete the on-going irrigation projects. He told them to ensure that required workforce is present at every project to meet the deadline. The chief minister reviewed the status of six irrigation projects, including Polavaram, with the officials of the water resources department, at the camp office on Thursday. He reviewed the status of the Owk tunnel -2, Veligonda head regulator works on tunnel 1, Nellore and Sangam barrage works, Vamsadhara Nagavali interlinking, Vamsadhara Stage 2 of phase II. The officials said Owk tunnel 2 work are in progress and will be ready for inauguration by October as per schedule. There is a 700-metre tunnel to be dug up for the Veligonda project I and will be completed on time to release water by October 2021. Nallamala Sagar work has been completed and permissions secured for rehabilitation and resettlement, the officials told the chief minister. They informed him that the 180-metre eastern tunnel will be completed in the next three months. Efforts are on to complete the Teegaleru canal along with a tunnel. Nellore and Sangam Barrage work are in progress and will be completed by October, they said. Works on Vamsadhara Nagavali will be completed by December. The Phase II work of Vamsadhara are moving ahead and will fill eight tmcft water in the safe zone and by next July it will be completed, the officials informed the chief minister. “We have made arrangement to carry on with the spillway work, barring in August, and the fabricated radial gates will be set from November. The remaining parts of the projects are progressing as scheduled,” the officials said. While the workforce was 3,000 in April, it fell to 900 due to Covid-19 and now with workers coming back it has increased to 2,000, they said. The average height has increased from 28 metres to 47.44 metres, the officials told the chief minister. The chief minister said that the gates should be fixed by November. Keeping the past experience in minds, he said, evacuation work should be carried out in advance from low lying areas and relief and rehabilitation of the displaced people should be carried out. Steps should be taken to claim reimbursement for the Rs 3,791 crore spent so far, he told the officials. Jaganmohan Reddy also said steps should be taken to store water at full reservoir level at Chitravati and Gandikota and remaining land acquisition and rehabilitation should be completed at the earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/do-not-halt-irrigation-work-for-monsoon-cm/articleshow/76632516.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Woman cooks up jewellery theft story||Vadodara: A married woman’s bid to hide the truth of her missing mangalsutra and a ring eventually boomeranged when cops unearthed her story. The woman had to mortgage her jewellery to pay off a loan that she had taken from her employer, but not knowing how to hide the fact from the eyes of the in-laws she cooked up a story of being robbed off by goons near Baroda Dairy on Makarpura road. However, the flavour test failed to pass Makarpura police’s nose which sniffed mischief in the plot on Thursday. The woman, who lives in Tarsali, had reached police station on Wednesday evening with a complaint that her gold necklace was snatched by two men. When cops investigated the spot on Makarpura road, and checked CCTV footage of cameras nearby, they could not find anything suspicious. “There seemed to be nothing odd about the crime spot so we questioned the woman and she finally broke down to admit that she had made up a story,” said inspector R A Patel of Makarpura police station. The woman told police that she had mortgaged her jewellery with a finance company to repay Rs 15,000 which she had borrowed from her employer and her friend. After they wanted their money back, she was forced to mortgage her jewellery. No complaint was registered against the woman as her in-laws came to the police station and settled the issue amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-cooks-up-jewellery-theft-story/articleshow/76631723.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana man booked for cheating, impersonation||CHANDIGARH: The UT police booked a Haryana resident for impersonation and cheating while appearing in the exam for the post of constable/driver-cum-pump operator. Bhag Singh, member of the recruitment board, CISF, Delhi, complained that Sushil, a resident of Busana village, Sonipat, Haryana, had applied for the post of constable/driver and constable/driver-cum-pump operator in CISF 2017. Sushil had qualified in the physical efficiency, trade test and written examination. He appeared in the written examination which was held at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Karsan, Ramdarbar, on February 17, 2019. The accused was called for medical examination in May 2019, where his biometric identification did not match. While verifying the photo of the admit card, hand writing sample and signatures, these too did not match.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-for-cheating-impersonation/articleshow/76633414.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Salem||Woman, lover held for killing hubby||Salem: A 35-year-old woman and her 36-year-old lover were arrested on Thursday for strangulating her husband at his house in Senjikottai area near Suramangalam in the city on June 8 after he chided her for continuing her illicit affair. The Suramangalam police have exhumed the body from the backyard of the house and sent that to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. An investigation officer said V Seddu, 45, of Senjikottai area, has been missing since June 8 and that his brother V Rajendran, 42, had lodged a complaint with them in that regard on Wednesday morning. “He said his brother’s wife Poonkogi has also been missing since June 16.” During inquiry, police came to know Poonkodi had eloped with her lover S Purushothaman about 10 years ago and that she had reunited with Seddu only this February. J Nagarajan, assistant commissioner of police (West), said, “A team inspected the house and came across a recently dug pit, which was covered, in its backyard. Foul smell was emanating from the pit, which was uncovered on Thursday in the presence of tahsildar and recovered the decomposed body.” Meanwhile, police officials got a tip about the hideout of Poonkodi and her lover, and arrested them. “The two have confessed to the crime. They killed him after he chided her for continuing the extra-marital affair,” the officer said. The Suramangalam police have altered the missing case to murder. The accused have been lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/woman-lover-held-for-killing-hubby/articleshow/76633940.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 33 firing: Cops seek production warrant of shooter||Chandigarh: The UT police have sought production warrant of key shooter Nitin Nahar of Amritsar, who was arrested by the Amritsar police in the Sector 33 firing case. Nitin was arrested from near Colour Resorts on Attari road in Amritsar along with his accomplice Bikramjit Singh, who had provided Nahar a safe hideout. The UT police have applied in the court at Amritsar for the production warrant for further interrogation on the hideouts of the three absconding shooters. The police investigation revealed that Nahar is a close associate of gangster Bobby Malhotra, who is lodged in Ferozepur jail and linked to Lawrence Bishnoi gang. The arrested accused have revealed that they had been tasked to carry out such incidents in Punjab, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. A .32 caliber pistol with 40 cartridges and a .315 caliber pistol with 10 cartridges used in the crime were recovered from Nahar’s possession. He was also wanted in three other firing incidents of Amritsar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-33-firing-cops-seek-production-warrant-of-shooter/articleshow/76633409.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Thane||Humanity first: Mosque in Thane's Bhiwandi turns into Covid facility, offers free oxygen beds||BHIWANDI: Putting humanity first, a mosque in Bhiwandi has converted its hall into a makeshift Covid care centre providing oxygen-supported beds to patients awaiting the availability of a hospital bed and also those with breathing problems. The Bhiwandi-Nizampura civic body had recently imposed another 15-day lockdown in the powerloom town, which has one of the highest mortality rates in the state —nearly 5.3%. Till Thursday, the caseload was 1,496 and death toll 91 To help ease the burden on the already strained healthcare system, the local units of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), Movement for Peace and Justice and Shanti Nagar Tr-ust set up the facility at Makkah Masjid on June 18. “Bhiwandi is a congested town, resulting in fast spread of the virus,” said Ausaf Ahmed Falahi of JIH Bhiwandi. “Beds in most hospitals are occupied...As people were unable to get treatment in time, we decided to start this facility in the masjid to do our bit in these trying circumstances.” Coronavirus affects the lungs and patients’ worsen within a day, so this initiative is a boon for many. In the last eight days, more than 108 patients have benefitted from the five oxygen-supported beds at the mosque; they were later shifted to hospitals. Volunteers have also provided 15 oxygen cylinders to the homes of eight patients with mild symptoms, at no cost. The plan is to set up five more beds and get 10 more cylinders. Two doctors visit the patients twice a day, while six medical staffers monitor their health. “Khidmat-e-khalq (service to humanity) is one of the basic tenets of Islam. A mosque is not merely a place of worship, it is supposed to be a community centre working for the welfare of the people. As the masjid was shut to worshippers due to the lockdown, we decided to use the ground-floor hall to help those who need treatment,” said Qaiser Mirza of Shanti Nagar Trust, which manages the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/humanity-first-mosque-in-bhiwandi-turns-into-covid-facility-offers-free-oxygen-beds/articleshow/76633464.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Parents cheer scrapping of CBSE exams||NEW DELHI: Days of uncertainty for lakhs of students finally ended on Thursday with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) stating that the pending board exams would not be held. Students would be evaluated on the basis of the last three school exams, the board added. However, there was no clarity yet on the marking plan. When contacted, the board stated that the matter was sub judice. “The matter has been listed for Friday at 10.30am. Details will be sent out only after the board receives an order.” From July 1 to 15, the board was to conduct exams for 29 main subjects of Classes X and XII after they were deferred due to the northeast riots and the corona crisis. Coomar Arunodya, a parent whose son was to appear for the Class XII exam from Delhi Public School, RK Puram, said, “The cancellation of the exam was important, as safety of kids was at stake. I think students will be evaluated on the basis of average marks of the given board exams. We have to wait for what CBSE states tomorrow.” His son has just one Business Studies paper remaining. Another parent added, “It is such a relief, but everyone has a different interpretation of the last three internal exams. Somebody has told me it will be the average of the marks students have scored in their Class XII. In that case, even pre-boards will be included and the marks will come down. Lack of clarity is adding to our stress.” Her daughter has just Computer Science paper remaining. Teachers and principals told TOI that they were flooded with queries from students on Thursday. “There is so much confusion right now. If the board is saying last exams, I am assuming it is the pre-boards. I doubt it can be the last three subject exams a student has already appeared for. How can marks be given on this basis?” asked Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. Officials at Delhi University’s admission department were also trying to get more clarity as the CBSE results determine the DU’s cutoff and the admission process. Even the students in northeast Delhi were anxious on how they will be evaluated. Meanwhile, Delhi’s deputy chief minister and education minister, Manish Sisodia, tweeted, “Few days ago, I had written a letter to the HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal asking him to cancel the class X and XII exams and students should be promoted on the basis of internal assessment.I am glad that decision was taken today for the welfare of large number of students across the country.” Class XII students can opt for exams to be conducted later, the CBSE told the apex court on Thursday. “The details of the same will be released later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-cheer-scrapping-of-exams/articleshow/76636785.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Kabadiwalas go missing, recycling chain broken in Delhi||NEW DELHI: When was the last time you saw the kabadiwala making the rounds of your locality? It must have been prior to the lockdown. Experts monitoring informal recycling sector are worried that the recycling chain — from wastepickers and kabadiwalas to sorting and recycling units — is now in complete disarray. The lockdown restrictions, migration of labour and lowering of global crude petroleum prices have had an adverse effect on the sector. In Delhi alone, 2-3 lakh informal wastepickers and recyclers are estimated to be engaged in the business with the key centres located in Tikri Kalan, Bawana, Mundka, Bhalswa, Ghazipur and Mandoli. Chitra Mukherjee said the Covid lockdown has impacted the recycling sector more than others. The head of advocacy and policy at NGO Chintan, which works extensively with the wastepicker community, elaborated, “International oil prices have crashed, making virgin plastic cheaper and rendering recycled plastic financially unviable. Recycled plastic used to do well because virgin plastic was expensive.” Environment experts are urging Delhi government to provide Covid relief to wastepickers, on the lines of those given to construction workers and vendors, because there are no buyers for the recyclable materials they collect. The city’s estimated 50,000 ragpickers play a critical role in reducing the burden on landfills, keeping waste management sustainable and promoting recycling and segregation. They carry out 95% of the recycling in Delhi and prevent 3.6 times more greenhouse gases than any project in India that gets carbon credits. Jay Prakash Choudhary, secretary of Safai Sena, a grouping of over 12,000 waste collectors, junk dealers and recyclers, said the sector has been financially wrecked to the extent that many have left the city. “While the government did not help, residents did not allow our members to collect waste. Units that bought the collected material have also closed down,” he said. Swati Sambyal, Delhi-based expert in solid municipal waste management, said the absence of kabadiwalas in colonies showed that inter-linkages in the informal recycling have been disrupted. “Incentivising people is one way to ensure that these players return to business, while training low-skill recyclers will create an asset,” Sambyal suggested. “We should now explore plans to establish domestic recycling units and look at decentralised holistic solution to revive the informal economy” The current environment is a risk to those who are still engaged in waste collection. “While hospital employees have been trained to dispose of biomedical waste, the trash generated in containment zones is a health hazard. It is important to brief waste collectors and establish a monitoring mechanism,” advised Dr Rajat Arora, cardiologist and co-founder, Genestrings Lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kabadiwalas-go-missing-recycling-chain-broken/articleshow/76633439.cms||Paras Singh
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Railwayman fights Corona stigma||Ahmedabad: A famous ubiquitous slogan against the coronavirus advises people to fight corona, but not discriminate against its patients. A railways employee from the city implemented this on Thursday, as he celebrated his birthday amongst his colleagues in the Covid-19 ward of a private hospital in Satellite. An employee of the Ahmedabad division of Western Railway, Sanjay Suryabali, celebrated his 45th birthday with five railways colleagues. It was an unusual party, as the birthday boy was in a PPE suit. Suryabali met his colleagues, inquired about their health and they wished him a happy birthday. They then cut a cake in the hospital along with doctors, nurses and other medical workers. “Many of my friends and relatives advised me not to go to the Covid-19 ward saying I would get the infection. I did not heed them, as I wanted to the break the stigma associated with the virus,” said Suryabali, the divisional organising secretary of the Western Railways Employees Union (WREU). Suryabali said that he has been working among Covid patients, mainly from the railways, for three months, so he did not take a break on his birthday as well. “We have lost 14 persons from the railway family to corona and 80 persons have been infected so far. There was a dire need to stand with them in such a trying time and I did it,” he said. One patient, whom Suryabali met on his birthday, expressed his gratitude and said he was like a family member. “Our family may forget about attending to us but not Sanjay,” he said. A railway employee and general secretary of WREU, Misbah-ul Hasan, said that no one would ever think of celebrating his birthday in the way Suryabali did. “We proud of him as he did a service to humanity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/railwayman-fights-corona-stigma/articleshow/76633444.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Monsoon yet to pick up pace in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The southwest monsoon is yet to gain momentum in the district. The southwest monsoon, which usually sets in the first week of June, is the main source of water for reservoirs in Ooty and Gudalur taluks. However, this year, the monsoon is yet to gain pace in the Nilgiris, especially in the upper plateau of the hills. But Devala, Pandalur, Padanthorai and Cherumulli, all located on the Kerala border of the district, have been receiving moderate rainfall. While Kilkotagiri received 15mm of rain, Ooty recorded 8.5mm ending 24 hours at 7am on Thursday. Ketti and Coonoor received 11mm and 7mm of rainfall respectively. Dr S P Ramanathan, head, agro climate research centre, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, said, “This year the monsoon is going to be normal in almost all the districts, including the Nilgiris, in the state. Though the southwest monsoon has set in, it will pick up in another week or 10 days. It will start intensifying only from the second week of July.” August and September will witness more rain due to the southwest monsoon. Farmers could initiate preparatory work for cultivation so that the rain in July will favour the crops, Ramanathan said. Ooty municipal officials said almost all the reservoirs, including Parsons Valley, meant for water supply to Ooty town are having satisfactory levels of water to cater to the people. “However, rain in the coming days will increase the water levels in the reservoirs,” an official said. “As predicted by TNAU, if the monsoon is going to be normal and active in the months of August and September, tea gardens and vegetable cultivation in the hill district will benefit,” said L Kannan, a farmer in Ooty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monsoon-yet-to-pick-up-pace-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76633941.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: JCP quarantines self after 10 staff test +ve for Covid||LUCKNOW: The office of the joint commissioner of police law and order (JCP-LO) and the 108 ambulance services were sealed for 48 hours from Thursday afternoon after eight constables and four call centre employees tested positive for Covid-19. JCP-LO Naveen Arora decided to quarantine himself at home for 10 days and work from home, while the 108-service will run from another centre operating 102 ambulance services. Altogether 40 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 956 so far, of which 614 have been discharged after recovery, while 17 could not survive. All the cops in the JCP-LO office on Nabibullah Road were tested after a constable was diagnosed with the disease on Tuesday, of which eight deployed in escort, guard and telephone duties came positive on Thursday, while 21 others who tested negative were asked to home quarantine themselves for 10 days. “We have asked all cops returning from leaves to get themselves tested for Covid-19 before joining duty,” Arora told TOI. Two cops in the security duty of the leader of opposition in state assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary, and his orderly also tested positive. Chaudhary had been diagnosed with the disease two days ago. The GVK EMRI call centre in Aashiana that attends calls from across the state for providing 108 ambulance services was sealed after test reports of four of its employees, including three women and a man, came positive on Thursday. The staff was tested after one of the members was diagnosed with the disease a couple of days ago. “Both the offices have been sealed for 48 hours for sanitisation,” said the chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. GVK EMRI spokesperson Sunil Yadav said 108 ambulance services will not be affected as extra manpower will work from the other centre in a different building that operates 102 ambulance services. Other cases included a 21-year-old girl pursuing MBBS from Kazakhstan who had returned on June 22 and a housekeeping staff of the Base hospital. Earlier, cases in bulk have been reported from PAC, GRP, UP112 and CM Helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jcp-quarantines-self-after-10-staff-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/76633943.cms||Yusra Husain
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali eateries get poor response, suffer 85% losses||MOHALI: Restaurants and eateries are facing a poor response from customers after the Punjab government allowed dine-in facility with 50 per cent occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less, to serve food, including buffet meals till 8 pm. Restaurant owners have, however, claimed that they have sustained 85% loss of business on daily bases till date due to the Covid-19 lockdown. They said that people are still scared and not comfortable coming out of their houses and have food at restaurants. During the reality checks by TOI, all popular restaurants in Mohali wore a deserted look and only one or two tables were seen occupied by customers in a few restaurants. Gurmeet Singh Khalsa, owner of Khalsa Dhaba in Phase V, Mohali, said, “We have lost 85% of business daily due to the lockdown. After reopening, we still do not have customers as all tables are empty. Earlier, we used to earn Rs 50,000 as business daily, but from the past three months, we did not get sales of even Rs 10,000. The government must review its decision of closing the timing of 8 pm.” Another restaurant owner, Surjit Singh of Sher-e-Punjab Dhaba, said, “We may start getting dine-in customers within one month, but as of now, no one is opting to come here to sit and have food. People prefer to stand outside and eat, but do not prefer sitting inside. We have been losing business constantly.” The owners said earlier customers used to visit them around 7.30 pm for dinner and they used to wind up by 11 pm. But now, under special conditions, the closing time of the restaurants is 8 pm and this is not a feasible decision as no customer will come early to have dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-eateries-get-poor-response-suffer-85-losses/articleshow/76633418.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: War on one pandemic brings another back||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s fight against single-use plastic items was slowly gaining momentum with restaurants, for one, opting for paper cutlery and straws. The National Green Tribunal has also ordered e-commerce companies to limit the use of plastic and to set up plastic waste collection centres. The Covid lockdown not only halted this progress, but has also led to growing use of plastic items such as goggles, face shields, masks, gloves, head and shoe covers, even coveralls. Experts feel the gains made over the last year have, to a large extent, been nullified in this period. A study estimates that Delhi generates 690 tonnes of plastic each day, with just 20% of that eventually recycled. Before Covid-related plastic waste, the biggest problems in Delhi, as determined by a study by NGO Chintan, were tetrapacks and milk packets. Ashish Jain, founder director of NGO Indian Pollution Control Association, said the plastic in PPE items is unsuitable for recycling. “The plastic consumption pattern has once again changed, and it has made a big return in medical accessories like masks and gloves, which are not recommended for recycling. The door-to-door collection system has also been compromised,” said Jain. Chitra Mukherjee, head of policy at Chintan, an environmental research and action group, rued, “Industries are trying to propagate the view that due to the pandemic we should start using more disposables and single-use plastic.” She highlighted the fact that administrative enforcement has been derailed somewhat due to entire official setup busy tackling the coronavirus. “The Covid virus survives on plastic surface for three days. People should opt for reusable cutlery,” she pointed out. With people house-bound and relying on online shopping, there’s worry about an increase in plastic packaging. “Some businesses are showing the way forward by using paper, some deliver even grocery without packaging,” said Mukherjee. “This means options are available. People should be aware that there has been so much largely plastic biomedical waste generation that we should not add to the load.” Priti Mahesh, programme coordinator at Toxics Link, an NGO dealing with environmental poisoning, said the return of single-use plastic is a setback. “Plastic cutlery gets dumped after one use and people are also not reusing plastic bags or recycling packaging material for fear of corona infection,” said Mahesh. “Alternatives can easily be pushed into the market to make deliveries safer and more environment friendly.” In August 2017, NGT imposed an interim ban on plastic less than 50 microns in thickness, imposing a fine of Rs 5,000 on violators. After an initial flurry, the figures of violators dwindled due probably to lack of enforcement. The plastic ends up at landfill sites, drains and water bodies, causing metals like lead and cadmium bleaching into underground water. Swati Sambyal, a municipal waste expert based in Delhi, said that even in the states where plastic was banned, people were reverting to single-use plastic items due a perception that it is safer. “This myth needs to be addressed. People feel that if you cover things with layers and layers of packing, they are less contaminating,” she said. “Till October, over 15 states had banned plastic, and guidelines were being formulated on phasing it out. That momentum is somewhat lost. We have to refocus on addressing this misinformation, strengthen waste management and promote segregation at source.” Watch Delhi: Single-use plastic ban loses momentum in war against COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/war-on-one-pandemic-brings-another-back/articleshow/76633423.cms||Paras Singh
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||With 8 agenda items, multi-level parking upkeep gets approval||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Thursday held its monthly finance and contract committee (F&CC) meeting and passed over eight agenda items. Agenda items regarding maintenance and functioning of multi-level parking in Sector 17 have also been approved along with engaging outsourced staff through GeM portal. The committee has also given approval to laying of water supply pipeline to booster near in the Industrial Area Phase II. This will be done at a cost of Rs 29.34 lakh. Taking crucial decision, the F&CC also approved the reserve price at Rs 38.50 lakh for six years on lease basis of mango, jamun, litchi, chickoo, guava, loquat, pomegranate, kathal and peach fruits trees along the Purv Marg. Allotment of nursery sites at Mauli Jagran village in Chandigarh and running of animal birth control programme has also been approved. Free parking to the employees of the municipal corporation of Chandigarh has also been approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-8-agenda-items-multi-level-parking-upkeep-gets-approval/articleshow/76633426.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Made-in-China airport utility reaches Kolkata, beats import bump by a whisker||KOLKATA: A passenger facility at Kolkata airport that was threatening to become a casualty in the China-India skirmish 2,500-km away has managed to scrape through by the skin of its teeth. The final consignment of automatic tray retrieval system (ATRS) from Shanghai in China reached the airport on Monday, putting to rest fears that the Rs 36-crore project could get caught in the ban cry against Chinese products following anger fuelled by the brutal killing of 20 Indian soldiers by Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, Ladakh, on June 15. ATRS is meant to automatically send trays, on which passengers place cabin baggage items for screening, back to the preparation area for others to use. The system enables CISF officers to screen twice the number of bags than they currently do in an hour. “We were rather tensed about the fate of the ATRS consignment that began arriving in batches earlier this month. Two consignments were still en-route when tensions with China flared up. Thankfully, they have now arrived, the last of them this Monday, barely hours before Customs clearance of Chinese goods into Kolkata port and airport got held up,” said an official. The project that was to be completed much earlier got caught in the coronavirus pandemic. The first delay was owing to travel restrictions on Chinese nationals to stop the spread of Covid-19. “ATRS was installed on two cabin baggage X-ray lines in December 2019 as a pilot project. The equipment for 10 more X-ray lines were initially slated to arrive from China in March after AAI officials were satisfied with the utility and functioning of the system. But the pandemic delayed the delivery. Now that all equipment has arrived, engineers from Nuctech’s Indian subsidiary will begin installing the system,” said the official. The installation will take around two months. But with the current passenger count barely a fifth of what it was before the lockdown grounded flights for two months, there is no hurry in commissioning ATRS in the other lines. Though 70-odd flights are currently operating daily against 240 prior to Covid, the passenger count is yet to pick up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/made-in-china-airport-utility-reaches-city-beats-import-bump-by-a-whisker/articleshow/76633433.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Octogenarian confirmed to be first Covid fatality in Mysuru||Mysuru: It was confirmed that Mysuru reported its first Covid-19 death, with an 87-year-old man who had travelled from Bengaluru and stayed at his daughter’s place here, having passed away at a hospital here on Wednesday. DC Abhiram G Sankar said the 87-year-old man had cardiac issues and arrived from Bengaluru on June 15. He took treatment in a private hospital in KR Nagar town and was then shifted to a private hospital in Mysuru city on June 23. He died on Wednesday morning and his swab tested positive for the novel coronavirus the same evening. A total 22 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mysuru on Thursday. Three of them are children, who are primary contacts of Covid-19 patients. An eight-month-old baby boy is the youngest among them. The other two children who tested positive are boys aged 1 and seven. Of the 22 cases, 7 are primary contacts of Covid-19 patients, two have a travel history from outside Karnataka, and seven have come from other districts. Three among them are police personnel, and a pregnant woman, healthcare provider and truck driver have also tested positive. Mysuru’s tally has reached 220 cases with the addition of these cases. About 15 patients were discharged in the district, bringing down the count of active cases to 92. So far, 127 patients have been cured and discharged in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/octogenarian-confirmed-to-be-first-covid-fatality-in-mysuru/articleshow/76631272.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmers’ groups want Rythu Bima to cover tenant ryots||HYDERABAD: Farmers’ groups and experts in the field have urged the government to expand the scope of Rythu Bima so that landless tenant farmers are also covered by the insurance scheme. Presently, there are 54 lakh farmers as per official records. The scheme was extended to 31.24 lakh eligible farmers in 2018-19 and the number went up to 32.09 lakhs the next year. Experts want the government to cover more number of farmers in the wake of a large number of deaths in their community. “But, there is no count as to how many landless tenant farmers have died of natural causes or by suicide. That is why we want insurance cover for more number of farmers” Ravi Kanneganti of Rythu Swarajya Vedika said. Under the scheme, if a farmer having a pattadar passbook dies, his family will get Rs 5 lakh towards insurance. Since the time Rythu Bima was introduced in August 2018, 26,698 farmers had died — among them 18,920 were natural deaths. Kisan cell vice-president Anvesh Reddy demanded that the government take the family of a farmer as a unit to meet the eligibility. “In many areas, the agriculture land will be under some one else’s name and cultivator will be another. It is better to to take the family as a unit to provide insurance,” he said. Since the time Rythu Bima was introduced, 26,698 farmers had died — among them 18,920 were natural deaths. Presently, there are 54 lakh farmers as per official records||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-groups-want-rythu-bima-to-cover-tenant-ryots/articleshow/76633429.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Suspected Covid-19 patient kills self at SSG Hospital||VADODARA: A suspected Covid-19 patient ended his life at the isolation ward of SSG Hospital in the early hours of Thursday. Satish Nayak, (35) a resident of Handod village of Karjan taluka, stabbed himself with shards of glass from the hospital bathroom window. Hospital sources said that Nayak went to the bathroom around 4am in the isolation ward. When he did not come out of the bathroom, hospital staff broke open the door and found Nayak in a pool of blood. “We immediately tried to resuscitate him, but he succumbed during treatment. We have sent his body for a postmortem and are waiting the report as well as that of his Covid-19 test,” said Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, superintendent of SSG Hospital. Nayak was admitted to the isolation ward on Wednesday night after he complained of cough, cold, fever and breathlessness. His samples were collected but his reports were awaited. “He was suffering from severe breathlessness when he was admitted, but it is not known why he took the extreme step,” said Nayak’s cousin, Kishan. He was a farm labourer in his village and is survived by his parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/suspected-covid-19-patient-kills-self-at-ssg-hospital/articleshow/76633455.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why that cheap hand sanitiser may prove costly||NEW DELHI: Cheaper versions of hand sanitisers that use methanol instead of isopropyl alcohol and don’t contain moisturising components are worrying skin specialists. Doctors report a growing incidence of skin infections, rashes and allergy due to the use of such sanitisers. Dermatologists contend that washing hands with a moisturising soap is better than using dubious sanitisers, especially those synthetically coloured. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine department, Max Healthcare Hospital, said methanol-based sanitisers are also a problem in the United States. “Methanol is toxic both if ingestion and absorbed through skin and can adversely affect the central nervous system, causing headache, giddiness, vomiting, abdominal pain and drowsiness,” Tickoo said. He added that methanol gets converted into formaldehyde in the body, affecting the kidneys and, in some cases, causing blindness. Around a week ago, the US Food and Drug Administration issued an advisory against using hand sanitiser with the “presence of methanol (wood alcohol), a substance that can be toxic when absorbed through the skin or ingested”. Dr Harish Gupta, member of National Medical Commission and Delhi Medical Council, said research reports showed proven ability of 70% isopropyl alcohol to kill coronaviruses. “We do not have any research on methanol products and their efficacy,” he remarked. However, to increase the profit margins, many producers are putting public health at risk. Dr Kabir Sardana, professor of dermatology at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, the number of people coming with skin allergies has increased. “Healthcare workers, patients and non-patients who use these products, especially those that are coloured, are reporting skin irritation,” he said. “The combination of excessive skin-drying soaps, alcohol sanitisers and hard water is causing hand eczema.” Walled city resident and BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has drawn the attention of authorities to the storing and sale of methanol hand sanitisers in the old Delhi chemical markets. Kapoor told TOI, “The market is flooded with two kinds of spurious sanitisers. One has a little ethanol mixed with water, colour and essence, while the other has methanol. In Tilak Bazar, Sadar Bazar and a few small markets, people are openly making methanol and ethanol concentrates and selling them as hand sanitisers.” Kapoor’s letter to the lieutenant governor pointed out that just four months ago, sanitisers had up to 49% isopropyl alcohol combined with glycerine, perfume, distilled water and some chemical substances. “Dettol’s 200ml bottle sold at Rs 265 in March, but the stress today is on cheap sanitisers,” Kapoor’s letter rued. Watch Cheap hand sanitisers may prove costly, warn dermatologists||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-that-cheap-hand-sanitiser-may-prove-costly/articleshow/76633451.cms||Paras Singh
June 26, 2020||Salem||Med stores to remain shut till 11am today||Salem: Members of Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association have decided to close all the medical stores up to 11am on Friday to condemn the custodial death of father-son duo at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. General secretary of the association K K Selvan said, “We are extending our support to all merchants by closing our medical stores up to 11 am on Friday.” Selvan urged the state government to issue solatium of Rs 2 crore to victims’ families instead of Rs 20 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/med-stores-to-remain-shut-till-11am-today/articleshow/76633951.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Long wait for test report irks many in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On Thursday, a north Delhi resident and her two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, both Covid-positive patients, spent the entire day at the Narela care centre waiting anxiously for a report from the district surveillance officer (DSO). The report was to be the deciding factor whether they could go back to the comfort of their home or be lodged at the health facility. “The woman said she had adequate facilities for home isolation, but we didn’t get the report today. We couldn’t discharge them,” said Dr Ishrat Kafeel, the chief minister’s representative at the Narela centre, the capital’s first and one of the biggest facilities. “Such occurrences are a huge problem as testing centres have been sending positive patients to the centres directly for screening. The patients don’t want to stay at the centre and prefer to go home, but we have to abide with the orders,” he added. A new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) from lieutenant governor Anil Baijal passed earlier this week had made it mandatory for all Covid-positive people, even those who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, to visit the care centres for screening. The order, which was finally reversed on Thursday, had been criticised by Delhi government. The assessment of a person as symptomatic, asymptomatic, mild, moderate or severe will now be done at the testing centres and all patients won’t be directed to Covid care centres. The footfall at care centres was abysmally low since the new SOPs came into place. Though figures for Wednesday and Thursday were not available, the total number of patients who had come for screening was 294 on Monday and 144 the next day. The highest combined footfall of Monday and Tuesday was 81 at the Dwarka Sector 16 care centre, followed by Narela, which screened 79 patients in these two days. The Mandoli centre catered to 62 patients, Terapanth Bhavan 61 and Saket 59. In fact, eight centres didn’t see a single patient in these two days, including the ones at Tughlaqabad, Pusa Road, Rouse Avenue and two in Okhla. “The turnout of patients was very low on Thursday compared with the previous few days,” Kafeel said, adding that the reversal of the order comes as a big relief for doctors, healthcare personnel and government employees involved in the process. “The report by the team that visited a patient’s house to check for home isolation facilities took six hours or more to reach the care centre. The patients had no option but to wait in the heat. The long procedure was a huge burden on us,” he added. An official at a south Delhi care centre said, “When patients were informed that they would have to stay back, they protested vehemently. Most prefer home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/long-wait-for-test-report-irks-many/articleshow/76633465.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 26, 2020||Salem||Salem reports 59 indigenous, 30 imported cases||Salem: The district saw another single day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday when 89 tested positive for the virus. At least 30 of them were imported cases. Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, said, “We have reported 59 indigenous and 30 imported cases on Thursday. With this, the district’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 494. Of them, 271 are active cases.” District collector S A Raman said their main focus was on treating symptomatic patients and those with comorbidities in Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. The neighbouring Erode, meanwhile, reported five new cases. Pointing out that the district hasn’t reported any imported case so far, Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services, said, “Our Covid-19 count has now gone up to 96. We have been quarantining every person entering the district from other states and districts.” Presently, the district has 22 active cases. While Namakkal and Dharmapuri districts saw one each novel coronavirus case, Krishnagiri district did not report any new case. There are only three active cases in Namakkal, which has reported 90 cases so far. Dharmapuri has 28 active cases. The district’s Covid-19 tally stands at 47 now. Krishnagiri, which has reported 73 cases till date, has 39 active patients, who are getting treatment at the ESI Hospital in Hosur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-reports-59-indigenous-30-imported-cases/articleshow/76633944.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||No takers, Kochi hostels on the verge of closure||KOCHI: She Nest Ladies hostel on Chilavanoor Road was quite popular among boarders. Though lockdown restrictions were eased early this month and hostels were allowed to function, proprietors of this hostel have decided to shut down its operations. Similar situations could be seen at many hostels across the city. The couple who ran She Nest said while many of their inmates lost jobs, others were working from home and students too are at their homes as colleges and coaching centres remained shut. “We took the building on rent. Even though the hostel was closed in March due to lockdown, we had to pay the rent and other bills till June. Keeping the hostel open for a few is not a financially viable option. Families are also reluctant to send their dear ones to hostels due to fear of community spread of Covid-19,” said the couple. Before lockdown, they had around 30 inmates and none have turned up even since lockdown restrictions were relaxed. The Kerala state hostel owners’ association joint secretary Valsamma Rajan said hostel proprietors are finding it difficult to survive since lockdown. “As IT firms and other large-scale employers opt for work from home system, employees who used to reside in hostels have either vacated or are preparing to leave. Employees who are residents of neighbouring districts and have cars chose to drive for work,” she said. Due to pandemic outbreak, hostels have been asked to enforce strict social distancing norms. According to Rajan, 75% of hostels provide bunker beds. She further explained that if a hostel has a capacity to accommodate 40 inmates, to make it financially viable they should at least have 30 inmates on a regular basis. “Generally, a building which accommodates 40 inmates will have space to place 20 beds. The rest are accommodated on bunker beds. After Covid protocols came into effect, most hostels have limited the number of inmates in a room to two. Naturally, they will be forced to hike hostel fees or rent,” she added. Even hostels which provide single room accommodation are finding it difficult to manage as the number of inmates have drastically come down. According to hostel owners’ association, while a section of building owners has agreed to write off the rent for the lockdown period, others are insisting to pay. “Hotels are generally run by women who explore the possibilities of self-employment. Closing of hostels means loss of livelihood,” said Lathika from Thykkattussery who runs Lakshmi Ladies hostel on Mullaserry Canal Road. However, hostels operated by trusts or associations which have network and backing have been managing without much hurdles. Sources with SNV Sadanam working women’s hostel said prior to the outbreak of Covidv-19 they had more than 400 inmates. “We reopened on June 1. Now there are around 90 inmates, which include women working in both private and public sector, students undergoing internships as well as a few students who have exams,” said a staffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-takers-city-hostels-on-the-verge-of-closure/articleshow/76632556.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||ACB grills Atchannaidu at GGH, Naidu criticises YSRC on Twitter||Guntur: Tension prevailed at Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, in the early hours of Thursday following speculation that hospital authorities were making attempts to abruptly discharge the ailing former minister and TDP legislator K Atchannaidu to facilitate anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths to take him into custody. The ACB on June 24 had secured permission from the court to grill Atchannaidu in connection with the multi-crore ESI scandal. However, the ACB court at Mangalagiri directed it to interrogate the former minister, who was in judicial remand, at the GGH. However, the speculation that ACB was exerting pressure on the GGH authorities to discharge the former minister so that they could shift him to the ACB office for questioning created flutter in TDP circles. TDP cadre, headed by former ministers Alapati Rajendraprasad and Nakka Anand Babu, reached GGH and staged protest demanding that Atchannaidu should not be discharged since he has not fully recovered. Surprisingly, neither GGH nor ACB authorities tried to clarify the issue. By evening, an ACB team headed by a DSP reached the surgery ward and started grilling Atchannaidu. According to sources, it had prepared a detailed questionnaire. Atchnnaidu was questioned in the presence of his advocate. A team of medical officers were deployed in the ward to attend to him. Atchannaidu was arrested in Nimmada at Srikakulam district a day after undergoing surgery on June 12. He, however underwent another surgery at GGH as his surgical wounds reopened while travelling. Meanwhile, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu took to Twitter to criticise the government for allegedly harassing Atchannaidu. TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh will reach Nimmada on Friday to meet the family members of Atchannaidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acb-grills-atchannaidu-at-ggh-naidu-criticises-ysrc-on-twitter/articleshow/76632539.cms||Samdani MN
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||One more Andhra Pradesh MLA tests Covid-19 positive||TIRUPATI: Two days after a legislator from Vizianagaram district tested positive for Covid-19, another ruling party MLA’s sample returned positive on Thursday. The legislator is from Kurnool district, which continues to top the Covid-19 caseload in the state. Officials are now trying to identify all contacts of the legislator who need to be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-more-ap-mla-tests-positive/articleshow/76633454.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan to launch debate series||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Keeping in tune with the trend of political leaders and subject experts hosting sessions during the pandemic times, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would launch a debate series titled ‘Kerala Dialogue’ on his social media pages. The chief minister would interact with experts in various fields on the challenges and possibilities the state may encounter in post-Covid scenario. Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, philosopher, cognitive scientist and political activist Noam Chomsky and paediatrician and clinical scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan will kick-start the series, said the chief minister’s office. The trio would speak on ‘Kerala: Future Development Plan’ in the first episode of the programme to be broadcast on CM’s social media pages on Friday. “Scientists, philosophers, economists, writers, journalists, activists, people’s representatives and technology experts who have proved their mettle on a global scale would participate in the interactive programme,” the CMO said. Senior journalist N Ram and Kerala Planning Board vice-chairman V K Ramachandran would be moderators of the programme. Among political leaders in Kerala, MLA V D Satheesan of Congress party was the first to launch an interaction programme with leaders and subject experts on the challenges and possibilities that Covid-19 would bring to Kerala. Technopark founder CEO and former state planning board member G VIjayaraghavan had also initiated a webinar on the possibilities and challenges to the state in the post-Covid scenario.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-to-launch-debate-series/articleshow/76632567.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||BJP rips into Mundhe for Covid spread, Cong defends civic chief||Nagpur: The NMC’s general body meeting spilled over to fifth day as war of words between ruling BJP and Congress corporators continued even after Thursday’s 7-hour-long discussion on adjournment motions tabled by Shiv Sena and Congress corporators. Finally, mayor Sandip Joshi adjourned the House till 11am of Friday, yet another record for the. Senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari continued to target municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. Tiwari blamed NMC’s mismanagement for the spread of coronavirus in Satranjipura, Mominpura, Naik Talao-Bangladesh and other areas in the city. “The civic body’s casual approach stood exposed when two migrants from Hansapuri shelter home tested positive after they reached their hometown in Balaghat. Later, 11 more inmates tested positive. Instead of quarantining the shelter home staff, the NMC quarantined families living around it,” Tiwari claimed. He also slammed the civic chief for taking over 52 NIT gardens despite a House resolution as the move would have increased the civic body’s financial burden by Rs2 crore per year. Tiwari said the civic chief has reduced budgetary allocation for medicines to be procured for 57 clinics and three hospitals run by NMC to Rs50 lakh. Now, each hospital will get mere Rs268 per day for medicines. “If he is so serious about improving and strengthening medical facilities, how will he manage the 450-bedded hospitals in the city now,” he asked. Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe said since Mundhe’s appointment as NMC chief, BJP corporators are raising a hue and cry and claiming the civic chief has taken away their powers. “We have been witness to BJP misusing powers for last many years,” he said. Blaming BJP for civic body’s poor financial condition, Gudadhe said the NMC failed to tap new sources of revenue over the last three terms and instead solely remained dependent on state grants. He asked the mayor to institute inquiry into frequent damage of sewage line chambers. Despite financial crisis, the NMC continued to pay heavy penalty for defaulting on dues and paid huge amounts to private security agencies, he said. Former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke urged mayor to bring no-confidence motion against municipal commissioner for treating elected representatives as “thieves”. “Fourteen transfers in 14 years is not a thing Mundhe should be proud of,” said Datke, adding chief minister should recall the officer who is exercising his executive powers in autocratic manner. “Mundhe is publicity hungry and spread false information for that,” he said. He also cited many examples to prove his claims like Nag river cleaning, Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang etc. Datke also ridiculed the NMC’s decision of spending Rs52 per person for transporting cooked food from the Satsang kitchen. “Had the NMC provided them a place in the city, this expenditure too could have been saved,” he pointed out. Datke also raised the issue of “goondaism” by Nuisance Detection Squad, a charge which was supported by Congress corporator Purhsottam Hazare. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said corporators don’t have financial powers so there is no chance of their involvement in corruption. BSP corporator Vaishali Narnaware blamed the civic chief for deteriorating civic amenities in North Nagpur. She demanded the mayor to initiate disciplinary action against Mundhe for leaving the House midway on Saturday. Tiwari targets ‘Junior Mundhe’ Dayashankar Tiwari trained guns at deputy chief medical officer (NMC) Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Neelu Chimurkar for running a private hospital in Dhantoli despite being on NMC payroll. He even alleged that Dr Neelu has political ambitions as she had sought ticket for the last year’s assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh. She had also campaigned for Congress, he said. Tiwari termed Dr Gantawar as ‘Junior Mundhe’ for replacing chair and table with a bed in his ante-chamber in Indira Gandhi Rugnalay (IGR) in Gandhi Nagar. This, he said, is fishy and cited a woman paramedical staff hinting at some misdeeds happening there. He didn’t elaborate. He claimed that then chief medical officer Dr Anil Chiwane on May 15, 2019, had issued a show cause notice to Dr Neelu for remaining absent from the IGR, while Dr Gantawar signed the muster for his wife. Despite complaint against Dr Gantawar couple to Mundhe by a civic activist Madan Thool on February 14, no action has been initiated. Instead, Dr Gantawar had been promoted, said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-rips-into-mundhe-for-covid-spread-cong-defends-civic-chief/articleshow/76633462.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 26, 2020||Delhi||3,390 new cases; Covid count touches 73,780 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid-19 count touched 73,780 on Thursday with 3,390 new cases. The number of deaths due to the disease in the national capital is now 2,429, including 64 fresh fatalities confirmed by the state health department. Since last Thursday, the case count in the city has breached the 3,000-mark on six out of seven days. On Wednesday, Delhi had witnessed 3,788 cases. On Friday, the number was 3,947, the highest single-day spike here. On the brighter side, as many as 44,765 patients—61% of total cases—have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases is 26,586. Of this, the officials said, 6,241 are admitted in various Covid hospitals, while 1,585 and 211 are recuperating in Covid health centres and Covid care centres. The remaining patients are under home isolation, officials said. “The numbers are going up as tests have increased. In the last 24 hours, Delhi tested 17,305 for Covid-19 of which 3,390 (20%) tested positive,” said an official. He added that a total of 4,38,012 tests had been conducted till date — 23,053 tests per million population. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around six per cent every day, as per government data. Despite increasing cases, bed availability has stabilised. On Thursday, real-time status of bed availability across Covid hospitals showed 53% general beds and 34% ventilator beds were still lying vacant. “Delhi cases are likely to go up further in the next few weeks. Infection has spread to different parts of the city. The only way to prevent the crisis situation is to follow social distancing measures and wear masks while going out,” said a senior doctor at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences. The doctor added that people should not get complacent about this virus as its transmission rate was very high. Persons with comorbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension and a compromised immunity, need to be extra careful and avoid going out, if avoidable, say doctors. They add that such persons require institutional quarantine on contracting the novel coronavirus infection regardless of the severity of symptoms because they are most vulnerable to developing serious complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3390-new-cases-covid-count-touches-73780/articleshow/76633461.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Restaurant frequented by 2 ex-CMs to shut shop||Mysuru: Hotel Ramya Mahendra, a restaurant frequented by former chief ministers S Bangarappa and Siddaramaiah, is closing down after four decades. Unable to bear the economic costs inflicted by the pandemic, the restaurant’s owner Mahendra has decided to shut shop, as there is no immediate sign of recovery. It was a favourite of Bangarappa and Siddaramaiah. The restaurant was famous for its dosas. Bangarappa never missed eating dosas at this restaurant whenever he visited Mysuru, and invariably held press meets at Hotel Ramya Mahendra. The restaurant will slip into the pages of history on Sunday, which will be its last day of business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/restaurant-frequented-by-2-ex-cms-to-shut-shop/articleshow/76631309.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Photocopies of online answersheets okayed||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board has said that it would give photocopies of some papers attempted online by students of Class XII from this year. The MSBSHSE conducts online examinations for some subjects – such as information technology (IT). However, it had not been providing photocopies of the answersheets to the students seeking re-evaluation. Generally, after the board exam results are announced, if the students are doubtful about marks secured in any subject, they can seek the photocopies of answersheets by paying the requisite amount. Submitting the photocopies is essential to get the papers re-evaluated. Now, the same process will be applicable to students who appear for online examinations for some subjects. Detailed guidelines will be announced soon by the Board, which will decide upon the processes that students need to follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/photocopies-of-online-answersheets-okayed/articleshow/76631314.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ernakulam among 5 districts put on orange alert today||KOCHI: Orange alert has been issued for five districts of southern and central Kerala on Friday. Issuing the alert, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20cm in 24 hours in Pathanamthitta. Some areas of Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Ernakulam are expected to receive very heavy rainfall of more than 11-20cm. Yellow alert has been issued for Idukki and Thrissur on Friday. There is an extreme heavy rainfall alert for Wayanad on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod have been put on yellow alert on Saturday. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala with coastal areas feeling the impact of high waves in the range of 3.0-3.2m from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds vary between 43-59cm/sec. Fishermen have been asked to stay away from the sea. The state did not receive much rainfall on Thursday. Irikkur recorded the highest rainfall at 5cm while Kannur, Vaikom, Thodupuzha and Chittur recorded 3cm rainfall each. The Kerala state disaster management authority has asked all district administrations to be on alert. Meanwhile, the state has recorded 17% rainfall deficiency in the first month of the southwest monsoon. Only Kannur and Kozhikode got excess rainfall while it was deficient in Ernakulam, Idukki, Kollam, Palakkad, Thrissur and Wayanad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-among-5-districts-put-on-orange-alert-today/articleshow/76632564.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops not to get leave in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: To strictly implement Unlock 1.0, the Gujarat home department has issued a notification on Thursday directing the DGP, range IGs, DSPs and other senior police officers not to grant leaves to cops without serious reasons.  “For the effective implementation of Unlock 1.0, it is necessary that police personnel remain active in the field. Therefore, all police officers as well as lower rank police personnel are advised not to demand leave unless it is for medical or any other unavoidable reason,” the notification said. Following the central government’s guidelines, the Gujarat government had announced relaxations in lockdown starting from June 1, 2020, a phase popularly called Unlock 1.0. As many as 29,001 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat so far. Of these, 1,736 have died from the infection, and 21,096 persons have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-not-to-get-leave/articleshow/76633467.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||As council fate continues to hang in balance, Dokka set for return||Amaravati: Former minister Dokka Manikyavaraprasad on Thursday submitted his nomination papers as a YSRC nominee for the by-election to be held for legislative council. Since TDP has not fielded its candidate, it is expected that Manikyavaraprasad will be elected unanimously on Friday. He is entering the council when the fate of the Upper House itself is hanging in balance. Interestingly, the by-election was necessitated following the resignation of Manikyavaraprasad himself. He, however, quit the Upper House in January as TDP member following differences with party president Chandrababu Naidu, particularly, about stalling business in the council without valid reasons. He abstained from voting in the council on decentralisation and CRDA repeal Bills during the January session and subsequently resigned from the council as well as TDP. He later joined YSRC. Dokka, an ideologue of Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi (MRPS) and dalit rights activist, had served as minister in the cabinets headed by YSR, Rosaiah and Kiran Kumar Reddy in Congress and served as MLC from TDP. Now, he is entering the council as a YSRC member. The seat is being filled through MLA quota. As per the original term, Manikyavaraprasad, once elected, will remain a member till March 2023. It is, however, not clear as to when Parliament will take up the request of the AP assembly to abolish the council. “I have joined YSRC to be part of chief minister YS Jagan’s welfare agenda. I thank my leader for giving another opportunity to serve the people,” said Dokka after filing the papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-council-fate-continues-to-hang-in-balance-dokka-set-for-return/articleshow/76632557.cms||Samdani MN
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Goods worth Rs 1.2L stolen from shop||Nashik: Unidentified people broke into an arms shop at Nandur Naka in the Nashik Road area between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning and decamped with articles worth Rs 1.2 lakh. Owner of the shop Bhausaheb Belekar (32), a resident of Madsangvi, lodged a complaint at Adgaon police station. Air pistols, rifles and some ammunition were among the missing articles. Police are using CCTV footages and checking the records of history-sheeters to find out the people involved in the incident. The case was registered with the Nashik Road police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goods-worth-rs-1-2l-stolen-from-shop/articleshow/76631319.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic staff, cops inspect 10 pvt hospitals for Covid adherence||Bhubaneswar: A joint enforcement squad of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA), health and family welfare department and the commissionerate police on Thursday conducted inspection in different hospitals to find out whether they follow Covid-19 guidelines. BMC took this step after 27 employees of privately-run Blue Wheel Hospital in Mancheswar industrial area tested positive for Covid-19. The civic body on Wednesday sealed the hospital for violating the state government’s Covid-19 guidelines. Health institutions in the city are increasingly falling prey to the virus for non-adherence of guidelines furnished by the government. The joint enforcement squad inspected 10 private hospitals and prepared a report about these healthcare providers. “Our team has inspected the hospitals thoroughly and they will submit a report about their findings. Some of them have minor issues. We will issue show cause notices to these hospitals. If they do not correct it within 24 hours, we will take action against the hospitals,” BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said. He said the BMC and the joint squad will conduct surprise visits to the hospitals to check whether these institutions follow the government’s Covid-19 guidelines or not. “We will not tolerate violation of Covid guidelines. It is important to obey the rules for the safety of the people,” he added. The squad has inspected big hospitals, nursing homes and clinics in the city. They found some hospitals need to work more in certain areas. The team inspected sanitation and waste disposal methods in the hospitals. They checked operation theatres, ICUs, wards and private cabins. They also marked social distancing norms followed by these hospitals. “We inspected the safe practices followed by the hospitals. They should sensitize people entering the hospital about the proper way to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Thermal screening of people coming to the hospital should be done regularly. The hospitals should strictly follow government guidelines while admitting a patient and conducting any surgery on him/her,” said a team member of the squad. The person said the hospital should test a patient immediately if he/she shows Covid-19 symptoms. “It should not hide the information and communicate with government authorities about this and follow the operational guidelines,” the person added. On Thursday, BMC told the media that 38 new Covid-19 positive cases, including 13 local contact cases, have been detected in the city. Out of the 13 local cases, five were reported from private hospitals and one came from a government hospital. However, no hospital has been given closure notice yet. Further decision will be taken based on the inputs the team has obtained during inspection of the hospitals, said a BMC source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-staff-cops-inspect-10-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-adherence/articleshow/76632571.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Parents resent CBSE schools hiking fees||Trichy: Over 50 parents gathered in front of Montfort CBSE school in Trichy after the school sent a revised fee structure for ensuing academic year with a hike around 10%. Parents were disappointed as they say the hike this year was more than the usual. Although schools have not been officially allowed to collect fees currently, many schools have started collecting fees citing online classes organised by them. They said that they weren’t against paying fees, but hiking it during such a pandemic when jobs of many parents were affected is not acceptable. “Teachers need to be paid as they have been conducting online classes, but when there are no physical classes, thereby reducing expenses for the school, increasing fee during such testing times is unacceptable,” said a parent. Another parent said that since the school infrastructure is not used, maintenance including electricity bill is almost nil. “Salaried people and those into small business are badly hit and they may not be able to pay fee.” Apart from tuition fee, there has been an increase in the cost of books for the children. Many parents may not be willing to purchase books as there is no decision on when schools will open. “Teachers are almost like frontline warriors who have been channelizing students towards academic activity by conducting online classes. Parents need to support schools monetarily so that teachers can be paid,” said Padma Srinivasan, president, of Rockcity Sahodaya School complex, an academic forum of CBSE schools around Trichy to discuss academic progress. “The government permits schools to hike their fees by 10% annually. Many schools are flexible in increasing the fee this year considering the pandemic situation. Parents too should support the schools as they need to pay salaries to teachers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parents-resent-cbse-schools-hiking-fees/articleshow/76633953.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University adamant, says exams as per schedule||LUCKNOW: Ignoring protests by students and teachers, Lucknow University on Thursday issued directives that students will have to bring their own masks, gloves and sanitizers to appear in examinations scheduled from July 7. The directions also stated that outstation students allotted hostel rooms can come a week before their examinations and inform respective wardens seven days in advance about their arrival. Hostels will be sanitzed and thermal scanning of hostellers will be done daily, it added. "Hostelers will not be allowed to leave hostel,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-adamant-says-exams-as-per-schedule/articleshow/76633952.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD doubles darshan numbers to 12,000 daily||TIRUPATI: The rising number of Covid-19 cases in Tirupati has not deterred the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams from increasing the pilgrim footfall at the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala, which remains a green zone. The TTD on Thursday announced that it would now allow 12,000 devotees per day into the temple. Speaking to TOI, TTD additional EO AV Dharma Reddy said after an initial trial run of nearly 17 days, when TTD allowed only 500 pilgrims per hour for darshan at the Tirumala temple, the temple body has now decided to marginally increase the headcount to 800 devotees per hour. By doing so, TTD can facilitate darshan for nearly 12,000 devotees daily without compromising on the Covid-19 protocols. “Cases in Tirupati have been increasing, but they are all linked to Chennai and other Covid-19 hotspots elsewhere. It has been nearly 17 days since the Tirumala temple reopened and not a single case has been reported at the hill town. Proper thermal screenings at multiple locations, best sanitation measures and strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols have ensured that Tirumala remains a safe place for devotees and TTD employees alike”, asserted Dharma Reddy. Out of the 12,000 devotees who will be allowed for darshan, only 3,000 devotees will be allowed for time-slot based sarva darshan system, while the remaining 9,000 devotees will be the ones who booked their Rs 300 for special entry darshan tickets online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-doubles-darshan-numbers-to-12000-daily/articleshow/76632570.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Farmers slam bid to bring co-op banks under RBI||Trichy: Farmers opposed the Union cabinet’s decision to bring co-operative banks under the control of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) through an ordinance. However, leaders of a few farmers’ associations opined that the decision would curtail political interventions in the administrative activities of the co-operatives. Citing protection for depositors, the Centre has decided to bring all urban and multi-state co-operative banks under the direct supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Condemning the move, president of All-Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee, P R Pandian said that co-operative banks are coming under the state list. The entire set up is functioning with the contribution of lakhs of farmers in the country. Though the sector gets loans from NABARD, respective state governments give surety for the money, he said. “The entire staff, administrative expenses, infrastructure have been established by the state governments. It is not acceptable to hand it over to RBI all of a sudden, as it will no way do good to its staff or its members,” he said. Despite various criticisms against the functioning of the setup, co-operative banks are the backbones of the society and its members. It should not be diluted, he added. Meanwhile, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said that though the co-operative set up was brought for the benefits of its stakeholders, there is no transparency in the entire system. Once the system would come under the control of RBI, they have to disclose each and everything. Political intervention has spoiled the very purpose of establishing a co-operative system, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-slam-bid-to-bring-co-op-banks-under-rbi/articleshow/76633954.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||AP records highest one-day spike with 553 new cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday registered seven deaths and 553 Covid-19 cases, the highest-single day spike so far. While this, Covid-19 caseload in the southern state has gone up up to 10,884 and toll reached 136.Of the total, 477 persons are from AP, 69 from other states (migrants) and seven foreign returnees. A total of 209 patients, including 91 returnees, recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals on Thursday. The active cases in the state now stand at 5,760 while the total number of people who were discharged is 4,988. So far, 7,69,319 samples have been tested in the state, of which 10,884 tested positive. Two deaths each were recorded in Krishna, Kurnool and Guntur districts, while one death was registered in East Godavari district. On the death roll front, Krishna district continues to top the chart with 45 deaths, followed by Kurnool with 44 deaths. Guntur has occupied third place with 16 deaths. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-records-highest-one-day-spike-with-553-new-cases/articleshow/76633476.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Campus chorus for Lucknow University to cancel exams gets louder||LUCKNOW: With the spike in Covid-19 cases in the city and experts predicting infection rate to peak in July, the opposition to Lucknow University’s decision to hold examinations from next month is getting louder. After protests by students and teachers went unheard, a group of LU students on Thursday approached the high court for redressal of their grievances. Protests started soon after LU’s recent announcement that examinations of over 1.60 lakh students enrolled in its 170 associated colleges will be held in July and August. The exams are being opposed on the grounds that three LU teachers and several students have tested positive for Covid-19 and the number of cases in the city has crossed 900-mark. The city now has 69 containment zones and experts have predicted further rise in coronavirus cases in the coming days. LU Teachers’ Association has written to chief minister and deputy CM demanding postponement of examinations. LU Associated Colleges Teachers’ Association has also registered a strong protest and even threatened to boycott the exams. Students’ bodies are holding protest on the streets daily. Students have also been running online campaigns. The common refrain is that assembly of students for examination is an open invitation to virus. Besides, students are also citing practical problems such as how those living in containment zones will appear for exams and what will happen if their residential area is declared a containment zone during exams, many students told TOI during a rapid telephonic survey. Similarly, some pointed out, if a college is located a containment zone, then how will students go there and will exams be abandon midway, if the area where college is located is converted into a containment zone. They also said thermal scanning and social distancing of lakhs of students is impossible. Another big question raised by students is: What will happen if there is an Covid outbreak on the campus during examinations as it happened in the government helpline office or PAC barracks? In such a scenario, not only students and teachers, but their families too will be at risk, they said. Ankit, a resident of Habibullah hostel who had gone home in Gorakhpur after the outbreak, said “Travelling itself is risky in the times of corona. Even if I reach Lucknow, where would I quarantine myself before exams. Also, with hostellers using common washrooms and mess, how will social distancing will be ensured?” Rahul Mishra, another student who shared a rented room with other students, said “My landlord is not willing to have us back during pandemic.” BCom student Divya Malhotra raised question how will answer sheets and question papers, which go through several hands, will be sanitized?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/campus-chorus-for-lu-to-cancel-exams-gets-louder/articleshow/76633960.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Gold seized from passenger at Kochi airport||KOCHI: Customs sleuths at Cochin international airport limited (Cial) foiled yet another smuggling bid and seized 280 grams of gold from a lady passenger in the early hours of Thursday. The contraband was in the form of gold paste and ornaments. It was seized during customs check at the airport. The passenger had travelled in a special flight from Bahrain which arrived at Cial on Thursday around 2am. The contraband is valued around Rs 10 lakh. The smuggled gold was concealed inside the passenger's inner wear. Customs officials have launched an inquiry into the incident. Ever since the operations of special flights began, there have been two similar cases in which gold was recovered from returnees who arrived on special flights from gulf countries. Sources said law enforcement agencies at the airport are constantly watching the activities of smugglers. “It seems like smuggling rackets are testing the waters by sending in small quantities of gold. We are staying alert to thwart any such bids,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-seized-from-passenger-at-kochi-airport/articleshow/76632588.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Process eased for private labs doing Covid tests: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Delhi government told Delhi high court on Thursday that private labs engaged in Covid testing 19 would now be required to make entries only on ICMR portal and not on multiple portals. The state government said it had accepted the recommendation of a DDMA panel that examined difficulties, such as duplication of data and time-consuming entry process, being faced by private labs in carrying out the testing. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the government to file an affidavit to show compliance with the panel’s findings and sought an action plan to increase Covid-19 testing. The high court said it is “imperative since as of yesterday (June 24), Delhi tops the country with the largest number of increase in cases in a single day.” It directed Delhi government to also file an affidavit in tabulated form showing the number of tests carried out under each category of rapid antigen detection test and the newly proposed antibody test scheduled to begin later this week. The bench also asked the Centre and Delhi government to publicise and upload on a website an advisory issued on June 23 by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permitting private hospitals to carry out the rapid antigen detection test. However, the results of rapid antigen detection tests are not very accurate and any negative result is to be confirmed by the RT/PCR test. In its status report, AAP government told HC that between June 18 and 23, there were 68,041 rapid antigen tests carried out and 41,155 samples were collected using the RT/PCR method. It added that from June 27, the government proposes to start a serological test or ‘sero surveillance’ for which 4,000 blood samples per day will be randomly collected from various parts of the city for five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/process-eased-for-private-labs-doing-covid-tests-govt/articleshow/76633468.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: 3 held for robbing gamblers in a flat||KOCHI: The Nedumbassery police, on Thursday, arrested three members of a gang which assaulted a group of people who were indulged in gambling at an apartment and robbed them of over Rs 1.1 lakh and six sovereigns of gold. The arrested are Vishnu Pullani, 31, of Manjapra, Anil Pappan, 29, of Mookkannnoor and Tiljo Vellolil, 30, of Thavalapara. According to police, on May 4, a six-member gang had attacked the gamblers in a flat in Nedumbassery. Police said the accused were aware of the gambling racket. They brandished knives at the group and thrashed them with helmets and robbed the money. After realising that there was not enough money, the accused also robbed the gamblers of the gold chains and rings they were wearing. They also took their mobile phones. The accused later escaped in a car which was kept ready near the entrance of the flat. Though the victims were hesitant to file a complaint, police came to know about the incident and took action based on their statements. It was in the follow up investigation that police arrested fifth accused Anil and sixth accused Tiljo. Pullani Vishnu, the first accused was in district jail in an attempt to murder case, from where his arrest was recorded. Police recovered the stolen ring, gold chain and vehicles used for the robbery, including a motorcycle which they bought with the stolen money. Police said the accused were history sheeters with cases in Angamaly and Kalady police stations. District police chief K Karthick said the other accused would soon be arrested. The arrest was recorded by a team led by DSP G Venu and comprised CI P M Baiju, SI M S Faizal, ASI Bijesh, SCPO Naveen Das, CPO Jissmon and CPO Rajeesh Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-held-for-robbinggamblers-in-a-flat/articleshow/76632572.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Police Children’s Residential School in Dharwad set to reopen||DHARWAD: The NA Muttanna Police Children’s Residential School in Dharwad, which had run into rough weather due to internal squabbling, is all set to reopen for the academic year 2020-21. The school was established in 1999 to provide quality education to the children of police constables, head constables and assistant sub-inspectors from Belagavi and Kalaburagi revenue divisions, thanks to donations from IAS officer N A Muttanna. The then HRD minister S R Bommai had inaugurated it in 1999. Two years ago, the school got a new building with well-equipped infrastructure. It had registered 100% pass in SSLC exams for 10 years, and 97% for eight years, while it dropped to 77% in SSLC exams of March/ April 2019. Many students have excelled in sports at national and state levels, and many alumni have occupied tops positions. The authorities had blamed teachers for the decline in pass percentage, and had also relieved teachers who had put in 22 years of service. Dharwad SP was the chairman of the school managing committee. As the school earlier had jurisdiction over Belagavi and Kalaburgi revenue divisions, IGP (north) was made the chairman. This is said to not gone well with the then Dharwad SP and the officer had planned to get the school closed citing poor performance of students in SSLC exams. MLC and former minister Basavaraj Horatti had taken up the issue with the higher-ups and ensured that the differences were sorted out. IGP (northern range) Raghavendra Suhas, who is the chairman of the school managing committee, had, in May 2019, issued the appointment orders to teachers who had been removed from the job. Since a majority of the students were issued leaving certificate, the school could not be reopened for the academic year, the re-appointment of teachers notwithstanding. Thanks to initiative by home minister Basavaraj Bommai and top cop Suhas, the school is ready to be opened for the academic year 2020-21. It is awaiting directions from the government in view of the lockdown. Children of police personnel from the rank of police constable to assistant sub-inspectors from any part of the state can seek admission to Class 6 to 9 in Kannada or English medium. They can apply by post to the Dharwad SP giving necessary details. Twenty-five students will be admitted to each division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-childrens-residential-school-in-dharwad-set-to-reopen/articleshow/76631240.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Guest workers quarantined after protest by locals||KOCHI: Dramatic scenes prevailed at Eloor after anxious local residents intercepted a group of 21 guest workers who arrived at Pathalam near Eloor in a bus on Thursday morning. The contract carriage bus was transporting the workers to a factory in the Edayar Industrial Belt. The local residents intercepted them when the workers were walking towards their camp at Pathalam after alighting at Muppathadam within Kadungalloor panchayat. “Since they came without any notice, we alerted Eloor police. The accommodation for these workers were arranged in a building that already houses around 40 guest workers. The labourers didn’t have any health certificates and the accommodation facility was inadequate, so we called the police,” said Eloor municipal chairperson C P Usha. Usha said that the local residents have nothing against the guest workers. “Eloor is a place where hundreds of guest workers used to live peacefully and they are still welcome here. However, this group was brought without taking the required permission or alerting the local police station. Those who brought them, made them get down at the neighbouring panchayat and made them walk to the camp at Eloor. If they have contracted coronavirus, then they would end up infecting the guest workers who are currently staying in the building. Anyone who is coming from outside the state needs to be properly quarantined, which is why we intervened,” said Usha. Meanwhile, Eloor police said that the situation was brought under control immediately. “The group had come from Palakkad and most of them hail from Tamil Nadu. Two persons who brought them here flouting norms have been booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance,” said a senior officer with Eloor police station. Though police earlier planned to send them back, later they decided to quarantine them here. All the 21 persons have been quarantined at a hotel in Kaloor, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guest-workers-quarantined-after-protest-by-locals/articleshow/76632609.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Meerut||UP duo that gave India grocery-cleaning CoronaOven now come up with disinfecting escalators, card swipe machines & conveyor belts||Meerut: With airport conveyor belts that disinfect luggage, self-cleaning card swipe machines and escalators, two young men from UP who developed India’s first Indian Council of Medical Research-approved grocery disinfecting device — CoronaOven — are now creating safer public spaces.CoronaOven — a chamber which uses ultraviolet (UV) rays to kill germs on groceries, household items and even masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in 10 minutes — was manufactured in April and has sold 2,500 units since, one is even kept at the French President Emmanuel Macron’s residence, according to its makers, Akshay Singhal and Kartik Hajela. Several other units have been bought by AIIMS Delhi and various hospitals across the country. Now using the same UV technology, the duo which graduated from IIT Roorkee and formed a nanotechnology company in Bengaluru in 2015, have provided Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, with a sanitising tunnel, conveyor belts that clean passenger luggage and disinfecting escalators this month.While the tunnel has been designed to sanitise batches of airport trolleys, disinfecting handrails fitted on escalators ensure there is no spread of germs even if people touch the surface.“The idea for a range of hygiene products came to us after we realised that in the days following the Covid-19 outbreak, people were using anything from bleaching powder to chemical compounds like potassium permanganate to sanitise food items. With a device like CoronaOven, they could do so easily and effectively. We also wanted to make something that could sanitise hard to procure items, such as PPE kits and masks, for reuse,” said 26-year-old Singhal who hails from Deoband. Singhal told TOI that the device created by their firm Log 9 Materials was certified for appropriate UV-C light intensity and safety from ICMR-empanelled Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Central Scientific Instruments Organization’s (CSIR-CSIO) laboratory. It was put up for sale on the Government e-Market (GeM) portal among other websites. Units cost between Rs 10,000 and Rs 24,000 depending on sterilisation capacity.Soon, it caught the eye of a supplier in France. “That’s how it reached the residence of the French president,” said Singhal’s business partner Haleja, 24, from Meerut.The sanitising point of sale machine for credit and debit cards is likely to be out this week, said Singhal, adding that they have no plans to stop anytime soon. “We will continue coming up with products that could make living with a pandemic easier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-duo-that-gave-india-grocery-cleaning-coronaoven-now-come-up-with-disinfecting-escalators-card-swipe-machines-conveyor-belts/articleshow/76632594.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Villages oppose merger into Vadoddra city limits||Vadodara: The panchayats of most villages that are to be merged in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits have objected to the move by the state government. The representatives have sought permission from officials to hold protests. A petition against the move had been filed in the Gujarat high court some time back. The representatives have alleged that even as the suit was pending, the decision to merge the villages was taken. Rajendra Patel, sarpanch of Sevasi which is one of the seven villages to be merged, said that the village had all facilities and should be left alone. “In the name of development, they just want land that they can sell to earn revenue for the VMC. They are finding it difficult to even pay salaries,” he said. He added that the government could have waited till the plea in the high court was decided. Apart from Sevasi, six other villages including Bhayli, Vemali, Bil, Karodiya, Undera and Vadadala have been added to VMC limits. The move has, however, not met with any opposition in Bhayli. Bhayli sarpanch Darpan Patel said that while the core area of the villages was developed, it was a major challenge to cater to the need of urbanisation. “The village itself is very well developed, but it is not possible to cope up with the infrastructure as well as operations and management of the new schemes. The tax collection is so low that we cannot manage huge expenses of the newly developed areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/villages-oppose-merger-into-vadoddra-city-limits/articleshow/76631687.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Meerut||2 history-sheeter brothers named in 6-month-old murder||Muzaffarnagar: The police have claimed to solve the six-month-old murder case of a 60-year-old man Salman Khan. According to the police, two brothers, who happen to be notorious criminals, are behind the murder of Khan. The deceased had raised objection over a plot being used for cow slaughtering by the duo.According to police sources, in January, Khan, who used to sell ayurvedic medicines, was shot dead at his doorstep by unknown assailants. Later, a murder case against unidentified persons was registered at Nagar-Kotwali police station. After six months of investigation, the police on Thursday arrested one Nazar, a resident of Khalapar colony, who disclosed the motive behind Khan’s murder.The police said, the accused is a history-sheeter and has more than 24 cases registered against him. Even his brother and father have a criminal background.According to Nagar-Kotwali’s SHO Anil Kaparwan, "Khan was murdered because he had opposed the accused whenever they would bring cow to slaughter on an empty plot. Therefore, he was murdered by Nazar and one of his brothers who is absconding.”Sources said Nazar was sent to jail after being produced before the magistrate and a police team was sent to arrest his brother. It should be noted that a special drive to arrest cow slaughterers has been launched, and more than a dozen cow slaughterers have been arrested so far.In a similar incident on Thursday morning, a history-sheeter, Sonu, who has 18 criminal cases, including cow smuggling, against him was arrested by a police team from Shahpur police station. Senior SP Abhishek Yadav said, "All police stations’ SHOs were instructed to arrest the wanted criminals in their areas, and we have arrested many criminals since the special drive was ordered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-history-sheeter-brothers-named-in-6-month-old-murder/articleshow/76632589.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Kunigal MLA distributes vitamin C to boost immunity||Bengaluru: Kunigal MLA DH Ranganath, a doctor by education, is pushing for herd immunity and, in a step in this direction, has urged the government to supply people with high doses of vitamin C and other supplements. Intending to lead by example, Ranganath is distributing free capsules of vitamin C and other mineral supplements to his constituents. “Since we are yet to find a cure for Covid-19 and in the absence of a vaccine, preventing people from contracting the virus must take top priority,” Ranganath said. “The best way to keep an infection at bay is to boost the human system by taking vitamin C and mineral supplements including zinc and iron.” He went on to say, “Proving a free supply of vitamins and minerals should be part of the government’s measures to curb the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kunigal-mla-distributes-vitamin-c-to-boost-immunity/articleshow/76633383.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||30-year-old shot, his friend injured in east Delhi road rage||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old man was shot dead while his friend was severely injured in a road rage incident near V3S mall in east Delhi on Wednesday night. Police said that Somesh Chhabra and Shivam Dua got into an argument with two men on a scooter over driving slowly in the middle of the road. The accused fled after the incident. DCP (east) Jasmeet Singh said that cops received a call at 9pm when Chhabra and Dua were admitted to a private hospital with bullet injuries. The duo — both residents of Jagatpuri — had gone to Connaught Place for dinner in Chhabra’s i20 car. They received a call from another friend Rahul, who asked them to meet him near the V3S mall for a chat. As they reached the mall and were pulling over two men on a scooter — who were riding ahead of them — refused to give them way due to which Chhabra got into an argument with the men. Dua told cops that the men then stopped in front of their car and asked Chhabra to step out. They started slamming on the windshield. Suddenly, one of the men pulled out a pistol and opened fire at them. Seeing the weapon, Chhabra tried to drive away but lost control of the vehicle and hit the divider, Dua said. The shot brushed past Dua’s neck and hit Chhabra on the head. The two men then ran to their scooter and fled. By this time Rahul, along with some passersby, rushed to the spot and took the injured men to a hospital where Chhabra died during treatment on Thursday. Cops scanned CCTV footage of the area in which the accused were seen fleeing. A manhunt has been launched to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-year-old-shot-his-friend-injured-in-east-delhi-road-rage/articleshow/76633472.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Social distancing norms followed strictly during SSLC exam||Mysuru: Except for a couple of minor incidents, including denial of admission for a primary contact of Covid-19 patients in Shivamogga, the SSLC examination were held smoothly across south Karnataka on Thursday. Even though the examination was scheduled from 10.30 am, a majority of the students arrived at the examination centre by 8.30 am. The roads connecting to the examination centres were barricaded and only students with hall tickets were allowed to pass through. Social distancing norms were followed strictly. In Chamarajanagar, a student fell unconscious at the time of thermal screening, due to anxiety. Even though deputy commissioner M R Ravi, who had visited the examination centre, directed the authorities to allow her to write the examination if she recovers fully before 10 am, the student herself informed that she will write the examination at the time of the supplementary examination and left. In Madhuvanahalli village in Chamarajanagar taluk, three girl students of a family didn’t turn up to write the examination, citing a ritual at home. However, local MLA R Narendra and BEO Chandra Patil convinced all the three to write the examination. A vehicle was arranged for them to be dropped at the examination hall. In Shivamogga too, the SSLC examinations took place smoothly. A student whose parents tested positive for the novel coronavirus were denied permission to take the examination. Shivamogga DDPI Ramesh spoke to the student, after which he was sent back home from the examination centre. Ramesh said that the student will be allowed to take the exam next month. A total 15 students were found to have fever in the Chikkamagaluru district. In Mysuru, the authorities heaved a sigh of relief, as the examination was held without any glitches. DDPI Panduranga informed that out of 37,738 students, 35,935 attended the examination. “Most of the absentees are repeaters and private candidates,” he said. “A total 45 students were from the containment zones. Four students had fever. Separate arrangements were made for these students,” he said. “Out of 271 students from other districts, 5 were absent,” he said. The examination took place smoothly even in Kodagu, Hassan and Mandya districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/social-distancing-norms-followed-strictly-during-sslc-exam/articleshow/76631339.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Dexamethasone not used in state’s Covid-19 care||Bengaluru: Dexamethasone, a steroid used in treating lung infections, has been found to be effective in Covid-19 cases in the UK. But the same is not being used to treat Covid-19 patients in Karnataka. Doctors here, however, are using another steroid, Methylprednisolone, which they say is effective.A recent clinical train conducted in the UK stated that Dexamethasone, a synthetic hormone, reduced deaths by one third among hospitalised Covid-19 patients with severe respiratory complications. However, doctors in Karnataka say its impact on Covid-19 patients is not proven in India. “We are going by the ICMR treatment protocol and Dexamethasone is not a drug mentioned in the same,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid-19 technical advisory committee. A doctor monitoring Covid-19 critical cases in Bengaluru said they have found Methylprednisolone, which is used in case of refractory shock or cytokine (immune cells) activation syndrome, to be effective in treating Covid-19. Recently, doctors in Tamil Nadu also opined that the usae of Methylprednisolone was helpful. “There is no proven superiority of Dexamethasone over Methylprednisolone,” the doctor said. Methylprednisolone is among the drugs recommended by ICMR for treating Covid-19.Another critical care specialist said that along with the prescribed drug, prone position has been found to be helpful in handling many critical cases. “Patients are put on ventilator in the prone position,” he added. Remdesivir available nowMeanwhile, Remdesivir, a drug globally hailed for its efficacy against the virus, is now available in the state. Four Indian companies are into the production of the drug.The Union health ministry, in its updated clinical management protocol for Covid-19 patients, last month included antiviral drug Remdesivir as part of “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency use.Remdesivir is originally manufactured by US drugmaker Gilead Sciences. In the state government’s clinical management protocol too, the drug figures as a ‘novel therapy’ or as a research drug and not as a regular therapy drug. It is not available on demand and has to be procured by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dexamethasone-not-used-in-states-covid-19-care/articleshow/76633281.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Stalin: Ensure Cauvery water reaches tail-end areas||Trichy: DMK chief MK Stalin has asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to lend a ear to the agony and distress of the farming community when he visits the delta districts to inspect the ongoing desilting works.Steps should be taken to ensure that water released in Cauvery reaches tail-end areas and process of sanctioning crop loans and other inputs is speeded up, he said in a statement on Thursday. “It is a matter of concern that the water released from Mettur reservoir in Cauvery on June 12 for delta cultivation has not yet reached the tailend of the delta. I had already asked the chief minister to speed up the desilting work to facilitate this. However, the AIADMK government announced only a committee to oversee the desilting work for the sake of it and done nothing,” he alleged. He said all announcements made by the government for farmers were remaining on paper. Co-operative societies had not provided crop loans and sent back farmers saying they are yet to receive any orders to sanction it. Farmers complain that there were no required fertilizers and pesticides and even the seed too is not of good quality, he further stated.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-ensure-cauvery-water-reaches-tail-end-areas/articleshow/76633956.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad HC bench stays disqualification of ZP members||DHARWAD: The high court’s Dharwad Bench on Thursday granted interim stay to the State Election Commission’s order disqualifying four BJP members of Dharwad zilla panchayat for violating the whip issued by the party. The SEC, acting on a complaint by BJP’s district unit president Iranna Jadi, had issued an order disqualifying Annappa Desai, Ratna Patil, Manjawwa Harijan and Jyothi Bentur- on June 10. The four members had allegedly voted in favour of a motion resulting in the ouster of Chaitra Shirur from the post of ZP president. The disqualified members had then moved the HC bench. Eleven Congress members along with an independent had moved the no-confidence motion against Chaitra Shirur on February 5, 2019. Sensing the possibility of cross voting, Iranna Jadi had issued a whip to all 10 BJP members to ensure that the no-confidence motion was defeated. A special general body meeting of the ZP had been called on February 5, 2019 to discuss and put to vote the no-confidence motion. Despite the strength of BJP coming down to 10 after the by-poll for the Hebballi seat and the number of Congress members going up to 11, Chaitra Shirur had continued in the President’s chair as the moratorium in the amendment to the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act provided her protection from being removed before the completion 30 months in office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-hc-bench-stays-disqualification-of-zp-members/articleshow/76631288.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Doubts over assessment as CBSE calls off board exams||HYDERABAD: The Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision to call off the remaining board examinations for students of classes 10 and 12 has sparked uncertainty among parents and students in the city over the method of assessment to be used for awarding marks. The board on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that while students of class 12 will have an option to take the examinations if they wish once the situation is conducive, class 10 students will not be able to exercise a similar option. Sources in the Union human resource ministry said that as per the arrangement by the CBSE, marks will be awarded to Class XII students based on combined assessment of marks scored in the practical/internal assessment and those papers for which a candidate has already appeared. “Schools generally do not preserve answer sheets or marks that students secure in internal exams. We give the answer sheets to the students. Only practical marks are submitted to CBSE by February. We have to see what kind of assessment model will be applied by the CBSE for class 12 and class 10 students,” said Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur principal, Narasimha Reddy. Meanwhile, some parents expressed relief over the CBSE’s decision as they said that although students were willing to appear for exams to secure better marks, their safety was of utmost importance. “Even if my son secures 5 to10 marks less in the internal exams, it will not make much of a difference to us. We are happy that he can now focus on entrance exams in peace as and when they are held and will not have unnecessary pressure of class 12 marks,” said Swathi Nagumalli, parent of a class 12 student at Glendale International School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doubts-over-assessment-as-cbse-calls-off-board-exams/articleshow/76633446.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Use of glyphosate in HT cotton sparks concerns||HYDERABAD: With the state government keen on cotton cultivation in 70 lakh acres as part of regulated farming, fears of farmers using herbicide glyphosate are growing. In the recent raids, glyphosate stocks were seized from the fields where the herbicide-tolerant cotton or HT cotton was being cultivated. In the raids, officials have also seized 11 lakh quintals of spurious seeds, of which 10 lakh quintals were of HT cotton spurious seed. Sources said traders are importing seeds from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh owing to shortage of seeds. “In a bid to save on high costs of labour and related expenditure, farmers are resorting to cultivate banned varieties of seed. Farmers’ usage of glyphosate will increase to get a higher yield,” said agriculture officials. Farmers had cultivated HT cotton in 10 lakh acres last year. The Telangana government, a few years ago, had imposed severe restrictions on the use of glyphosate and asked pesticide dealers to not sell the herbicide, which is used in HT cotton, without a recommendation slip from the agriculture extension officer (AEO) concerned. A GO issued then had also warned that any violations would be dealt with severely. GV Ramanjaneyulu, agro scientist, Rythu Swarajya Vedika, said glyphosate is not recommended for any crop, including cotton. “Because of increased cotton cultivation, farmers resort to increased usage of the herbicide which is not recommended,” he said and warned that high levels of glyphosate toxicity is harmful for humans. “During its spray, the herbicide’s remains find their way into the food chain which can cause cancer and liver, kidney or neurological diseases,” he explained. Officials said use of glyphosate had increased only in last few years after HT cotton was preferred by farmers. HT cotton is a third generation variety which lets the cotton plant withstand the herbicide sprays intended to kill weed. Glyphosate is used mainly in HT crops to kill the weed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-of-glyphosate-in-ht-cotton-sparks-concerns/articleshow/76633499.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Opposition to isolation facilities in residential areas of Trichy||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation, for the past few days, has been scouting for suitable infrastructure to establish institutional quarantine centres to accommodate the close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. However, residents near the sites have been opposing the move citing public safety. Though educational institutes on the city’s outskirts can be opted for quarantine, the civic body was particular about finding a site within the city amid the human settlements.Official sources said that they opted to establish isolation centres as close contacts of the Covid-19 positive people are defying the mandatory home quarantine instructions. The close contacts will spend 14 days mandatory quarantine in the isolation centres to curtail the further spread, sources said. Earlier this week, the schools identified near residential areas in Srirangam, Ponmalai, Ariyamangalam and K Abishekapuram zones attracted opposition from the residents. Simultaneously, the corporation identified Yatri Nivas, a facility managed by HR&CE department on Kollidam Flood Bank Road, Srirangam. However, residents near Yatri Nivas on Thursday also opposed the civic body’s move.“The civic body can opt for educational institutes on the outskirts where hundreds of people can be isolated and supervised. Identifying a location within the residential settlement is not a wise choice,” T Senthil Kumar, a resident of Palakkarai added.While peace talks are underway to make use of Yatri Nivas for quarantining purposes by providing food, residents urged the corporation to move it to the outskirts. “It is disappointing to see people protesting against the isolation centres for housing their fellow citizens. We will convey the suggestion to use educational institutes for quarantining to the district administration,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/opposition-to-isolation-facilities-in-residential-areas-of-trichy/articleshow/76633962.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Administration delay leaves US visa applicants in limbo||HYDERABAD: Anusha Polineni had arrived in the city on February 17 to get married. However, she has been stuck in the country since then. Like many others, Polineni was on the last leg of getting her visa stamped but with the local US consulate shutting services in March, her return to the States now hangs in uncertainty. Now, the new executive order on visas by US president Donald Trump means she will have to stay away from her husband for at least another six months. “My visa interview was on February 19. On March 2, I got a mail to pick up my passport and was told there would be additional administrative processing,” she said. Administrative processing entails a background check. “My manager got a mail asking for verification to which he responded. On March 18 (Wednesday), I got another mail to drop my passport at 3.15 but since services close by 4pm, I submitted it the next day. On Friday, I was again asked to pick it up around the same time. But with it being the weekend and the lockdown, I returned to the visa application centre but it was shut,” she said. The visa centre, which serves as an intermediary between the consulate and the individual, released her passport on May 19. To her horror, her visa came back unstamped. Like Polineni, others too have said that consulates would have asked them to submit their passports only if they were getting a decsion regarding the stamping. In a similar case, Uday Kiran — who has been in the States for a decade — also got his passport in May despite being informed of the administrative processing in February. “What is the point of having to submit our passports and wait for so long, if we are back at the same step of our visas being processed?” he quizzed. Kiran said that he works with the local government in Maine and has not been given a work from home option. “I fear I may lose my job,” he said. The US consulate general in Hyderabad, when asked about the number of Indians whose visa are waiting for the stamp, in its statement said: “Visa records are confidential under U.S. law; therefore, we cannot discuss the details of individual visa cases… For questions concerning the status of current U.S. visa holders and U.S. entry requirements, we would direct you to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/admin-delay-leaves-us-visa-applicants-in-limbo/articleshow/76633469.cms||Uttara Varma
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested with explosives in Jagtial||HYDERABAD: Two members of a gang indulging in illegal sale of gelatin sticks, detonators and other explosive materials used in quarries were arrested at Jagtial on Wednesday evening. Police have seized a huge quantity of explosive materials from their possession and arrested them. Acting on specific information, Jagtial police intercepted a tractor carrying gravel from Choppadandi in Karimnagar district to Jagtial. When police team rummaged through the gravel, they found explosive substances concealed beneath. “We have seized 13 sacks of ammonium nitrate, three cartons of slurry and two cartons of detonators under the layer of gravel in the tractor trolley,” Jagtial police said. Police arrested tractor driver Venkat and a gang member, Sekhar, both from Choppadandi. The duo confessed they were transporting explosives based on the instructions of kingpin, M Anjaiah, a quarry operator of Choppadandi, to Jagtial to deliver them to K Praveen and Hanumantha Rao. Based on their confession, police raided Anjaiah’s house in Choppadandi later at night and seized 13,000 detonators, 7,800 gelatin sticks, 180 boosters and 20 bundles of electric wires. A manhunt has been launched to arrest Anjaiah, Praveen and Hanumantha Rao. Police came to know that the accused have been illegally using the explosive material to conduct rock blasting in the quarries in Choppadandi and Jagtial areas. Police came to know that the accused have been illegally using the explosive material to conduct rock blasting in the quarries in Choppadandi and Jagtial areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-with-explosives-in-jagtial/articleshow/76633509.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||SVB channel to go ad-free||TIRUPATI: The spiritual content on Sri Venkateswara Bhakti channel (SVBC) run by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams will henceforth be free from ads. The channel was launched in 2008 to broadcast the proceedings of Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala and other prominent TTD-run temples in Tirupati to devotees worldwide. Additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, who took over the reins of SVBC as its managing director on Feb 5, has initiated several measures to streamline the functioning and improve the channel’s content in the last few months. TTD ensured that the devotees stayed connected with the proceedings of the Tirumala temple through SVBC even during the lockdown period. The decision to go ads-free will affect the channel’s revenue, which is believed to be around Rs 12 crore annually. The TTD also incurs an annual expenditure of approximately Rs 20 crore to run the channel. However, the temple body plans to compensate the revenue loss by seeking donations from donor devotees. “The wishes of Lord Venkateswara’s devotees are more important to us than revenue. They have often raised objections to ad telecast on SVBC. We have, therefore, decided we will not telecast any ads on the channel. Instead, we will work out a mechanism to make SVBC financially independent by seeking donations from devotees,” Dharma Reddy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/svb-channel-to-go-ad-free/articleshow/76632587.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||More than 10 lakh people screened at fever clinics, but only 135 positive||BENGALURU: Only 135 of the over 10.6 lakh people screened at 528 government-run fever clinics across Karnataka have tested positive for Covid-19, official data up to June 25 shows. However, of those screened at the clinics, set up in April as a first line of offence in the fight against the pandemic, throat swab samples for Covid-19 tests, were collected only from 1,09,710 as only they fit Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) testing protocol norms. The clinics were aimed at screening people with fever and to triage those with symptoms. Health and family welfare department officials say the process of screening all those who showed up was foolproof, but doctors on ground said most patients who were asked to come back for follow-up checks did not return and many had provided fake telephone numbers making it difficult to track them. Fear of hospitalisation, stigma and likely quarantine stints for family members are some reasons why patients did not return, they said. For example, a 48-year-old man was screened at the fever clinic of a private hospital on Cunningham Road. The man complained of fever for a week and said it subsided with paracetamol, but he had lost his sense of smell. “He was a potential Covid-19 case,” said a doctor at the clinic. “We asked him to get a test done at Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital. The phone number he gave at the fever clinic was different from the one he supplied at the billing desk, but we still tracked him down and spoke to him after multiple calls, but he insisted he was fine and saw no need for a test.” A BBMP doctor working at a fever clinic confirmed the trend. “We ask those with very mild fever to watch for three days,” he said. “If it persists and they develop cough and body ache, we send them to get tested. A majority of those who get screened do not follow up. Many have given false numbers and hence tracking them is not possible.” Dr Ambanna Gowda, a city-based internal medicine specialist, claimed the fever clinic data can’t be taken at face value. “The data has its limitations, as most patients who turn up at these clinics are not tested,” he said. “Fear of quarantine, hospitalisation and the sight of ambulances coming up to pick a positive patients are preventing many from taking the test. Dr Prabhudev Gowda, state nodal officer, National Urban Health Mission, who looks after fever clinics, admitted there were issues, but said, “People not following up could be just 5-10 % of the cases. Whoever walks in to a clinic is tested if they fit testing protocol norms. Now all influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cares will be tested. Now, testing has been made possible at fever clinics itself.” The government has now fixed Rs 350 as charges to collect throat swab samples in private hospitals and samples will be tested in government labs. Dr Gowda said data from fever clinics run by private hospitals has not yet been collated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-than-10-lakh-people-screened-at-fever-clinics-but-only-135-positive/articleshow/76633315.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 26, 2020||Bengaluru||With Sudhakar in isolation, Ashoka steps in||BENGALURU: In another change at the helm in the fight against the novel coronavirus, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday handed revenue minister R Ashoka responsibility of overseeing Covid-19-related operations, the fourth man in the hot seat since the outbreak. Ashoka takes over from medical education minister K Sudhakar, who is in quarantine since some members of his family tested positive. Officials in the CMO say it’s a temporary arrangement till Sudhakar returns. “Deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan or health minister B Sriramulu were obvious choices, but Yediyurappa preferred Ashoka,” sources said. Ashoka, as vice-chairman of Karnataka Disaster Management Authority, was asked to manage the migrant workers issue after initial hiccups. Yediyurappa was reportedly impressed with the way he handled things and therefore decided to give him charge of Covid-19 operations. “I don’t think Ashoka will be changed even if Sudhakar returns,” one source suggested. Karnataka’s fight against the pandemic has been shambolic and disjointed. Sriramulu and Sudhakar were first put in charge, but the two seemed to be working at cross purposes and there were complaints of lack of coordination and two power centres. Yediyurappa then delineated responsibilities for the two. While Sudhakar was asked to handle Bengaluru, Sriramulu was given charge of the rest of Karnataka. But that too backfired as there were complaints of “one of them” hogging headlines in the media. The CM then appointed education minister S Suresh Kumar as the state’s Covid-19 spokesperson. While Sriramulu continues to head the Covid-19 taskforce and will oversee state-level operations, Sudhakar’s role is limited to overseeing the War Room in Bengaluru and dealing with city-related issues. The chaos has not been lost on the opposition which slammed the government for the mess. They accused Sriramulu and Sudhakar of working in silos, claiming there was no coordination between the two ministers, hampering the fight against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-sudhakar-in-isolation-ashoka-steps-in/articleshow/76633393.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha surpasses 4,000 mark, more than 50% cases came in June||NAGPUR: Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha region on Thursday surpassed the 4,000-mark. Total 71 new cases were reported from the region taking total to 4,056. Out of these, 2,379 cases (58.66%) were reported in 25 days of June alone which means the relaxation of lockdown is in fact bringing more Covid-19 cases to the region. Out of 2,379 cases in June, nearly 50% (1,055) are of the returnees who travelled back from hotspot regions like Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and those who were brought back to Vidarbha from abroad via Vande Bharat flights. Recovery rate has always been a plus point for Vidarbha. Total number of patients who recovered and discharged is also heading towards 3,000-mark. Out of total 4,056, total 2,982 patients have already recovered which means the recovery rate is 73.53% — one of the best in the country for a region having more than 4,000 cases. Nagpur, as expected, has highest cases in Vidarbha at 1,385. But, with 1,045 of them recovered and discharged, the recovery rate of Nagpur is 73.35% which is highest in districts where total Covid-19 cases are more than 1,000 in Maharashtra. Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Palghar, Nashik, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Akola, Solapur and Raigad have more than 1,000 cases but none of these have more than 65% recovery rate. In Vidarbha, Akola is the only district apart from Nagpur where Covid-19 cases are more than 1,000. On Thursday, total 33 cases were added in Akola taking total to 1,342. Akola’s recovery rate is 70% as 990 of the total patients have been recovered from here. According to the health officials, increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha, especially during unlock phase is not a major cause of concern. “Even if the positive cases are more than 4,000, active cases in Vidarbha are less than 1,000. As far as active cases are concerned, only 5% of them are having moderate or serious symptoms. Others are either asymptomatic or showing very mild symptoms,” said a senior official from state health department. Most of the patients in Vidarbha barring Nagpur, Akola and Amravati districts are returnees. They are young and healthy people and have all chances of recoveries. Health department is presently focusing on curbing number of deaths in the region. Vidarbha has 141 Covid-19 deaths with 76 of them reported only in the month of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-surpasses-4000-mark-more-than-50-cases-came-in-june/articleshow/76633480.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||Surge in Covid-19 cases at JSW site in Ballari raises govt’s hackles||BALLARI: Taking cognisance of the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases at the Jindal Steel Works (JSW) site in Vijayanagara in Ballari, the Karnataka government has asked the management of the company to examine the health of all its employees at the earliest so as to arrest the spread of the pandemic. The state government’s directive comes in the wake of the JSW site accounting for nearly 60% of the Covid-19 cases in Ballari – more than 300 of the 555 cases in the district have been traced to the JSW site. Amid a growing demand from a section of society to have the JSW site sealed, Ballari district in-charge minister BS Anand Singh, who interacted with additional chief secretary of the Karnataka health and family welfare department Jawaid Akthar and health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey via video conference, asked the senior bureaucrats to take stock of the measures taken by the management of the firm to curb the spread of the virus. Singh pointed out that the spread of the pandemic at the JSW site was markedly higher in comparison to the rate at which the infection was spreading in the rest of the district. While the minister said that he was in favour of closing the site for a few days, the Akthar opined that the company must be allowed to continue operations as long as the management complied with the guidelines and followed the standard operating procedure (SOP) prescribed by the Government of India. The minister warned JSW of shutting the work site at Vijayanagar completely if the management failed to intensify measures needed to curb the spread of novel coronavirus. Ballari deputy commissioner SS Nakul said that as many as 1,244 swabs had been collected from employees of the site as on Wednesday, of which 312 had been confirmed infected. JSW senior vice-president Manjunath Prabhu told TOI that they had adopted all the necessary safety measures laid down by the government. “We are also coordinating with the district administration in order to curb the spread of the virus. We have started a survey to assess the health of all employees in our townships, and it is expected to be over soon. We have sealed all entries to the townships to limit movement of people, and more than half of our staff have been asked to stay away from work. We too are deeply concerned about the safety and health of our employees and their families,” Prabhu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/surge-in-covid-19-cases-at-jsw-site-in-ballari-raises-govts-hackles/articleshow/76632852.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||As varsities gear up, Shashi Tharoor urges CM to defer university exams||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: MP Shashi Tharoor has once again appealed the state government to postpone all ongoing and upcoming university examinations until the state comes out of the pandemic-induced health emergency. Tharoor’s appeal to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday comes after UGC and CBSE suggested scrapping of final year examination in view of the pandemic condition prevailing all across the country. “I am writing to you once again on behalf of students enrolled in major universities in the state, including Kerala University, Kerala Technological University and Mahatma Gandhi University. I have received over 3,500 emails this week alone from anxious students highlighting the immense strain they are currently under due to the decision taken by the management of these respective universities to conduct examinations amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.” “...students in the state have been facing considerable difficulties on account of these decisions. For one, with number of cases in the state rising again, there is a strong health hazard that these students will have to contend with while leaving their homes for examination centres and appearing for their exams. Many of these centres are located in regions that have been classified as hotspots. Reduced frequency of public transport, closure of internet cafes, mandatory social distancing protocol have posed a string obstacle for our students. With majority of these students living with their parents and other elderly family members, there is naturally the worry of spreading the virus among high-risk groups. These challenges have cumulatively posed a string impediment to our students to perform their true potential,” Tharoor said in his letter addressed to Vijayan. “While I recognize that it is important for us as a society to learn to live with the virus, we must also recognize that it is imperative that we continue to do our best to limit and reduce avoidable risks to the extent possible. Examinations should be postponed till such tie as the current situation subsides or alternatively, a substitute model for grading and evaluations must be considered and adopted keeping in mind these extraordinary conditions,” Tharoor said in his appeal to CM. The appeal of former junior minister for MHRD coincided with Kerala Technological University’s announcement that it has made massive arrangements for conducting examinations by not compromising any of the Covid regulation. The varsity is set to conduct BTech Hons examinations on Friday and BTech final semester examinations on July 1. The university said it has set up a Covid war room to ensure that examinations are conducted by strictly adhering to Covid regulations. Meanwhile, candidates who attend the ongoing LLB examinations under Kerala University complain that no social distancing norms or health hygiene practices are followed in the conduct of examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/as-varsities-gear-up-tharoor-urges-cm-to-defer-univ-exams/articleshow/76632677.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||MP responds to YSRC’s show-cause notice||VIJAYAWADA: YSRC’s Narsapuram MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju on Thursday responded to the show-cause slapped on him by party national general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy. Packed with ‘Godavari-style’ dialect, the MP said he was given the party’s B Form to contest the Lok Sabha elections by YSCRC and wondered why an explanation was being sought from him. He also wondered how a recognised regional party has a national general secretary who is questioning him, adding that he wants to know the legality of the process. Raju’s two-page reply has been carefully worded to avoid disciplinary action against him by the party. The verbal package in the letter is seen as a challenge to the party leadership to approach him in a different form. The reply also looks like a cautious attempt by the MP in writing to engage the leadership in a legal wrangle or leave him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mp-responds-to-ysrcs-show-cause-notice/articleshow/76633498.cms||Gopi Dara
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Ozone levels up in Delhi-NCR during lockdown, mostly in green parts||NEW DELHI: Though the PM2.5, PM10 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels dropped during the lockdown period, the ozone levels exceeded the prescribed standards on two-thirds of the lockdown days in Delhi-NCR, a new analysis released by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Thursday has revealed. The analysis, which was carried out across 22 cities, found a high build-up of ozone in the greenest parts of the city where the nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels were generally the lowest. For the analysis of ozone trends, CSE adopted the global best practice of considering the maximum rolling eight-hour average in 24 hours, as opposed to the fixed time slot of 8am-4pm daily that Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) adopted to release Air Quality Index (AQI) data. The study stated that CPCB’s method failed to capture the worst part of the day, which posed a higher health risk as most of the time ozone levels peaked after 4pm. The study revealed that the city-wide maximum average of ozone in Gurgaon exceeded the standard on 26 days and at least one station exceeding on 57 days. Ghaziabad exceeded the standard on 15 days, with at least one station exceeding on 56 days. In Noida, the maximum average was more than the standard on 12 days, while at one station it was more on 42 days. In Delhi, the standard exceeded on four days, and at least one station on 67 days. The problem was also particularly visible in terms of the CPCB data. The study stated that ozone emerged as the lead pollutant for several days during the lockdown period. “With all the pollutants down, ozone, even at a comparatively lower level, became the most prominent pollutant of the day in several cities and led the daily AQI,” said the study. The AQI was led by ozone in Delhi on 10 days, of which eight were categorised as “moderately polluted”, which is higher than the standard. In Gurgaon, ozone led the AQI on 14 days, seven of which were categorised as “moderately polluted” and one as “poor”. The study also pointed out that the ozone pollution was generally the highest in stations with the lowest NO2 pollution, often building up in the greenest parts of the city. “This is because ozone is formed when NOx, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and gases react with each other under the influence of sunlight and temperature. A high NOx level can again react with ozone and mop it up. The ozone that escapes to cleaner areas has no NOx to further cannibalise it. As a result, ozone concentration builds up in these areas,” said the analysis. In Delhi, Nehru Nagar near Lodhi Gardens was found to be one such site. At the ground level, ozone is a highly reactive and even short-term exposure (of one hour) is dangerous for those with respiratory conditions and asthma. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, CSE, said that this pandemic-led change in air quality had helped them understand summer pollution. “Normally, every year, winter pollution is what draws our attention. The characteristics of summer pollution are different. There are high winds, intermittent rains, thunderstorms, high temperatures and heatwave. This is in contrast to winter — with its inversion, lower mixing height of air, and cold and calm conditions, which trap the air and the pollutants in it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ozone-levels-up-during-lockdown-mostly-in-green-parts/articleshow/76633487.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 26, 2020||Goa||Arctic Sea ice may vanish by 2050, says study||PANAJI: Ice in the Arctic Sea is melting at an alarming rate, with its largest decline in 41 years being recorded in July last year, found a research study conducted by the National Centre of Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR). The dramatic decline in Arctic sea ice due to global warming could well lead to the Arctic losing all its ice cover by 2050 if the melting rate does not slow down, said the study, which has been published in the journal Natural Hazards. “The decline rate is very alarming; if the decline in Arctic Sea ice continues at this rate, the Arctic will possibly be ice-free by the (end of the)next three decades,” said Avinash Kumar, who led the study with a research team comprising Juhi Yadav and Rahul Mohan. Using satellite data obtained from 1979 to 2019, NCPOR tracked the rate of surface warming and the changes in global atmospheric circulation, and studied the impact it had on the Arctic region. Between 1979 and 2018, Arctic Sea ice has been shrinking at a rate of 4.7% per decade, while the decline rate was found to be 13% in July 2019. The sea ice daily data analysis of the past 41 years shows that the second-lowest sea ice extent was on September 17 last year (4.1 million sq km) as compared to the first lowest record of 2012 (3.3 million sq km). The study found that the process of sea ice formation during winters is unable to compensate for the sea ice that melts during the summer. The decline of sea ice has led to localised increase in evaporation, air humidity, cloud cover, and rainfall, the study found. Warmer conditions meant that the Arctic Sea ice froze later in the winter and melted sooner in the summer, which in turn directly affected not just local weather but the climate over the Arctic Ocean and peripheral regions. “Moreover, the rapid decline in Arctic Sea ice reported from the last two decades is due to climate change, but the state of sea ice in the spring and summer of this year is very critical,” said Yadav. Over the past 30 years, the Arctic has warmed at roughly twice the rate as the entire globe, a phenomenon known as Arctic amplification. Most scientists agree that the rapid warming and melting of the ice cover is a signal of climate change and global warming. Arctic Sea ice is a critical indicator because the region helps cool the planet. “The combination of ocean-atmospheric warming plays a lead role in sea ice melting processes. If these processes continue at this rate, then the existing 25% of sea ice in the summer months would be melted completely in perhaps another 12-15 years,” said Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arctic-sea-ice-may-vanish-by-2050-says-study/articleshow/76633966.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Act against hospitals not sharing data on beds, governments told||NEW DELHI: An angry Delhi high court on Thursday expressed displeasure over the failure of the Centre and Delhi government in verifying if hospitals treating Covid-19 patients are sharing real-time data on bed availability. The high court asked authorities to “tighten” their administration and take stern action against “adamant hospitals” that fail to intimate this crucial information. “Your people should verify all data given by hospitals. Governments — both central and state — are pumping hard-earned public money into all this. Yet there are some adamant hospitals,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said during a virtual hearing. The high court’s strong remarks came after the lawyer appointed by it as amicus curiae, to find out the status of beds in hospitals, reported that four of them — RML, GTB, Apollo and Saroj — are not updating availability of beds in real-time. The amicus also claimed that as per media reports, one of the hospitals refused to admit a patient. Taking a stern view of the gaps pointed out, the court observed, “Your (central and Delhi government) officers have to be strict. Replace your officers if they are too friendly with hospitals. Either change your officer or we will do it. What the amicus has shown, your officers are unable to see.” It reminded the governments that if the hospitals did not comply, the authorities need to take stern action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/act-against-hosps-not-sharing-data-on-beds-govts-told/articleshow/76633496.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Hoteliers close doors on Chinese nationals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Hotels and Restaurant Owners Association announced on Thursday that its member budget hotels and guesthouses in Delhi would not provide accommodation to Chinese nationals. The association has about 3,000 hotels and guesthouses as its members. The development comes five days after a traders’ body gave a call to boycott Chinese goods due to rising tensions between Indian and Chinese armed forces. Hotels, however, have not yet been allowed to open due to the Covid-19 threat. Mahendra Gupta, general secretary of the association, said that the manner in which the Chinese army is behaving with Indian forces at the borders, the hotel industry is having a gross resentment against China. “We have decided to join the campaign of Confederation of All India Traders and boycott use of Chinese products in our hotels and guesthouses, such as furniture, kitchen accessories, cutleries and decorative items,” he added. “We will also be contacting star hotels to join the movement.” CAIT secretary Praveen Khandelwal said that they welcome the decision of the hotels’ association. “It is quite evident that people from all walks of life are willing to join the campaign. CAIT will now make all efforts to get support from farmers, transporters, small industries, consumers, hawkers and entrepreneurs,” he added. Khandelwal said that a national campaign to boycott Chinese products is being run under “Bhartiya Saamaan-Hamara Abhiman” title. “This time, the people of India are determined to teach a lesson to China and by December 2021, the traders along with the people of India will reduce the imports from China to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore and this money will be used to strengthen Indian economy,” he claimed. The organisation has also been campaigning that the country of origin should be mentioned against all products on online sale platforms. “If the government can implement this clause on GeM portal then why can’t e-commerce companies do it?” asked Khandelwal. On June 22, CAIT had burnt the effigies of Chinese products at Karol Bagh’s Arya Samaj Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hoteliers-close-doors-on-chinese-nationals/articleshow/76633493.cms||Paras Singh
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Civic hospitals in Nashik to get 100 intern doctors, nurses||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will get 100 trainee doctors and 100 nursing staff under the internship programme for its hospitals, as there is a shortage of medical staff to treat Covid-19 patients. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has already invited applications for the internship from medical graduates and postgraduates like MBBS, BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) and BHMS (Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery), and nursing students. Under the Urban Learning Internship Programme (TULIP), the central government will carry out the selection process online. The fresh medical graduates and postgraduates will have to apply on the portal – https://intership.aicte-india.org.. The applications will be scrutinised and selected online. The selected candidates will get an internship at NMC’s hospitals with a stipend given by the Nashik smart city company for three months. As the NMC is facing a shortage of doctors in its hospitals due to the number of Covid patients in the city, the recruitment of intern doctors will help NMC to manage the crise better, said smart city officials. Around 100 intern doctors include 50 MBBS, 25 BAMS and BHMS each. While Rs 16,000 per month will be given to intern doctors, Rs 12,000 per month is for intern BAMS and BHMS doctors. The nurses will get Rs 7,000 per month. The applicants should note that not more than18 months should have passed from the date of declaration of final year results to the date from which the internship is sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-hospitals-in-nashik-to-get-100-intern-doctors-nurses/articleshow/76631374.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 26, 2020||Kochi||IC4 awaits data from government departments & agencies||KOCHI: The Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) is looking forward to inputs from various government departments and agencies for effectively utilising the Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (IC4). Though IC4 was officially launched on June 8, many departments and agencies are yet to provide information and data required for drafting and designing development plans for Kochi. Officials at CSML are awaiting data or inputs from Kochi corporation, Kerala state electricity board, Kerala water authority, Kerala state pollution control board, motor vehicles department, town planning and disaster management. “The idea is to bring all information available with various departments on one platform. All information should be readily available to planners. It will help in finding solutions in emergency situations like natural calamities, epidemics, crime, fire, riots and for everyday issues like parking, water shortage, and garbage collection and disposal in the city,” said CSML spokesperson. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on June 8, had inaugurated IC4, which was termed as the brain for city operation. It provides insights by processing complex data sets at an aggregated level to derive intelligence for improved planning and policy making. D Dhanuraj, chairperson of centre for public policy research, said, “It is an evolving process. We should have a conclusive environment and political leadership that can take IC4 forward. The IC4 needs to be modelled in such a way that it should even be able to gather data from public and also disseminate information to private agencies, which are keen to be part of implementation of various city development and infrastructure projects. Basically, it is crowd sourcing of data.” However, he cautioned that the entire data gathering, and dissemination should work within a legal framework, where identities and privacy of individuals are not compromised. Citing an example from Germany, he said, the city labs there headed by the mayor, collects information of travelling public. "It is done for mobility planning and is carried out with the consent of the public. Based on this information they decide on the mode of public transport that has to be operated in various sectors. There is huge data and they have even entered separate tie-ups with mobile service providers. Though each move of a commuter is tracked live at their office, no information regarding the identity or contact numbers revealed. On the tracking system people appear as dots," he added. Experts also stressed the need of incorporating data available with the revenue department on IC4. Even though local bodies, including Kochi corporation, have no major say regarding land use, it will be of help to the decision makers and project executioners. Land being the most precious commodity in development, any data regarding it is of high value. "When data regarding land is made available on public domain it will curb manipulations and put an end to dubious deals," said an official with the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ic4-awaits-data-from-govt-depts-agencies/articleshow/76632631.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
June 26, 2020||Goa||It’s lights, camera, action as film shootings set to resume in Goa||PANAJI: Even as Goa continues to grapple with rising Covid-19 numbers, the state government has said that film shooting can resume in Goa as long as sanitation and social distancing norms are followed. An order to this effect was signed by Entertainment Society of Goa chief executive officer Amit Satija on Thursday, putting an end to the long break in film shooting that began with the imposition of the first lockdown in March. Guidelines issued by ESG stated that actors and crew members will have to adhere to filming protocols both for fiction and non-fiction shoots, with proper zoning and scheduling. Zones in shooting area will be defined after considering social distancing norms, the rules mandate. Besides social distancing on set, the ESG has also recommended that the casting process be carried out online, where the candidate can either tape their audition or have it carried out on video call. The ESG has also insisted that crew coming in from outside Goa follows all rules and regulations set by the government. The total number of crew members can’t exceed 100-110 for non-fiction films and 50-55 for fiction films, the guidelines state. All members, irrespective of role, are required to have the Arogya Setu app on their phones. Also, while no pregnant women will be allowed on set, if an employee has a pregnant spouse, she could be allowed if the employee is stationed away from home. The ESG has also said that line producers must follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) and general guidelines. They will also have to submit an undertaking along with their application for permission. The declaration form is available on the ESG website. Since in Goa, permissions for shootings are granted to line producers, the responsibility has been cast on them to strictly enforce SOPs and general guidelines for everyone involved in the shoot. While permissions issued for shooting will be based on the Covid situation of the area where the shoot is requested, no shooting is permitted in containment or buffer zones. Additionally, if permission is granted and an area is later declared a containment of buffer zone, the permission will stand cancelled. “If at any given time it is brought to the notice of the authorities that SOPs and guidelines laid down are not being adhered to, the permission allotted shall be withdrawn immediately,” the order states. “The ESG shall not be liable to refund payments made towards permissions withdrawn due to any violation.” The ESG has issued a list of over 20 guidelines which involve various aspects of disinfection, sanitisation, and social distancing. Every member of the shoot will have to follow Covid-19 protocol by submitting a consent form about fitness and health declaration. They will also have to undergo temperature checks, submit necessary documents, and use PPE as suggested by the government. Every film set must also have a dedicated Covid-19 helpdesk, with “at least one member who will keep check on all necessary aspects, maintain a record, and supervise anti-contagion measures”. This desk is expected to monitor the film crew. “In case a crew member is found ill, the same needs to be reported to the nearest health centre immediately,” the guidelines read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-lights-camera-action-as-film-shootings-set-to-resume-in-goa/articleshow/76633971.cms||Nida Sayed
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Antigen tests for civic body’s health staff, slum-dwellers||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to conduct antigen tests for its healthcare workers, employees and their high-risk contacts for early detection of Covid-19. Antigen tests of people residing in containment zones and slums in the city will also be carried out, said the civic officials. The NMC has already sought Rs 5 lakh assistance from the government for procuring the required kits/equipment to conduct the antigen tests in the city. There has been a sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the city. On Wednesday, the city had recorded 156 positive patients — the highest number of patients tested positive in the city in a day. Twenty-three health staff and employees of the municipal corporation, too, tested positive for the contagion. This includes four from the headquarters, four from the solid waste department of the NMC, eight frontline Covid warriors from NMC’s Covid hospital and another seven healthcare staffers from its another hospital. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), therefore, suggested antigen tests for fast detection of the virus. The entire process of the test takes about 15-25 minutes, said NMC officials. “We have decided to conduct antigen tests for NMC’s frontline Covid warriors and employees. Moreover, we will conduct antigen tests of their high-risk contacts, people residing in containment zones, slum areas as well as residents of the gaothan areas of the city,” the officials added. City records 52 fresh cases The city recorded 52 cases on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed patients to 1,580. In addition, the fatality toll of the city went up to 81 with four more deaths recorded on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/antigen-tests-for-civic-bodys-health-staff-slum-dwellers/articleshow/76631383.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 26, 2020||Mangaluru||11 heads of cattle rescued, three held||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district police arrested three people, seized a vehicle, and rescued 11 heads of cattle, in Charmadi checkpost under Dharmasthala police station limits, on Thursday morning. According to police, the arrested are Naresh, Mohammed Azharuddin, and Mohammed Hafeez. When police at Charmadi checkpost were checking vehicles, they found that a truck was illegally transporting cattle. The accused didn’t have the necessary documents. They found five she buffaloes, four cows and two calves in the vehicle. A case has been registered at the Dharmasthala police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/11-heads-of-cattle-rescued-three-held/articleshow/76631380.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nashik||NDCC bank to shut 42 branches||Nashik: The Nashik District Central Co-operative (NDCC) Bank has decided to close 42 loss-making branches and merge them with the existing branches. The decision has been taken to reduce the expenses and make the bank more profitable. The NDCC Bank has a total of 210 branches spread across the district. “We have started taking measures to reduce the losses and improve the financial condition of the bank. As part of this, we have started taking measures to close the branches that are suffering losses,” said NDCC Bank officials.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ndcc-bank-to-shut-42-branches/articleshow/76631395.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Workers bear brunt of suspension of inter-dist bus trips||Trichy: With the state government suspending inter-district bus services from Thursday in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, employees from micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), are unable to travel to their workplaces in neighbouring districts. This, in turn, has impacted the MSME operations.At least 25% of the workforce in the MSME fabrication and engineering units in Thuvakudi, Mathur and Pudhukudi are from other districts. “We are applying for passes for employees like welders, painters and fitters from other districts with the district industries centre to enable the inter-district travel,” R Ilango, president, Tiruchirapalli district tiny & small scale industries (Tiditssia) said. The suspension has affected their travel.The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Trichy region suspended inter-district bus services to Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts after the state government on Wednesday announced that buses will be operated intra-district till June 30.“We still operate only 50% of our fleet. The available buses will be rationalised on routes as per demand. We expect the patronage to come down further,” a senior TNSTC official said.Thanjavur-bound buses from Trichy are halted at Devarayaneri while Trichy-bound buses from Thanjavur are halted at Pudhukudi, 4km away from Devarayaneri. Private buses also follow the same standard operating procedure.A source from National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) toll plaza on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH said the movement of vehicles between districts has come down by 50%. “Only trucks and government vehicles are plying through the toll plaza from Thursday morning,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/workers-bear-brunt-of-suspension-of-inter-dist-bus-trips/articleshow/76633968.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cases triple, but corpn sticks to old testing routine||Trichy: Even as the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city has tripled in the last five days, Trichy corporation continues with its routine strategy of testing only people with symptoms and their contacts. The hesitation to adopt best practices from other urban local bodies such as hosting fever camps and door-to-door inspection outside containment zones have made locals wary of the corporation’s strategy as new cases surface outside hotspots. A health official said that they do not have enough doctors for fever camps and are already overburdened. On June 18, 10 fresh cases were reported in the city while the active cases were 43. In less than a week, it jumped to 81 on June 21. The corporation’s strategy is to move positive case to the hospital while samples will be collected from close contacts for testing and kabasurakudineer will be distributed in the locality. The routine remains unchanged even as cases have doubled in all parts of Trichy city within a week. While Chennai Corporation has identified over 10,000 symptomatic people for Covid-19 tests through fever camps, no such plan is on cards in Trichy Corporation. The fever camps were touted to contain the spread through early intervention. “With fever clinics, we can trace Covid-19 patients easily and their travel history can be tracked. Fever clinics will prevent the public from visiting testing centres and hospitals for seasonal and non-Covid fevers,” said Dr A Mohamed Hakkim, an emergency physician.Although the Corporation had mooted random testing at shops that attract significant crowd, there has been no development on this front. Even as cases crop up from wards with no history of Covid-19 cases, the civic body is hesitant in mass screening outside the hotspots. Door-to-door screening is being carried out only in vulnerable areas. While city health officer M Yazhini refused to comment, a senior health official with the civic body said, “There are only limited doctors in urban primary health centres who are already burdened in testing antenatal mothers. We need more doctors for fever camps as we did during the dengue outbreak.” Officials acknowledged that fever camps can detect Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-cases-triple-but-corpn-sticks-to-old-testing-routine/articleshow/76633969.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Unpaid for 6 months, corona doctors go on strike in Sagar||BHOPAL: As many as 76 doctors on Covid duty at Bundelkhand Medical College (BMC) in MP’s Sagar went on strike because they have not been paid for six months. This, despite Supreme Court’s directives to all state governments to ensure doctors fighting the Coronavirus are paid in time. With no medical education minister in the five-member Shivraj cabinet, the doctors approached the local BJP MLA before going on strike on Wednesday. They called it off on Thursday after being assured their dues will be paid. One of the doctors said they had not been paid three months’ internship stipend and salary for three months as medical officers on contract. Besides, they were being issued “inferior quality PPE kits”, which puts them at risk of Covid-19 infection, she said. “We had raised the issue several times. How do you expect us to work without salaries for half a year?” asked another doctor. The doctors said they do not have proper PPE kits and N-95 masks to protect them from infection, and that they are not served food in their room at night after serving in ICU wards with Corona patients. “They want us to mingle with other students in the mess to take food. But the staff members, who serve food, are scared of us. Their fear is genuine as we are exposed to the virus while working in the ICU,” the doctors said. BJP MLA Shailandra Jain on Thursday assured the doctors that their salaries would be paid in two to three days after which the doctors called off their strike. Jain later told mediapersons, “They were forced to go on strike because of some serious issues. I have spoken with the commissioner, medical education, Nishant Warwade, and their salaries are being transferred to their accounts. They will be paid in 2-3 days. After I talked to them , they called off the strike.” “Besides, there were other small issues. A delegation met me yesterday regarding PPE kits and N95 masks. There were some discrepancies and they had some suggestions. I discussed these issues with them and spoke with the medical education commissioner, who assured he would talk to the higher authorities ad resolve them,” he said. Dean of the college Dr R S Verma told TOI, “The payment could not be sanctioned from the state government. Now they have been paid. They were appointed especially for Covid-19 for three months.” On PPE kits, he said: “The doctors feel they are of inferior quality. We are writing to the government on this as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unpaid-for-6-months-corona-doctors-go-on-strike-in-sagar/articleshow/76632633.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Plant trees, but follow Covid protocol: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives for following Covid-19 protocols during the upcoming plantation drive. On Thursday, the CM reviewed preparations for plantation of 25 crore trees on a single day in the first week of July. The day has not been finalised yet. The CM directed officers to follow social distancing during the drive and publicise slogans like ‘do gaj ki doori, mask zaroori’ and ‘Corona harega, Bharat jeetega’. The plantation should be done at different spots and in different time slots. By planting over 150 species of trees at two to three sites in Lucknow division the state government is trying to create a record or sorts, he added. The CM said that beneficiaries of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna should be provided five saplings each. Apart from farmers beneficiaries of other schemes of the Centre like PMAY, Saubhagya, Ujjwala and SBM be given one ‘sahjan' sapling each for plantation at their houses, he added. As many as 8.7 lakh plantation sites are ready. The sites are being geo-tagged. At least 30 crore trees are ready for plantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plant-trees-but-follow-covid-protocol-yogi/articleshow/76633972.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC allows LG team to return home||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday allowed the South Korean delegation, which had come to probe the gas leak incident at the LG Polymers plant, to return home. The eight-member delegation from the parent company of LG Polymers inspected the plant to assess the cause of gas leak. They had moved the high court contending that the police were not allowing them to return to South Korea. The employees of LG Polymers parent company had filed writ petitions in the high court seeking relief allowing them to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-allows-lg-team-to-return-home/articleshow/76633504.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 tests: Smaller states outdo Telangana, only Bihar at bottom||HYDERABAD: Even smaller states like Jharkhand and Odisha seem to be faring better than Telangana — touted as one of the fastest growing states in India — when it comes to Covid-19 testing. In fact, Telangana is only marginally ahead of Bihar in the category of lowest testing per a million population in the country. As per records, while Telangana’s testing rate (per a million population) is 1,713, Bihar is at the bottom of the chart with 1,424. In comparison, Jharkhand is conducting 3,374 tests per million population (1.73% positivity rate), while Odisha is testing 5,059 samples per million (2.44% positivity rate). Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh too is conducting 14,407 tests per million population with a very low positivity rate. In their defence Telangana authorities say they are conducting Covid-19 tests using the RT-PCR method, which has a higher accuracy confirmed by ICMR, unlike other states that are doing rapid tests where the accuracy percentage is low. Health minister Eatala Rajender said the government is depending on the RT-PCR method for qualitative detection of the virus. “Some states are doing rapid tests where the accuracy percentage is less than 30, a fact confirmed by the ICMR itself,” he said, adding that the government would soon increase the testing to 10,000 samples per day. On the low numbers, the minister said that private laboratories and hospitals have not been updating the list of tests done, because of which Telangana continues to be at the bottom of the charts when it comes to testing. Defending the steps the government has taken, Rajender said Telangana is in a much better position when compared to other states and metropolitan cities. “Our recovery rate is 41% and mortality rate is 2.15%. Many people infected with coronavirus are being discharged. Doctors, cops and even journalists are among those who have been discharged,” the minister said. “We have ordered three Cobas-8800 machines to increase testing. They were supposed to land here in June, July and August from abroad. But, the first machine that arrived in the country on June 6 was diverted to West Bengal by the Centre,” Rajender said. “Had it come to us, we could have enhanced the tests by another 4,000 tests a day,” he added. The upgraded Cobas-8800, a high-speed testing machine for Covid-19, can run up to 960 tests in an eight-hour shift and 4,032 tests in 24 hours, with only three user interactions and up to four hours of walkaway time per run. Meanwhile, top sources from within the government attributed the low testing rate in Telangana to the delay in taking up testing. “We started increasing the tests only in the past three weeks from June 1. From about 500 tests a day earlier, we have increased it 5,000 to 6,000 a day. As the number of samples has increased, the positive cases have also surged,” a senior health official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-tests-smaller-states-outdo-t-only-bihar-at-bottom/articleshow/76633508.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops not on Rath duty told to skip Puri visit||Bhubaneswar: Apprehending the misuse of khaki power, the state police headquarters has warned its personnel, including IPS officers, not to visit Puri for the darshan of the sibling deities during the nine-day Rath Yatra that started on June 23. With devotees banned from participating in the festival following a Supreme Court order, the police headquarters said only duty-bound personnel are allowed to visit the pilgrim town. This year, the apex court has banned the congregation of devotees during Rath Yatra in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Though police enjoy easy access control, we have to be fair this time. The possibility of some officers touring Puri alone or with families for the darshan of the deities on the pretext of duty cannot be ruled out,” read the letter issued by the police headquarters on Wednesday to the heads of all police establishments in the state. In the letter, the police headquarters also cited an example of blatant abuse of power by an inspector, who had forcibly entered the Jagannath Temple in Puri during the lockdown in April. While the shrine has been out of bounds for devotees since March 20, Deepak Jena, who was the inspector-in-charge of Badachana police station in Jajpur district, allegedly barged into the temple with his family members on April 19. He was suspended the next day for unruly conduct. “We faced embarrassment owing to the inspector’s misconduct. All personnel should keep that incident in mind and act rationally. While common devotees are not allowed, we should also act according to the Supreme Court’s order,” a senior officer said. The order said only those police officers posted in Puri district and deputed by the state police headquarters for Rath Yatra duty are allowed to stay in Puri. Others, including IPS officers, are not permitted to visit Puri till the end of Niladri Bije, the last leg of the Rath Yatra on July 4, the officer said. Significantly, only around 40 platoons of force and a handful of officers have been mobilised in Puri for Rath Yatra duty. While over a dozen IPS officers used to camp in Puri during the previous years on Rath Yatra, this time only DGP Abhay, ADG (law and order) Soumendra Priyadarshi, IGP (operations) Amitabh Thakur, DIG (central range) Ashish Singh, DIG (special task force) J N Pankaj and Puri SP Uma Shankar Dash have been looking after the security arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-not-on-rath-duty-told-to-skip-puri-visit/articleshow/76632698.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Health science varsity may defer summer 2020 exam||Nashik: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) is likely to defer the summer 2020 examination of health science streams in view of Covid-19 situation in the state. Although the final decision on the issue is yet to be officially announced, insiders of the university said that the examination is unlikely to start as per the date that was announced in the first week of June. The university had taken the decision to hold the summer examination beginning July 16 in a staggered manner. Initially the exams for the final year undergraduate steams like allopathy, homoeopathy, ayurveda, nursing, unani, etc. was supposed to begin from July 16. “The prevailing Covid-19 situation is still grim in some parts of the state,” added MUHS sources. Interestingly, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 18 seeking his intervention for directing the Medical Council of India (MCI) to postpone the MD/MS exam as the state’s resident doctors are playing a crucial role in treating patients at government and municipal hospitals. MCI has directed all health science universities, including MUHS, to complete the summer 2020 examination as soon as possible. MUHS controller of examination Ajit Pathak has written to deans of all health science colleges in the state that the timetable announced by the university was a temporary one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-science-varsity-may-defer-summer-2020-exam/articleshow/76631407.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM for more vigil in NCR as Covid cases surge||LUCKNOW: The increasing Covid-19 cases in Delhi, which has overtaken Mumbai as the city with highest number of patients, have put Uttar Pradesh government on the alert. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to increase surveillance in NCR cities and pay special attention to Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut, where movement to and from the national capital is very high. Yogi said the concerned districts should have a well-defined strategy for containing Covid spread and providing good treatment facilities. Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad have together accounted for 18% of UP’s total case load in June so far. On Thursday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 143 cases while 84 were reported from Ghaziabad. Eight districts of UP — Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Shamli — are part of Delhi NCR. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has directed that a special strategy must be implemented at the earliest to control spread of the infection in the NCR areas. The CM has also told NCR divisions to make arrangements for additional beds for any future requirement.” As numerous cases of Covid-19 were reported among PAC jawans, the chief minister issued directions that social distancing must be followed strictly in barracks of all security forces. The police have been directed to intensify patrolling and strictly ensure that crowds do not gather anywhere. “The CM said that strict monitoring should take place in containment zones where all essential supplies should be provided to households. Meanwhile, each district should continue to maintain at least one quarantine shelter and one community kitchen for the time being,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-more-vigil-in-ncr-as-cases-surge/articleshow/76633976.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||AP’s paid quarantine runs into payment wall||Visakhapatnam: On June 18, P Prema (name changed) arrived at Visakhapatnam railway station from Mumbai, following which, she chose a budget hotel near Saraswati Park in Daba Gardens for institutional quarantine. The hotel was going to cost her Rs 11,200 for accommodation and three vegetarian meals for seven nights. Prema was informed that she could undergo a test only on the eighth day and will be discharged only on the ninth or tenth day if she tested negative. “At the time of check-out, the hotel gave me an additional bill of Rs 4,800. I tried to argue, but my efforts were in vain,” Prema told TOI. Admitting to the goof-up, district health officials said that there is confusion over the quarantine process which is leading to altercations between people and hotel managers. Sources informed that the officials convened a meeting to discuss the issue on Thursday evening. Dr Devi Madhavi, in-charge of covid quarantine centres in the district, said, “Since the package is for seven days as per the state government norms, we cannot increase the number of days and package fare on our own. Hotels owners claimed that ruckus with the guests over the payment of additional days have turned out to be a regular affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aps-paid-quarantine-runs-into-payment-wall/articleshow/76633524.cms||Arpit Basu
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Mortality rate drops in Jalgaon, Dhule; Nashik lags behind||Nashik: The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jalgaon and Dhule have significantly improved in the last five days, as compared to Nashik district where the death rate rate has marginally shot up during the corresponding period. According to data shared by the Nashik divisional commissionerate, the mortality of Covid-19 patients in Jalgaon has dipped from 8.5% on June 20 to 7.5% on June 24. Similarly, the mortality rate has dropped from 11.3% to 8% in Dhule district during the same period. “In Nashik district, the death rate has swelled marginally from 5.4% to 6% in the span of those five days mainly because of the deaths that have occurred due to Covid-19 in Nashik city. The death rate in Nashik city had swelled from 3.1% to 4.2%,” said officials. Divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane said that the local district administrations and the civic bodies in the five districts (Ahmednagar and Nandurbar) of the division were carrying out robust tracking and testing of high-risk contacts  “In all the five districts, authorities are focusing on the mantra of trace, test and treat which will go a long way in improving the recovery rate,” said Mane. As many as 7,119 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the five districts, of which 2,541 are active cases. Collectively, the death toll in these five districts stand at 462—most of the deaths taking place in Jalgaon and Nashik districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mortality-rate-drops-in-jalgaon-dhule-nashik-lags-behind/articleshow/76631435.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Khairatabad, Charminar circles account for more than half of Covid-19 cases in GHMC||HYDERABAD: Khairatabad and Charminar circles of GHMC accounted for 3,611 Covid-19 cases until Tuesday which is close to Kerala (3850), the state that has succeeded to a large extent in containing the virus. Dotted with a number of slums, Khairatabad, the biggest circle in the city has 2,354 cases of the 6,071 reported in GHMC until Tuesday. Charminar is next on the list with 1,257 cases. Karwan, which also includes Jiyaguda, has 662 positive cases, the highest per area. “GHMC and the state government should provide isolation facility at the hospital near Railway Gate at Lakdikapul as it is in good condition. Government should use this facility for isolation and treatment,” said Congress leader Dasoju Sravan. “As there are a number of slums in this area there should be a specific approach to tackle this problem.” When contacted, Jubilee Hills corporator Kaja Suryanarayan under whom Khairatabad circle falls, stressed on the need for more public awareness on social distancing norms. “There is a lack of awareness about social distancing and other guidelines which must be followed to fight the pandemic. I still see people coming out in large number and not taking any preventive measures. We are trying our best to disinfect these areas and create awareness among people,” said Suryanayarana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khairatabad-charminar-circles-account-for-more-than-half-of-covid-cases-in-ghmc/articleshow/76633513.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Air pollution in Delhi falls by 32.5%||Nagpur: Thanks to the lockdown, the air pollution in New Delhi saw a 32.5% decrease, reveals a latest study, with am interactive tool developed by dealchecker blog. The study analysed how lockdown and travel restrictions have altered pollution rates globally. It has taken into consideration over 80 cities around the world, allowing users to visualize the pollution levels in April 2019 compared to the same period in 2020. The study revealed that amid coronavirus lockdown, air quality in the capital saw a 32.5% improvement in April 2020 compared to April last year. It measured the amount of particles in the atmosphere with a diameter of 2.5 micrometers or less (PM2.5). PM2.5 are dangerous particles that can go into lungs causing serious health ailments. As per the study, the average level of PM2.5 in Delhi in April 2019 was 171.63 micrograms per cubic meter (mpcm). Post the lockdown, it dropped to 115.83 mpcm in April this year. “This change has resulted in the improvement of air quality in Delhi,” the study stated. It added that cities around the world have seen pollution rates drop after governments introduced alterations to lifestyle and travel patterns for millions of people around the world. “Global patterns in 2020 make for good reading for environmental enthusiasts, with 83% of the cities in the study showing improvement in air quality,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/air-pollution-in-delhi-falls-by-32-5/articleshow/76650772.cms||Manka Behl
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Emergency mindset is still prevalent in Cong, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: The state BJP on Thursday observed ‘black day’ on the 45th anniversary of the Emergency. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had imposed the Emergency in on June 25, 1975. The party organised an exhibition by putting up black posters in the state headquarters. Making a scathing attack on Congress, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the erstwhile government led by Indira Gandhi committed inhuman atrocities on the people and the party is still working with the same mindset. “During the Emergency, Indira Gandhi committed inhuman atrocities on the people, who were assaulted and electrocuted. Nobody had imagined that in independent India, people would be tortured in such a way. June 25 was the darkest day in the history of India's democracy. Even 16-17-year-old kids were put behind bars. Congress is working with the same mindset even today,” said Chouhan, while inaugurating the exhibition. Chouhan further recalled the atrocities being committed on the political workers and said the Congress crushed the democracy to stay in power. “The greed for power was so much that court's decisions were not accepted and the Constitution was disrespected. Leaders like Jayaprakash Narayan, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani were put in jail,” he said.  BJP state chief V D Sharma said, “During the Emergency, democracy lovers fought a long battle to save the country and even sacrificed their lives”. Congress reacted strongly to BJP’s remarks. Former minister P C Sharma said that the policies of the NDA government are like an “undeclared emergency”. “During the Emergency, the financial condition of the country was improved. But, today the economy is in a mess. This is an undeclared emergency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/emergency-mindset-is-still-prevalent-in-cong-says-chouhan/articleshow/76632730.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Traditional healer Murthy no more||Shivamogga: Well-known traditional practitioner Narayanamurthy from Narasipura village in Sagar taluk died at his residence late on Wednesday night. He was 80. He is survived by his wife, son and four daughters. Murthy developed chest pain around 9 pm. The family shifted him to the taluk hospital where he died later, the family told TOI. Narayanamurthy has been practising traditional healing from the past four decades, and was popularly known as the 'cancer-healer.' His family were ayurveda practitioners. Narayanamurthy had a big following from across the country with patents lining up as early as 4am to get an appointent with him. Hundreds of people gathered at his farm in Narasipura village for his cremation on Thursday. Murthy had recently appealed to rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa to allow him to resume his practice during the lockdown. The district authorities had ordered suspension of his practice keeping in mind social distancing protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/traditional-healer-murthy-no-more/articleshow/76631416.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Premature newborn is Goa’s first to test positive for Covid-19||PANAJI: A baby born at the Covid hospital in Margao on Thursday is the state’s first to test positive for the novel coronavirus. The baby was born premature at 35 weeks. “The baby was quickly taken to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital to prevent him from getting infected, but he tested positive and was taken back to the Covid hospital and reunited with his mother,” a doctor said. “The pre-term issues are being managed at the Covid hospital itself.” Thursday’s baby is the first child born to a Covid-positive mother to also test positive for the virus. Doctors said that the mother’s breast milk, filled with antibodies, will help the newborn fight infection. The previous two babies born at the Covid hospital both tested negative twice — first at birth, and then 48 hours later. Meanwhile, the Covid hospital’s second baby, who was born on Monday, has also been reunited with her mother in the hospital. The woman wears full PPE while breastfeeding the baby, and doctors say that the milk is providing the child with antibodies. The first mother to deliver at the Covid hospital, as well as her baby, have since tested negative for Covid-19. Incidentally, all three mothers are from Mangor Hill, Goa’s first containment zone, and the first two delivered their children via C-section. Until Thursday, the state’s youngest Covid-positive patient was a four-month-old baby, whose mother tested negative. She had travelled to Goa via train from Delhi. Six of the thirteen children admitted in the Covid hospital’s paediatric ward were sent to MPT hospital Covid care centre on Thursday after they were found to be asymptomatic and doing well. “The Covid care centre is a step down from the Covid hospital,” a doctor said. “We are keeping the hospital ready for patients who really require it.” The hospital’s paediatric ward has played host to several children since the state’s borders were opened. A one-year-old baby who travelled by road to Goa with her family was the first child to be admitted to the Covid hospital, followed by other rail and road passengers who tested positive with their siblings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/premature-newborn-is-states-first-to-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76633974.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: 12-year-old creates online learning aids in Marathi, Konkani||PANAJI: The reopening of schools has been delayed and most institutes have decided to focus their online teaching sessions mainly on high school students. Some have also objected to primary school students being burdened with online classes. In these circumstances, a Class VII student of People’s High School Gajesh Naik decided it was time to step in to create educational material for Marathi medium primary students to help them continue their learning at their convenience. Twelve-year-old Gajesh, who took to coding at age seven and started his own YouTube channel soon after in 2015, spent eight days of the lockdown to create a video which made it possible for Marathi-medium students to learn the letters of the script unassisted. The Santa Cruz-resident first experimented on his younger brother Prasiddh, a Class II student, before he decided that the YouTube video is a successful learning tool. Gajesh was then approached by two Konkani-medium schools to create similar videos for their students. The Konkani videos too are now ready and have been uplaoded on Gajesh's Youtube channel to be accessed by students. “I have created around 60 educational videos during the lockdown on python coding, data science, machine learning, web development, computer vision and social media chatbots, which can be used by both adults and children to learn on their own. The video on alphabet for Marathi-medium students came about after the lockdown, when schools were shut and I was concerned about how my brother in Class II could continue to learn,” Gajesh said. Having studied in the Marathi-medium himself, Gajesh said he understood how challenging it would be for students to lose touch with academics when learning the basics in the lower classes. “I was approached by a couple of Konkani schools who want Gajesh to create similar videos for their students. But as Gajesh has not studied Konkani, we got him dictionaries and other material, which he studied to make an accurate video for Konkani-medium primary school students,” said Gajesh’s father Siddhivinayak Naik, who is a Goa Civil Service officer. Gajesh also made a video campaigning for the use of masks, for the Civil Supplies Department where his father is presently director. The youngster prepares the videos entirely on his own, including the sound, script, shooting,editing and research. Just as plenty of videos are available for English learners, Gajesh’s videos teach young children to recognise Marathi and Konkani letters and learn their accurate pronunciation. He supplements the learning experience with images. “I am now in the process of making videos to help Marathi-medium primary students learn the math tables and letter combinations. I am currently in the stage of experimenting with the video on my younger brother. Once successful, I will upload the video,” Gajesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-yr-old-creates-online-learning-aids-in-marathi-konkani/articleshow/76633975.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Aarogyasri Trust to hospitals:Restore services||HYDERABAD: The Aarogyasri Health Care Trust has asked network hospitals to restore routine services to beneficiaries with immediate effect ‘taking all precautionary measures to prevent infection.’ Most of these hospitals had kept the services on hold after the outbreak of the pandemic. Meanwhile, network hospitals, say they are finding it difficult to run day-to-day services. According to hospitals, Rs 1,000 crore Aarogyasri funds are due. “We are unable to give salaries for the past three months as most hospitals have pending bills. Regular patients are not being treated by many hospitals,” said T Hari Prakash, president, Telangana Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association. Surgeons working at these hospitals have gone into hibernation after the outbreak. “Since a few surgeons contracted the virus after performing surgeries in the initial days of the outbreak, many are not willing to undertake operations. As a result many hospitals have not been conducting routine surgeries for BPL patients and now we are not in a position to continue unless funds are released,” added the representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aarogyasri-trust-to-hospitalsrestore-services/articleshow/76633530.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Swine flu, TB claim more lives than Covid-19 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: While Covid-19 cases in the state are on a steady rise, doctors from the city advise people against pressing the panic button just yet. Reason: the mortality rate of the virus is still much lower than many other diseases. On Thursday, Telangana’s health minister Eatala Rajender urged people not to panic. “There is no need to be scared of Covid-19. Although it is a highly contagious virus, the mortality is far less when compared to influenza-like illnesses, severe acute respiratory illness and swine flu (H1N1),” he said. For instance, the 2009 swine flu while at its peak, touched a mortality rate of 20 % to 22% in Telangana (during the outbreak of pandemic and medicine or vaccine was there). It was only over the years that it slowly dropped to 1%. Similarly, other diseases including TB, cancer and hypertension too have mortality rates ranging between 4% and 10%, doctor say. In comparison, Covid- 19 deaths, going by latest records of the state health department, stands at 225 up to June 24. The total number of cases -- 10,444. This means that the mortality rate of coronavirus in Telangana is still restricted to 2.15% -- much lower than most other diseases. Further, doctors emphasis how of every 100 people in Telangana testing positive for Covid-19, about 85% are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms (only need home care) and just about 15% require hospitalisation.  Among them, 10% need oxygen support while 5% (or less) reach a stage where they need ventilator support. “The mortality of Covid-19 is largely high in persons with existing co-morbidities and elderly people. However people need to take all precautions as a young person who are infected can pass on the virus to an elderly in the family,” said Dr Mahaboob Khan, superintendent, Chest Hospital. Doctors explain that the sudden spike in numbers is primarily owing to two reasons – increased testing and poor adherence to precautionary measures. Many can be seen without masks or wearing improperly fitted masks. People should only go out if absolutely necessary as we are entering the most dangerous phase of the pandemic now,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, president, The Association of Surgeons of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swine-flu-tb-claim-more-lives-than-covid-19-in-t/articleshow/76633523.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara Covid-19 cases rise above 2,000 mark||Vadodara: With 44 fresh cases being reported on Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district crossed the 2,000 mark and stands at 2,042. The north zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) continued to be the worst hit with 10 cases being reported from the area, followed by east and west zones with nine cases each. In the south zone, six persons tested positive. Fresh cases in the city were reported from OP Road, Diwalipura, Gotri, Vadsar, Gorwa, Atladara, Sun Pharma Road, Manjalpur, Akota, Karelibaug, Fatehpura, Mandvi, R V Desai Road, Warasiya, Ajwa Road and other areas. In the areas of the Vadodara district outside the VMC limits, 10 cases were reported. These cases were from Padra, Waghodiya, Bajwa and Undera areas. A municipal corporator from Padra is also learnt to have tested positive. Thursday also brought some good news with 101 persons being discharged from various facilities in and around the city as well as from home isolation. With this 1,456 persons have been discharged in the city so far. As many as 536 patients remain under treatment due to Covid-19. These include 32 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 121 breathing with the help of oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-covid-19-cases-rise-above-2000-mark/articleshow/76631752.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Parents try to marry off minor ‘before they die’||NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old girl who was being married off to a stranger against her wishes was rescued by Delhi Commission for Women. The girl managed to alert the commission in time and officials reached her house in Rohini Sector-20 during the ‘Haldi’ ceremony. Her parents said they wanted her to get married before they died, as they were afraid of getting infected by the novel coronvirus. The girl had called the 181 helpline and said that her family was forcefully marrying her off to a stranger on June 22. A DCW team rushed to the address given by her and found her house decked up, arrangements for a wedding being made and relatives and family members dancing to the tune of drums. When asked for proof of the girl’s age, the parents accepted that she was not of legal age but claimed they wanted her to get married while they were alive. The DCW team informed the concerned SDM and the Child Welfare Committee. The local SHO was also informed and the family was taken to the local police station. Documents shown at the police station confirmed the girl’s age as 16. She has studied till Class VIII before dropping out of school. The family was then counseled by the team, who also took a written undertaking from them stating they will not pressure or force the girl to get married before she is 18 years old. Police have made a DD entry and are in the process of registering an FIR in the matter. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said that marrying off girls at such an young age equates to stealing their childhood from them. “We want the strongest action in this case and the police should file an FIR,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-try-to-marry-off-minor-before-they-die/articleshow/76633535.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nashik||NMC gets two new addl commissioners||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally got two new additional commissioners. Municipal commissioner of Bhivandi Pravin Ashtikar and additional municipal commissioner of Thane Sameer Unhale have been transferred by the state government to the NMC. These two posts were lying vacant for over one-and-a-half years and the additional charge of these posts were given to senior municipal officials. Ashtikar took charge on Thursday as additional municipal commissioner (services) from auditor B Sonkamble., who had the additional charge. Talking to reporters, Ashtikar said that his priority will be cleanliness of the city. “Focus will be given on taking measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city,” he added. Meanwhile, Unhale is expected to take charge in a day or two. The NMC has a total of 5,000 employees, including 1,500 sanitation workers. The civic body is already in the process of outsourcing 700 sanitation workers through a private agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-two-new-addl-commissioners/articleshow/76631445.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 26, 2020||Goa||Government asks teachers not to give Class I, II students homework||PANAJI: The Directorate of Education, in a circular to all heads of government and aided schools, has directed teachers of Class I and II not to prescribe homework to students. Stating this, an order issued by the director of education Vandana Rao said this is in keeping with guidelines in a latest Madras High Court writ petition. “However, they give classwork for evaluation,” Rao said. No additional textbooks are to be prescribed for students of Class I and II without the permission of the state council of educational research and training (SCERT) / directorate of education, she added. Only books prescribed by SCERT, by adopting the national state council of educational research and training (NCERT) curriculum must be followed in Goa. The circular give a list of books that can be used by teachers to teach English, Marathi, Maths and environmental studies (EVS) to primary students. Schools have also been instructed to reduce the weight of the school bag appropriately as per the child’s age and follow the directorate of education’s circular issued in February where two students are permitted to share a single text book in the classroom, where the school can maintain a set of spare textbooks, where teachers can cover course matter in the class and where teachers can use audio-visual methods in class. This avoids adverse effects of heavy school bags. “The assistant director of education inspector (ADEI) and zonal officers should make surprise visits, periodic checks in this regard and send the quarterly report to the director of education with a copy endorsed to SCERT for compilation,” director Vandana Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-asks-teachers-not-to-give-class-i-ii-students-homework/articleshow/76633984.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 350-kg of psychotropic substances seized during lockdown, 16 arrested||LUCKNOW: All economic activities were hit during lockdown, but the Narcotics Contol Bureau personnel from Lucknow Zone seized 350 kg of psychotropic substances from April to June. NCB officials said the haul was significant as in normal days (pre-lockdown period), usually 15-20 kg of psychotropic substances used to be seized in a month. The drug traffickers used trucks carrying essential supplies to smuggle drugs and psychotropic substances, the officials added. NCB zonal director, Lucknow, Prashant Srivastava told TOI, “Our teams seized approximately 350 kg of psychotropic substances from six different places in the state from April 28 to June 16. As many as 16 persons were arrested.” “These consignments were being sent for delivery to Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Ambala districts of Haryana, while one was to be delivered in Punjab, one in Jhansi and one in Jaipur,” Srivastava added. “Of the total seizures, 325 kg was opium while 10 kg was ganja,” he said. The most noticeable part was that in all of these six hauls, the consignment was hidden in trucks ferrying essential supplies, he added. “The traffickers had hidden the opium consignments in spare tyres, specially created secret cavities, attached to the vehicle’s axle, below fuel tanks and engines of trucks carrying essential commodities,” said the zonal Director. The 16 persons arrested were supplying opium from Naxalite-affected areas of Jharkhand to whole of North India. NCB personnel had succeeded in arresting Jharkhand resident Manoj Dangri, a key member of the drug trafficking network, and recovered 91 kg opium from his possession. The later arrests and seizures were carried out on the basis of information revealed by him. NCB sleuths are still conducting sustained interrogation of the arrested 16 traffickers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/350-kg-of-psychotropic-substances-seized-during-lockdown-16-arrested/articleshow/76633989.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Testing backlog: Telangana hits pause button||HYDERABAD: The government on Thursday said Covid-19 sample collection at special camps will be stopped for two days. In a statement, director of health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said they need to first clear the pending samples before collecting fresh samples. Dr Rao said collection of samples would, however, continue in the designated Covid-19 hospitals. “People with Covid-like symptoms need not fear. They can get themselves tested in these hospitals,” he stressed. He said 8,253 samples are still to be tested in the labs and that is why they had to halt the sample collection exercise for two days. Each sample needs to be examined within 48 hours and they need to be stored at a specific temperature. If the samples are stored for more than the required period, there is every possibility of getting a false result,” he explained. As more samples are being collected at health camps, the authorities were worried about storing them as they have to first examine the samples that have already been collected.  Sources said the two-day break would be utilised for sanitising the labs, camps and completing the testing of pending samples. Meanwhile, the authorities are feeling the pressure to deliver the test results quickly. While the pace of sample collection has improved in the last few days, the test results are taking more than 26 hours. Though health minister Eatala Rajender said the results would be out within 24 hours to 36 hours, they are being delivered 48 hours later. BJP MLA T Raja Singh on Thursday said though his gunmen had given their samples three days ago, the results are yet to come. “The testing capacity needs to be increased. All the politicians along with their gunmen should be tested and their gunmen too” he said in a message.  In the last few days, a large number of samples were collected as part of a drive to conduct 50,000 tests in Hyderabad and surrounding districts. Till now (from June 16), 36,000 samples have been collected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/testing-backlog-telangana-hits-pause-button/articleshow/76633541.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens to develop tree canopy along NH||Vinobha.KT Mangaluru: Environmentalists in Mangaluru are all set to create a green canopy on the 17-km stretch of the national highway from Talapady to Nanthoor by planting Kadamba Vriksha, also known as burflower tree or Neolamarckia Cadamba. The initiative is being taken up jointly by the forest department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in association with green warriors led by Madhav Ullal. They are inspired by Saalumarada Thimmakka, who planted 385 banyan trees along a four-kilometre stretch of highway between Hulikal and Kudur. Madhava Ullal told TOI that the team has a target of planting 2,000 saplings on the NH stretch from Kerala – Karnataka border at Talapady to Nanthoor in the city. “This is a 9-year old concept that bloomed in my mind through the inspirations from Saalumarada Thimmakka. Finally, the project has been kick-started by involving forest department, NHAI and local residents on June 18. As per the suggestions of forest department, we have been planting saplings leaving five meters gap. While the forest department has been supplying saplings, the NHAI has demarcated spots to plant them. It may take another month for us to complete the project by planting 2,000 trees from Talapady to Nanthoor. We expect to convert the NH stretch into a tree canopy within four to five years,” he said. In addition to Kadamba, they also have been planting other species like Renje (Mimusops Elengi) and Kakkemara (Cassia Fistula). “Kadamba has a lot of medicinal value that it helps people improve their immunity against contagious diseases as per Ayurveda. We have plans to plant Kadamba in more than 50% of the stretch. Meanwhile, in selected area,s canopy of cassia fistula, which gives yellow flowers in summer, also will be created,” he said. “Range forest officer P Shridhar has not only been arranging saplings, but also deputed staff to help us. Meanwhile, Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple has arranged an earthmover machine to dig pits and clear land,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-to-develop-tree-canopy-along-nh/articleshow/76631450.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Trade unions call for bandh on July 3||Nashik: The joint action committee of all trade and workers unions, in order to press for their demands, has called for a nationwide bandh on July 3. The joint action committee comprises members from the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) and other associations of insurance and government employees. “We had sought a financial relief of Rs 10,000 per month for the workers who do not fall under the income tax net, but our demand has been ignored. Due to this we will stage a bandh,” D L Karad, national vice-president of CITU, said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trade-unions-call-for-bandh-on-july-3/articleshow/76631453.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Attack on ASI: HC to decide on bail plea||KOCHI: CBI has contended before the high court that ASI Babu Kumar murder-attempt case is a rare one in which police officers themselves conspired to kill a fellow officer. Opposing the pleas filed by the accused to let them out on bail while the high court hears their appeals over convictions by a CBI special court, CBI’s counsel said bails should not be granted at the present stage. A CBI special court had convicted four persons, including DSP Santhosh Nair, to undergo rigorous imprisonment of 10 years in the case. An attempt on the life of Kumar was allegedly made on the belief that he leaked information to media about police officers attending a liquor party thrown by a liquor baron at Kollam. Mathrubhumi journalist VB Unnithan, who reported the news, was also brutally attacked by a gang allegedly employed by the police officers. It is following the high court’s orders that the CBI conducted a probe. The court has now reserved the case for pronouncing orders. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/attack-on-asi-hc-to-decide-on-bail-plea/articleshow/76632763.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Evening showers bring respite from humidity||BHOPAL: Gusty winds and a strong spell of shower gave respite to Bhopalis after a warm and humid day on Thursday. The rain however lasted only for a while. Similar weather is likely to continue in the coming days.  Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle said the rains were due to activation of local system after heating in day and moisture content in air. Showers are likely to continue in state but possibility of widespread rain is bleak. Monsoon trough has moved upward and there is no strong system impacting MP in Bay of Bengal. Systems in Arabian Sea and south Gujarat would not impact the state much, the officials said, adding that light to moderate rain would be witnessed in state. Day temperature in Bhopal on Thursday was recorded at 34.3 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark, while night temperature in city was recorded at 24.9 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark. Wind direction in the city was northwesterly, while average wind speed was 20 kmph The day temperature in Bhopal on Wednesday was recorded at 30.1 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than normal mark, while night temperature in the city was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, a degree less than normal. The places that recorded showers between 8.30am and 5.30pm in the day were Bhopal (trace), Ujjain (trace), Sagar (8mm), Dhar (5mm), Damoh (3mm), Satna (1mm). In the forecast for Bhopal on Friday, the meteorological department officials said, there would be cloudy sky during the evening and night hours. There was possibility of rain and thunder in parts of the city. Day and night temperature would be at 34 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius respectively, while average wind speed will be 18 kmph In the forecast for state, the meteorological officials issued warning of thunder and lightning for places including Bhopal division and Narsinghpur, Chhindwara, Damoh, Sagar, Hoshangabad and Mandsaur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/evening-showers-bring-respite-from-humidity/articleshow/76632777.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Where is Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s bicycle now? asks Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: PCC chief Kamal Nath on Thursday launched an attack on BJP and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for the continuous rise in fuel prices. “Today, for the 19th consecutive day, there has been a hike in the prices of petrol-diesel. Inflation is severely affecting the common man,” he tweeted. “In the last 19 days, petrol has become costlier by Rs8.66 and diesel by Rs10.62 per litre,” the former CM said. Recalling Chouhan’s protest against fuel price hike when he rode a bicycle to the state secretariat during the Congress-led UPA regime in 2008, Nath said, “Shivraj ji, in June 2008, during the UPA government’s tenure, you announced you would go to the secretariat one day in a week by bicycle to protest the fuel price hike,” he said. Nath also tweeted a 2008 photograph of Chouhan riding a bicycle to the state secretariat to protest the UPA regime. Nath said Chouhan had at that time requested ministers of his cabinet and officials to follow his example and go to the secretariat on bicycles once a week. “Many bicycles were purchased during that period. You, too, rode a bicycle in protest. Where are those bicycles now? Are they gathering rust? People of the state are suffering from inflation, where is your love for them now?” he asked. “Arise, awake, wake up, ride the bicycle, protest against inflation, show the courage and bring relief to the people of the state, protest against the Union government,” Nath said in another tweet. “Whether in power or in the Opposition, maintain a fair conduct and treat people’s interest as supreme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/where-is-shivrajs-bicycle-now-asks-nath/articleshow/76632787.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Regular FDCM employees against appointment of contractual staff||Nagpur: Resentment is brewing among regular employees of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), a state-owned company, against reappointment of retired officers and employees on contract basis. “At a time when the company revenue has shrunk, spending over Rs1.60 crore on salaries of contractual employees is not in the interest of the cash-strapped corporation,” the employees said in a memorandum submitted to managing director of FDCM, N Rambabu. The employees, who gave a written representation to the MD in this regard on April 30, 2020, stated that when all the sanctioned posts of divisional managers (DMs), assistant managers (AMs), accountants, assistants, range forest officers (RFOs), clerks etc have been filled, then what is the need for reappointing staff year after year. According to the employees, AMs are due for promotion as DMs. Besides, 10 probationary AMs and 16 RFOs will be regularized in service soon. Moreover, existing RFOs are also due for promotion. In 2014 and 2019, FDCM recruited clerks who are graduates and post-graduates. These staffers need to get an opportunity to work in lieu of the contractual staff, they said. In accounts section several contractual employees are working for last 7-8 years but they could not train regular employees during the period. “While FDCM is spending Rs1.60 crore towards salaries of contractual employees, it has failed to pass on VII Pay Commission benefit to regular staff. During lockdown, while regular employees attended duties, contractual employees did not offer their services. This is indicative of the fact that FDCM can run without their presence,” said employees on anonymity. In spite of opposition, the MD on June 22 had granted extension to three retired employees — DK Tak, LN Mahajan and MH Balbhudhe — till September 30, 2020. The renewed appointment of the same employees for a long period is also against state GR issued on December 17, 2016, on appointing retired employees on contract basis. As per the GR, these appointments should be done by issuing advertisement and inviting applications. Not only FDCM, in forest department too many appointments have allegedly been done without following proper procedure. FDCM MD N Rambabu defended contractual appointments saying these people are not appointed against any vacant posts. “Only 19 retired employees have been appointed which is under permissible limit. The issue has been blown out of proportion. It is true that there are more people in accounts section but it is due to stringent norms under Companies Act where accounts have to be submitted in time to get rid of problems,” he said. On the contrary, reliable sources said that all the sanctioned posts are filled in FDCM headquarters at Nagpur. In addition to that the corporation can engage only 10% strength of vacant posts in FDCM office at Nagpur. On 7th Pay Commission payment, Rambabu said FDCM has already recommended it in March and the proposal has been sent to the state government. “There is provision in the GR to keep contractual employees till the age of 70 but we are not extending it beyond 67. For companies there is some relaxation in norms,” he said. One of the retired officials of FDCM said, “There is no such provision in the said GR of contractual appointment in respect of age. Also, FDCM has not got any approval in respect of age relaxation from the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/regular-fdcm-employees-against-appointment-of-contractual-staff/articleshow/76647491.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Civic chief, mayor and ruling party leader never appointed valid directors of Smart City co’||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav had filed a complaint with Sadar police station, demanding action against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, alleging violations in his decisions taken as CEO of Smart City special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). Legal and company affairs experts told TOI, Joshi, Jadhav and Mundhe are not ‘valid directors’ of NSSCDCL, and neither is Mundhe the CEO, going strictly by the Companies Act 2013. Joshi and Jadhav had lodged complaint against Mundhe, chief finance officer Mona Thakur, and accounts officer Amruta Deshkar on June 22. They alleged NSSCDCL board of directors (BoD) had not appointed Mundhe as director and CEO, so his decisions were a violation of norms. They had lodged the complaint in the capacity of nominee directors, and claimed they were inducted by BoD in a meeting on December 31, 2019. The information with ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) shows Joshi and Jadhav are not nominee directors of NSSCDCL. Jadhav does not have the mandatory Director Identification Number (DIN). Joshi’s DIN is “disqualified by Registrar of Companies (RoC) from November 1, 2016 to October 31, 2021”. In a legal opinion to TOI, advocate Sahil Dewani said, “Under Companies Act, a DIN is must to be appointed as a director of a company. Without the DIN, and a mandatory declaration that he is ‘not disqualified to become a director’, it is apparent Joshi was disqualified on January 27, 2020,” he said. Dewani added, “The MCA website master data does not show any of the three as directors or signatories. It also shows the last annual general meeting was conducted on December 31, 2019. Thus, with the mandatory procedure not followed, all three cannot be considered directors.” A senior chartered accountant made the same observations, on condition of anonymity. Joshi and Jadhav told TOI, “We are political persons and all these procedures are to be taken care of by officials. But whatever issues we raised are true, and appropriate action against Mundhe is needed.” Joshi added, “I was ruling party leader from April 2017 till November 2019, so was nominee director. I attended meetings and also signed minutes. No one raised any issues in that period.” Going by MCA website, Joshi was not a nominee director even during ruling party leader term, as his DIN was disqualified by RoC. Therefore, a question can be raised on all his decisions. Joshi and Jadhav had alleged Mundhe issued payments to contractors, terminated some employees, revised projects as CEO, which violated the norms. Refuting the allegations, Mundhe claimed he was ex-officio director of NSSCDCL as soon as he assumed charge as municipal commissioner. He also claimed chairman Pravin Pardeshi directed him to take charge as CEO while accepting the resignation of Ramnath Sonawane on February 13. Pardeshi did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages for last three days. However, Mundhe is not registered as director and CEO with MCA. Mundhe’s predecessor Abhijit Bangar is seen as nominee director and Sonawane as CEO (KMP) on MCA. Joshi and Jadhav have alleged BoD did not induct Mundhe as director and CEO, since no board meeting was held after he assumed charge as municipal commissioner. Dewani said, “Mundhe cannot be said to be a director as per the Companies Act, since the mandatory procedure appears to be not followed. As for his appointment as CEO, this power can be conferred by the BoD, which appears to have been not done.” Mundhe also said, “I have an active DIN so I become director and CEO. I even submitted all my documents to the company secretary in time. Only BoD meeting was not held due to Covid-19. A government notification of June 18, 2016, had clarified its decision will overrule article of association and model article of association of any company. Also, another government notification of November 3, 2018, noted municipal commissioner will work as CEO, so I am de facto CEO after Sonawane’s resignation. All decisions taken by me are in larger interest of company and city.” Dewani said, “Prima facie, the Companies Act being the central legislation, a government resolution (a ‘delegated legislation’), cannot act in contravention to its provisions. In short, provisions of Companies Act need to be followed for a person to become a director.” This opinion is the same as the one written by NSSCDCL company secretary Bhanupriya Thakur, in a reply to Joshi a few days ago. She said, “Mundhe acting as CEO is not legal. He has taken charge as per remarks of chairman. But he has not been appointed by BoD as meeting could not be conducted due to Covid-19.” TOI tried to find out why details of the new directors were not reported to MCA as required by law. However, Thakur sent a message that ‘company policy does not permit her to give a statement to the media’. Thakur herself came on board as NSSCDCL company secretary on January 21, 2020, as per the MCA website. Dewani said, “Although we have nothing to do with the present controversy, the documents show mandatory procedure for appointment of director was not complied with. As for not conducting board meeting due to Covid-19, the Rules of 2014 allow meeting by video conferencing. So, this reason is not justifiable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-mayor-and-ruling-party-leader-never-appointed-valid-directors-of-smart-city-co/articleshow/76633546.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC seeks state’s reply on kiln workers stranded in Telangana||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Thursday sought a fresh response from the state government on the status of stranded Odia workers who want to return. The court was hearing on video a PIL on the plight of migrant workers returning to the state, as well as those crossing the state to reach other destinations. Noted social activist Prafulla Samantara had filed the PIL and the state government had filed a counter affidavit in response to notices issued by the court earlier. The bench of chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and justice Savitri Ratho sought the fresh response from the state government after advocate Ishwar Mohanty submitted an additional affidavit on behalf of the petitioner, seeking identification and rescue of stranded Odia workers in various states, primarily in the brick kilns of Telangana and Tamil Nadu on priority. The bench posted the matter to July 10 for further hearing. It will also hear the reply of the state government then. Earlier, in a counter affidavit filed on June 11, special secretary (labour) Sarat Chandra Mishra had said, “The government of Odisha has taken proactive steps towards the cause of the migrant workers who are mostly workers from Odisha staying in other states, guest workers from other states staying in Odisha, intra-state migrant workers and migrant workers transiting through Odisha.” However, in the additional affidavit submitted on Thursday, the petitioner indicated that there were nearly 10,000 Odia brick kiln workers still stranded in Telangana. It said intervention had been directed towards workers travelling by foot, and the authorities had not taken into consideration the several hundred workers undertaking long and precarious journeys atop trucks and trailers. “In the absence of specific guidelines to authorities to ensure safe transport of workers travelling by any means, relief measures become inefficient and migrant workers continue to undertake journeys in perilous conditions,” the additional affidavit said. The petitioner also sought directive to the state government to submit measures taken by it for the welfare of the workers who have returned to Odisha/||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-seeks-states-reply-on-kiln-workers-stranded-in-telangana/articleshow/76632784.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 8 asymptomatic cops from same station test Covid-19 positive||HYDERABAD: Eight cops including an inspector from the same police station tested positive for coronaviruson Thursday. The station comes under the Rachakonda commissionerate. However, all these policemen are asymptomatic and only after a routine test it was found that they had already contracted the virus.  These personnel have been directed to be under home quarantine and their police station was sanitized. More than 150 cops from all Telangana have been tested positive for coronavirus so far. The sudden spike in cases among police personnel is keeping cops across the state on their toes. Recently, Humayun Nagar police station introduced a few measures to prevent the spread of the virus on its premises. Its reception area was moved outside the station’s building and complainants are being made to sanitise their hands before handing over their petitions to staffers at the reception centre. All these policemen are asymptomatic and only after a routine test it was found that they had already contracted the virus.More than 150 cops from all over the state tested positive so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-asymptomatic-cops-from-same-stn-test-ve/articleshow/76633551.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP has highest number of kids addicted to inhalants, says survey||LUCKNOW: A pan-India survey has revealed that Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of children addicted to inhalants. In a shocking revelation, the report of survey conducted by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, shows that 94,000 children in Uttar Pradesh are addicted to inhalants, the highest in the country. After UP, Madhya Pradesh is a distant second with 50,000 children, while Maharashtra with 40,000 kids having dependency on inhalants stands third in the list. The survey report also brought to the fore an unnerving fact that unlike common perception, Uttar Pradesh, and not Punjab and Haryana, has the maximum number of people addicted to psychotropic substances and injected drugs. The survey found that 10.7 lakh people in UP were addicted to opioids (psychotropic substances resembling opium in addictive properties), ahead of Punjab with 7.2 lakh and Haryana with 5.9 lakh. Similarly, UP also has the dubious distinction of having the highest number of 1 lakh people in the country addicted to injected drugs, followed by 88,000 in Punjab. The survey, funded by the central government, was conducted across all 36 states and Union territories. Taking cognisance of the report, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Lucknow zone, is launching a planned extensive ‘e-campaign’ to counter the substance addiction menace from June 26, which is observed as International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. “The campaigns and events would be themed around the dependency on inhalants among children,” said NCB zonal director Prashant Srivastava. Over 50 schools and colleges and several NGOs have been roped in for conducting awareness campaigns and a series of events for over a month, said Srivastava. Our special focus would on de-addiction of children who are dependent on inhalants, he added. “Webinars with similar topics to engage schools will be conducted by experts,” the officer said. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-has-highest-number-of-kids-addicted-to-inhalants-says-survey/articleshow/76633998.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Criminal on record arrested with 20 kg sandalwood||Aurangabad: A criminal on record was arrested by the Pundaliknagar police on Wednesday midnight for allegedly stealing 20 kg sandalwood. Police said they have seized the stolen sandalwood. Identified as Anil alias Prabhakar Pungle (32), the criminal was nabbed following a trap laid by the police. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne told TOI, “Pungle revealed it had become difficult for him and his accomplices to commit house break-ins and thefts during the lockdown as people remained indoors. Therefore, they started stealing sandalwood from different parts of the city.” The officer said that the accused has a track record of being involved in petty property offences. “While committing petty offences, about 18 months back, he assisted a sandalwood thief, following which he was also arrested by rural police,” said Sonawne. Police said that the accused would otherwise work as waiter, however, he lost his job during lockdown and so as to sustain his family, he opted to committing petty thefts. Preliminary probe has revealed that in the wee hours of June 5, the accused, along with his accomplice, targeted a sandalwood tree located in the house of Nishant Chandramore situated in Chatrapati Nagar of the city. After remaining underground for a few days, the duo started looking for prospective buyers. On Wednesday, he contacted a person and offered to sell off sandalwood for Rs 2000 per kg as against the market value of Rs 4000 per kg. The man grew suspicious and alerted the police, following which the trap was laid the accused was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/criminal-on-record-arrested-with-20-kg-sandalwood/articleshow/76631480.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||UoM to go ahead with distance education||S Ramesh & Shrinivasa M Mysuru: Days after the state government decided against promoting distance education by conventional universities, University of Mysore (UoM) decided to take a different route to earn revenue. The varsity has decided to extend online classes. A decision to this effect was taken at the UoM academic council meet held recently at Vignan Bhavan in Manasagangothri. The UoM academic council chaired by vice-chancellor Professor G Hemantha Kumar has decided to explain its stance to the government as the varsity has all necessary approvals from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to extend distance education. Presently, the University of Mysore, Karnatak University, Dharwad University, Mangalore University, Kuvempu University in Shivamogga and Bangalore University are offering distance education with UGC approval. Kuvempu University has already raised its objection against the government’s move to make KSOU the sole university in the state to offer distance education. “As the state government has not yet issued any clear-cut order in this regard, UoM will continue to offer distance education to students enrolled already,” the VC said. The varsity has also decided to wait for the Union government’s directive on conducting exams for degree and PG students. “Exams will be conducted by adhering to the health protocol issued by the government. Revision classes of about 15 days will be conducted for students prior to the exams,” he added. The council has also decided to restart online programmes following approval from UGC for the same. UoM had launched over 10 online courses, including B Com, B Sc, BBA, BCA, M Com, MSc, MBA, diploma and post-graduate diploma in management courses, but it was stopped due to some objections. However, as UoM ranked better at university level, it was allowed to start online courses by UGC. The varsity also plans to offer PG Diploma and certificate courses in Yoga. State gives KSOU the edge In a big boost to KSOU, the state government issued a gazette notification barring all regular state universities from offering Open and Distance Learning Education (ODL) courses. According to the gazette notification issued on June 20, only KSOU can offer programmes in open and distance learning mode within and outside the university area. All state universities are offering distance education courses by taking a non- objection certificate (NoC) from the local university. S Vidyashankar, vice-chancellor of KSOU welcomed the state government move. “We are ready to merge ODL students of other state universities. We have announced that KSOU will open its study centers in all state universities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-go-ahead-with-distance-education/articleshow/76631479.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nashik||Parbhani cop hand-in-glove with liquor traders dismissed||Aurangabad: Parbhani superintendent of police Krushankant Upadhyay has dismissed an assistant sub inspector (ASI) who has been found colluding with illicit liquor traders and helping them in their business.This is the second time that Upadhyay has dismissed a policeman in a span of 10 days. In the previous case, a police constable was caught red-handed by officials of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) while accepting bribe.In the latest case, Upadhyay had ordered a probe against assistant sub-inspector Hanuman Kachve after action against illicit liquor traders Suresh Jaiswal and Sunil Shitalkar—both hailing from Jintur—revealed that they were closely in touch with a policeman.The probe revealed that police had seized Jaiswal’s mobile phone, where the ASI’s number was saved as HK-2. Several audio call recordings of the conversation between Kachve and the liquor traders were also found in the phone.The probe further revealed that the liquor traders had transferred an amount of Rs 10,000 in the ASI’s bank account. Kachve is also said to have served with the special squad which cracked down on illicit trading. The findings of the probe concluded that the ASI not only breached the trust of the senior police officers by colluding with those involved in illegal activities but also helped the accused. Hence, the Parbhani superintendent of police took the decision of dismissing him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parbhani-cop-hand-in-glove-with-liquor-traders-dismissed/articleshow/76631472.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Circle jail inmate tests +ve, 10th such case since June 6||Berhampur: One more undertrial prisoner of Berhampur circle jail here was shifted to the Covid hospital on Thursday after he tested positive for the coronavirus. With this, four undertrial prisoners have tested positive for the virus in the past four days. The total positive cases among jail inmates has risen to 10. “The fresh cases had been in isolation in wards set up for the purpose,” said jailer Sashikant Mahalik. They tested positive between June 22 and 24, a jail source said. After they were found carrying the virus, each of them was taken to the Covid hospital, he added. Six persons had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, from June 6. An official said all of them have been cured. While five of them were released on bail, the sixth is undergoing 14-day quarantine in the jail itself. A senior police officer said they would verify if any police personnel of the police stations concerned came in contact with the accused persons who tested positive for Covid-19. On June 6, the entire staff of Jarada police station was asked by the SP (Berhampur) to go on home quarantine after two accused persons were found positive for the virus. The inmates of the circle jail are in panic following the rise in Covid-19 cases among them. Around 750 inmates are housed in the circle jail at present. The jailer said they have set up five separate wards, including one reserved for women, inside the jail to quarantine new inmates. These wards were set up on March 20 and have been kept away from other wards following the direction of the state prison authorities. All the positive patients have been detected when they were in the quarantine wards in the jail. They had not come in contact with the other inmates, he said. “We have taken all measures and followed all guidelines to contain the spread of the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/circle-jail-inmate-tests-ve-10th-such-case-since-june-6/articleshow/76632805.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Gang targeted other women too||KOCHI: More people have come forward with complaints against the alleged extortion gang, arrested for threatening actor Shamna Kasim. It is now alleged that the gang comprised imposters who had conned several women of money by cheating, blackmailing and shaming them before the public. One of the women also lodged a complaint of molestation, police said on Thursday, a day after their arrest based on a complaint by Shamna’s mother. The arrested four were part of a nine-member gang that had targeted aspiring actors and models. IG and commissioner, Kochi city, Vijay Sakhare said the police have received three complaints. “Three first information reports have been filed based on three separate complaints from as many victims. A special investigation team under Thrikkakara assistant commissioner K M Jijimon has been constituted to probe the case,” the officer said. Police sources said the accused would face serious charges, including that of human trafficking, based on the complaints. The men used to approach women, promising them audition opportunities, police said. In one case, it has been alleged that they took a few women to Palakkad on the pretext of an audition. After identifying themselves as members of a gold-smuggling syndicate, they offered the women a huge sum as commission if they worked as carriers. Prima facie, police said, the smuggling syndicate story was fabricated to con the women. After winning the woman’s confidence, the accused allegedly said their ‘business’ with a Gujarati smuggler had run into troubled waters due to financial constraints. The men went incommunicado after taking the women’s money and gold. Some of the women also complained that the men portrayed them as call girls on social media. A woman also complained of molestation. Meanwhile, in the case pertaining to Shamna, police said, one of the arrested men, Rafeek, posed as the one interested in marrying the actor. “He had never revealed his real identity to the actor’s family. He was already married and had two children. He had sent the picture of a TikTok star from a well-off family to con the actor,” a senior officer said. Though he had pretended to be a wealthy businessman, he sought Rs 1 lakh from the actor’s family, which made them suspicious. Later, his associates visited her home at Maradu with the marriage proposal, but their behaviour, including clicking pictures of the actor’s house and property, made her family suspicious. Later, the man who posed as the prospective groom went incommunicado, which further fuelled their suspicion. The actor’s family approached commissioner Sakhare as they feared that the accused might use her conversations with Rafeeq would be used with ulterior motives. State women’s commission member Shahida Kamal said the complaint by the actors would encouragement other blackmailed women to take legal recourse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gang-targeted-other-women-too/articleshow/76632801.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR Covid cases more than 167 countries’||DELHI: Delhi and its adjoining satellite cities have reported more Covid-19 cases than 167 countries, shows a comparison of NCR’s cases with countrywise data collated by Johns Hopkins University. This urban agglomeration (continuous urban spread) has reported 2,584 Covid-2019 deaths, which again is higher than 166 countries. Lest you think these 160-odd countries are only small ones, they include Indonesia, the world’s fourth most populous nation, Japan and Egypt, ranked 11 and 14, respectively, by population. In fact, with 81,792 cases as of Thursday morning, Greater Delhi was poised to overtake China, which so far has reported 84,673 cases. Delhi accounts for 86.1% of cases, 91.5% of deaths in NCRHad this region been a country, it would be ranked the world’s 22nd worst-affected in terms of confirmed cases and 23rd worst-affected in deaths. The overwhelming majority of cases and deaths is, of course, in the national capital. Delhi contributes 86.1% of the cases and is followed by Gurgaon, Faridabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad and Sonepat. In deaths, Delhi’s share is even higher. The national capital contributes 91.5% of the deaths and is followed by Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ghazaibad, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Sonepat, in that order (see graph). Delhi’s 70,390 cases alone are higher than 166 countries. In terms of deaths, 164 countries have reported fewer deaths than the national capital. So far, 62 countries have reported less than 1,000 cases. This includes Taiwan, Vietnam, Jamaica, Bhutan and so on. The next 44, including New Zealand, Sri Lanka, Cuba and Thailand, have reported between 1,000 and 5,000 cases. Another 32 countries have less than 20,000 cases. These include Australia, Malaysia, Japan and Nepal. Despite phases of surge in cases, 21 countries including Switzerland, Singapore, UAE and Ireland have managed to keep the cumulative total between 20,000 and 50,000. There are 10 countries that have reported between 50,000 to 1 lakh cases and these include China and the Netherlands. Countries like India, the UK and Spain are among the 16 that have reported between 1 to 5 lakh cases and there are three countries — the US, Brazil and Russia, that have reported over 5 lakh cases. There are 19 countries, including Vietnam, Bhutan and Mongolia, that are yet to report their first Covid-19 death. There are 88 other countries, including New Zealand, Nepal and Sri Lanka, that have reported less than 100 deaths. For 45 countries that include Japan and South Korea, total deaths are more than 100 but less than 1,000. There are 27 countries, including China, that have reported between 1,000 and 10,000 deaths. Only nine countries have reported over 10,000 deaths. Watch Delhi registers more COVID cases than 167 other countries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ncr-covid-cases-more-than-167-countries/articleshow/76635006.cms||Atul Thakur
June 26, 2020||World||UN reminds Pakistan of terror obligations||NEW DELHI: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expects all member states to “live up” to their obligations under the Security Council resolutions, his spokesperson said after a US report said Pakistan remains a safe haven for terrorists as it did not take actions against JeM founder Masood Azhar. The US state department in its 2019 ‘Country Reports on Terrorism’ on Wednesday said Pakistan remained a “safe harbour” for regionally-focused terrorist groups and that the suspension of US aid to the country remained in effect throughout 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/un-reminds-pakistan-of-terror-obligations/articleshow/76635008.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon arrives in Delhi two days early||NEW DELHI: The onset of the southwest monsoon for Delhi was officially declared by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. The monsoon further advanced over parts of eastern and western Rajasthan, eastern Haryana, parts of Punjab, Delhi and the entire Uttar Pradesh. The capital received a spell of light to moderate rain in the afternoon with the maximum temperature recorded at 36.6 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. The Safdarjung station recorded 14.4mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Thursday, and another 2.2mm till 5.30pm. IMD said light showers were expected to continue this week, but a strong spell of rain was unlikely. The revised normal date for monsoon for Delhi is now June 27. Earlier, it used to be June 29. However, the onset this year was declared before the new normal date. Met officials said a spell of light rain would also occur on Friday before halting on Saturday and Sunday. A fresh spell of rain would commence from Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said while the initial forecast for Thursday was a spell of moderate rain with heavy rain in some parts, Delhi would now have to wait for next week for an intense spell. “The monsoon trough has advanced further north and is now towards the foothills. We may see very light rain and drizzle on Friday, with no rain on Saturday and Sunday. From Monday, there will be a fresh spell of moderate rainfall,” said Srivastava. The temperatures are forecast to gradually rise in the next few days, but they are unlikely to touch the 40-degree mark. Humidity, too, will remain on the higher side. Humidity levels oscillated between 59% and 92% in the last 24 hours. While Safdarjung received 2.2mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm, Lodhi Road recorded 2mm. The Pusa station recorded 1mm of rainfall. Met officials said rain was seen majorly in parts of south and central Delhi. IMD classifies rainfall as “very light” when it is below 2.4mm, “light” when it is between 2.5mm and 15.5mm, “moderate” between 15.6mm and 64.4mm and “heavy” when it exceeds 64.5mm in a 24-hour period. Delhi’s air quality remained in the “satisfactory” range on Thursday with a reading of 85 on CPCB’s Air Quality Index, but this was a slight deterioration from Wednesday’s index of 66.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-arrives-in-city-2-days-early/articleshow/76633560.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Boards search for best formula to mark students||KOLKATA: Schools went into a huddle after news about cancellation of board exams arrived on Thursday afternoon and emerged with the hope that different boards and council would devise a formula to mark the subjects, which students were unable to appear for owing to the pandemic. While the uncertainty over when the tests would be held ended for ICSE and ISC students after the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations told the Supreme Court that the remaining board papers stood cancelled, CBSE told the apex court that it, too, was cancelling the exam in July but kept an option open for taking the tests later when the situation improved for those students who looked for a better score than their previous exams. The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education is monitoring the situation and will take a call soon. It might cancel exams in July and keep a window open for willing candidates to sit for tests later. But, a final call will be taken by chief minister Mamata Banerjee after the SC verdict on Friday, said a source. While CBSE will submit before the court on Friday on how it proposes to evaluate students who will not appear for exams later, principals of different schools across boards felt they should be involved while the marks were drawn up. CISCE accepts internal assessment for a portion of every paper, while CBSE keeps aside a portion of assessment, which is done in school by external examiners. For each student, who has pending papers, these marks now become crucial. Schools have submitted the internal assessment marks to respective boards and councils. But drawing up an average score for the entire unwritten paper on the basis of these project marks might not lead to the right assessment, some principals felt. Instead, they suggested, a mathematical model be devised for each paper that assessed the performance of each student in the subject for the past two years, including scores in unit tests, terminal exams and rehearsal exams. “I am sure CBSE will arrive at a scientific method. A statistical plotting of a student’s past two years’ score and his/her participation levels throughout become of utmost importance,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High Schools. She stressed the boards should allow schools to partner the process as they had groomed and known students since they were young and were aware of not only their IQ but also their aptitudes. Apeejay School principal Rita Chatterjee, too, felt CBSE board would consider a statistical analysis of a child’s progress. Apala Datta, principal of Birla High School, added CBSE being a child-friendly board, it would ensure the decision was in the best interest of students. Though it may require an elaborate calculation, mathematics experts feel, a regression line plotting method can be adopted to arrive at the perfect hypothesis on marks of unwritten papers. “One has to consider past scores in school exams, present scores in completed board papers, project marks or internal assessment marks and past curves of the performance of students with similar scores of the school in previous years,” said Souvic Jati, master trainer for mathematics of CISCE. St James’ principal T H Ireland, too, concurred: “The best alternative is to look at a student’s previous result...” He added boards must remember students usually improved their marks by 20% in the boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boards-search-for-best-formula-to-mark-students/articleshow/76633568.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 26, 2020||Agra||UP’s teacher scam: After Anamika, the real Sandhya Dwivedi comes forward||Agra: The real Sandhya Dwivedi whose academic credentials were appropriated by at least three women to land jobs at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), surfaced in UP’s Chandauli district. She teaches at a KGBV in Chandauli’s Chakiya area and was shocked to hear that three women were teaching at KGBV branches by using her identity and documents. “I came to know about the scam from media reports which said that three women were working in KGBVs with my identity and academic documents,” Sandhya told TOI over phone. It comes days after education department officials, while scrutinizing teachers’ credentials in the aftermath of the Anamika Shukla scam, found that three women impersonating as Sandhya Dwivedi were teaching at KGBVs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad districts as social science teachers. Services of all the three teachers were terminated. To put the matter straight, Sandhya presented herself in front of Chandauli’s basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) and shared all her documents to prove her identity. It was then that BSA of Chandauli, Bholender Singh, shared the details with BSAs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad. Sandhya, 28, said, “I am a resident of Virshahpur village of Mirzapur district. I stayed in Banaras Hindu University (BHU) campus as my father Ramshankar Dubey was an employee of the university. I did my High School (2006) and Intermediate (2008) from Central Hindu Girls School of BHU. I completed my BA degree from Mahila Maha Vidalaya BHU and also the MA in history. I later completed BEd and MEd from there.” She said, “After that, I joined KGBV in Mirzapur on October 17, 2017 as a teacher and continued till November 2019. Later I joined KGBV branch in Chandauli’s Chakiya on December 12, 2019.” Speaking to TOI, BSA Chandauli Bholender Singh said, “We have shared details of Sandhya Dwivedi with the BSAs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad. Once they share their probe report, I will ask our teacher Sandhya to lodge an FIR for forgery and cheating.” Meanwhile, based on a written complaint of Firozabad BSA Arvind Kumar, an FIR was lodged against fake Sandhya Dwivedi. All the three fake Sandhya Dwivedi are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ups-teacher-scam-after-anamika-the-real-sandhya-dwivedi-comes-forward/articleshow/76632810.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||British woman’s suicide: Waiting for Covid-19 test result for conducting autopsy examination||KOLLAM: The autopsy of a British woman who allegedly jumped to her death from a multi-storey building at Amrithanandamayi Matt at Valkikkavu in Kollam district on Wednesday night will be held only after her Covid test result is available. Karunagappally police told TOI that they brought the body of Steffade Fiona, 45, for autopsy at Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Thursday morning, but the doctors said they will conduct the examination only after the Covid test result is available. Fiona, a native of London, was mentally disturbed over the delay caused to her return journey, matt sources said. Around 10am on Thursday, she became restless and tried to commit suicide by jumping into nearby backwaters. Police personnel posted at the matt came to her rescue and brought her back to the ashram. By 8.30pm, she escaped the eyes of the occupants who had been entrusted to take care of her and jumped from the seventh floor of a building. It was on January 16 that Fiona reached the matt. Arriving in Kerala on a tourist visit, she got stuck up in the ashram during the lockdown. She got distressed as her efforts to go back to her country did not succeed. “As she started showing suicide tendency, we informed police and her sister in London and British consulate in Chennai. Her sister had offered her to bring her back to her native place via Scotland. But unfortunately, in the meantime, jumped to death,” Swami Sharanamrita Chaithanya of the matt said. He said there were around 1,200 foreign tourists who had got stuck up at the matt after the lock down. “Still there are around 400 foreigners who came to the Ashram as tourists. They are not devotees or occupants. They had nowhere to go during the lockdown and they were allowed to stay back through the last three-and-a-half months,” he said. He said it was the British consulate and her relatives to decide on bringing Fiona’s body back to her country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/british-womans-suicide-waiting-for-covid-test-result-for-conducting-autopsy-examination/articleshow/76632830.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Four irrigation engineers face minister’s wrath||LUCKNOW: Expressing concern over substandard work and lack of transparency, jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh attached four engineers, including an executive engineer of irrigation department, to headquarters while inspecting preparations to face the flood fury in monsoon season near the Saryu in Ayodhya recently. During the review, Singh found lack of transparency and discrepancies in the ongoing works. The minister said that he would not tolerate any laxity in projects launched to check floods during the rainy season. Talking to TOI here on Thursday after his return from Ayodhya, the minister said that last week he inspected half-a-dozen districts in terai region which were devastated by floods every year. Singhsaid that he had directed top officers and engineers of the irrigation department to personally monitor the flood control measures. The jal shakti minister further said that unlike the previous governments when crores of rupees were squandered in the name of flood control measures he had ensured that all major projects be executed in a transparent manner. “My main aim is to protect farmers and their agricultural land from being ravaged by floods,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-irrigation-engrs-face-mins-wrath/articleshow/76634016.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Decide on no. of wedding guests, HC tells Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country map have capped the number of guests at wedding functions at 50, but Punjab and Haryana already have a law restricting the number of guests at 25. Hearing a plea by rights activist H C Arora on how the MHA guidelines prescribing a limit of 50 guests for a marriage are on higher side in view of the law applicable in Punjab and Haryana, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday directed MHA, Punjab and Haryana and UT administration to take a decision on the issue raised by the petitioner. As per the provisions of Section 3 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, as amended by the state of Haryana, as well as the provisions of section 4-A of the said Act 1961 (as amended by the state of Punjab), there is an upper limit of 25 persons for a marriage party, and to have more than 25 persons in a baraat is an offence. While raising the issue before the HC, Arora said, “Not only the government guidelines issued by MHA which have prescribed the upper limit of 50 guests in marriage related gatherings, are too liberal, but the same are violative of the aforesaid provisions of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 as applicable in the States of Punjab and Haryana as well as Union Territory Chandigarh." The petitioner also mentioned some media reports regarding Jalandhar district authorities allowing more than 50 persons to attend marriage-related functions by permitting the host to hold the dinner in two shifts. Hearing the issue, the division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli of the HC asked the petitioner to make a comprehensive representation to the MHA, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh administration and directed them to take appropriate decision expeditiously on the representation to be submitted by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/decide-on-no-of-wedding-guests-hc-tells-pb-hry-chd/articleshow/76620912.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||Congress leaders go into isolation||Vadodara: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have hit the city unit of the Congress party too. Top leaders of the Congress from the city have gone into home quarantine this week, after former MP and former union minister Bharatsinh Solanki tested Covid-19 positive State vice president Maulin Vaishnav also tested positive. The leader had been in close contact with Solanki and his first test was found negative. Another test subsequently found him positive. Sources said that the veteran leader’s wife was found negative. State Congress spokesperson Narendra Ravat and his family including wife and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) corporator Ami Ravat as well as their son went into home quarantine on Thursday. Narendra Ravat and his wife had to take the decision as their driver had taken ill and tested Covid-19 positive. The Ravat couple had gone to submit a memorandum regarding the Jambuva solid waste dumping site on Wednesday and even drew flak for venturing out. Narendra said that they had been taking necessary precautions and even maintaining social distance. Narendra added that the driver too was feeling much better and had been discharged from the hospital. “He had only mild symptoms. None of us have any symptoms, but will stay in quarantine for a week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-leaders-go-into-isolation/articleshow/76631800.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Five weeks after Amphan, cables still a hazard||KOLKATA: From Ballygunge Phari to Lake Road and Rasbehari Avenue to the Kasba connector, heaps of snapped cable wires lie strewn across the city pavements and roads posing danger and discomfort to pedestrians and motorists since Amphan last month. After the cyclone, cable connection was disrupted at several city homes. Cable operators had blamed the cyclone for the disruption and snapping of cables. However, even after the problem was fixed, the snapped cables wires haven’t been removed from the roads. “The snapped wires are lying on the road for weeks but none seem to care about removing them. I have seen morning walkers trip and cycles and bike wheels get entangled in the mesh of wires. The agencies concerned should immediately remove the cables before some serious accidents happen,” said Suvajit Dutt, a resident of New Ballygunge Road in Kasba. Cable operators said after Amphan, the cables across the city were damaged to such an extent that they could not be restored. All of them had to be replaced completely. But the snapped wires haven’t been removed in some parts of the city. “Most cables had to be replaced with new ones. So, some of the old cables which were damaged beyond repair are still lying on the road. Moreover, since last week a large volume of dead cables have also been brought down from the poles, which have added to the mess. We are working in coordination with the KMC to remove them quickly,” said Tapas Das, secretary of Ideal Cable TV Operators’ Association. Cable operators also claimed that more than half the wires strapped to lampposts across the city are either dead and a substantial number of them are defunct cell phone tower cables that haven’t been removed, claimed cable TV operators. They pointed out that while multi-system operators (MSO) and cable operators was allowed to use lampposts for their wires, telecom companies and internet service providers were illegally using the posts to mount their cables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-wks-after-amphan-cables-still-a-hazard/articleshow/76633575.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 'Covid centre visit scrapped on June 21'||NEW DELHI: Soon after the AAP government welcomed the "decision" of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday to restore the old system of home isolation under which the district surveillance team visited the Covid-19 positive patient's house for carrying out a clinical assessment and physical verification of the facilities, the Centre said the decision had been taken at a meeting on June 21 and communicated to the state government the next day.  For the past few days, Covid-19 positive people have been either reluctantly going to the Covid care centres for an assessment of their symptoms or resisting being taken there. The Delhi government has been harping on the fact that people were being put to great inconvenience. In fact, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Wednesday asked for withdrawal of the order asking Covid-positive people to visit Covid care centres. AAP slams ‘flip-flop’ on Covid centre ruleDeputy CM Manish Sisodia had announced that he had written to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to restore the old system. The home ministry, however, said on Thursday that the latest order by the LG was only a reaffirmation of the decision taken at the June 21 review meeting chaired by Shah. Rebutting the Delhi government’s claim that the latest order had rolled back the earlier decision of the Centre which made it mandatory to visit a Covid Care centre prior to home isolation, the home ministry released a copy of a communication sent to the Delhi government on June 22 regarding the decisions taken at the June 21 meeting which was attended by the Delhi government brass, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. According to the home ministry communication, it had been decided on June 21 that “all Covid-19 positive cases must be medically examined and, based on clinical assessment and visit to residence of persons concerned by health officers/district surveillance team, a decision about home isolation or hospitalisation of a positive person may be taken”. It was also decided that people having co-morbidities, such as hypertension, diabetes, renal disease, lung disease etc would be shifted to the Covid Care centres or hospitals. Reacting to this new development, AAP questioned why the decision taken at the June 21 meeting was “not conveyed” to the Delhi government. “Is the Centre saying that they took the decision to force people to queue up at Covid centres on the (June) 20th and reversed it on 22nd? Are they playing games with Delhi? Whom did they inform about this decision?” asked AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha. “When this issue was being discussed so much in Delhi for the past four days, where was MHA hiding with this letter? Most importantly, why did they choose to not inform the citizens of Delhi, especially the 10,000 corona positive patients who didn’t have clear directions? Why are they treating citizens of Delhi this badly?” he asked. Earlier in the day, Sisodia had announced at a digital press conference that the Centre’s order had been rolled back and the old system — which was being implemented till June 19 — restored. It was on that day that the LG, who is also chairperson of the DDMA, had made five-day institutional quarantine mandatory for all Covid-19 patients, including those who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. After the AAP government vehemently opposed the new rule and urged the Centre for its intervention, the LG called a meeting of the DDMA and rolled back the decision. However, he made it mandatory for all Covid-19 patients tested through RT-PCR to visit the Covid Care centres for a clinical assessment and evaluation whether they were eligible for home quarantine or not. Delhi government had been opposing this order too, citing logistical issues in taking all patients to these centres. It said that taking over 3,000 Covid-19 patients every day to these centres with a limited number of ambulances was logistically difficult and creating chaos and confusion and burdening the healthcare system. In a statement issued after the DDMA meeting on Thursday, the LG said that home isolation for a patient who had undergone an RT-PCR test would be allowed if the team sent by the district surveillance officer found the patient mild/pre-symptomatic/ asymptomatic and was found to have adequate facilities at home. For those tested through the rapid antigen test, the medical officer would take a decision at the testing facility. The Raj Niwas release said the DDMA meeting had been held in pursuance of the guidance given by Shah at the meeting held on June 21 and a detailed communication of MHA dated June 22 to put in place a robust mechanism for surveillance and providing timely care to the Covid positive patients with minimum inconvenience to them. While the home assessment protocol for isolation of Covid positive patients at their residence was indeed a revision of a June 20 order by the Delhi LG requiring all individuals who are positive to be referred to Covid Care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities and a simultaneous physical assessment of home isolation facilities, a review of this protocol was approved by Shah the next day itself, said sources. The release on Thursday also clarified that those under home isolation will be provided a contact number for any consultation, along with details of the CATS ambulance number for transfer to a hospital in case symptoms develop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-covid-centre-visit-scrapped-on-june-21/articleshow/76635011.cms||Bharti Jain
June 26, 2020||Agra||17 arrested after engaging in clash over land dispute in Etah||AGRA: Day after scores of residents of Etah district’s Kharsuliya and Farrukhabad’s Nauli exchanged multiple fire rounds in presence of heavy police force over road land dispute, the Etah police arrested 17 men — six from Etah and 11 from Farrukhabad. The arrested men were identified as Pushpender Singh, Brajraj Singh, Pravesh Singh, Vinod Yadav, Bhupinder, Arvind Singh, Mohan Singh, Bhanu Singh, Pushpender Singh, Omender Singh and Bhure of Farrukhabad’s Nauli village. The men arrested from Kharsuliya were identified as Sunil Kumar, Sawant Singh, Raju, Asraf, Narendra and Narendra Singh. All of them were charged under IPC’s sections 147, 148, 149, 332, 353, 307, 269, 270, 188, 7 Criminal Amendment Act, 56 Disaster Managed Act, 3 Epidemic Act and Arms Act. According to the Etah police, total 19 names were booked and 200 unknown for the Wednesday clash. Etah’s SP Sunil Kumar Singh said, “Over a road land dispute, the villagers of two districts had engaged in a clash. Even after the police and district administration officials’ intervention, the men did not stop from firing bullets at each other. An FIR was lodged and 17 people were arrested.” It was alleged that supporters of Aliganj BJP MLA Satyapal Singh Rathore dug the unmetalled road which connected two district villages for last several decades. Later when Farrukhabad men came to repair the road, the clash took place. Speaking to TOI, Rathore said, “The disputed land was never a road, but is part of a farm field of Kharsuliya farmers. Over the years, the land was converted into a temporary road and was mostly used by Nauli villagers. Due to regular use, the road developed big potholes and patches, which Nauli villagers attempted to repair, following which Kharsuliya farmers confronted them.” “The confrontation led to exchange of fire between the two sides and one of our villagers was injured. The villagers of Nauli have a couple of metalled roads, but they are adamant to use the farm land as unmetalled road,” the MLA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/17-arrested-after-engaging-in-clash-over-land-dispute-in-etah/articleshow/76632835.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Agra||39 new Covid-19 +ve cases in Meerut||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: There has been a sharp increase in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in one of west UP's major hotspots, Meerut, with at least 39 new positive cases reported on Thursday, taking the total tally to 875, including one found in Kanpur. Also, one more death was reported, taking the toll to 65, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. The positive cases included a home guard, a labourer and an accountant, among others. At least two Covid-19 deaths were reported in west UP's other hotspot, Agra district, on Thursday. They included a 50-year-old man of Tajganj locality suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 59-year-old woman of Prahlad Nagar suffering from hypertension with acute respiratory distress syndrome. The Covid-19 patients died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 84 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Moreover, at least 11 new Covid-19 positive cases also surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 1,177. Ten patients were discharged and 110 are still active. A woman from Bareilly’s Nawabganj, who died at a private medical college on June 21, tested positive for Covid-19. Bareilly's CMO Dr Vineet Shukla said, "The woman’s test report arrived on Wednesday night and with this, Bareilly reported its seventh death. However, no new case was detected on Thursday." Total positive cases in Bareilly are 204 - six cases of other districts are under process of transfer - with 70 active, seven deaths and 121 discharged patients. Budaun also did not report any fresh case on Thursday. A 28-year-old police constable was among four more people who tested positive in Pilibhit, taking the district's total tally to 120.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/39-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76632828.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Charmadi Ghat sees two dozen accidents in less than a month||Mangaluru: Although it has been less than a month since the onset of the monsoon in the state, the treacherous Charmadi Ghat road, which has as many as 11 hairpin curves across the steep stretch, has already witnessed two dozen accidents, of which around seven are reportedly serious incidents. However, no fatalities have been reported thus far. The floods that ravaged Karnataka last year left a rather significant portion of Charmadi Ghat damaged. The road was only recently fixed and made fit for commuting. “Owing to massive landslides, the stretch was closed to traffic, but in less than a month, there have been more than two dozen accidents on the road. This is largely a consequence of shoddy workmanship. Furthermore, the asphalt used is of a very poor quality,” said a police officer, in charge of probing accidents. Landslides had been reported in 14 spots on the Charmadi Ghat Road following the flood in August 2019, following which the district administration in Chikkamagaluru and Dakshina Kannada decided to close the road for traffic. A source, well acquainted with the treacherous road, said that travelling on the stretch may soon turn fatal considering the heavy showers lashing the region in the past few weeks. “The road needs to be repaired in places such as Annappa Betta. This will take a long time,” he added. He was quick to add that the stretch of the road in Dakshina Kannada was in a better condition than in Chikkamagaluru. Dheeraj Sheldon D’Souza, a resident of Coove in Chikkamagaluru, attributed the accidents to rash and reckless driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/charmadi-ghat-sees-two-dozen-accidents-in-less-than-a-month/articleshow/76631500.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Agra||After coming live on FB, Aligarh man shoots dead wife & himself; shocked brother also takes his life later||Agra: A family of a retired irrigation official lost its three young members within a span of a few minutes when his son-- a medical store owner-- allegedly killed himself after shooting dead his wife. It didn’t end there as the younger brother of the businessman could not bear the loss and also shot himself dead with the same country-made pistol. The three bodies lay in a pool of blood close to one another at the home in Aligarh’s Banna Devi area late on Wednesday night. Shailendra Verma, 28, went live on Facebook before shooting himself. In the video, Shailendra said, “I am killing myself because I cannot live this life, as I am tired of my family.” Shailendra got married to Pinky just 10 months ago. While Vishal, 22, was unmarried. Shailendra’s father and mother were not in condition to speak about the incident and did not reveal what triggered him to take such an extreme step. Shailendra’s father is a retired irrigation department official and mother is a housewife, who was recently diagnosed with cancer. Circle officer Pankaj Srivastava said that the bodies have been handed over to the families for cremation after postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-coming-live-on-fb-aligarh-man-shoots-dead-wife-himself-shocked-brother-also-takes-his-life-later/articleshow/76632843.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Some candidates disappointed, others caught in exam dilemma||Kolkata: CBSE and CISCE counsels’ submission to the Supreme Court on Thursday on the pending board exams and the state government’s indication that it might follow in CBSE’s footsteps have brought candidates to a crossroads. Though CISCE has said all pending exams had been cancelled, schools and candidates of CBSE and state board are now waiting for the apex court order on Friday that will make it clear whether they will be allowed to sit for exams or their pre-board scores will be considered. Rajyasree Ahmed had planned to allow her son, Aayan, to sit for his remaining ISC paper. “Aayan has only one subject left, which is biology. He wants to study medicine and has been preparing hard for this exam for the past few months. We expected him to score well which would have improved his aggregate,” Rajyasree said. Aayan said his institute, Rammohan Mission School, had made proper arrangements and instructed students to wear masks, carry sanitizers and maintain social distancing. “I wish the exams were held. CISCE should consider improving our scores if they plan to award us pre-board marks,” he said. For CBSE Class-XII student, Rishwav Mondal, only business studies paper is left in the commerce stream. “I am still in a dilemma whether to sit for the exams or not if CBSE does give Class-XII students that option or just go with the previous exam scores. After waiting for so many days for this one exam and preparing for it all this while, I sincerely want to sit for the business studies paper but there is no clarity when it will be held, if at all. I am confused and would seek my teachers’ guidance before taking a final call,” he said. ICSE candidate Shukraditya Bose of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education is also disappointed that he would not be able to sit for the exams. He felt the first boards would have boosted his confidence for plus-two. “We have started Class XI lessons. But I wanted to get a chance to prove myself. The exam results would have let me analyse my performance and make it clear which subjects and topics I needed to focus,” he said. “I wanted to make my school proud and my parents happy with the performance in my first public exams.” Snehanjan Mandal of Techno India Group Academia still hopes he would be able to sit for his HS papers. “Given the current spread of the novel coronavirus, I understand it is not possible to hold the tests now. But I hope the government decides to allow willing candidates to take the remaining papers whenever things settle down a bit,” Mandal said. He added though he aimed to study designing in the undergraduate level, it would help him gauge his abilities through his performance in Class XII board exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-candidates-disappointed-others-caught-in-exam-dilemma/articleshow/76633583.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 26, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Iruttu Kadai halwa owner, 80, hangs after testing +ve||TIRUNELVELI: Unable to bear the fact that he had been diagnosed as Covid-19 positive, Hari Singh, 80, owner of the famous “Iruttu Kadai halwa” shop in Tirunelveli, hanged himself to death from the bathroom window of his room at a private hospital here around Thursday noon. The tragedy happened hardly an hour after the result of his swab sample test was conveyed to him and he was being moved to an isolation facility. Police said that Singh was admitted to the hospital at Perumalpuram with urinary tract infection two days ago. As is the norm, swab samples were collected from him and his relatives for Covid-19 test. He and his son-in-law tested positive and the results arrived around 11 am. Police suspect depression may have driven him to the extreme step as he was found hanging from a towel in the bathroom. Perumalpuram police registered a case of unnatural death and is probing, said deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Tirunelveli city S Saravanan. Investigation officer M Chezhian said the body was removed by two personnel in PPE kits and sent to the Tirunelveli MCH. It was handed over to his relatives after postmortem in the evening for cremation. The ground floor of the hospital was disinfected and doctor and hospital staff quarantined. Customers recall Hari Singh as a simple man clad in a white shirt and dhoti seen huddled near the wooden cash box of his small shop next to the Arulmigu Nellaiappar temple car. With a warm smile he served hot mouth-watering halwa which has come to be known for its unique taste. The nearly century-old ‘Iruttu Kadai, established by his Rajput family and consolidated by his father Bijli Singh, got its name for its ambience. Unlike the well-illuminated modern-day sweet shops, this shop was lit by a single bulb, which earlier used to be an oil lamp in the dark (iruttu), earning its name. The shop has a foldable wooden door, wooden table and shelf. Many others have tried to establish halwa business by indirectly identifying themselves with the little shop which didn’t have a name board. A few other brands opened multiple branches but their halwa failed to match Iruttu Kadai’s taste and its strong fan base across India and abroad. “The shop is open till 9 pm on regular days. During Sabarimala season and Deepavali, the stock hardly lasted 45 minutes,” says K Balaji, a resident of Bharathiyar Street. Hari Singh also did not sell more than 10 kgs per person during festivals as he did not want other customers to return. The halwa is prepared in a traditional stove fuelled by cashewnut husk that helps maintain texture and quality, from 6 am to noon. It is then packed in oil packets and kept in white carry bags in quantities of 1 kg, 500 grams and 250 grams and readily handed over to consumers at the shop. Priced at Rs 220 a kilogram, it also remains the costliest halwa in the city while others sell it for Rs 200 or lesser. Customers queued in front of the shop well ahead of the opening time of around 5.15 pm. Singh also enjoyed serving 50 grams of halwa on a banana leaf at Rs 10 by scooping it out of the metal vessel. “He sold it with a smile and this has a strong customer base for its direct connect,” says P Perumal, a local resident. He also used to hand over a handful of mixture free of cost when customers extended their hand after relishing his halwa. Not many know that the same halwa is sold in a sweet shop run by his relative ten shops away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iruttu-kadai-halwa-owner-80-hangs-after-testing-ve/articleshow/76634037.cms||M K Ananth
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh gears up for budget session starting July 20||BHOPAL: Preparation has begun in full swing for Madhya Pradesh budget to be presented in monsoon session of state assembly, beginning from July 20. The finance department has asked all the departments to send their plans and requirements for the remaining financial year. Thereafter, the discussions would be held at the secretary, chief secretary and highest level for the final nod. The budget would be presented in the assembly after getting cleared by the cabinet. Officials said the BJP government would take base of its budget presented in year 2018-19 before Congress came in power. New schemes are unlikely to be announced and focus would be to carry on the existing schemes with assistance from the centre. Budget is expected to be worth more than around Rs 2 lakh crore. The focus would be on migrant labourers that returned MP due to corona crisis, apart from farmers and employment for youths who lost their jobs in the pandemic. The decision on farm loan waiver scheme of Congress would be taken at top level while ambit of zero per cent interest in farm loan scheme may be increased, officials added. A major sum of the budget would also be allocated for the health sector to develop infrastructure to fight Covid-19 crisis. Development projects for the seats 24 assembly seats where by-elections are to held can be announced. The budget session of state assembly would last till July 24. Department-wise discussion in the budget is unlikely this time due to the short term of the session. On March 27, Governor Lalji Tandon had approved the MP Appropriation (Vote on Account) Ordinance-2020 for the expenditure to be incurred in the first four months of the financial year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-gears-up-for-budget-session-starting-july-20/articleshow/76632829.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Rules clash, kin unable to bring man’s body home||NOIDA: The family of a 44-year-old engineer, who died of a heart attack on Wednesday, has not been able to take his body back home to Kerala because airlines and hospitals are citing two different protocols on Covid tests. The family says they had been told both by airlines and Kochi airport authorities that the body has to be tested for Covid. Hospitals in Noida, meanwhile, say they don’t conduct any such test unless asked by the government. Relatives of Pathanamthitta native Sanju Muthai Ramchandran say they plan to take his body home so that his aged parents could see their son one last time. Sanju had been working with a private firm in Delhi’s Sarita Vihar and lived in Noida (Sector 49) with his wife and two children. His brother-in-law lived nearby. While the Noida health department insisted that a Covid certificate was not required for those who had died of non-Covid reasons, officials of at least two private airlines told TOI guidelines for cargo had been revised and the document is now mandatory for bodies being transported by flights. But Sanju’s friends and relatives say when they went to the Noida chief medical officer’s office, they were shown copies of two orders by the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the UP government. The Centre’s order says bodies of people who die of non-Covid ailments should be handed over to their families immediately and without waiting for certificates from laboratories. The UP government letter also specifies that bodies of “suspected Covid patients” be given to their relatives without any certificate. Both orders, however, do not mention anything about transportation of bodies. Officials said since Sanju had died of a heart attack, no certificate was required for transporting his body anywhere in the country. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY referred to the central and state government orders. “Even the government guidelines have a technical point — if Covid tests are performed on bodies, there is no guarantee that the results would be accurate,” he added. TG Vijayakumar, president of the Greater Noida Kerala Association, said Sanju’s family members were planning to transport his body by air to Kochi and then take it to Pathanamthitta by road. He referred to a similar case, where the body of another Kerala resident, who, too, had died of non-Covid causes, could not be taken home for lack of a Covid certificate. The engineer’s relatives have not been able to get a Covid test done so far, and are exploring the option of cremating the body in Noida itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rules-clash-kin-unable-to-bring-mans-body-home/articleshow/76632849.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP Covid tally doubles in 19 days, crosses 20,000||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus infection tally of Uttar Pradesh crossed the 20,000-mark on Thursday with addition of 654 cases in 24 hours. The number of cases rose from 10,186 on June 6 to 20,418 on June 25 -- the jump of 10,232 in 19 days. Gautam Budh Nagar accounted for maximum of 143 fresh cases followed by Ghaziabad where 84 new cases were reported. With these new cases, the tally for Ghaziabad reached 1,168 and it became the second most infected district in the state, replacing Agra, which has 1,164 cases. Four of the top five districts in UP now have more than 1,000 cases. While Kanpur is at the fourth spot with 1,045 cases, the fifth spot goes to Meerut which is not far beyond with 900-plus cases. As many as 15 persons died of the infection in 24 hours, taking the toll to 611. Death of two persons each was reported in Kanpur Nagar, Farrukhabad and Etawah, while Gautam Budh Nagar, Lucknow, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Mainpuri and Lalitpur recorded one death each. Additional chief secretary, information and home department, Awanish Awasthi stated that the number of tests conducted in the state touched 6,20,954 mark with 16,521 cases in 24 hours. He said that surveillance activities were being intensified in the state. “Asha workers have screened over 18 lakh migrant workers in the state of whom 1,219 showed flu like symptoms. Upon testing, 17% (or 217) of the symptomatic migrants tested positive,” he said. Other districts with double digit entries included Lucknow (34), Meerut (33), Budaun (23), Kanpur Nagar (22), Gorakhpur (22), Firozabad (21), Bijnore (18), Ayodhya (17), Aligarh (16), Jhansi (12), Rampur (11), Prayagraj (11), Sambhal (11) and Shahjahanpur (11).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-covid-tally-doubles-in-19-days-crosses-20000/articleshow/76634057.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 26, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports highest 1-day spike of 584 cases, four deaths||Madurai/ Trichy: As many as 584 Covid-19 cases and four Covid-19 deaths were reported in the ten southern districts of the state on Thursday. With this, the total cases have climbed to 4,971 and death toll to 35. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 86 new cases taking the tally to 2,181 on Thursday. With 204, Madurai reported the most number of Covid-19 cases taking the district total to 1,279. Within a week, 786 cases have been reported in Madurai. Two deaths each were reported in Madurai and Virudhunagar. An 80-year-old man and a 65-year-old man from Virudhunagar, both with co-morbid conditions died on June 21 and June 22. In Virudhunagar, 28 new Covid-19 cases were also reported, taking the district total to 283. As many as 140 people tested positive in Ramanathapuram district on Thursday, taking the total count to 474. District collector M Veera Raghava Rao attributed intensified and focused testing as the reason for the increase in the number of cases. He said that they have sent 661 samples for testing and 140 turned positive. On Thursday, 29 people under quarantine in Navy air station INS Parundu near Uchipuli in Ramanathapuram district tested positive. “Hundreds of persons from various States are working in the facility and those on leave have been returning in batches with proper passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-highest-1-day-spike-of-584-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/76634069.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Anti-malaria fight takes back seat to Covid-19||NEW DELHI: The novel coronavirus pandemic has taken a toll on the annual activities carried out by municipal corporations during the monsoon season to control the spread of vector-borne diseases. While fogging has been banned as it could lead to respiratory issues, South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s ambitious project to control malaria cases has also taken a back seat this year. Civic officials had issued directions to their respective teams for active surveillance in and around areas with positive cases, along with microscopic examination and testing of slides at malaria clinics in large numbers to ensure complete treatment of all positive cases. “However, due to shortage of staff, clinical operations have been affected. Also, people are not coming out, unlike previous years, for testing. Even RWAs are reluctant to allow DBC workers inside houses for spraying insecticides due to the fear of catching the coronavirus. Still, as soon as we get reports of positive cases, our team arranges for spraying and checks the neighbouring houses to ensure no other person has the same symptom,” explained a SDMC official. At the 27 malaria clinics of SDMC, 4,367 slides have been tested since January. Till date, 31 malaria cases have been reported in the capital. “Though the figure is less in comparison to last three years malaria cases, we don’t want to take the risk considering the onset of monsoon. In 2019, 35 cases, in 2018, 25 cases and in 2017, 41 cases of malaria were reported in the month of June,” the official claimed. During their visits to neighbourhoods, civic teams are requesting residents to not keep drinking water in containers for a long duration as it could lead to mosquito breeding. With the onset of monsoon, SDMC, in its recent order, clarified that 50% of workforce would be utilised for anti-larval work while the remaining would be used for sanitisation and control of coronavirus. “These teams have been asked to inform people, especially RWAs, that fogging would not be done as the chemical used in the process is harmful to the respiratory system and can aggravate the Covid situation,” an official from the public health department of SDMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-malaria-fight-takes-back-seat-to-covid-19/articleshow/76633586.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Substandard hand sanitizers being sold in Pb: FDA||Chandigarh: Quality tests conducted by the food and drug administration (FDA) Punjab have revealed that substandard alcohol-based hand sanitizers are being sold in Punjab markets. This, at a time when the state is seeing a big spike in cases every day. While hand rub sanitizers are one of the mandated safeguards against Covid-19, majority of the samples tested have been found to be of substandard quality. What is more worrying is that some of the failed samples even contained toxic chemical methanol, use of which is prohibited. According to health experts, exposure to methanol can cause health issues like dizziness, drowsiness, headache, nausea, vomiting, seizures and damage to the nervous system. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had last week alerted central and state governments against markets flooded with highly toxic methanol-based hand sanitizers. The FDA Punjab collected a total of 75 samples of alcohol-based hand sanitizers from chemists across the state, of which 25 samples had been tested so far. Of these, 17 were found to be of sub-standard quality while five samples were misbranded, giving wrong information about the product. As per formulation recommendation by the World Health Organisation (WHO), a hand sanitizer should contain ethanol 80% or isopropyl alcohol 75%. Only three samples have, so far, been found to be of standard quality. The FDA has strengthened surveillance in all the districts to check the sale of poor quality hand sanitizers. Special teams have been formed for carrying out inspection at chemist shops, wholesale stores and warehouses of drug suppliers to collect samples. Commissioner food and drugs administration Kahan Singh Pannu said that providing quality products at fixed price is their top priority. "Action has been initiated as per laid down provisions of the law against the sellers and manufacturers of the sub-standard hand sanitizers," said Pannu. He further said that FIRs are being registered against the violators. The central government in March had brought masks and hand sanitizers under the Essential Commodities Act and had fixed their rates. As per the notification of the central government issued on March 21, hand sanitizers cannot be priced at more than Rs 100 per 200ml while retail prices of three-ply masks was fixed at Rs 8 per mask and not exceeding Rs 10. Showing scant regard, a large number of manufacturers are selling their products at rates exceeding that fixed by the government. Taking note of chemists indulging in malpractice of selling hand sanitizers at inflated prices, nine police cases have been registered against erring chemists and fines amounting to Rs 95,000 have been imposed on 12 chemists for selling masks at more than fixed rates. UNDER SCANNER OF HC Taking notice of manufacturers selling hand sanitizers and substandard masks at higher rates, Punjab and Haryana high court on June 19 had directed Punjab along with Haryana and Chandigarh to take action against the violators. The court had directed the state governments and UT administration to submit an action taken report by July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/substandard-hand-sanitizers-being-sold-in-pb-fda/articleshow/76621019.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||7 of Mohali catch the virus||Mohali: Seven patients tested positive for Covid-19 in M ohali on Thursday.They include two men (aged 31 and 51) and a 21-year-old woman. All three Baltana residents are contacts of positive patients of Bapu Dham Colony, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The other four are: a 31-year-old NRI, who returned from Canada and is a resident of Zirakpur; a 40-year-old man of Zirakpur; a Derabassi resident, 65; and a Dafarpur resident, 50.Meanwhile, seven patients were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. They are: an 18-year-old man; a 36-year-old woman of Dappar; a 70-year-old man of Baltana; three women (aged 54, 30 and 28); and a 23-year-old man of Derabassi.Parts of Harmilap Nagar in Zirakpur and Mubarakpur in Derabassi are micro-containment zones.The district case count now stands at 236.Mohali casesTotal cases: 236Active ones: 55Cured: 178Deaths: 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-of-mohali-catch-the-virus/articleshow/76633582.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||7 of Mohali catch the virus||Mohali: Seven patients tested positive for Covid-19 in M ohali on Thursday.They include two men (aged 31 and 51) and a 21-year-old woman. All three Baltana residents are contacts of positive patients of Bapu Dham Colony, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The other four are: a 31-year-old NRI, who returned from Canada and is a resident of Zirakpur; a 40-year-old man of Zirakpur; a Derabassi resident, 65; and a Dafarpur resident, 50.Meanwhile, seven patients were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. They are: an 18-year-old man; a 36-year-old woman of Dappar; a 70-year-old man of Baltana; three women (aged 54, 30 and 28); and a 23-year-old man of Derabassi.Parts of Harmilap Nagar in Zirakpur and Mubarakpur in Derabassi are micro-containment zones.The district case count now stands at 236.Mohali casesTotal cases: 236Active ones: 55Cured: 178Deaths: 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-of-mohali-catch-the-virus/articleshow/76633570.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Agra||Over 75% private hospitals lack Covid-19 help desk in Agra||AGRA: In violation of the state government orders, over 75 per cent private hospitals in Agra district have no Covid-19 help desk. According to an internal report of the health department, only 114 out of 458 registered private hospitals are equipped with the facility of thermal screening, pulse oximeters and sanitization. Around 344 private hospitals have no Covid-19 helpdesk. In Firozabad district, 27 out of 53 registered private hospitals have no Covid-19 help desk. Here, 40 primary health centres out of 55 lack the basics to curb the spread of Novel Coronavirus. Meanwhile, Mathura and Mainpuri district health departments have not sent details regarding Covid-19 help desk to the office of divisional commissioner. Additional divisional commissioner Sahab Singh has sent a letter to the district magistrates of Agra, Firozabad, Mathura and Mainpuri to certify that Covid-19 help desk has been set up at all the government offices, health centres and private hospitals. Talking to TOI, chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, "It is mandatory for all the government and private hospitals to establish a Covid-19 help desk as per the orders of the state government. We have ensured that all the primary health centres and community health centres in the district have proper arrangement of thermal screening, pulse oximeter and sanitization. We have sent a letter to the local unit of Indian Medical Association to ensure the government orders regarding Covid-19 help desk are suitably implemented." "We have already provided training to staffers of government and private hospitals on the standard operating procedure of the Covid-19 help desk," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-75-private-hospitals-lack-covid-19-help-desk-in-agra/articleshow/76632847.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Inter-district travel pushes local cases up in three districts||Madurai: After Madurai district, its neighbouring districts Theni, Dindigul and Virudhunagar are also seeing spike in Covid-19 cases. According to health officials, local cases in the three districts are mainly spiked by those returning from other places, especially Chennai and nearby districts. Since Madurai also witnessed a similar phenomenon, local health officials are on high alert. Till last week, Theni, Dindigul and Virudhunagar saw Covid-19 cases in single digits only or less than 20 per day. However, in the last five days, all the three districts, especially Theni saw a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Out of the 301 active cases in Theni, 244 were reported in just five days. Similarly, during the same period Dindigul reported 99 cases, and Virudhunagar 93 cases. “Contact cases are on the rise in Theni. The major reason is inter-district movement. We had a number of people returned from Chennai and nearby districts, who in turn have led to the increase of the local contact cases. Now, the movement has been restricted with lockdown. We are hoping that the cases will soon be under control,” said a senior health official from Theni. A few people from Madurai who had returned to Theni also tested positive for Covid-19. As per district authorities, testing has also been increased. In Virudhunagar, a good number of Covid-19 cases were reported from Vembakottai, Sattur, and Sivakasi, where travellers were returning from Chennai and nearby districts in good numbers. “We had several people coming from other districts, especially Chennai. Some of them even skipped mandatory quarantine but later tested Covid-19 positive. In Virudhunagar, around 50% of cases are those who returned from other districts, 30% are their primary and secondary contacts, while 20% are local Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inter-district-travel-pushes-local-cases-up-in-three-districts/articleshow/76634092.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘Complete acquisition for Gorakhpur link e-way’||LUCKNOW: Chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed the district magistrate concerned to complete the process of land acquisition for the Gorakhpur Link Expressway in Azamgarh district at the earliest. While reviewing the progress on the project on Thursday, the CS said that the DM should divide the villages where land has to be acquired among officials of the district administration and ask them to acquire land there at the earliest. “The CS has asked for a list of these officials along with the villages to which they have been appointed to be submitted to UPEIDA within the next three days,” said an official. Meanwhile, the Ambedkarnagar district administration has acquired 97.14% land while in Gorakhpur, 91.42% land has been acquired. The CS said that work should be completed in these districts by July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/complete-acquisition-for-gorakhpur-link-e-way/articleshow/76634090.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown peril: West Bengal records 198 child marriage complaints||KOLKATA: With child marriages on the rise, especially in South and North 24 Parganas post-Amphan, the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) involved various stakeholders to come together and chalk out a standard operating procedure (SOP) while handling fresh cases on Thursday. During lockdown, the state has received a total of 198 complaints of which 134 were found to be true. This decision comes barely a week after a Calcutta High Court order asked panchayats to play a pivotal role in stopping this social malaise. The numbers from the two parganas are staggering. Between April 16and June 15, South 24 Parganas alone reported 66 attempts at child marriages while North 24 Parganas registered 63. Out of them, Childline reported 43 in the south alone and 39 in the north. The SCPCR’s helpline reported 22 cases till June 23 that were passed on to the district child protection officers and Childline. Barrackpore, an industrial town, reported three child marriage attempts. Sudeshna Roy, special consultant at SCPCR (in charge of trafficking and child marriage responses), said there was some positives in the past two months. “With no peer groups working (the schools are shut) and the communication struggle (the Amphan has destroyed communication channels in remote areas), we still received several inputs. We could stop as many as 54 marriages in North 24 Parganas and 60 in South 24 Parganas. This shows that common people are getting educated,” she said. The Kanyashree project, said sources, proved to be a boon in these hard times. Roy said there were a few challenges that lay ahead. “We found that there were two issues — either the parents are too poor and they believe that marrying off their child will relieve them of their responsibility or the girl herself would run away thinking of a bright future. This meeting concentrated on four things — deciding on a penal action, deciding a SOP, developing synergy among stakeholders like police, the NGO and the district administration and finally, getting the panchayats to act,” said Roy. Rishi Kant from Shakti Vahini — along with other NGOs like Sanglap, International Justice Mission and Jabala — pointed at how figures provided by police and the SCPCR were not even matching at times. The police, however, said they are getting to know about the incidents in the last hour. “While CWC is now ushering in online production of children, we are happy that a penal provision is now being readied so that we can use it as a deterrent,” said an officer from the Sunderban police district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-peril-state-records-198-child-marriage-plaints/articleshow/76633587.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Centre denies nod for industrial park in Tuticorin||Chennai: In a set back to the state government, an expert appraisal committee of the Union environment ministry turned down a proposal to set up an industrial park in Ottapidaram taluk in Tuticorin to cater to petroleum refining industry and petrochemical complexes. The committee has cited environmental concerns, including the recent gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam. The panel said the proposed park, estimated at Rs 310 crore, was not acceptable in an area that has been classified as highly polluted. For long, Tuticorin has been the hub of violent protests against Sterlite’s copper smelter that was subsequently shut down amidst allegations by activists that it was highly polluting. The ministry and committee had received several complaints against the project, proposed 8.33km from the eco-sensitive zone of Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park. In its recent meeting, the committee recalled the Visakhapatnam gas leak, an industrial accident which resulted in a cloud of vapour spreading over a radius of about 3km, affecting nearby villages. “The state government’s proposal was not agreed upon by the committee. It will have to reapply following the guidelines,” said a ministry official. The proposal was deferred in January for want of alternative sites but in May, the committee found there was “no rigorous analysis of alternative sites” by the state. The Centre’s zoning atlas incorporates criteria, including nature of industry, hazard potential and likely distance of impact, water and air environment in the locality, but the state government did not submit any information, which indicated that no due diligence was undertaken for site selection, the committee said. When the state government pointed to more than 100 industries located within the 10km of proposed project site, the committee hit out at the state for allowing several large red category industries, such as VV Minerals, Sterlite Copper and Sterlite Power to come in areas demarcated for general industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-denies-nod-for-industrial-park-in-tuticorin/articleshow/76633585.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Covid or not? Unreported cases in Madurai GRH kick up a row||MADURAI: Amid claims of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) under-reporting Covid-19 deaths, apart from two deaths reported officially on Thursday, an official statement by the hospital showed four more deaths having occurred on Wednesday and Thursday. The state medical bulletin puts the total cases in the district at 1,279 and the death toll at 11 as of June 25. According to the bulletin, a 76-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman, both from Madurai, died of Covid-19 at GRH on June 21 and 22 respectively. While the man had co-morbid condition of diabetes, the 40-year-old woman did not have any co-morbidities. Apart from these two cases, the hospital said in an official statement that four Covid-19 deaths have occurred within a span of 48 hours between Wednesday and Thursday. However, hospital sources said that the number of deaths during the period was much higher. “In June, there have been comparatively more deaths. The number during the past 48 hours is in fact in double digits. There have also been cases of much younger patients without any co-morbidities dying mainly due to aggravation of Covid-19,” said a hospital source.  Further, the source said that suspected Covid-19 deaths, that is deaths of people who have not tested positive but have clinical symptoms, have also been on the rise. Reacting to the allegations, Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay said that not all patients admitted to the ‘Corona Speciality Hospital’ at GRH die of Covid-19.  “There will be cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchial asthma, etc., which will also be admitted here if exacerbated. Such cases may suffer death. But they will not be considered Covid-19 deaths,” he said, speaking to TOI. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) state president Dr K Senthil, in a recent statement condemning verbal abuse of medical staff by a patient’s kin, had said that despite treatment, four to five Covid-19 or suspected Covid-19 deaths have been occurring a day at GRH during the past week due to severity of the disease. The following day, addressing media, B Chandra Mohan, monitoring officer for Covid for Madurai, had said that all Covid-related deaths are being verified and that a committee has been formed to discuss treatment protocol and death audit at GRH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-or-not-unreported-cases-in-madurai-grh-kick-up-a-row/articleshow/76634084.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: India’s longest cycling track blocked by rubble||BHOPAL: At a time when efforts are afoot to encourage the use of non-motorised public transport due to the corona pandemic, India’s longest cycling track is a picture in contrast. The cycling track is in dire need of repairs weeks after completion of under construction bridge along Hoshanagabad. Passage of construction vehicles and dumping of rubble has made the track unusable. It is part of Bhopal smart city’s public bike sharing project and the track 10km, both ways, is India’s longest cycling track. The issue is located near Ahmedpur crossing, where much of the track was dismantled to allow movement of construction vehicles and later dumping of rubble linked to Bawardiya flyover. “We are aware of the situation. It is the bridge construction agency which should take care of the repairs. Cycle track would be relaid,” said a senior official of Bhopal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (BSCDCL). The cycle track follows parallel to the BRTS lane. It is a modern track with room for underground cabling and stormwater drainage system. The construction work has demolished most of the underground system, too. The underground system was supposed to be a revenue earner for the BMC and BSCDCL, as proposed in the BRTS plan of 2010. Bhopal launched India’s first PBS (public bike sharing) system that requires zero manpower for giving out bicycles on rent in 2017. Capital cost of PBS was only Rs2.95 crore, compared to Rs350 plus crore invested in BRTS and proposed Rs9,000 crore for metro rail phase-I for Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/indias-longest-cycling-track-blocked-by-rubble/articleshow/76632860.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Pvt schools warned against hiking fees||MYSURU: The state government has warned private schools not to hike fees this academic year and follow the fee structure of the previous year. KG Jagadeesha, commissioner, department of public instruction, informed that the state government has prohibited hike in the school fees for the academic year 2020-21. According to the government order dated June 19, issued by the under-secretary, education department, private schools have been asked to follow 2019-20 fee structure. In the order, it has been pointed out that due to the lockdown announced to contain the spread of the Covid-19, a majority of the parents are facing the financial crisis. They approached the state government seeking direction to prevail on the private educational institutions against any hike in fees this year. The decision has come as a big relief for parents struggling to pay school fees due to lockdown related financial blues. D Shashikumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS) said private schools are now collecting arrears of 2019-20 fees. “We will decide about 2020-21 fee structure once classes resume,” he said. Some private schools are offering online education for students to keep them engaged. Meanwhile, parents want the education department to rein on private schools and implement its order strictly. “Many schools have already completed the admission process and collected fees. The government should ask the schools to refund the excess amount they have collected. Issuing order alone is not enough,” said Vasudev Murthy, a resident from Agrahara in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pvt-schools-warned-against-hiking-fees/articleshow/76631541.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kochi||Search at Rehana Fathima’s house||Ernakulam South police on Thursday searched the Panampilly Nagar residence of activist Rehana Fathima after registering a case over a viral video in which she is said to be seen lying half naked and allowing her children to do paintings on her body. A mobile phone, a laptop and equipment used for painting were seized. The activist was not at home when the raid happened. Relevant sections of the Pocso Act and IT Act have been slapped against her, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/search-at-rehana-fathimas-house/articleshow/76632890.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||HC takes up letter on PMAY in Seoni as PIL||BHOPAL: A letter to chief justice of MP high court regarding complains of no houses being built under the PM Awas Yojana in one of the Seoni villages has been converted into a public interest litigation by the high court on Thursday. Chief justice of MP high court A K Mittal has decided to list a letter received from a village Payali in Seoni district as a PIL in which villagers complained that not a single house has been built in their village under PM Awas Yojana and there were no employment opportunities in the village. They further wrote that construction of some toilets was undertaken in the village under ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’, but not all of them were completed. There is no approach road to the village and students have to go on foot to the other villages for studies. Listing the case as a PIL, a division bench of Justice A K Mittal and Justice V K Shukla issued notices to the state government, district collector, Seoni and zila and zanpad CEO seeking a response to the grievances of villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hc-takes-up-letter-on-pmay-in-seoni-as-pil/articleshow/76632867.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Cop goes missing after losing money in online rummy||Madurai: Depressed over losing money on online rummy game, a police constable at Virudhunagar district, left his quarters at Mottamalai in Rajapalayam on Saturday and is missing since then. His wife has lodged a complaint with the Vanniyampatti Vilakku police station as she could trace him for days. The missing policeman has been identified as R Serapandian, attached to XI special police battalion in Rajapalayam. A native of Thiruvengadam in Tenkasi district, he got married to Mohini, 24, five years ago, when he was a member of Friends of Police before joining the state police force. The couple has two daughters. In the complaint, Mohini stated that Serapandian was addicted to online rummy games and has been playing it since six months. He took loans from his friends and played games. He became depressed as the debt has increased to more than Rs 1.5 lakh. She pawned her jewellery to mobilise money and paid the debt. However, he could not come out of depression and left the house. Mohini and her relatives searched him in subsequent days, but could not trace him. A police officer said that a team has been formed to trace the missing policeman. Although he earned some money through online games, he started losing heavily in the last few months, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-goes-missing-after-losing-money-in-online-rummy/articleshow/76634099.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Those violating safety rules may face imprisonment||MYSURU: Over a dozen residents are facing the prospect of being put behind bars for violating orders promulgated by public servants in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Acting tough against violators of guidelines, city police have booked about 27 people for not obeying the orders in the last days in Mysuru. Those found without masks and maintaining social distance are being brought to book. According to norms of National Disaster Management Act, any individual refusing to obey the direction of government or authorities can be put behind bars. Local authorities including police have issued directives that those disobeying orders of public servants will be booked under provisions of IPC. It attracts a jail term that extends up to a month or a fine. Police commissioner Chandragupta confirmed to TOI that eight people were booked for violating orders on Wednesday. On the previous day, about 19 were booked. “We will continue the drive to discipline the public so that they strictly follow the guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/those-violating-safety-rules-may-face-imprisonment/articleshow/76632775.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Custodial death: 500 hotels in Madurai to down shutters today||Madurai: Five hundred hotels in Madurai district have decided to down shutters on June 26 in protest against the custodial deaths of the father-son duo at Sathankulam. The death of the Jayaraj, 59, and his son Benicks, 31, in police custody is highly condemnable and all hotel owners have decided to protest the police torture by shutting down their firms on Friday, said Madurai District Hotel Owners Association president K L Kumar. “We expect all hotels to take part in the protest and people in Madurai would not be able to source food anywhere outside their homes on that day,” he said.However, a section of the hoteliers have decided to extend the closure for three days till Sunday, owing to the poor sales post lockdown.Kumar said that the sales of almost all the hotels in Madurai had been very dull, since the reopening. “Many of us are not getting 10% of our pre-lockdown sales, and the situation is very grim,” he said. Kumar says that they are struggling to pay salaries to their staff. “Covid scare is driving people away, and it is going to take time for them to start visit hotels again,” he said. Meanwhile, some eateries such as Ayyamma Samayal have announced that they are stopping their services from the eve of June 25 due to safety precautions. Many others are also following suit because business has not improved after the lockdown. The Temple City group has decided to remain closed for three days, as the government has already ordered that Sunday would be a holiday for them during the lockdown period. “Most of us would end up closing our shops. Without having a proper flow of customers, the industry is in trouble,” said Shankar (name changed), hotelier. Others say that the order that they should close by 9pm is also not helping their business, as customers usually walk in during late hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-death-500-hotels-in-madurai-to-down-shutters-today/articleshow/76634105.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||700 Indian fishers stranded in Iran to return||Madurai: Nearly 700 Indian fishermen, of which 673 are from Tamil Nadu, who were stranded in Iran, will be repatriated by INS Jalashwa and expected to arrive at the Tuticorin port early next week. The fishermen have been seeking help from February when Covid-19 positive cases started spiralling in Iran. After a tussle with their owners and a battle for help through various organisations and representations from the state government, they have finally got help. Some even struggled to get the exit visa stamped by their Iranian employers. Fishermen said they started from various fishing harbours like Kish Island and headed to the port city of Bandar Abbas, from where Jalashwa will leave . On Thursday, many of them boarded the ship, while some weren’t lucky. “We are happy to return and delighted that we will be seeing our families,” said Ascar, 27, a fisherman from Kanyakumari district before boarding the ship. “Despite our efforts, 64 people could not be accommodated in the ship due to various reasons,” secretary of Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam, Charles Johnson said. The association has been closely following the issue from the beginning. “One of them had high temperature when he was tested before boarding the ship,” he added. There was high drama near the ship as those who could not make it staged a protest and engaged in a heated argument with the authorities. Meanwhile, fisheries minister D Jayakumar in a statement recalled the efforts taken by the state and Union governments including the chief minister’s letter to the ministry of external affairs to bring them back home. He added that 673 fishermen from Tamil Nadu will be sailing home in the ship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/700-indian-fishers-stranded-in-iran-to-return/articleshow/76634103.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Vadodara||ONGC loses Rs 8-cr legal battle with Sabar Dairy||Vadodara: ONGC has lost a 27-year-old legal battle to Sabarkantha District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd, popularly known as Sabar Dairy, to recover over Rs 8 crore from the Himmatnagar-based milk cooperative over a dispute regarding natural gas prices. Even though the court accepted ONGC’s argument that it was entitled to charge the price as per its agreement with the dairy and that it should also get the price difference of Rs 8.33 crore, the fact that it did not issue notice to the registrar of cooperative society resulted in the suit getting dismissed. As per ONGC’s claim, the milk union had to pay the price difference to it due to change in government policy on pricing of natural gas and a litigation on the same matter. The PSU and the cooperative society had entered into the agreement in Vadodara in June 1985 for supply of natural gas. According to the agreement, the price was to be decided by ONGC and the gas was to be supplied from April 1987. However, before the supply started, the government of India (GoI) issued a notification that it would decide the uniform price of gas. Even after the notification when the actual gas supply started in December 1987, ONGC issued bills at the rate decided by it while the milk union made payments at the price fixed by GoI. During the hearing of the case, the milk union claimed that it had reminded ONGC to amend the price clause, but its officers only gave oral assurances. Meanwhile, in May 1990 the Supreme Court allowed ONGC to fix the price of natural gas. ONGC told the court that after the apex court’s order it asked the milk union to make payment of difference between the agreed price and the actual payment done. However, as the union did not pay the price difference, ONGC took the legal recourse. The milk union argued its case based on one section of Gujarat Cooperative Societies Act. It claimed that as per section 167 of the law, ONGC should have first issued notice to the registrar of cooperative societies since the dispute is affecting its business. The act makes it mandatory to issue the notice to the registrar first so that cooperative societies are not dragged into litigation. Based on the arguments and submissions made by the two entities, the court of commercial and senior civil judge G J Shah dismissed the case. The court observed that ONGC is not entitled to its claims as the case itself is not maintainable because the mandatory notice under the Gujarat Cooperative Societies Act was not issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ongc-loses-rs-8-cr-legal-battle-with-sabar-dairy/articleshow/76631859.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Madrassa board to verify documents of 9,000 teachers||LUCKNOW: Marksheets and other academic records submitted by over 9,000 teachers working in 558 government-aided madrassas in the state will now be verified by the UP Board of Madrassa Education. The decision has been taken to check if any madrassa teacher has used fake documents to secure job and is triggered by the ‘Anamika Shukla’ case of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV). Board registrar RP Singh told TOI, the action plan for the verification has to be submitted to the government on Friday. “A letter from special secretary, UP government, GP Singh has asked the board to devise an action plan to get the documents verified and the same has to be submitted in two days’ time which ends on Friday,” the registrar said. “It will take at least one-and-a-half months to verify documents of all 9,000 Arabai-Farsi teachers,” he added. “We plan to depute district wise officers and provide them assisting staff so that the task can be completed. Some documents are with the board, for some we might have to contact other education boards and for some even physical verification would have to be done,” Singh added. The order cited the chief minister’s decision that all documents be checked and salaries being paid to anyone who used fake documents be stopped with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/madrassa-board-to-verify-documents-of-9k-teachers/articleshow/76634104.cms||Yusra Husain
June 26, 2020||Hubballi||SSLC examinations begin on a smooth note in North Karnataka||DHARWAD/HUBBALLI: The first day of SSLC examination passed off smoothly in Dharwad district on Thursday. Out of 265,99 students registered, 25,561 appeared for the second language examination at 107 centres, while 1,038 remained absent. No case of any untoward incident or malpractice was reported. The department of public instruction had made elaborate arrangements to ensure implementation of the standard operative procedure prescribed by the health department to curb spread of Covid-19 and all safety measures including thermal screening were followed. The students started reaching their respective centres from 7.30am and were made to maintain social distance. They were provided three masks and a bottle of sanitizer each. Officials said water bottles will be provided to the candidates from Friday. Andrew Susainathan, additional superintendent of examination centre in Fatima High School, Keshwapur said, “While conducting thermal screening, a student from a school was found with high temperature, for which he was made to sit separately. Doctors conducted his health check-up.” GR Shivapura, superintendent of the examination centre at Lamington School, said eight students remained absent of total 330. Asha workers, health workers and Scouts and Guides conducted thermal screening at the centre. Aan NGO distributed milk bottles and biscuits to students. In Morab village of Navalgund taluk, a Covid 19 hotspot, there was a main exam centre and an additional one for students coming from containment zones. The students from Shirur, Gummagol and Shirkol, who were supposed to take the exam at Morab, were diverted to a new centre at Shirur. Attendance at all the three centres was 100%, officials said. The examination rooms which had been sanitized prior to the examination were again sanitized after the students left. Geeta Parmar, a resident of Mantur Road and a mother of a student said she had told her daughter how to be safe while writing the exam. Laxmi Sogalad, a student of Vijay Nagar High School said, “I was aware of the precautions, so brought a sanitiser along with me. I had no fear about attending the exam and everything was normal.” Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan, police commissioner R Dileep and additional commissioner of public instruction (NW zone) Major (Rt) Siddalingaiah Hiremath visited examination centres and reviewed the situation. As many as 200 NWKRTC buses were pressed into service to ferry students to examination centres and back. Para-medical staff was present at all centres to ensure sanitization and thermal screening. Many students said they were a bit scared initially before entering the examination centre but relaxed after looking at the arrangements made. The examination went off successfully in Haveri, Gadag, and other parts of north Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-examinations-begin-on-a-smooth-note-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/76631411.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP leaders meet Sikh farmers facing eviction in UP||CHANDIGARH: To express solidarity with Punjabi farmers who were facing eviction in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, a delegation of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) interacted with affected families and promised to highlight the issue. Punjab assembly leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema told TOI that the farmers in Terai region were apprehensive that despite assurances, their land records had been changed, depriving them of their right to sell or lease out land. Met farmers of Bijnore in UP being forced to evacuate their lands by @UPGovt. They have been living there since gen… https://t.co/O9nCtdIyhw— Adv Harpal Singh Cheema (@HarpalCheemaMLA) 1592999680000“We met farmers in Nagina in Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh and Bazpur in Uttarakhand. BJP is trying to favour corporates by usurping the land of farmers. The land is Bajpur even has industrial units and the smaller ones belong to people originally from Punjab,” he said. “The general sentiment among farmers is that injustice is being done to them. Farmers shifted there when others were reluctant to take up farming. They showed us marks of snake bites to prove how they struggled to contribute to the development of the areas back then. But now the state governments want to take over their land,” added Cheema. AAP leaders claimed that statements being made by politicians rang hollow as farmers were up in arms against the move. “We will also support any agitation launched by the landowners. I will prepare a report on the ground situation and send it to the Prime Minister and chief ministers,” said Cheema. AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, who is also a part of the delegation, added the matter would be raised in Parliament through the party’s MP, Bhagwant Mann. The chunks of land in question were allotted to the farmers by the kings of the times, adding that during the land consolidation in 1952, the farmers were registered as owners of the lands. However, in 1963, the farmers were declared as tillers as per the law. These farmers had been tilling these lands ever since. Taking cognisance of reports of attempts by the Uttar Pradesh government to displace more than 30,000 Sikh farmers by taking over their arable land, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh last week said he will take up the issue with his UP counterpart, Yogi Adityanath, and Union home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-aap-leaders-meet-sikh-farmers-facing-eviction-in-up/articleshow/76621116.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Mysuru||Vendors face bleak future as village street turns into containment zone||MYSURU: After a 26-year-old resident from Rammanahalli tested positive, the villagers, many of whom work as roadside vendors, are extremely anxious as this could prevent them from venturing out of their homes for at least four weeks. About 5,000 villagers sell fruits, vegetables, and fish across Mysuru. Most of them are women. Now that a containment zone has been created in the village, they are staring at a bleak future as they might have restricted entry. Shivu, a fruit seller in the village located about 13kms from Mysuru, said that almost every family in the village has a member who is into selling vegetables. Some work as construction labourers. “Women in our village work on par with men and shoulder the responsibility of families. My mother herself sells fruits in Metagalli locality along with me. The PDO explained that after a youth has been tested positive, the street has been sealed-off and two other roads on either side of the street have been made buffer areas where there will be limited restriction. Coming out of home is not allowed in the containment block,” he said. According to officials, 70 families live on the restricted street and the double the number live on two buffer streets. “Barring containment area there is no restriction for people to move around and do business,” said KR Rakshith, tahsildar, Mysuru taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vendors-face-bleak-future-as-village-street-turns-into-containment-zone/articleshow/76632874.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active Covid-19 count drops, but 44 new cases reported||PANAJI: Even as Goa’s count of active Covid-19 cases dropped for the third consecutive day on Thursday with 46 patients cured, 44 new cases were reported from Loutolim, Canacona, Sada, Curtorim and other places. Seven travellers also tested positive taking Goa’s count of active cases to 658, while the tally of patients cured has risen to 335. Since last week, new cases have been reported from various parts of Salcete taluka. On Thursday, 11 cases were detected in Loutolim, while Curtorim and Ambelim, which have reported a steady rise in cases, had three cases each. After Mangor Hill in Vasco, Sada has also witnessed a spurt in cases. It has reported 57 cases, including seven detected on Thursday. It is also among the six major locations in the state which have witnessed a spike in cases. New Vaddem in the port town which has also emerged as a major hotspot, reported two cases. Five cases have been reported from Sakhali so far. Since Wednesday, swab samples of 260 residents at Ganganagar, Mapusa were drawn and their test results are likely to be given on Friday, said Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza. The area was barricaded after one resident, a barber, tested positive. “The area continues to be barricaded. Some breaches were noted, and those have been addressed. Police have been posted at the location 24x7,” D’Souza said. Authorities are concerned as Ganganagar is a slum area. Meanwhile, four workers wearing full PPE on Wednesday helped perform the final rites of the two Covid + patients who succumbed to the virus on Monday. The final rites of the 85-year-old from Morlem, Sattari and Kharewaddo, Vasco were performed at night with assistance from one worker from ESI hospital, one from the Home hospital and two from EMRI, in Ponda The families of the two deceased signed undertakings stating they did not want to claim the bodies of the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-covid-count-drops-but-44-new-cases-reported/articleshow/76633602.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||BMC identifies land, finalises plan for waste treatment plant on city outskirts||Bareilly: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) is once again gearing up to install a solid-waste treatment plant (STP) to treat municipal solid waste (MSW) generated in the city. The site chosen is in Sathrapur village of Faridpur, near the national highway 24. According to BMC officials, the place, which looks suitable for a MSW plant, was identified recently, and the project is in its initial stage. Speaking to TOI, municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “A plot measuring around 10 hectare has been identified on the city outskirts in Faridpur, close to NH X. The land has already been acquired and a detailed project report (DPR) is now being prepared. As soon as the DPR is completed, we will be in position to fix a budget for the project, which will then be sent to the state government for approval. The new STP is expected to treat around 400 metric tonnes of MSW.” The setting up of a STP in the city has been long pending, making waste management a challenge for BMC. The civic body had earlier set up a STP in Rajau Paraspur village of Faridpur, but it was shut down four years ago for not meeting pollution-related parameters. BMC then identified a 15 acre plot on Badaun road, but the plan was dropped following opposition from farmers in the area. A few other places on the city outskirts — Rukampur, Makrandpur and Husainpur — were also inspected, but were later declared unsuitable for developing a STP. Once again in 2017, BMC identified a 450 bigha plot in Garau on Badaun road, but that project too didn’t materialise and was later dropped. Commissioner Anand said, “This time around, the location looks suitable. We expect an STP can be easily built on the identified plot, which will finally put an end to the city’s waste menace. It will also ease the burden of the Bakerganj landfill site that has been overflowing with garbage for years. Work will be taken up soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-identifies-land-finalises-plan-for-waste-treatment-plant-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/76630477.cms||Maria Khan
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||The camera loves Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Scenic beauty and picturesque locations of Madhya Pradesh have charmed several producers and directors, making the state a preferred destination for web series and movie shoots. Around 23 web series, movies and tv serials will be shot in Madhya Pradesh this year. Especially the state capital happens to be the favourite location of several production houses. In the past few years, several movies have been shot in MP. But, the biggest change in the entire situation was witnessed recently when the film policy was launched in March. Three untitled movies will be shot in the state, soon. Response and queries from the production houses are such that Madhya Pradesh tourism department has set up a dedicated film facilitation cell to take care of everything pertaining to shoots in the state. Five web series by big banners have been given slots, to shoot here till December. Importance of MP is gaining momentum in the entertainment industry, soon regional films including Telugu and Bengali will also be shot here. Then there are some music video shoots lined up, inform sources. Along with Bhopal, forthcoming web series will also be shot at Indore, Gwalior, Maheshwar, Orchha, Ujjain, Madhai, Khajuraho, Panna, Jabalpur. When contacted, additional managing director (MP tourism board) Soniya Meena said, “Madhya Pradesh is blessed to have such beautiful locations that producers are turning towards it. Also, in the new film policy, several subsidies and facilities are assured if producers come and shoot in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/the-camera-loves-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/76632898.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Hindustan Unilever to drop ‘fair’ from ‘Fair & Lovely'||MUMBAI: ‘Fair & Lovely’, India’s popular skin complexion cream, is rebranding itself. Even as parent Unilever’s presence in the skin lightening space came under intense pressure globally, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) on Thursday said it would stop using the word ‘Fair’ in the 40-year-old brand name. The move marks the culmination of the company’s conscious effort to move the brand’s proposition from ‘fairness’ to ‘radiance’. It puts to rest a controversial chapter in the history of the brand that was seen to propagate a stereotypical viewpoint of beauty. With sales of over Rs 2,000 crore, Fair & Lovely is the leading face care brand in India and among HUL’s top 5 bestsellers.The company believes the change is towards a more holistic and inclusive measure of healthy skin. As against what Fair & Lovely’s advertisements communicated a few decades back—equating fair skin with beauty—it was only last year that HUL removed the cameo with two faces as well as the shade guides from the packaging of Fair & Lovely as the brand communication progressed from fairness to glow. While the new brand name—which has not been revealed—awaits regulatory approvals, the company said the brand is committed to celebrate all skin tones. The move thus removes the last reference to “fairness” in Fair & Lovely as a description for skin tone. The move was lauded by many, with actor Nandita Das, who has actively spoken out against discrimination based on colour, tweeting: “Words impact notions & they, the mindset. I want to believe that the campaign Dark is Beautiful & India’s Got Colour played a tiny role. Many of you have too. Long way to go before things are truly ‘fair’, but we are on our way!” The old proposition, however, is responsible for propelling Fair & Lovely to deliver good growths over the years. It became the leading face cream brand in the country with sales now exceeding Rs 2,000 crore. Fair & Lovely has an over 40% share of the face care market, and is among the top five brands in HUL’s portfolio, the others being Lifebuoy, Surf Excel, Wheel and Brooke Bond. The market size for face creams in India is roughly Rs 6,000 crore. Beauty and personal care, which houses the Fair & Lovely brand, contributes 45% to HUL’s annual revenues of about Rs 39,000 crore. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director, HUL told TOI: “Seven out of ten Indian women use Fair & Lovely. The move to drop ‘fair’ from the brand name is not a knee-jerk reaction. We changed the communication to ‘HD Glow’. The formulation of the brand has also evolved. We believe it’s more to do with the migration of consumers. We have conducted research on the new brand name and indications are that consumers would welcome these changes.” The move comes after parent Unilever came under pressure for its skin lightening products. Earlier this week, Johnson & Johnson exited the fairness category following a global momentum gathering steam against racism after the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in Minnesota. In a separate announcement, Unilever said the organization has taken the next step in evolution of its skincare portfolio to a more inclusive vision of beauty, which includes the removal of the words `fair/fairness’, `white/whitening’, `light/lightening’ from its products’ packs and communication. TOI on Thursday reported on how marketers have adopted a new nomenclature and changed the semantics in the fairness creams space, with the word `fair’ existing only in the brand name. Sunny Jain, president beauty & personal care, Unilever, said in a statement: “We have been working on the evolution of our Fair & Lovely brand, which is sold across Asia, progressively moving to a more inclusive vision of beauty that celebrates skin glow. We have changed the advertising, communication and – more recently – the packaging in South Asia, and we think it’s important that we now share the next step that we have been working on: changing the brand name. We will also continue to evolve our advertising, to feature women of different skin tones, representative of the variety of beauty across India and other countries.” Unilever said the brand’s advertising has been changing since 2014, to a message of women empowerment. “We are aware that historic advertising is available on the internet; these ads are not aligned with the current values of the brand. As part of this journey to embrace and reflect a more inclusive vision of beauty, the next significant step is to update its brand name, which will be shared once several legal and regulatory requirements are met in each country where the brand is available,” Unilever said. Apart from India, Fair & Lovely is a strong brand in countries like Indonesia, Thailand, the Middle-East, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Global sales were, however, not readily available. Industry experts said with social media collapsing communication barriers and wielding more power in the hands of consumers, HUL’s move is timely as the global backlash against racism posed a reputational risk to not only HUL but Unilever as well. According to research conducted by Euromonitor International on beauty and the associated traits of brands, last year, 34% of consumers said they use Fair & Lovely because it suited their skin type, while 38% said the brand was easily available. “Fair & Lovely has a good reach and is well penetrated. That’s the reason why the growth rate of the brand has been coming down over the decades. Since it has built a brand equity, it will be critical for the company to communicate the change in brand name to consumers, a significant number of who reside in rural India. However, although there is a trend of embracing inclusivity, and there are evolved definitions of beauty, in India the concept of `fairness’ is still deeply embedded,” said Pradeep Srinivasan, consultant, Euromonitor International.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hul-to-drop-fair-from-fair-lovely/articleshow/76634109.cms||Namrata Singh
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Sub-judge to monitor kudimaramathin Pudukottai||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the Aranthangi sub-judge to monitor the execution of kudimaramath work at Edaiyathimangalam irrigation tank in Pudukottai district through a para-legal volunteer, and dismissed a batch of petitions, which apprehended the misuse of funds in its execution. The court also said that if the sub-judge finds any irregularity in the execution of the work, he shall bring the matter to the notice of the district collector immediately for appropriate action. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which challenged the legality and validity of the letter dated May 19 issued by the public works department (PWD) officials by which the contract for kudimaramath work was granted in favour of a member, who is the president of the Edaiyathimangalam Eri Pasanatharargal Sangam. The petitioners apprehended misuse of funds alleging that the work was allotted without following proper procedures. Pursuant to the earlier direction of this court, the Aranthangi sub-judge inspected the tank and submitted a report before the court. On perusal of the submissions, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi said the report belies the allegation that water has been drained deliberately from the tank and to the contrary it has been stated in the report that the work had begun long time back and 20% has been completed. The judges observed that on a conspectus of the facts obtained in this case, the court can easily discern that there are two rival associations, each wanting to bag the contract and hence there is no great public interest involved but only sheer private interest. The judges observed that due to Covid-19 pandemic and the consequential lockdown, all works had come to a standstill in the state and now some employment generation activities in the villages are taking place by allotment of such works to the villagers. The judges said that the court does not want to interdict such works on account of quarrel between two groups and add to the woes of unemployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sub-judge-to-monitor-kudimaramathin-pudukottai/articleshow/76634107.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 26, 2020||India||Chopper case: ED searches focus on Malcha Marg house||NEW DELHI: The Wednesday’s searches by the Enforcement Directorate on Shravan Gupta of MGF (formerly MGF-Emmar) has once again turned the focus of the AgustaWestland bribery and money laundering case to a Malcha Marg building, situated in the national Capital’s high-security diplomatic enclave. It was in December 2018 that the ED had first questioned Jagdish Sharma, a close aide of Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Sonia Gandhi, in connection with taking over this property through MGF. This Malcha Marg property once belonged to late Congressman V C Shukla’s Bharti Sangam Trust but was allegedly sold to MGF (formerly MGF-Emaar) during 2008-09 when Guido Haschke was its director. Guido Haschke, an Italian, is one of the three accused in laundering of the Rs 423 crore alleged bribes paid in the 2010 VVIP chopper deal. Emaar has distanced itself from Shravan Gupta and the controversial deal. In a statement to TOI on Wednesday, a spokesperson from Emaar said it has parted ways with Gupta a few years ago and that it is willing to share all information required by the anti-money laundering agency. On Shukla’s death, Bharti Sangam Trust was handled by his daughter. However, the ED investigation later revealed that the Malcha Marg property was allegedly sold to Emaar-MGF when Haschke was its director. “People involved in the deal soon realised that properties of a trust cannot be sold. Then the convenor of the trust was changed and Vadra’s associate Jagdish Sharma was brought in to control the assets,” sources said. The ED, in its second chargesheet filed in the AgustaWestland money laundering case, had accused Haschke as one of the three middlemen who had "managed” to influence IAF decision on “reducing the altitude ceiling of helicopters from 6,000 m to 4,500 m in 2005” to make AgustaWestland eligible for bidding. The other accused in the AgustaWestland bribery and money laundering case are Italian Carlos Gerosa and British national Christian Michel, the latter has been extradited from Dubai and is currently in custody. On India’s request, Interpol had issued Red Corner Notices against both Gerosa and Haschke but they were never extradited even though Italian authorities had once detained Gerosa. Rajiv Saxena, another accused in the case, was deported from Dubai last year and arrested. He was later released after he turned approver. Saxena is accused of operating shell companies on behalf of some leading Indian politicians and their relatives and laundering the bribes received in several defence deals. Last month, the ED attached his Rs 385 crore assets, including a Palm Jumeirah villa worth $20 million and deposits in six Swiss banks worth $46 million, believed to be assets of politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chopper-case-ed-searches-focus-on-malcha-marg-house/articleshow/76635037.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM launches video call facility for Covid patients at Lok Nayak Hospital||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 patients admitted at the Lok Nayak Hospital in central Delhi will now be able to call their family members thanks to a video call facility launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Kejriwal said the facility has been launched keeping in mind the problem faced by relatives of Covid-19 patients who were unable to meet or talk to them. “Tablets have been installed in every ward of the hospital. The family members can visit the hospital and talk to the patient through video conferencing,” he said. Tablets have been installed in coronavirus wards and at a counter outside, which can be used by patients and their relatives for video calling, Delhi government said in a statement. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the tablets would also be beneficial for doctors and the administration for keeping in regular touch with the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-launches-video-call-facility-for-covid-patients-at-lok-nayak/articleshow/76633611.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||MNREGA card holders to get lion’s share in plantation work in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Migrant labourers who have MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Fuarantee Act) cards will be in the forefront of the sapling plantation drive in Pilibhit district this time. Though the date for the one-day drive is yet to be announced, Pilibhit has been assigned a target of planting over 23,15,070 saplings. Of these, 13,91,900 saplings are to be planted by MNREGA job card holders.Chief development officer (CDO) Shri Niwas Mishra said the task of planting over 13 lakh saplings assigned to the department of rural development has been earmarked for completion through MNREGA. The department has already managed to get 14,13,300 pits dug up. The MNREGA card holders were given preference in this work too, he said.Mishra said the district already had as many as 1.81 lakh active MNREGA job card holders. “In addition, we have issued over 11,500 new MNREGA cards to migrant labourers who returned home during the lockdown," he added.A total of 45,000 migrants have returned to Pilibhit and the process of issuing cards to them is on. "For their sustenance, a major part of the plantation work has been reserved for them,” said the CDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mnrega-card-holders-to-get-lions-share-in-plantation-work-in-pilibhit/articleshow/76630493.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||No withdrawal of MSP on crops, says SAD president Sukhbir Badal||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Wednesday assured the all-party meeting that the minimum support price (MSP) on foodgrains would not be withdrawn and also made it clear that he was not defending the central government’s farm ordinances. “As far as we are concerned, our only interest is whether it is in the interest of farmers of the state or not. There is no provision in the ordinance on farmers’ produce and trade that MSP will end,” said Sukhbir. He further added that if one studied the issue he would find that the Punjab government had already amended the state APMC Act to implement the provisions of the ordinance in August 2017. Sukhbir urged chief minister Amarinder Singh to collectively write to the Union government on behalf of all political parties in Punjab to get a clear answer as to whether there was any truth in the propaganda about the so called end to the MSP system for purchase of foodgrains. “We are ready to sign any document seeking a written answer to this query. This is not all. In Parliament also during discussion of the ordinance we will insist on an assurance from the central government that the MSP and assured marketing system will remain in place,” he added. The SAD president also advised Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar not to spread disinformation. “When multinationals can do trade today, why are we resorting to scare tactics by claiming that they will capture the entire market when the Union agriculture minister has already clarified that the entire government procurement will take place from mandis. This means there will not be any difference in revenue collection of around Rs 4,000 crore,” said Sukhbir. Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, who also attended the all-party meeting, said there was no mention of any change in the MSP of crops in the three laws passed by the Union government. He asked the Congress leaders not to issue misleading statements. He said that the Union government was committed to the development of farmers and it had made laws in their interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-withdrawal-of-msp-on-crops-says-sad-president-sukhbir-badal/articleshow/76621135.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Sub-judge to monitor kudimaramathin Pudukottai||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the Aranthangi sub-judge to monitor the execution of kudimaramath work at Edaiyathimangalam irrigation tank in Pudukottai district through a para-legal volunteer, and dismissed a batch of petitions, which apprehended the misuse of funds in its execution. The court also said that if the sub-judge finds any irregularity in the execution of the work, he shall bring the matter to the notice of the district collector immediately for appropriate action. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which challenged the legality and validity of the letter dated May 19 issued by the public works department (PWD) officials by which the contract for kudimaramath work was granted in favour of a member, who is the president of the Edaiyathimangalam Eri Pasanatharargal Sangam. The petitioners apprehended misuse of funds alleging that the work was allotted without following proper procedures. Pursuant to the earlier direction of this court, the Aranthangi sub-judge inspected the tank and submitted a report before the court. On perusal of the submissions, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi said the report belies the allegation that water has been drained deliberately from the tank and to the contrary it has been stated in the report that the work had begun long time back and 20% has been completed. The judges observed that on a conspectus of the facts obtained in this case, the court can easily discern that there are two rival associations, each wanting to bag the contract and hence there is no great public interest involved but only sheer private interest. The judges observed that due to Covid-19 pandemic and the consequential lockdown, all works had come to a standstill in the state and now some employment generation activities in the villages are taking place by allotment of such works to the villagers. The judges said that the court does not want to interdict such works on account of quarrel between two groups and add to the woes of unemployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sub-judge-to-monitor-kudimaramathin-pudukottai/articleshow/76634108.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Five cities of UP to get green power booster||LUCKNOW: To promote green energy in the state, five cities of UP, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency Varanasi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s home district Gorakhpur, will be switched over to solar power completely. UP will be the first state in the country to promote solar power in such a big way. In the first phase, the green energy campaign would be launched in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Ayodhya and Mathura. The ambitious project will be fully implemented by 2024 and for this a special drive will be launched by energy minister Shrikant Sharma soon. Sharing the green, clean and cheap energy plan envisaged by the solar energy department, Sharma told TOI that after receiving the Centre's nod he would make UP a hub of solar energy. The special drive for the five cities is being launched under the existing solar rooftop scheme of the Union government. A consumer having a solar rooftop plant of one kW would save at least Rs 10,000 a year, claimed Sharma and added if majority of consumers would switch over to solar energy the government would save power subsidy of crores of rupees and this amount would be diverted to the industrial and commercial sectors. When the solar energy plan would be fully implemented in the five cities it would save 1,000 million units of power in the state,” he added. “A major achievement of green energy is that it helps in checking pollution levels in cities,” the energy minister said and added that no other state has started the solar energy campaign in such a big way in the country so far. The minister explained that so far the rooftop solar plant scheme is optional, but in order to completely shift to solar energy, a special campaign would be launched to apprise people of the benefits of solar power. The government would also give subsidies and lucrative offers to interested persons, he added. “In the first phase we will try to shed the thermal energy completely in the five cities,” claimed the minister. It would also help UPPCL in arresting the spike in transmission and distribution losses, he added. During the lockdown, Sharma has introduced various reforms in the power sector, including categorising feeders in red, orange and green categories on the basis of transmission and distribution losses. From chairman of UPPCL to a junior engineer all have been made accountable for containing mounting losses by declaring themselves as guardians of feeders. He has issued directives for giving 24-hour power to villages which have recorded decline in transmission and distribution losses and to launch a special drive to identify fake consumers estimated to be over 20 lakhs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/five-cities-of-up-to-get-green-power-booster/articleshow/76634111.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 26, 2020||Goa||‘Higher power bills as families spent time indoors’||PANAJI: Electricity department engineers are attributing the higher than normal power bills for two months and more being issued at one time and to higher consumption during the lockdown. The combined bills have hit some consumers. N Fernandes from Aldona told TOI that the department should have given consumers more options with regard to settling these. “I usually get a monthly bill of Rs 2,500, but we have now received a bill of Rs 8,000 plus for a period of 73 days. Not a week goes by without a single power cut. The bill generated for the lockdown period is extremely high. How does the department expect consumers to pay such high bills at one go?” she told TOI, adding that no instructions have been given about deferred payments and no grace period granted either. However, department engineers say those who cannot pay at one go are being given the option to pay in instalments. It was not possible to issue bills during the lockdown, with the last bills issued in February and in some cases in March, an official said, adding that some of the bills issued in March couldn’t be delivered after the lockdown began. One engineer attributed the higher than normal bills to all family members being at home during the lockdown period and soaring temperatures. During the lockdown, the department extended the due date for all bills to June 15 and for high tension consumers till May 20. The department did not levy delayed payment charges on those who paid bills late, as long as they paid them within the extended due dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/higher-power-bills-as-families-spent-time-indoors/articleshow/76633604.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||Priest, 30, found hanging on temple campus in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 30-year-old priest, who has been living in a temple, was found hanging in Bareilly’s Baradari area on Thursday. Police said Ram Dikshit alias Manish Dikshit has committed suicide. But, there was no suicide note found in the temple in Madhovari locality. According to police, Dikshit, with his parents, has been living in a room on the campus of the local temple for over a decade now. However, his parents have gone to their native village in Hardoi district for the last few days and Dikshit was alone. Station house officer (SHO) of Baradari police station, Hitanshu Sharma, said, “Preliminary investigation revealed that Diskhit ended his life. He was an introvert and did not share his feelings with anyone. We have sent the body for postmortem and the probe is underway to know why the deceased took the extreme step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/priest-30-found-hanging-on-temple-campus-in-bareilly/articleshow/76631676.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: No bail for accused identified by northeast riot victim||NEW DELHI: A riot accused’s bail was on Thursday dismissed by a Delhi court on the ground that the victim had identified him and that large-scale damage to life and property was reported in the case. The accused was allegedly part of the mob that beat up the victim and snatched his phone. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav found “clear evidence” of the victim identifying the accused as someone who had caused severe injuries to him. “The investigation in the matter is still in progress. Considering the gravity of the offence and the large scale damage caused to the public and private persons as well as to the life of police personal and private persons, I am not inclined to admit the applicant on bail at this stage. The bail application is accordingly dismissed,” the court held. The accused Pappu argued through his counsel that he was 40 and no incriminating evidence was found against him. The prosecutor said "protests turned violent" and continued till February 26. During this period, a number of cases relating to riots were registered at Dayalpur police station and other police stations of the northeast Delhi. It was argued that great damage to government and public property and loss of life was reported. The complainant in the present case had stated that around 6 pm on February 24 when he had reached Chand Bagh Puliya, a large number of “rioters, who were chanting slogans against CAA and were carrying lathis, iron-rods, stones, etc,” attacked him. He said that the mob caught hold of him and thrashed him before snatching his phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-no-bail-for-accused-identified-by-ne-riot-victim/articleshow/76633613.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM asks officials to gear up for ‘Kill Corona’ campaign||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday that focus should now be on the door-to-door health survey work being undertaken in the state from July 1 to completely eradicate the coronavirus from MP. He asked officials to ensure formation of survey teams, their training and survey work. The district collectors as well as senior administrative officers responsible for the review for various divisions should ensure preparation of the survey work, the CM said at the review meet on coronavirus control measures in the state, through video conference. It was mentioned during the conference that the growth rate of virus cases is 1.46%, which is the lowest in the country. Chouhan said that Madhya Pradesh has been successful in controlling the virus by increasing testing facilities, increasing bed capacity for treatment, adhering to social distancing norms and setting up fever clinics.  Efforts to check coronavirus growth in the state have been successful, he said. He asked all collectors that contact history must be monitored constantly and the number of positive patients should come down to zero. He instructed health commissioner Dr Sanjay Goyal to ensure that there is overall improvement in the health of the Covid-19 patients and one one dies. During the review, it was informed that 6617 tests were carried out in the state on Wednesday. Use of available bed capacity for patients is also decreasing in the state. The number of ICU beds is adequate, the officials claimed. In Indore district, 16% general wards and 30% ICU wards are being used. Only 15% of ICU wards are full in Bhopal. Except for Indore and Bhopal districts, on an average 9 percent general beds and only 6 percent ICU beds are being used in other districts of the state. At present, Madhya Pradesh is ranked 13th in the country with 2441 active cases. The positivity rate of MP is 3.92%, which is much lower than the country's rate of 6.26. The state’s doubling rate is 47.7 days, which is higher than other big states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-asks-officials-to-gear-up-for-kill-corona-campaign/articleshow/76632910.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil kids in Mum seek Class X pass, write to EPS||CHENNAI: Class X students of three Tamil medium in schools in Dharavi and neighbouring areas in Mumbai on Thursday took to social media to urge the Tamil Nadu government to treat them on a par with students in the state and pass them as otherwise they would lose a year. Though they study in regular schools in Mumbai, the Tamil Nadu government considers them private students, so they were not passed like regular students whose marks were decided based on school exams and attendance. Their handwritten letter to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and school education minister K A Senguttaiyan was tweeted by social activists and Tamil organizations who tagged the official handles of the two leaders. In their letter, the students said online admission for class XI (junior college) would commence in Maharashtra by next month. “We will not be able to continue our study and one year will go waste,” said the students, adding that they wondered if they had made a blunder by opting to choose their mother tongue as the medium of instruction. The TN education department has been conducting board examinations for the students of Tamil medium since 1996 by deputing supervisors and invigilators from Tamil Nadu. “Until a few years ago, more than 400 students in Mumbai were studying in Tamil medium. But the number has come down drastically as the TN education department treated these students as a private candidate,” said a teacher on condition of anonymity. Like any other regular students, these students go to school daily and attend quarterly and half-yearly exams. Treating them like private candidates is unfair,” said S Srithar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-kids-in-mum-seek-class-x-pass-write-to-eps/articleshow/76633616.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Congress: 70% of Covid-19 cases were avoidable, Pramod Sawant to be blamed||PANAJI: In a direct attack on chief minister Pramod Sawant’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic in Goa, Congress said that 70% of the cases reported in Goa could have been avoided if the state had taken adequate measures. Congress also said that Sawant should step down if he could not handle the state’s administration and health sector. State party president Girish Chodankar said that Sawant showed his political immaturity by lifting border restrictions and by refusing to impose containment measures in Vasco when the outbreak was noticed at Mangor Hill. “When the first case was detected at Mangor Hill on June 1, the chief minister kept saying that Bhivpachi kaich garaz na (There is nothing to fear) but today because of this, the number of cases have risen,” said Chodankar. As per the health department’s medical bulletin issued on Wednesday, Mangor Hill has 283 cases of Covid-19 while cases linked to Mangor Hill are 198. From Mangor Hill the novel coronavirus spread to all parts of the state, which could have been avoided if the chief minister had agreed to the pleas of the BJP MLAs and the opposition. “If you see, 70% of the cases that Goa has today are unnecessary and because of the fault of the government which does not listen,” said Congress. Congress also slammed the Centre for increasing fuel prices, saying that the move would affect poor people and have an inflationary impact. The party will also hold a silent support meet at the Martyr’s memorial at Azad Maidan in honour of the fallen soldiers of the Indian Army who lost their lives at the hands of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-70-of-covid-19-cases-were-avoidable-sawant-to-be-blamed/articleshow/76633615.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Saffron party best at divisionary tactics: GFP chief||PANAJI: Speculation about two Goa Forward Party (GFP) MLAs splitting away has been fuelled by the BJP in order to divert attention from the crisis that the ruling side finds itself in, said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. Attempting to counter reports that the BJP is trying to poach GFP MLAs Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar, Sardesai said that eight BJP MLAs were ready to ditch the BJP. “Everyone knows that BJP is going to be in single digits in the coming years and within the BJP itself there is a lot of churning. I have heard that at least eight are ready to desert the BJP,” said Sardesai. Sardesai tried to draw similarities between the political situation in Manipur and in Goa, saying that the 12 rebel MLAs who split away from Congress and MGP to don saffron colours may soon find themselves ousted from the state legislative assembly. The Supreme Court has already issued a notice to Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar based on the disqualification petition moved by the Congress. “The split in the parent party has not happened, but the MLAs have joined and the Speaker has cleared it. If the same happens in Goa, then 10 plus two more MLAs will not be allowed to enter the assembly. They will not get salary and they will be MLAs only in namesake,” said Sardesai. The rising number of Covid-19 cases has also created panic within the BJP camp, Sardesai said. “The disastrous Covid 19 handling of the government is getting exposed. Floating a rumour that two MLAs are breaking away from Goa Forward Party is the best thing in such a situation, and BJP is best at rumours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saffron-party-best-at-divisionary-tactics-gfp-chief/articleshow/76633619.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Agra||UP’s teacher scam: After Anamika, the real Sandhya Dwivedi comes forward||Strap: Unlike Anamika who was jobless, Sandhya teaches at a government schoolAgra: The real Sandhya Dwivedi whose academic credentials were appropriated by at least three women to land jobs at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), surfaced in UP’s Chandauli district. She teaches at a KGBV in Chandauli’s Chakiya area and was shocked to hear that three women were teaching at KGBV branches by using her identity and documents.“I came to know about the scam from media reports which said that three women were working in KGBVs with my identity and academic documents,” Sandhya told TOI over phone.It comes days after education department officials, while scrutinizing teachers’ credentials in the aftermath of the Anamika Shukla scam, found that three women impersonating as Sandhya Dwivedi were teaching at KGBVs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad districts as social science teachers. Services of all the three teachers were terminated.To put the matter straight, Sandhya presented herself in front of Chandauli’s basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) and shared all her documents to prove her identity.It was then that BSA of Chandauli, Bholender Singh, shared the details with BSAs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad.Sandhya, 28, said, “I am a resident of Virshahpur village of Mirzapur district. I stayed in Banaras Hindu University (BHU) campus as my father Ramshankar Dubey was an employee of the university. I did my High School (2006) and Intermediate (2008) from Central Hindu Girls School of BHU. I completed my BA degree from Mahila Maha Vidalaya BHU and also the MA in history. I later completed BEd and MEd from there.”She said, “After that, I joined KGBV in Mirzapur on October 17, 2017 as a teacher and continued till November 2019. Later I joined KGBV branch in Chandauli’s Chakiya on December 12, 2019.”Speaking to TOI, BSA Chandauli Bholender Singh said, “We have shared details of Sandhya Dwivedi with the BSAs of Aligarh, Firozabad and Farrukhabad. Once they share their probe report, I will ask our teacher Sandhya to lodge an FIR for forgery and cheating.”Meanwhile, based on a written complaint of Firozabad BSA Arvind Kumar, an FIR was lodged against fake Sandhya Dwivedi. All the three fake Sandhya Dwivedi are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ups-teacher-scam-after-anamika-the-real-sandhya-dwivedi-comes-forward/articleshow/76631673.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 26, 2020||Bareilly||Experts from Uttarakhand, UP roped in to trap elusive rubber factory tigress||BAREILLY: Three months after a stray tigress made an abandoned rubber factory its home, the forest department officials here have roped in experts from Corbett reserve, Dudhwa reserve, Wildlife Institute of India and UP animal husbandry department to rescue the animal. They said that they will now use cages that blend into the factory surroundings to trap the big cat. According to sources, a rescue team of 10 forest officials and six veterinarians has been formed for the operation as multiple efforts to trap the big cat have failed. Chief conservator of forests Lalit Verma said, “We have now adopted a scientific method to trap the tigress as the earlier attempts to capture it using ordinary cages have failed. As the structures were looking like tunnels, the big cat refused to enter them. We have now modified the cages in such a manner that they blend with the surroundings. Also, the camera traps are placed in such a way that the team will be alerted whenever the animal approaches it. Even though the tigress was initially avoiding cameras, it has now become familiar and is easily captured on it. The animal, however, vanishes for three to four days at a stretch and we don't know where it hides during the period.” Officials said that the rescue operation was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic as experts from other centres could not be brought due to the travel restrictions. Noting that it is a challenge to tranquilise the animal due to the presence of tunnels, trenches and other dilapidated structures on the premises, they said that they are now hoping to trap the elusive tigress by Sunday. According to officials, the rubber factory tigress was last spotted in Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in 2018. The animal was identified by matching its stripes from the national repository. They said that the animal might have left Kishanpur in search of a new territory and reached Bareilly via Pilibhit. The factory is around 18 kilometres away from Bareilly city. Synthetics and Chemicals Limited Company, known locally as the rubber factory, is spread over nearly 1,200 acres and was closed in 1999. Over the years, it has turned into a mini-forest providing a perfect habitat for big cats due to easy availability of prey, plenty of water in big tanks, dense tree cover, soft grass and suitable places to hide. This is not the first time that a big cat has made the rubber factory its home. A sub-adult tiger was tranquilised in the factory in 2018. A leopard had also spent two years there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/experts-from-ukhand-up-roped-in-to-trap-elusive-rubber-factory-tigress/articleshow/76630558.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 26, 2020||India||FATF has vindicated India’s stand: MEA||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday said Pakistan’s continuation in the “grey list” of global terror financing watchdog, FATF, vindicated its position that the country has not taken any appropriate action against terror networks operating from its soil. “It vindicated our position that Pakistan has not taken appropriate action against terror outfits,” said the MEA spokesperson. On Pakistan’s failed bid to get an Indian national designated as global terrorist by the UN, MEA said it showed that Pakistan had no credibility left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fatf-has-vindicated-indias-stand-mea/articleshow/76635041.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot posts selfie with mask as part of govt’s 10-day campaign against Covid-19||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday posted a selfie wearing a mask on social media as part of the state government’s 10-day awareness campaign for protection against coronavirus. The chief minister urged people to post their videos and photos with the hashtag ‘MainSatarkHoon’ on Twitter, in which they are ‘wearing a mask, maintaining ‘Do Gaj Doori’ (two arms distance), following health precautions or doing your bit in raising awareness around you’. As u all know, we r running a 10 days special awareness campaign for protection against Corona. Upload ur videos &… https://t.co/GaNpHDCEmT— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1593072417000Several ministers of the Gehlot cabinet uploaded their photos on the social media websites in support of the state government’s initiative. The initiative was launched after there was a spurt in Covid cases following the arrival of migrants from different states and the fear of spreading the pandemic to the rural heartlands. As of Thursday, Rajasthan had 16,009 confirmed Covid-19 cases. This includes 3,023 active cases and 12,611 cured and discharged patients. The toll due to the infection stands at 375 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-posts-selfie-with-mask-as-part-of-govts-10-day-campaign-against-covid-19/articleshow/76633621.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||ACB begins probe in ‘cash for job’ scam||PANAJI: The directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) has initiated a preliminary inquiry in connection with payment of Rs 40 lakh to an agent for the post of awal karkun in North Goa collectorate. SP Shobit Saxena on Thursday said that the case is “under investigation”. An ACB official said that all documents relating to the inquiry have been submitted by the collector’s office. He said that the probe was started based on a complaint. The deputy superintendent, ACB, had on February 9 written to the collectorate seeking certified copies of certain documents pertaining to the recruitment of the awal karkun. The ACB also sought copies of marksheets and answer sheets of candidates who appeared for the preliminary exam. This January, 16 persons were selected for the post of awal karkun. A controversy had broken out over the selection of deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes’ son for the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/acb-begins-probe-in-cash-for-job-scam/articleshow/76633622.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra University not to hold terminal, intermediate exams||KURUKSHETRA: In line with the Haryana government policy, the Kurukshetra University (KU) has decided not to hold terminal and intermediate examinations and issued a notification in this regard on Wednesday. The decision came following a meeting of KU working vice-chancellor Dr Nita Khanna with other university officials, including registrar Dr Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary, deans of all faculties, students’ welfare dean and both examination controllers, during the day. KU director public relations Dr Brajesh Sawhney said, “Going by the Haryana government directions, it was decided that Ku will not conduct terminal examinations (final semester) and intermediate semester examinations for higher and technical education courses.” Dr Brajesh said the officials concerned are working to develop a formula to promote the students of the final and intermediate semesters to the next level. “Different formulas would be developed in case of reappearing students. Online meetings are being held with all the stakeholders including students, parents, teachers and others.” According to him, there would be some riders in the courses of law and pharmacy, as these are related to the Bar Council of India (BCI) and Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). “In the courses related to the UGC, there would be no problem, but for those related to different councils, the students would have to take examinations at a later stage,” he said. As per KU sources, the decision will impact around 13,000 regular students and around 5,000 distance education students enrolled with the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-not-to-hold-terminal-intermediate-exams/articleshow/76620936.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Battleplan for Covid & monsoon maladies in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The massive door-to-door survey announced by the chief minister under ‘Kill Corona’ campaign has been named “special fever screening” by the directorate of health. The survey aims at “isolating” all the people - in both rural and urban areas - across the state, who have fever and treat them for Covid-19, dengue and malaria, according to their respective symptoms. In a circular addressed to all the district collectors and chief medical & health officers, commissioner, health, Sanjay Goyal, said that the “special fever screening campaign” will be carried out across the state from July 1 to July 15. Under the campaign, survey teams will go door-to-door to detect people with fever, and if they have symptoms of coronavirus infection or dengue, they would be sent to “fever clinics” for further treatment. If they have symptoms of malaria, ANM will carry out preliminary test on the person and if symptoms of malaria are found, test using rapid diagnostic kit will be carried out. And on confirmation of malaria, the patient would be treated for malaria. “With the onset of monsoon, malaria and dengue cases also start coming up in the state and Covid-19 menace is already there, therefore fever screening is being carried out in the campaign, so that malaria and dengue patients are also identified and treated in time in addition to Coronavirus-infected persons,” said a senior official of the health department on the condition of anonymity. The circular also defines the symptoms of three types of fever and what further action would the survey teams are required to take in each case according to symptoms of the person. “If the person has cough and sore threat, has problem in breathing and has fever, he could have coronavirus infection. In this case, the survey team will furnish information about the person in “Sarthak” app or do it manually in the form and he should be sent to nearest “fever clinic” for medical consultancy”, says the circular. The circular also explains symptoms of malaria (fever with chill, headache, giddiness and sweating which brings the temperature to normal) and dengue (high fever, pain in the eyes, extreme pain in muscles headache and red spots on body) and prescribes further action for the team. The dengue patient has also to be referred to “fever clinic”, 3-day treatment for PF malaria and 14-days treatment for PV malaria has been prescribed. The health and Asha workers, who will mainly carry out the survey, will be provided with non-contact thermometer, pulse oximeter, biomedical waste collection bag, triple-layer medical masks, gloves and essential medicines. Number of survey teams will be in ratio to population of the district and approximate number of teams required in each district has also been mentioned in the annexure, but it may vary according to circumstances. Total population to be covered in Bhopal according to the annexure is 2980539 and on each day a population of 198703 would be covered and it would require 795 teams, states the circular. In Indore, a population of 4226939 has to be covered, and on each day a population of 281796, will be covered with the help of 1179 teams, the annexure says. The campaign will be run with the help of peoples’ representatives and social groups and will be monitored at the divisional level daily. An online training will be imparted to survey teams on June 26 and a micro plan for the survey would be available for all the districts by June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kill-corona-campaign-door-to-door-fever-screening-survey-in-mp-from-july-1/articleshow/76632917.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Firefighting continues at Sanand, still no clue to cause||AHMEDABAD: Even after using 35 lakh litres of water and fire-fighting for nearly two days, the blaze at the factory of Unicharm India Pvt Ltd, Sanand, continues to rage. The Sanand company is the Indian arm of Japanese firm Unicharm Corporation. Unicharm manufactures the popular Mamy Poko Pants brand of baby diaper. The exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained although some preliminary investigations suggest that it could be caused due a short circuit. “The entire facility has been gutted due to the fire, so it is difficult to detect the exact cause behind the incident,” said chief fire officer, Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), M F Dastoor. He said it was one of the worst fire incidents in an industrial facility in Gujarat in recent history. “We have used 35 lakh litres of water and two days have passed in fire fighting but the flames are still there. We are now breaking tin sheds to douse the fire completely,” he said. Dastoor said there are still 24 fire personnel working to douse the flames. The DSP, Ahmedabad rural, K T Kamaria said the fire will take at least a week to be doused. “We have disallowed entry of all except emergency police and fire brigade vehicles. The flames seem to be reaching a temperature of 1,000 degrees,” said Kamaria. The fire is likely to be put out completely by Friday early morning. The reason for the rapid spread of the fire, which broke out around 8.45am on Monday could be the material used for manufacturing diapers and other sanitary health products at the facility. No casualty has been reported in the incident and the workers who were in the morning shift at the plant, were rescued. In a statement issued on Thursday, Takahisa Takahara, president and CEO, Unicharm Corporation, said, “At 8.45am on June 24, 2020, a fire broke out at Unicharm India Private Limited’s Ahmedabad factory. During the time of fire, about 300 employees were at the site however, no injuries have occurred. We deeply apologize for the tremendous trouble and inconvenience we have caused to people in the area, customers, clients and partners. For the reason and damage of the situation for the fire, it is currently under investigation. We have taken this factory fire very seriously and will determine the cause of it and strive to prevent recurrence.” The AMES team, which rushed to the spot, had issued a brigade call, deploying as many as 37 fire-fighting vehicles and about 270 personnel. The team ensured that the towering inferno, seen from a few kilometres away, did not spread unchecked and cause further damage. The company began commercial production at the plant, spread across a sprawling 80 acres of GIDC land, in 2018. While project cost of the factory is estimated to be about Rs 1,000 crore, the exact losses due to the fire can be ascertained only after proper surveys by insurance teams, said government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/firefighting-continues-at-sanand-still-no-clue-to-cause/articleshow/76633247.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||29 test +ve in Navy airbase in Ramnad||Madurai/Chennai: Twenty-nine personnel who were under quarantine tested positive for Covid-19 at an Indian navy airbase, INS Parundu, at Uchipuli in Ramanathapuram district on Thursday. Four personnel from the navy’s facility at Thondi had tested positive four days ago and are also in quarantine at INS Parundu. Those who tested positive are asymptomatic and hail from Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, said Ramanathapuram collector, M Veera raghava Rao. “Hundreds of people from various states are working in the facility and those on leave have been returning in batches with passes. They are under quarantine within the naval facility and samples are collected from them,” he added A defence spokesperson said, “those who tested positive had come to the naval station following transfers, postings and from leave. Visitor entry has been banned. The Navy has been following the rules set by the ministry of health and has been quarantining people for seven days to 14 days soon after they arrive at the station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/29-test-ve-in-navy-airbase-in-ramnad/articleshow/76633620.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: First wife of man who married 4 times hires contract killers to bump him off||MEERUT: Police in UP’s Baghpat district on Thursday arrested a Delhi woman for allegedly orchestrating the murder of her husband who she feared would divorce her and share his properties with his three other wives. The victim, Vikas Singh alias Neetu, who owned a placement agency in the national capital, was shot dead in his village in Baghpat on June 19. Local police took just six days to work out the murder case and arrested the woman, Rajni, a resident of Delhi’s Nangloi. “It was a blind case which was professionally and meticulously worked out by Baghpat police. There were many dimensions to the case but it was solved in a short span of time,” said Praveen Triapthi, inspector general (IG) of Meerut range. According to police, Rajni got married to Vikas in 2009, and the couple had two children. But, between 2017 and 2020, Vikas married three other women also. “Rajni was worried about the future of the children. She feared that Vikas would give her divorce and share his properties with the three women,” a police officer said. Ajay Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (SP) of Baghpat, said, “Rajni gave Rs 6lakh to a contract killer, Sudhir Singh, to carry out the murder. Sudhir, on his part, hired three local youths for the task. Sudhir and Rohit Singh-- one of the three shooters who pulled the trigger—have been arrested.” Two other accused, Sachin Singh and Ravi Singh, are still at large. “Sudhir was given Rs 3lakh in advance. Everything went according to the plan. The three shooters carried out the murder on June 19 in Baghpat’s Badoli village,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/first-wife-of-man-who-married-4-times-hires-contract-killers-to-bump-him-off/articleshow/76631736.cms||Piyush Rai
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||BDO arrested for taking bribe in Rajasthan||UDAIPUR: A block development officer (BDO) posted at Gangrar panchayat samiti of Chittorgarh district was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Udaipur unit on Thursday for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 50,000 from a junior technical assistant of his office in lieu of not relieving the latter on his transfer to another panchayat samiti. Accused BDO Roop Singh Gurjar, a resident of Karauli, had demanded Rs 1 lakh from complainant Anil Kumar Yadav who had been transferred to Bainsroadgarh panchayat samiti recently. On Thursday, Yadav paid the advance to Gurjar and the officer kept the bribe money in an almirah at his government quarter located within the office campus. Trap officer Harishchandra Singh, inspector Laxmanlal Dangi and other team members who had verified the complaint, laid the trap and seized the bribe money from the BDO's custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bdo-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76633623.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||147 fresh cases take Madhya Pradesh corona count to 12,595||BHOPAL: With 147 fresh cases, Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus count went up to 12,595. Eight deaths were also reported in the state. Since the pandemic began, 542 people have died due to the infection and 12,595 have been diagnosed with Covid-19 across the state. Chambal region continued to witness a spurt in novel coronavirus infection as 10 more people tested positive for Covid-19. All 10 positive patients are from Morena and with this the total number of cases in the district has reached the mark of 224. “We have restricted traffic from Morena to Dholpur. Restrictions are in place on inter-district movement,” said Morena collector, Priyanka Das. Markets remained open. However, district administration has pulled the plug on plying of e-rickshaws. “The decision was taken after one e-rickshaw driver was diagnosed with Covid-19. After substantial contact tracing and testing, the public transport would be permitted to operate again”, she added. One death was reported from Sagar. Indore and Bhopal reported four and three deaths respectively in last 24 hours. Indore’s death toll went up to 211 and the toll rose to 94 in Bhopal, where all three deaths were reported from private hospital. On Thursday, 6,617 samples were tested across the state. MP’s contribution to cases in India has reduced from all three hotspot districts in June. Indore accounted for 6.3% in April but 1% in June. Bhopal has come down from 1.7% in April to 0.6% in last week of June, according to the health department. Now, MP accounts for only 2.8% of total cases in India as of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/147-fresh-cases-take-mp-corona-count-to-12595/articleshow/76632926.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Women prisoners to make agarbattis in jail||Udaipur: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Udaipur, M-Square Foundation, a non profit, and a private joss stick manufacturing company have inked a pact to set up a manufacturing and packaging unit at the central jail here. Around 30 convicted women prisoners serving their sentences in Udaipur jail will be engaged in making agarbattis that would be marketed under the jail brand. The workers would not only get paid for their labour, but will also receive a share of the profit after selling the product. “The women prisoners will be given three days of training starting Friday following which manufacturing will begin,” DLSA secretary Riddhima Sharma said. The idea was mooted by the voluntary group which was approved by DLSA chairman RP Soni. “Besides ensuring income to prisoners, the move will make them skilled. They can continue the same work to earn their living after completion of their sentence,” Sharma said. “The female prisoners will make joss sticks, while the private firm will provide raw materials and will also sell the produce in the market. Though there is no strict target fixed, but we aim to manufacture 10,000 packets a month,” Mukesh Madhwani of MSquare Foundation said. Roughly, a large box consisting 10 packets of agarbattis sells at Rs 150 in the market while the manufacturing cost of this box at the jail will be around Rs 60, Madhwani said. The idea is to offer Rs 50 discount to customers that would still mean a profit of Rs 40 per box that will be spent on social cause. A part of the profit would be distributed to the makers to motivate them for increased production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/women-prisoners-to-make-agarbattis-in-jail/articleshow/76633628.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||GMC doctor among 32 new Covid patients in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A junior doctor of Gandhi Medical College (GMC) is among 32 new Covid-19 patients reported in the state capital. The junior doctor got infected with the virus in the tertiary care hospital. The hospital deals with most severe Covid-19 cases and has a patient fatality rate of 19 per cent. According to health department, four more cases were diagnosed at Raj Bhavan on Thursday. So far, 28 people have tested positive for the infection in Raj Bhavan and nearly half of the new cases have been reported in the last one week. Life near Raj Bhavan, however, continued uninterrupted with little action from the administration to enforce a containment in nearby Roshanpura. Overall, Bhopal Covid tally has touched 2633, with 94 deaths. Three members of a family were tested positive for the infection in Gautam Nagar. A member of the family has a business enterprise in MP Nagar. Shahjahanbad and Koh-e-Fiza reported two positives, a new case was diagnosed in Gandhi Nagar. Fifty seven jawans of a battalion linked to Raj Bhavan have been quarantined in Mugaliachap area. Spurt in positive cases, especially in security forces, is likely to see a change in deployment strategy by the administration. A hotspot earlier in June, Hanumanganj reported two more positive cases. Talaiya also reported four new Covid cases, while in Barkhedi area, one positive case was diagnosed on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gmc-doctor-among-32-new-covid-patients-in-bhopal/articleshow/76632951.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four new hotel management institutes set to start from next academic year||JAIPUR: The state institute of hotel management (SIHM) in three districts and the Food Craft Institute at Baran, which are at different stages of development, will be fast tracked for early completion and are expected to start from the next academic year. At a board meeting of Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation on Thursday, the progress of the projects was reviewed and strategies were discussed as to the completion of construction of the buildings, purchasing equipment, getting affiliation and conducting text. Sreya Guha, principal secretary, tourism and chairman of RTDC, said, “We are trying to operationalise these institutes from the next academic year. When these institutes start functioning, it will give an opportunity to the local students to get trained and get jobs in the hospitality industry.” These hotel management institutes will come up in Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur and Jhalawar, while Baran will have the Food Craft Institute. The Centre has sanctioned Rs 14 crore for each project, while the state government is putting in its own funds. While the hospitality industry has been growing apace in Rajasthan, the supply of talent has not kept pace with. For example, over the years, in Sawai Madhopur, hospitality industry has been growing at a fast clip, but there are no institutes to supply talent. Bhanwar Lal, director of tourism department and managing director of RTDC said, “These institutes will play a significant role in making the local population part of the development that is taking place in the sector. The institutes will also help the industry which needs skilled people.” The Covid-19 pandemic has threw light on how the people are leaving the state and going to far-off places to find livelihood opportunities. Whereas, people from other states with some level of skills in the hospitality sector come and work in Rajasthan. Being a tourist state, these institutes are expected to play a critical role in deepening the ecosystem of the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-new-hotel-mgmt-institutes-set-to-start-from-next-academic-year/articleshow/76633629.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Need to maintain close watch on budding criminals, Goa CM tells police||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday directed the police department to act against criminals and avoid incidents like the recent shootout at Santa Cruz. In a meeting held with police brass, Sawant directed all officers in command of the police stations to keep a strict vigil over budding criminals. The meeting was attended by IGP Jaspal Singh and superintendents of police from both districts. Sawant said he discussed the shootout incident at Santa Cruz. “Not a single accused in the shootout will go scot-free. We don’t want such gang wars. Police will have to take action against criminals before such incidents take place,” Sawant said.  Singh told reporters after the meeting that in the Santa Cruz incident police carried out a thorough investigation and arrested 22 persons besides seizure of weapons used in the crime. He added that police inspectors have been asked to keep budding criminals under surveillance. “Budding criminals are juveniles attracted towards crime,” he said. Some youngsters were members of the gang involved in the Santa Cruz shootout incident The IGP said it is worrying that juveniles are getting attracted towards crime without knowing the consequences. “We have decided to talk to the parents of the juveniles as they need to supervise them. Juveniles need not be tackled by police officer,” he said. Singh said that if the juvenile is studying in school or a college, then teachers will be asked to usher in discipline among them and keep them away from such incidents. He also said that police have done a good job in controlling narcotic trade. “I have asked police officials to strictly enforce social distancing norms, wearing of face masks, etc. to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” Sawant said. Singh said that police have to do a lot of work to ensure social distancing in markets, sometimes through announcement and at times through random checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-to-maintain-close-watch-on-budding-criminals-cm-tells-police/articleshow/76633627.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Eye on creating 400 youth ryots||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant wants agriculture to become the state’s topmost economic activity. For this, he has urged officers from the agriculture department to provide consultancy services to 50 young farmers each, which will help them earn at least Rs 3 lakh per annum. He also asked them to use various media platforms, including print and social media, to provide a boost to agricultural activities. This, Sawant said, will help create nearly 400 farmers who can cultivate various items including vegetable and flowers which could in turn reduce Goa’s dependence on external sources. The state, he said, spends nearly Rs 30 crore annually to import vegetables from neighbouring states. “Our target is to create 400 youth farmers in the state,” Sawant said. He was addressing agriculture officers at a workshop held at Krishi Bhavan, Panaji, to prepare Goa’s agro vision document. Sawant said that each agriculture officer should target 50 youth and encourage them to take up agriculture. Further, he asked each of them to submit a probable list of 50 names along with contact numbers. The agriculture officers meanwhile, told Sawant, people are mostly hesitant to take up agriculture as the earnings are meagre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eye-on-creating-400-youth-ryots/articleshow/76633630.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||After 3 months, transport dept buses back on roads||Dehradun: The state transport department on Thursday started operating its roadways buses from all major state depots such as Dehradun, Mussoorie, Haridwar, Rishikesh, and Haldwani among others. The restarting of the services within the state after a gap of almost three months has come as a relief for commuters although many people objected to the steep rise in bus fares. The fares have been increased by the state government citing the need to maintain social distancing in buses as well as regular sanitisation. As a preventive measure, thermal temperature of both passengers and the roadways workers were recorded. Masks were also mandatory throughout the journey. However, on the first day, only a few passengers took buses for various routes. A total of eight buses left for various routes, including Joshimath, Rishikesh, Haridwar from ISBT with maximum 11 passengers. The buses for Mussoorie , Dhakoli also received a few passengers, while the bus for Srinagar left with only 1 passenger. With no passengers to travel, three buses for Uttarkashi, Bironkhal, New Tehri had to be cancelled. In view of the situation, official at the state transport department have been mulling to implement pre-registration of passengers travelling to particular routes to avoid last minute cancellations. Siddhi Ram, a passenger who boarded the bus for Joshimath on Thursday, said, “The increased fare will certainly dent my pocket, but the revival of the bus services will help many reach their destination”. Vijay Vardhan, president of Dehradun Mahanagar City Bus Sewa Mahasangh, said, “The revival of the intrastate services will bring back our business. I would like to request the authorities to allow interstate bus movement as well." As per the revised fares, the passengers will have to pay Rs 110 for travelling from Dehradun to Mussoorie which was Rs 65 earlier. For travelling to Uttarkashi from Dehradun, the passenger will spend Rs 480 which was Rs 295 earlier. The journey from Doon to Pithoragarh will cost Rs 625 from the earlier Rs 380.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-3-months-transport-dept-buses-back-on-roads/articleshow/76631782.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Congress to observe ‘Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas’ today||JAIPUR: Congress will pay tribute to the 20 soldiers martyred at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in the face-off with China, as part of a nationwide campaign by the name — ‘Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas’ on Friday, to salute the brave soldiers who laid down their lives to protect the territorial integrity of the nation. The soldiers, including the commanding officer, were martyred in a face-off at the border with China on June 15. Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot while talking to media said, the programme will be held for an hour from 11am to 12 noon at all district and block headquarters. The event will be held at either a Mahatma Gandhi memorial or martyrs’ memorial in the respective area. The state-level function will be held at Shaheed Smarak in front of SMS Stadium, which will be attended by party leaders, including the chief minister. It will be a silent solemn prayer meeting, he said. He said the Congressmen will launch an online campaign,“speak up for our martyrs” by posting their live videos and photos of the event. Pilot, targeting the Prime Minister said, while the Chinese troops are still sitting on the Galwan valley as per the satellite images, the Prime Minister tried to mislead the country with his statement that the Chinese troops were evicted from the area and no Indian territory was in their possession. He said that if there was no advancement of China to our territory, then what is the talk of restoring status quo ante. He said the Central government has failed to give a proper response to the aggression by China and to the sacrifice of the soldiers. He said the country is being cornered from all directions under Modi, from Nepal, China and Pakistan, while it is battling the coronavirus pandemic and natural calamities. Pilot also targeted the Centre, alleging that it was not able to clear the confusion with contradictory statements being issued by the PMO and defence ministry. He said the country wants to know the truth on how our 20 soldiers were martyred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-observe-shaheedon-ko-salam-diwas-today/articleshow/76633626.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur police bust spurious ghee trade||JODHPUR: The city police busted an illegal trade in ghee and edible oil and seized about 776 tins, including 170 empty tins, from a house in Bhadwasia area on Wednesday night. Four persons, including the proprietor, were arrested by the police from the house. According to the police, these tins were being packed with the ghee and oil, which was about 4-5 years old and was meant to be supplied to the merchants in Jodhpur mandi. Besides this, they were also engaged into manufacturing spurious ghee and oil. Police have also seized manufacturing equipment and packing material in large quantity from the house. On the information of the police, a team of health department also reached the spot and collected the samples of the ghee and oil for examination. SHO (Mahamandir) Sumerdan, police raided the house on information about packing and trade of spurious ghee and oil in a house in Harijan Basti of Bhadwasi area. “When we reached the spot, we found that ghee and oil was being packed in tins in the house. The tins were bearing the name of different brands. On checking, the ghee and oil were found to be 4-5 years old”, said the officer. On counting, 404 tins of oil and 202 tins of ghee were found packed with different brand names and were ready to be supplied in the mandi. Besides, 170 empty tins have also been seized. He said that the proprietor Dinesh Jain had taken this house just 3-4 days back for the purpose. The house belonged to his uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-police-bust-spurious-ghee-trade/articleshow/76638962.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||‘Procedure was followed in merger of ex-Congress MLAs’||PANAJI: Ten former Congress MLAs who joined BJP last year met chief minister Pramod Sawant this week to seek clarity on their political future after the Supreme Court recently directed them to reply within four weeks to a disqualification petition filed before Goa assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar. Sawant said on Thursday that there was some confusion in the minds of the ten, and this was discussed during the meeting. “The merger of the former Congress MLAs into BJP was done following procedure,” he said. The apex court direction, issued last Tuesday, also applies to deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, who is one of the ten, and Patnekar. Sources informed TOI that the MLAs from Salcete — Velim legislator and water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues, Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias, Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa and some others, were “scared” and wanted some clarification from the chief minister. They then approached Kavlekar to organise a meeting with Sawant as the deputy CM, when in Congress, was leader of opposition. Kavalekar, speaking to reporters, said that Sawant told them the government hasn’t received anything from the top court. “We have discussed the facts of the case,” he said. “We joined BJP by following proper procedure. We cannot get disqualified as we have followed procedure.” Congress state president Girish Chodankar had approached the Supreme Court pointing out the nearly nine-month delay by the speaker in deciding the disqualification petitions filed against the MLAs. Chodankar, in his plea, had cited an order in the Manipur assembly case passed by the Supreme Court in March, and sought a direction to restrain the MLAs from attending the assembly proceedings during the pendency of the disqualification petition. All 10 had resigned from Congress and joined BJP in July last year, taking the saffron party’s strength in the 40-member House to 27. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate said that if they are disqualified, “we will go for fresh elections”. Besides Kavalekar, Monserrate, Rodrigues, Dias and D’Sa, the disqualification petition also mentions deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes, cabinet minister Jennifer Monserrate, and MLAs Nilkanth Halarnkar, Antonio Fernandes and Francisco Silveira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/procedure-was-followed-in-merger-of-ex-cong-mlas/articleshow/76633637.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-Rishikesh launches helpline for those addicted to drugs||Dehradun: To curb the usage of drugs among the people of Uttarakhand, AIIMS-Rishikesh has launched a public helpline number. The number – 7456897874 – has been launched to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, also known as World Drug Day, on Friday. This year’s theme is ‘better knowledge for better care’.Padma Shri professor and director and CEO of AIIMS Rishikesh Dr Ravi Kant, while launching the number, urged affected individuals to make the utmost use of the number. “Substance abuse scenario in the state is grim because of its rapid urbanization and socio-economic changes. About 38% of males here consume alcohol, which is one of the highest in the country. Uttarakhand had also recorded more than the national average for other drugs as well,” he said.Head of the department of psychiatry Dr Ravi Gupta said that drug abuse or addiction is currently considered to be a brain neural circuit disorder which is worsened by adverse family or social conditions."According to a recent national survey, about 14.6% of the population, between 10 and 75 years of age, consumes alcohol. Cannabis and opioids are the other commonly used drugs in India. Use of these cannabis products was observed to be about 2% (approximately 2.2 crore people) for bhang and about 1.2% (approximately 1.3 crore people) for ganja and charas. Nationally, the most commonly-used opioid is heroin or smack (1.14%), followed by pharmaceutical opioids (0.96%) and opium (0.52%)," Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-launches-helpline-for-those-addicted-to-drugs/articleshow/76631805.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Malls waive off rent for shops during lockdown period||JAIPUR: Malls in Jaipur have yielded to the demand of the shop owners and waived off rents for the whole lockdown period while footfalls remained below 20% of the pre-Covid times. Many of the malls have also reduced rentals by up to 50% for the next six months keeping in view the reduced demand and lower footfalls. Many shop owners have opted for a revenue sharing model where the rent would be linked to the actual business. But food courts in most of the malls still remain closed and the owners are reluctant to renegotiate the terms and conditions as that will compel them to reopen at a time when people are reluctant to dine outside during the pandemic. “There is no point in renegotiating the terms with mall owners when we cannot open the food joints. That’s why we are not going to meet the mall owners even if they are calling us. They know that they would not find any new clients in this current scenario and that’s why they are keen to see us reopening. But, now there is no business case for reopening,” said the owner of a food court. In fact, footfalls in the malls are not increasing as expected even though people are now more open to come out on the roads. There is a clear contrast between the traffic on the roads and the deserted malls. “People are still reluctant to enter the closed environs fearing infections even though malls have put in place elaborate systems for maintaining hygiene and other SOPs,” said a mall owner. “In a week’s time, the summer off-season sales will start. We are expecting good crowds during that time. That is also likely to boost confidence of people,” said Anil Yadav, general manager of MGF Metropolitan mall. After the state government allowed the malls to reopen from June 8, all of them opened. But only 40% of the shops have reopened for business because of various reasons. “First, there is no demand as of now due to lower footfalls. Secondly, some shops are still renegotiating the contracts. It will take a while before most of the shops reopen,” said another shop owner in a prominent mall. Shops which paid rents earlier are now looking to strike revenue sharing deals as they are not sure of demand. The revenue sharing model varies from one business to another and the rates accordingly. “It is easier to strike revenue sharing deals with where the builder is the mall owner, who can easily track the sales daily. But the case is different when the outlet is owned by an investor, who could be anywhere in the world. The investor does not have the wherewithal to track sales and get the revenue share. That is one of the problems why some shops have remained closed till now,” said a mall owner. Many said the mall owners have been very cooperative in these times of extraordinary crisis and may be they also know there is no alternative except to facilitate the shop owners as there would almost be no new tenants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/malls-waive-off-rent-for-shops-during-lockdown-period/articleshow/76633634.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bairagarh market still in the red as sales yet to pick up||BHOPAL: Bairagarh, the second biggest market after Indore in the state, is struggling to resume its sales after the lockdown. This could be gauged from the fact that the retail market has gone down by 70% while the only 40% whole-sale has resumed. Annual sale in the market stood around Rs 900 cr. Sale of PPE kit is completely stopped as people are still demanding masks and sanitisers. Shopkeepers said customers are still primarily focussing on essential goods. “Markets have opened up, but the situation is still not that much recovered. There is only 30% sale in the retail shops comparing the pre-lockdown situation while it is only 40% in the wholesale market,” said a shopkeeper Ravi Ahuja. Condition of those shopkeepers are very poor who are running their shop on rent. “There are around 500 shops. Of these, around 200 shops are running on rent. There are shops which were rented for even Rs 1 lakh a month. As the market was closed business was also suffering. In such a situation how to give Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh rent. Around 50 such shops could not be opened due to this reason,” said Rahul Panjwani, a shopkeeper. Another blow for the Bairagarh market is the closing of shops on Sunday. District administration has made it mandatory to close shops on Saturday and Sunday due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. “Bairagarh used to close on Saturday. There was a strong reason for that. Shopkeepers of around 30-35 districts visit Bairagarh on Saturday to buy stuff from the wholesale market as their shops are closed on Sunday in their respective areas. Around 65% markets were depending on Sunday. Now Sunday is closed it is troubling Bairagarh in large scale,” said Prakash Jaswani, a shopkeeper. Shopkeepers even recently met the higher authorities and presented memorandum to allow them to open shops on Sunday. Shopkeepers claimed PPE kit sale could not take up in Bairagarh market. “Masks and sanitisers are still the first choice of the customers. Due to this reason almost every shop is keeping them,” said another shopkeeper without quoting his name. He added that Diwalis is their last hope to see the bounce back. “We are hoping that people will start buying in large quantities when Diwali comes near. Let see what happens during that time,” said Suresh Sharma, another shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bairagarh-mkt-still-in-the-red-as-sales-yet-to-pick-up/articleshow/76632962.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||In virus season, KMRC wins people’s trust with CoV-negative certs & PPE||Kolkata: Ranajoy Ghosh, a resident of Bepin Behari Ganguli Street, was taken aback when he confronted a PPE-clad man at his doorstep on Thursday. The man identified himself as a Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) official who wanted to survey the structural stability of the building before the resumption of East-West Metro tunnelling in the area. Ghosh was pleasantly surprised — and satisfied — when the KMRC official produced a medical certificate that read he had tested negative for Covid-19. Production of a Covid-19 certificate has been working as a shield for officials and workers of KMRC and Afcons Infrastructure, the construction firm engaged in the East-West Metro construction, in Bowbazar, which is one of the worst containment areas in Kolkata. According to a KMRC source, over 350 workers have tested negative in past one-and-a-half months. “We are providing our supervisors and workers PPE every time they are meeting owners of dilapidated buildings for survey. They are also carrying Covid-negative certificates,” said a source in the KMRCL. Before resuming Metro construction from Bowbazar, KMRC and Afcons had devised a plan for keeping their workers safe. According to plans, the workers will have to remain quarantine for five days in a makeshift shelter and then go for a Covid-19 test. If a worker tests negative, he is deemed fit for the construction work. “We started preparation almost three months ago and finally succeeded in making our construction site a Covid-free zone before resuming our operations. We had to quell fears among workers who had gathered from different districts of the state,” said a KMRCL official. AK Nandy, KMRC general manager (administration), conceded that they had to adopt several precautionary measures for the workers and supervisors. Arun Seal, an advocate who owns several old buildings on BB Ganguli Street, said if some KMRC workers produce Covid-negative certificate before entering his premises, he would welcome them. “We are really scared. We would have refused the entry of KMRC workers had they approached us without taking precautions,” Seal said. Amiya Sahoo, another BB Ganguli Street resident, said he would not let anyone in from any agencies for survey without taking adequate anti-Covid protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-virus-season-kmrc-wins-peoples-trust-with-cov-negative-certs-ppe/articleshow/76632937.cms||Saikat Ray
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||2 pregnant women, among 69, test positive; toll increases to 36||Dehradun: Sixty-nine people, including two pregnant women, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 2,691. Maximum cases surfaced in Nainital district (28), where the two pregnant women while undergoing antenatal checkup tested positive, followed by Haridwar (10), Udham Singh Nagar (9), Dehradun (8), Bageshwar (6). Whereas Almora and Pauri recorded 2 cases each while one case surfaced from Uttarkashi. Most of the cases that came out positive on the same day have a travel history to Delhi, Maharashtra and Haryana, officials said. Meanwhile, a 34-year-old man from Uttarkashi succumbed to the virus at a hospital in Dehradun, taking the toll to 36 in the state. The health department report said, “As per death summary provided by the hospital, the cause of death is Covid-19/aspiration pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome.” The health department officials said 13 people recovered on the same day, taking total discharged patients, including 20 from Almora and three from Uttarkashi, to 1,758. The officials said there are 845 active cases and the results of 3,762 people are still awaited due to various reasons ranging from failed samples to rejected samples. The state has 111 containment zones as on date. The district with the maximum containment zone lies in is Haridwar (62), followed by Dehradun (35), Tehri district (10), Rishikesh (8), US Nagar (3) Doiwala (4), Vikas Nagar (4) and Uttarkashi (1). Meanwhile, the state government has announced to give Rs 1,000 to frontline ASHA and anganwadi workers as appreciation money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-pregnant-women-among-69-test-positive-toll-increases-to-36/articleshow/76631786.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||HC gives ACS Om Prakash ten days file counter affidavit||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday gave the additional chief secretary (ACS) Om Prakash 10 days to file a counter affidavit to the allegations raised in a public interest litigation (PIL) that UP legislator Aman Mani Tripathi was given permission to travel to Badrinath in violation of the lockdown rules on his behest. The case is being heard by the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe. A copy of the orderwas awaited till the time of filing this report. Speaking to TOI, BP Nautiyal, the counselor appearing for Om Prakash said that he had argued before the court that the petitioner has lied to the court earlier as well and therefore his petition should not be entertained. “We had submitted before the bench that the petitioner has lied to the court in earlier cases as well. Therefore, he has a vested interest and his petition should not be entertained at all,” Nautiyal said. The bench however said that all the contentions that he has raised should be submitted before the court in writing and gave Nautiyal 10 days to file his counter. “The bench said that we should submit all our contention in writing. Therefore we sought more time and the court gave us 10 days,” Nautiyal said. The developments were confirmed by both the counsels appearing for petitioner, Gopal Verma and one of Tripathi’s aides, Dushyant Mainali. Meanwhile, the director general of police (DGP) as well as district magistrate (DM) Dehradun also submitted their affidavits before the bench. DM Dehradun informed the court that the special permission to Tripathi and his aides was given by the additional district magistrate and not ACS Om Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-acs-om-prakash-ten-days-file-counter-affidavit/articleshow/76631815.cms||Prashant Jha
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh in favour of flyover on Sector 29-31 rotary||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration is in favour of a flyover on Sector 29-31 rotary and will soon submit its report to the Punjab and Haryana high court. This was stated by a senior UT administration officer. Initially, the Chandigarh administration had planned a 7-km-long flyover, but the Union government reduced its length to 3.5km. Later, the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) further reduced the length to 1.2km. In the recent public hearing, majority of the residents had rejected the flyover idea. The participants had unanimously agreed that a better public transport system, a mass rapid transit system (MRTS) or other alternative methods must be explored for better traffic management, as flyover would enhance the problem and spoil the city’s character. Seven models were submitted to the UT administration following the public hearing, but it rejected all. The administration had sought more time from the court to place before it the decision of its technical committee. On November 20 last year, the high court had stayed the uprooting of a few hundred trees around the site, finding it too big a cost for the city’s first flyover. The stay order of the bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shankar Jha and Justice Rajiv Sharma came on an application filed by the Run Club for restraining the UT administration and other respondents from cutting down the trees on both sides of Dakshin Marg and Purv Marg for the construction of the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-in-favour-of-flyover-on-sector-29-31-rotary/articleshow/76633635.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 8 cops suspended for keeping seized opium||JAIPUR: Eight policemen have been suspended for allegedly keeping 1.2 kg of opium recovered from a vehicle during patrolling in Churu district of Rajasthan, officials said on Thursday.  The accused were on a highway patrolling duty on Sunday night when they recovered the contraband from a vehicle. They allegedly kept it with them and took no action against the vehicle driver. The matter came to the notice of Superintendent of Police, Churu, Tejaswini Gautam, late on Monday night following which she ordered an inquiry. The policemen were suspended on Wednesday. "They were found guilty in the inquiry report therefore all the eight policemen, including a sub-inspector and two head-constables, were suspended on Wednesday. The substance which they had kept with them has been handed over to the SHO of Ratangarh police station for seizure," the SP said. Circle officer, Ratangarh, Pyare Lal Meena said the police seized 1.2 kg of opium from them. "The policemen delayed seizing the contraband. A case against the vehicle driver has been registered and he is being searched," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-cops-suspended-for-keeping-seized-opium/articleshow/76633641.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur police bust spurious ghee trade||JODHPUR: The city police busted an illegal trade in ghee and edible oil and seized about 776 tins, including 170 empty tins, from a house in Bhadwasia area on Wednesday night. Four persons, including the proprietor, were arrested by the police from the house. According to the police, these tins were being packed with the ghee and oil, which was about 4-5 years old and was meant to be supplied to the merchants in Jodhpur mandi. Besides this, they were also engaged into manufacturing spurious ghee and oil. Police have also seized manufacturing equipment and packing material in large quantity from the house. On the information of the police, a team of health department also reached the spot and collected the samples of the ghee and oil for examination. SHO (Mahamandir) Sumerdan, police raided the house on information about packing and trade of spurious ghee and oil in a house in Harijan Basti of Bhadwasi area. “When we reached the spot, we found that ghee and oil was being packed in tins in the house. The tins were bearing the name of different brands. On checking, the ghee and oil were found to be 4-5 years old”, said the officer. On counting, 404 tins of oil and 202 tins of ghee were found packed with different brand names and were ready to be supplied in the mandi. Besides, 170 empty tins have also been seized. He said that the proprietor Dinesh Jain had taken this house just 3-4 days back for the purpose. The house belonged to his uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-police-bust-spurious-ghee-trade/articleshow/76633632.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Soyabean crisis in Vid too, over 1k farmers received ‘defective’ seeds||NAGPUR: Cases of soyabean seeds failing to germinate have been reported from Vidarbha also. This has come as a blow for farmers of the region who were banking on soyabean crop after last year’s losses in cotton. The state’s agriculture department has received more than 1,000 complaints from farmers in Vidarbha about ‘defective’ soyabean seeds. Officials admitted that the high number of complaints related to seeds of a single crop are a matter of concern. Earlier, the problem was seen in other parts of the state too and the state’s agriculture minister said that action will be taken if seeds were found substandard. Soyabean seeds are marketed by Mahabeej, a state government corporation, apart from private industry. Mahabeej seeds are made available at subsidized rates. But this year the subsidy was not released. Majority of the cases have been found in Amravati division which covers western Vidarbha. A senior official in the agriculture department said that more than 900 complaints have been filed alleging sale of defective seeds by the companies, including Mahabeej. According to a source, the number of complaints in Nagpur division are low at 150 because the area under soybean too is less as compared to Amravati division. “The companies are being asked to replace the seeds or else they will be dragged to the consumer court,” said an official. Investigations are under way at tehsil level. However, gap in rains too affects germination of soyabean seeds. “Despite advisory not to sow seeds until it rains more than 75mm, a number of farmers went ahead with sowing. They were banking on the cyclonic rains of June 3 and now there has been a long gap after that,” said a source in the department. Akola is the worst-affected district with more than 10% of rain deficit so far. Even as Amravati division has received over 100% of average rains, the downpour has been scattered. Large areas have been left dry, the source said. Vallabh Deshmukh, a director of Mahabeej, accepted that the quality has been affected because it rained when the last year’s soyabean crop was harvested. “This damaged the seeds that are extracted for next season’s sowing. Mahabeej reduced its production to 2.5 lakh seeds this season as half of the stock had to be rejected due to poor quality,” he said. “Yet, only 30% of Mahabeej’s seeds are defective as against 70% of the private sector. The corporation is planning to replace the seeds. But in some areas the seeds haven’t germinated due to lack of rains,” he said. Farmers are blaming the seed quality for the situation. Mukesh Hande, from Rajurwadi village of Yavatmal, said, “From five acres last year, I reduced cotton area to three acres keeping rest for soyabean. It rained when sowing was done and I was hoping for them to germinate in four days.” Hande plans to lodge a complaint with the department. In Isoli village of Buldhana, Mobin Shaikh said, “Farmers in almost entire village are in losses due to the defective seeds. They may all have to take up sowing again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soyabean-crisis-in-vid-too-over-1k-farmers-received-defective-seeds/articleshow/76633640.cms||Shishir Arya
June 26, 2020||Ajmer||Sachin Pilot bats for Rahul as party chief again||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee head Sachin Pilot on Thursday said Rahul Gandhi should again take over as party president. “It is our demand that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party once again,” Pilot told reporters at the party office here. He said the CWC had already passed a unanimous resolution, putting faith in his leadership and requested Rahul Gandhi to rethink on his decision to quit. He said Rahul Gandhi should take up the leadership role again and both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are taking this matter seriously. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also reportedly advocated bringing back Rahul Gandhi to the post of party president at a recently held CWC meeting. His demand came as Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the Modi government for its handling of the border row with China and over increasing fuel prices. “The prices of diesel and petrol have been rising constantly and putting pressure on the people. We demand the Centre to roll back the price hike,” Pilot said. He said the party will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters on June 29 against the price hike. He said the Congress workers also sent memorandum to the president asking Central government to roll back the fuel price hike. Pilot said even as people are reeling under economic hardships due to lockdown and economic recession, the Central government has been continuously increasing fuel prices for the past 17 days and this has had a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. He said the government is doing this while the crude prices at the international market have been falling consecutively. Pilot said the economy was in the doldrums even before the lockdown. Now, after the lockdown, the Central government has been hiking prices of petroleum products regularly, breaking the backbone of the common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pilot-bats-for-rahul-as-party-chief-again/articleshow/76636138.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot bats for Rahul as party chief again||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee head Sachin Pilot on Thursday said Rahul Gandhi should again take over as party president. “It is our demand that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party once again,” Pilot told reporters at the party office here. He said the CWC had already passed a unanimous resolution, putting faith in his leadership and requested Rahul Gandhi to rethink on his decision to quit. He said Rahul Gandhi should take up the leadership role again and both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are taking this matter seriously. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also reportedly advocated bringing back Rahul Gandhi to the post of party president at a recently held CWC meeting. His demand came as Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the Modi government for its handling of the border row with China and over increasing fuel prices. “The prices of diesel and petrol have been rising constantly and putting pressure on the people. We demand the Centre to roll back the price hike,” Pilot said. He said the party will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters on June 29 against the price hike. He said the Congress workers also sent memorandum to the president asking Central government to roll back the fuel price hike. Pilot said even as people are reeling under economic hardships due to lockdown and economic recession, the Central government has been continuously increasing fuel prices for the past 17 days and this has had a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. He said the government is doing this while the crude prices at the international market have been falling consecutively. Pilot said the economy was in the doldrums even before the lockdown. Now, after the lockdown, the Central government has been hiking prices of petroleum products regularly, breaking the backbone of the common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-bats-for-rahul-as-party-chief-again/articleshow/76633642.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Sachin Pilot bats for Rahul as party chief again||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee head Sachin Pilot on Thursday said Rahul Gandhi should again take over as party president. “It is our demand that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party once again,” Pilot told reporters at the party office here. He said the CWC had already passed a unanimous resolution, putting faith in his leadership and requested Rahul Gandhi to rethink on his decision to quit. He said Rahul Gandhi should take up the leadership role again and both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are taking this matter seriously. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also reportedly advocated bringing back Rahul Gandhi to the post of party president at a recently held CWC meeting. His demand came as Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the Modi government for its handling of the border row with China and over increasing fuel prices. “The prices of diesel and petrol have been rising constantly and putting pressure on the people. We demand the Centre to roll back the price hike,” Pilot said. He said the party will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters on June 29 against the price hike. He said the Congress workers also sent memorandum to the president asking Central government to roll back the fuel price hike. Pilot said even as people are reeling under economic hardships due to lockdown and economic recession, the Central government has been continuously increasing fuel prices for the past 17 days and this has had a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. He said the government is doing this while the crude prices at the international market have been falling consecutively. Pilot said the economy was in the doldrums even before the lockdown. Now, after the lockdown, the Central government has been hiking prices of petroleum products regularly, breaking the backbone of the common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pilot-bats-for-rahul-as-party-chief-again/articleshow/76636136.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||70 shops in Ajmer razed to build flyover over rail line||AJMER: Ajmer Municipal Corporation on Thursday demolished 70 small shops from Naka Madar to Gulabbari to clear passage for a flyover. These shops were posing a hurdle in the construction of a flyover over Jaipur-Ajmer railway tracks passing through the city. Construction of the flyover was started around two years ago, but it could not be completed since there were shops on the roadside. Looking at increased traffic towards Naka Madar from Raja Cycle, the flyover over the tracks was proposed, but construction was hatled because of the shops. The civic body took the initiative to clear the route and demolished the small shops. Shopowners said they did not have any other source of earning and now their families would face trouble. The place belonged to Ajmer Development Authority and they got the lease to run the shops, the shopowners claimed. Officials said the district administration would decide on providing them space under the bridge but only after the flyover was constructed. Residents of Naka Madar, Madar and Madarpura face trouble daily as they have to wait for long for trains to pass. This is also the route to the Government Engineering College, Nareili, and Jaipur bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/70-shops-in-ajmer-razed-to-build-flyover-over-rail-line/articleshow/76633645.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||Now, Gangotri priests protest against Char Dham Devasthanam Board||Uttarkashi: Following the footsteps of priest Santosh Trivedi, who has been protesting at Kedarnath shrine since June 12, priests of Gangotri temple, too, began a gradual hunger strike from Thursday against the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board by the state government. The priests, who are on an indefinite protest at Gangotri temple, demanded the state government to dissolve the board, whose formation is allegedly affecting their ancestral rights. They have also threatened to begin protests at the remaining two shrines, Yamunotri and Badrinath, if the government does not relent. “Despite protests from thousands of teerath purohits and priests associated with Char Dham and 47 other temples from across Uttarakhand, the state government formed the Devesthanam board,” Rajesh Semwal, joint secretary of Gangotri temple committee, told TOI. He added, “From ages, the priest community has been taking care of all the activities of the ancient temples, but the government never provided any support to them. But today, they suddenly took all the controls in their hand. This move indicates that they do not care for the development of temples.” Echoing similar sentiments, Arun Semwal, vice president of Gangotri temple committee, said, “Every day, one priest of the Gangotri shrine will sit on a hunger strike, whereas others will stage dharna at Gangotri shrine until the government fulfills our demand. Also, the Devbhoomi Teerthpurohit Char Dham mahapanchayat has decided to begin similar protests at Yamunotri and Badrinath shrines.” Meanwhile, the 32-year-old priest, Santosh Trivedi, continued with his protest at the Kedarnath temple for the 13th consecutive day on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-gangotri-priests-protest-against-char-dham-devasthanam-board/articleshow/76631866.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 26, 2020||Madurai||No decision on MKU semester exams: VC||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) vice-chancellor M Krishnan said that no decision has been taken on the conduct of semester examinations, on Thursday. “We had given a tentative plan for exams to be conducted in the first week of July. However, with the increase in Covid-19 cases, we are forced to reconsider. But, no decision has been taken yet,” said Krishnan. On Wednesday, Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had also announced that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has been advised to revisit guidelines for intermediate and terminal semester examinations. On May 21, the VC had said the end semester exams, evaluation and results would likely be held between July 1-30 and start odd semester between August 3 to November 23 and even semester from December 14 to April 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-decision-on-mku-semester-exams-vc/articleshow/76634131.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ajmer||70 shops in Ajmer razed to build flyover over rail line||AJMER: Ajmer Municipal Corporation on Thursday demolished 70 small shops from Naka Madar to Gulabbari to clear passage for a flyover. These shops were posing a hurdle in the construction of a flyover over Jaipur-Ajmer railway tracks passing through the city. Construction of the flyover was started around two years ago, but it could not be completed since there were shops on the roadside. Looking at increased traffic towards Naka Madar from Raja Cycle, the flyover over the tracks was proposed, but construction was hatled because of the shops. The civic body took the initiative to clear the route and demolished the small shops. Shopowners said they did not have any other source of earning and now their families would face trouble. The place belonged to Ajmer Development Authority and they got the lease to run the shops, the shopowners claimed. Officials said the district administration would decide on providing them space under the bridge but only after the flyover was constructed. Residents of Naka Madar, Madar and Madarpura face trouble daily as they have to wait for long for trains to pass. This is also the route to the Government Engineering College, Nareili, and Jaipur bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/70-shops-in-ajmer-razed-to-build-flyover-over-rail-line/articleshow/76636298.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Collector orders probe into IIIT Hyd entrance exam||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Thursday said permission from the collectorate was a must for conducting the entrance examination which International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Hyderabad conducted on Wednesday. Ram said the Disaster Management Act is in place and such an assembly of people should not have been allowed without permission from the proper authorities, in this case the collectorate. “I will conduct an inquiry into the matter. Before telling people to assemble in a closed space, they should have taken permission from the administration. We will seek an explanation and if it is not satisfactory, we will take action. If over a 100 people assembled at one place, they should have informed us about what kind of gathering they wanted to organise, whether it is essential, whether it could have been avoided. The Disaster Management Act is in force. If it is doable, we always give permission. But without bringing it to the notice of the collector or authority concerned, organising such an exam was not proper on their part. This is very clear,” Ram said. On Wednesday, the entrance examination for admission to IIIT Hyderabad was held at iON Digital Zone, Ramtekdi. It was adjacent to a containment zone and attended by hundreds of students, and their parents. Both groups had complained against holding such an exam during a pandemic and also complained about lack of social distancing and invigilators untrained in social distancing norms. Later in the day, state higher education minister Uday Samant said no examination should be held in the state and called for an inquiry by the local authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-orders-probe-into-iiit-hyd-entrance-exam/articleshow/76632968.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC grants bail to 4 in Shahpur stone pelting||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday granted bail to four persons who were arrested for stone-pelting on police in Shahpur during the lockdown on May 8. While granting bail to the four accused Justice Gita Gopi observed that the FIR registered by police does not attribute any specific role of these accused. The court further noticed, “There is nothing on record to show that any of the police personnel had sustained any kind of injury requiring indoor hospitalization. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this court finds this to be a fit case where discretion could be exercised in favour of the applicants.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-bail-to-4-in-shahpur-stone-pelting/articleshow/76633261.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||Now Patanjali claims ‘we never said medicine specifically for Covid-19’||Haridwar: A day after the Uttarakhand Ayush department sent a notice to Divya Pharmacy, a unit of Patanjali Ayurved Limited, asking the firm to “desist from making misleading claims in media outlets regarding the products, ‘Divya Coronil tablet’ and ‘Divya Swasari Vati’ as being a cure for Covid-19”, Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna claimed on Thursday that “we never said that the medicines are specifically for Covid 19.” “Hum yeh nahin kah rahe hain ki yeh dawa corona ke liye hi hai,” Balkrishna told TOI. On Tuesday, yoga guru Swami Ramdev accompanied by Balkrishna had at a press conference announced that “a sure-shot medicine” for the disease had been discovered by Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar and National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur. When Balkrishna was queried whether his statement implied a U-turn from the claims made at the press conference, he said, “What we did was simply share with people the outcome of the clinical-controlled trials done with our medicines by a third party. The results showed they were helpful in recovery from the Covid-19 infection. Even the banner put up at the venue of the press conference read: ‘Outcome disclosure of randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials on Covid-19 patients by Patanjali Ayurvedic medicines’.”The notice sent by the Uttarakhand Ayush department on Wednesday said that Divya Pharmacy had been given permission by the department “vide letter dated June 12, 2020 regarding production of Divya Swasari Vati for treatment of kasa (cough) and swasa (breathing order) and Divya Coronil tablet as an immunity booster, especially against respiratory tract infection and fever.” The notice further said that “a complaint has been received by the department regarding ‘Divya Coronil tablet’ and ‘Divya Swasari Vati’ being packaged along with ‘Anu tel’ (oil), another Patanjali product, as a ‘Corona kit’ for the cure of Covid-19.” “In the permission given by the department for the production of the aforesaid medicines, there is no mention of Covid-19 treatment at all. Neither has the licencing authority given any approval regarding the so-called ‘Corona kit’”, said the notice, asking for “a reply within seven days, failing which the violations by the firm could attract action under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 and the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 — Rule 170 & Rule 161.”However, Balkrishna insisted that the terms of the licence were fully complied with. “The licence was taken from the Ayush department for making an immunity booster and a system-correcting medicine. Divya Coronil tablet, Divya Swasari Vati and Anu tel (oil) serve this purpose. However, in clinical-controlled trials of these medicines, it was also found that they are helpful in recovery from Covid-19 as well. The results of the trials were simply put before the people. So where is the violation in the terms of the licence?” Balkrishna said.On being asked his response to the Ayush department taking exception to the use of the coronavirus picture on the ‘Divya Coronil’ tablet packet, Balkrishna said, “The picture is freely being used on masks, sanitisers and immunity boosters everywhere. Why single us out?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-patanjali-claims-we-never-said-medicine-specifically-for-covid-19/articleshow/76631837.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||3 more cases take Chd count to 423||tnnChandigarh: Three residents of Ram Darbar were confirmed to have contracted the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh on Thursday.All three, a 32-year-old woman, a seven-year-old boy and a four-year-old girl, are family contacts of a Covid-19 patient.With this, the city case count has gone up to 423, including 88 active cases.Meanwhile, seven patients were cured and discharged on the day. These include a 40-year-old resident of Sector 26, four women (aged 51, 20, 13 and 25) of Sector 25, a 35-year-old man of Sector 25 and a 58-year-old resident of Ram Darbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-more-cases-take-chd-count-to-423/articleshow/76633636.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Udaipur||Sachin Pilot bats for Rahul as party chief again||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee head Sachin Pilot on Thursday said Rahul Gandhi should again take over as party president. “It is our demand that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party once again,” Pilot told reporters at the party office here. He said the CWC had already passed a unanimous resolution, putting faith in his leadership and requested Rahul Gandhi to rethink on his decision to quit. He said Rahul Gandhi should take up the leadership role again and both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are taking this matter seriously. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also reportedly advocated bringing back Rahul Gandhi to the post of party president at a recently held CWC meeting. His demand came as Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the Modi government for its handling of the border row with China and over increasing fuel prices. “The prices of diesel and petrol have been rising constantly and putting pressure on the people. We demand the Centre to roll back the price hike,” Pilot said. He said the party will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters on June 29 against the price hike. He said the Congress workers also sent memorandum to the president asking Central government to roll back the fuel price hike. Pilot said even as people are reeling under economic hardships due to lockdown and economic recession, the Central government has been continuously increasing fuel prices for the past 17 days and this has had a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. He said the government is doing this while the crude prices at the international market have been falling consecutively. Pilot said the economy was in the doldrums even before the lockdown. Now, after the lockdown, the Central government has been hiking prices of petroleum products regularly, breaking the backbone of the common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pilot-bats-for-rahul-as-party-chief-again/articleshow/76636135.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Comp operators protest over contract renewal||Jaipur: Over 140 contractual computer operators, whose contract got terminated on May 31, on Thursday staged a protest outside the Secretariat demanding their contract to be renewed. They met DOP principal secretary Roli Singh and joint secretary Ashish Modi on Thursday and demanded that their contracts be renewed.  “The tender for 142 contractual employees was issued on June 2. However, till today (Thursday), no progress has been made on the tender. We initially got the impression that the tender would be cancelled by the government. Later,after we protested, they assured us the contract would be renewed,” said Jeevan Sejwal, one of the computer operators. Earlier, the finance department gave the approval for the disbursment of salaries of 212 computer operators which was pending since March 21.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/comp-operators-protest-over-contract-renewal/articleshow/76633650.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Govt misleading pensioners over granting aid: EPCC||NAGPUR: The Employees’ Pension (EPS-95) Coordination Committee (EPCC) has charged the central government with misleading over 65 lakh pensioners by allegedly making a false declaration of providing an aid of Rs973 crore to them. The aggrieved pensioners claimed that though the news was published across leading media on June 2, none of them have received any amount till date. “As per the media reports, the government had declared to help aggrieved pensioners who were receiving a negligible pension ranging from Rs4 to Rs500. It is rubbing salt on wounds of lakhs of pensioners who are struggling for survival due to their meagre pension,” said EPCC general secretary Prakash Pathak. Reminding the government of its “assurance” made on September 1, 2014, to allocate Rs868 crore in budget every year for those earning meagre pension as per International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards, the EPCC claimed there has been progress after that. “Union minister Prakash Javadekar had assured the EPCC delegation that pension of Rs3,000 would be given as an interim relief to pensioners. For past six years since 2014, we are getting a minimum pension of Rs1,000 only. Even in this year’s budget, the EPS-95 pensioners didn’t get any relief, despite assurances,” said Pathak. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, labour minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar and chief provident fund commissioner, the EPCC demanded the government to take necessary action as per the recommendations of Bhagat Singh Koshyari Committee. Last month, EPCC rushed a letter to the PM after Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) filed a review petition in the Supreme Court. They appealed to him to direct the Government of India to withdraw the review petition challenging verdicts of several high courts granting them enhanced pension. According to Pathak, the issue was related to 65 lakhs pensioners and 17.2 crore existing working employees. “The centre announced in the Parliament in 2017 and 2018 that the problems of the EPS-95 pensioners will be resolved after the SC’s decision,” he said. “The labour ministry also gave assurance in this regard. But till date, none of the assurances is fulfilled. Moreover, during declaration of recent packages for different sectors by the government for fighting Covid-19 pandemic, they totally forgot the pensioners,” he said. (With inputs from Manshika Vaikkath)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-misleading-pensioners-over-granting-aid-epcc/articleshow/76633669.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Four test positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Thursday. The district case count now stands at 102, including 52 active cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “A 29-year-old resident of Sector 20; a 30-year-old patient of Kot village; a 30-year-old woman and a 10-year-old girl, both residents of Chandimandir, have tested positive. All four are contacts of Covid-19 patients.” Their family members will be tested and contacts traced, said the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-test-positive-in-panchkula/articleshow/76633649.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Kolkata||Online class platform not hacked: Probe||Kolkata: The password for the online class, which was broken into on Monday in Class VI of a reputable girls’ school, was shared multiple times, enabling intruders to enter the classroom, says the report that was submitted to the school authorities on Thursday. A four-member team has probed into the break-in. The report has negated the suspicion that the online platform had been hacked. There will be no shift from the current online platform, the school has confirmed. Classes for the sixth standard were suspended since Tuesday and will re-start from Friday. “Two teachers and two members from our IT department probed the break-in. They have submitted their findings to us and have pinpointed multiple sharing of passwords after it was given out by the teacher. We have contacted all those people on whom our doubts lay but they have denied any sharing. However, we are convinced about the report and know what might have happened,” the school secretary said. The school stressed that there is no point blaming a virtual teaching platform till all stakeholders are able to behave responsibly about preventive measures. TOI | JUNE 25, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-class-platform-not-hacked-probe/articleshow/76632956.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid tests||JAIPUR: Jodhpur is conducting Covid testing more aggressively that Jaipur. Till date, 1.28 lakh people have been tested for the virus in Jodhpur in comparison to 1.05 lakh people in the capital district. As far as deaths are concerned, 152 people have died to the ailment in Jaipur compared to 37 in Jodhpur. From May 1 to 4, Jaipur tested 5,800 people while Jodhpur tested 3,575. Between June 21 and 24, Jaipur had tested 5,183 people while 6,728 had been tested in Jodhpur. “We have done aggressive testing in the district. Also, for preventing mortalities, we have conducted Mission Life Saving for identifying vulnerable category. We keep monitoring their health,” said Dr Balwant Manda, chief medical health officer (CMHO) Jodhpur. However, in Jaipur majority of the testing has been done in the city areas. “We have conducted more than 1 lakh tests in Jaipur,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur -I). The health department is now focussing more on preventing Covid-19 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-covid-tests/articleshow/76636158.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Goa||Public hearing of Nauxi marina fixed on July 26||PANAJI: The public hearing to discuss the environmental impact from the proposed marina at Nauxi village has been now scheduled for July 26 at the athletic stadium, Curca school complex, Bambolim. Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) issued a public notice for the hearing at 10.30am. The ‘Ahoy Marina’ has been proposed at Nauxi to facilitate parking and maintenance facilities for small boats, yachts and crafts. The environmental public hearing is held to listen and record concerns of persons who are affected by the marina, and they are invited to express their views or seek information or clarifications from those proposing the project. The details of the hearing will be forwarded to the ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) for appropriate action. On October 30, 2019, a day after few MLAs said the chief minister has decided to postpone the public hearing of the marina till the state coastal zone management plan is ready, the public hearing scheduled for November 2 was officially called off. “The persons concerned having plausible stake in the environmental aspects of the project or activity can send their views, suggestions, comments and objections in writing on or before the schedule date of public hearing to the regional officer, MOEFCC Bangalore or the GSPCB,” GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro said. She also said that hard copies of the executive summary with features of the projects in Konkani and English, the draft environmental impact assessment report and Form-I submitted by the project proponents were already made available for references at the north Goa collector, the directorate of industries, trade and commerce, deputy collector, CEO of north zilla panchayat, village panchayats of St Lourenco, Batim, Curca-Bambolim, Goa Velha, Merces, St Cruz, Siridao, Taliegao, Chicalim, Sancoale, Quelossim, and Velsao-Pale and other places. Villagers and environmental activists have opposed the move to set up the marina in Nauxim as they feel that such a project will adversely affect traditional fishing activities in the river Zuari bay, and lead to ecological problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-hearing-of-nauxi-marina-fixed-on-july-26/articleshow/76633653.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Rs 650cr budget presented at senate meet||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) passed the annual budget of Rs656.38 crore for the 2020-21 academic year. The budget has been cut down by nearly Rs61.24 crore this year. The senate members passed the budget in the first-ever online meeting held on Thursday. The budget will be presented again in October with provisions made for dealing with the Covid-19 situation. Management council member Rajesh Pande, who presented the budget, said, “Apart from scholarships, allocations have also been made for arts, sports and skill development programmes to boost ongoing activities.” The budget was prepared in March hence it did not deal with provisions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. When the budget will be presented in October, there will be revisions with respect to allocations made for the coronavirus situation, vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-650cr-budget-presented-at-senate-meet/articleshow/76632985.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cop’s leave letter: My buffalo needs me||BHOPAL: Exhausted by Covid-19 duty, several policemen across Madhya Pradesh have applied for leave on various grounds. One stands out for its bizarreness. A constable, posted as driver with the 9th battalion of Special Armed Force (SAF) in MP’s Rewa, has cited ‘love for his buffalo’ as one of the two reasons for seeking six days’ leave. The other is his mother, who he spends just one and a half lines on, and gushes on and on about the buffalo. “It was the buffalo’s milk that helped me clear the police recruitment and now it is my time to repay,” the constable has written to his commandant. He has become the talk of the department — and the town — after his leave application went viral. He writes: “Sir, I am posted in the vehicle branch under you. My mother has not been keeping well for the past two months. Also, I have a buffalo at home, which is very dear to me. This buffalo has delivered a calf recently, and there’s no one to take care of them at home.” He goes on to explain to his (presumably perplexed) commander just why he is so attached to his buffalo. “Sir, the buffalo, as mentioned earlier, has an important place in my life as I prepared for my recruitment runs only after drinking the milk provided by her. She is the reason I could make it to the police department. She has been with me through thick and thin. Therefore, I have to look after her in her hour of need. I request you to please grant me six days of casual leave so that I can get my mother treated and look after my buffalo as well,” says his letter. Commandant of 9th battalion, R S Meena, told TOI that they take every leave application seriously and he has not stopped anyone from taking leave. “The reason could be anything. If someone has asked me for leave, I never object,” he said. Watch 'My buffalo needs me', Madhya Pradesh cop cites reason in leave application||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-cops-leave-letter-my-buffalo-needs-me/articleshow/76632983.cms||P Naveen
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||51 challaned for not wearing mask in Pkl||Panchkula: In a drive against those not wearing a mask, Panchkula Police issued 51 challans to the violators on Wednesday. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said all police units have been instructed to challan, which entailed a fine of Rs 500, those not wearing a mask. The teams are especially on the job at public places like markets, bus stand and parks, among others. Various checkposts have been set up to check commuters too. Warnings are being issued to those wearing mask incorrectly.  So far, 1,431 challans have been issued to the violators. The DCP said, “The drive has been started to check the spread of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/51-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-in-pkl/articleshow/76633651.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-Rishikesh launches helpline for those addicted to drugs||DEHRADUN: To curb the usage of drugs among the people of Uttarakhand, AIIMS-Rishikesh has launched a public helpline number. The number – 7456897874 – has been launched to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, also known as World Drug Day, on Friday. This year’s theme is ‘better knowledge for better care’. Director and CEO of AIIMS Rishikesh Dr Ravi Kant, while launching the number, urged affected individuals to make the utmost use of the number. “Substance abuse scenario in the state is grim because of its rapid urbanization and socio-economic changes. About 38% of males here consume alcohol, which is one of the highest in the country. Uttarakhand had also recorded more than the national average for other drugs as well,” he said. Head of the department of psychiatry Dr Ravi Gupta said that drug abuse or addiction is currently considered to be a brain neural circuit disorder which is worsened by adverse family or social conditions. “According to a recent national survey, about 14.6% of the population, between 10 and 75 years of age, consumes alcohol. Cannabis and opioids are the other commonly used drugs in India. Use of these cannabis products was observed to be about 2% (approximately 2.2 crore people) for bhang and about 1.2% (approximately 1.3 crore people) for ganja and charas. Nationally, the most commonly-used opioid is heroin or smack (1.14%), followed by pharmaceutical opioids (0.96%) and opium (0.52%),” Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-launches-helpline-for-those-addicted-to-drugs/articleshow/76631872.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur beats Jaipur in Covid tests||JAIPUR: Jodhpur is conducting Covid testing more aggressively that Jaipur. Till date, 1.28 lakh people have been tested for the virus in Jodhpur in comparison to 1.05 lakh people in the capital district. As far as deaths are concerned, 152 people have died to the ailment in Jaipur compared to 37 in Jodhpur. From May 1 to 4, Jaipur tested 5,800 people while Jodhpur tested 3,575. Between June 21 and 24, Jaipur had tested 5,183 people while 6,728 had been tested in Jodhpur. “We have done aggressive testing in the district. Also, for preventing mortalities, we have conducted Mission Life Saving for identifying vulnerable category. We keep monitoring their health,” said Dr Balwant Manda, chief medical health officer (CMHO) Jodhpur. However, in Jaipur majority of the testing has been done in the city areas. “We have conducted more than 1 lakh tests in Jaipur,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur -I). The health department is now focussing more on preventing Covid-19 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-beats-jaipur-in-covid-tests/articleshow/76633648.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-BJP MLA, kin booked for assaulting officials||KOTA: Ex-BJP MLA Phralad Gunjal, his family members and 40-50 others, were booked under various sections of IPC for assaulting officials and obstructing government work during an anti-encroachment drive carried out by UIT, Kota. The drive was carried out on Wednesday, while the police case was lodged on Thursday evening. During the drive, over 1,000-bigha land meant for Devnarayan Pashupalan Yojana in Dharmpura area of the city was removed from illegal possession. Ex-MLA Phralad Gunjal, his brother Srilal, Ganeshlal, Satyanarayan, Shravan, Kalyan, Dayal and nearly 40-50 others were on Thursday booked under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty) of IPC and further investigation into the matter is underway, said circle in-charge (CI), Anantpura police station Devesh Bhardwaj. On the report by deputy secretary, UIT, SHO UIT police station and other officials, the case was lodged on Thursday evening. A UIT Kota squad comprising of deputy secretary Chandan Dubey, circle in-charge, UIT police station, Aashish Bhargava and other officials of various department, carried out an anti-encroachment drive on the land meant for Devnarayan Pashupalan Yojana in Dharmpura area, where ex-MLA Phralad Gunjal and his family members had allegedly illegally occupied over 1,000 bigha of land, with an estimated worth of Rs 200 crore. Phralad Gunjal, Srilal Gunjal, 6-7 others identified and 40-50 other family members and supporters, reached the spot where the encroachment drive was underway on Wednesday around 8.30am and started obstructing the drive by threatening officials, CI at UIT police station Aashish Bhargava said. Gunjal and his family members threatened the squad personnel and officials, saying how they dared step over the land and warned them of dire consequences, he said in the report. The encroached land was however freed from illegal occupation on Wednesday, said circle in-charge Bhargava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-bjp-mla-kin-booked-for-assaulting-officials/articleshow/76633654.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||PM to launch job scheme for migrants in UP on Friday||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, will flag off the ambitious PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme in Uttar Pradesh, which aims to create 1 crore job opportunities in various sectors. Scheduled to be implemented in 31 districts of UP, the scheme envisages providing livelihood to over 30 lakh migrants, who returned to the state after the lockdown was clamped. PM Modi and state chief minister Yogi Adityanath are scheduled to virtually reach out to the local and migrant population at 11 am for launch of flagship scheme in six of 31 target districts — Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Bahraich, Gonda, Siddharth Nagar and Jalaun. The scheme would take in its ambit three types of beneficiaries, including those employed through ‘atmanirbhar abhiyan’ (self-reliant scheme), labourers engaged in industrial houses in the micro, small, medium enterprise (MSME) sector and those provided loans through banks and financial institutions for self-employment. “The challenge of battling coronavirus was compounded by the need to provide basic amenities and livelihood to people who returned to UP during the lockdown,” a senior official in the state government said. Sources said, the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM), in which beneficiaries are being provided employment through self-help groups (SHGs) would also be included in the scheme, which aims to create employment for 5-8lakh beneficiaries. This, apart from 60 lakh people who got jobs through Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). The scheme was kicked off from Bihar on June 20 with an initial funding of Rs 50,000 crore for 116 districts in 6 states — Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh — which witnessed significant reverse migration in the wake of lockdown. Earlier, the Union government infused a booster dose of Rs 20 lakh crore to rev up the economy. The UP government has also conceptualised ‘Atmanirbhar UP Razgaar Abhiyan’ where in the state government would be coordinating with the Centre in implementing various schemes aimed to provide employment to the needy through industries and other organisations. The drive is also aimed to generate jobs and promote localized industries while provide employment to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-to-launch-job-scheme-for-migrants-in-up-today/articleshow/76634148.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||NEERI team collects samples of two sewage treatment plants||Chandigarh: A team of scientists of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) visited Chandigarh a few days ago and collected samples of two sewage treatment plants (STPs) at Raipur Khurd and Raipur Kalan. Now, the scientists will prepare a detailed report to advise the civic body on remedial measures to run the STPs according to designed standards. As per the MC records, the current biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of these two STPs is between 80 and 90mg per litre. According to the NGT directions and the environmental norms, the authority needs to bring it down to at least 5mg per litre. Since both of the STPs are old, the civic body has been exploring various options. “We gave details to the NEERI scientists and they have also asked for the request of proposal documents, which were submitted by different companies under the Smart City plan to upgrade five of the six STPs, including the Raipur Khurd and Raipur Kalan ones,” said an MC senior officer. The move has come following the NGT orders to the civic body a few months back to hire the expert consultancy of NEERI to improve the functioning of these STPs. The MC then hired their services for Rs 9 lakh. What is BOD?It is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed or demanded by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material in water at specific temperature over a given time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/neeri-team-collects-samples-of-two-sewage-treatment-plants/articleshow/76633659.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||Parents’ body file PIL in SC after govt allows pvt schools to charge tuition fees||Dehradun: After the state education department’s order allowed private schools to charge tuition fees from parents, the national association for parents and students rights (NAPSR) expressed their discontent with the order and have filed a PIL in the Supreme Court (SC). The order dated June 22 states that parents who are unable to pay can inform the schools regarding their situation, but "those who are government employees or haven’t faced any financial difficulty due to lockdown have to submit their ward’s tuition fee".The parents’ body have claimed that this order has allowed some private schools to charge an increased tuition fee "by including other expenses that are not allowed to be charged as per the order"."Many schools have added up other fee expenses in the tuition fees. As a result, the fee has almost become equivalent to the total fees. We will approach the education secretary and will ask him to action on those schools who have hiked tuition fees. Also, we have filed a PIL in the SC regarding and it has been accepted," said Arif Khan, president of the NAPSR.Meanwhile, the school associations said the order would help them get a sufficient revenue which they were struggling to get."The latest order is good for both the parents and schools. If implemented properly, it will get us to 70-80% of our total annual revenue, on which we can survive this year. We are making sure that those parents who are facing financial difficulties are being allowed to pay whenever they can. But a majority of the parents are capable to pay the tuition fee, which is unchanged," said D.S. Mann, state senior vice president of the principal progressive school’s association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-body-file-pil-in-sc-after-govt-allows-pvt-schools-to-charge-tuition-fees/articleshow/76631887.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 26, 2020||Pune||Fault at Parvati water works hits supply||Pune: Water supply to many parts of the city, including the peth areas, was disrupted from morning till late evening on Thursday, following a technical fault in the power supply to the Parvati water works. The fault obstructed the pumping and distribution of water, leading to a short supply to the city. The Parvati water works is the PMC’s main unit from where water is supplied to more than half of the city. Aniruddh Pavaskar, head of PMC’s water supply ,department said, “The fault developed around 3am, following which the repairs started. The teams of the electrical as well as water supply departments and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) worked together to rectify the fault.” Pavaksar said the water supply to the city was expected to normalise by Friday morning. Aba Bagul, leader of Congress party in PMC, said the civic administration did not have any alternative arrangements to handle such a situation. “Pune is implementing Smart City projects. It should also work on the infrastructure to deal with such challenges to prevent citizens from facing hardships,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fault-at-parvati-water-works-hits-supply/articleshow/76632987.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||RWAs urged to keep water and soap for hand washing||MADURAI: Covid-19 monitoring officer for Madurai district, Dr B Chandramohan has urged all residents welfare associations (RWA) to make water and soaps available at the entry gates and ensure that every outsider who enters and exits, wash their hands. He held a meeting with representatives of RWAs through video conferencing from Madurai Corporation main building on Thursday. Chandramohan urged residents not to conduct any games activities for children, association meetings and gatherings. People should also refrain from inviting others other than their own family members while conducting functions. All public places including elevators, door handles, floors and hand railings should be disinfected frequently using Lysol, diluted hypochlorite solution or two teaspoons of bleaching powder mixed in one litre of water, he said. People above the age of 55 years should keep their diabetes and hypertension under control, since underlying condition increases risk. Cooperation from RWAs is vital for the district administration and local bodies to contain the spread of Covid-19, Chandramohan said. He asked people to contact Madurai Corporation at 8428425000 to alert about people suffering from fever and for people to get guidance if they have symptoms of Covid-19. “People can also visit the nearest urban primary health centres to get medical consultation. The infection can be controlled only when the infected person is isolated before he/she infects others. There are 30 UPHCs and their details and locations would be uploaded in the corporation website,” Chrandramohan said. Chandramohan urged traders to carryout disinfection in their shops at least twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rwas-urged-to-keep-water-and-soap-for-hand-washing/articleshow/76634137.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh in trouble as NGT lowers bacteria levels for STPs||CHANDIGARH: While the Chandigarh administration is yet to upgrade sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city, the latest ruling of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has created more trouble for it. In its latest order, the NGT had set up tough parameters for faecal coliform bacteria in STPs. While earlier the standard limit for faecal coliform bacteria was 230 most probable number (MPN), it has now been reduced to 100 MPN. The recent report of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had highlighted alarming levels of faecal coliform bacteria in sewage treatment plants of the city. The report, which the committee had shared with the municipal corporation, said the bacteria was a key cause of water-borne diseases, with the level touching 17 lakh MPN in all six plants of the city. The judgment read, “We direct that the standards will apply not only for new STPs but also for existing/under-construction STPs without any delay… MoEF&CC may issue an appropriate notification within a month.” A senior official of CPCC said the presence of faecal coliform bacteria in aquatic environments indicates that the water has been contaminated with the waste of humans or animals and it is an indicator of potential health risk. They had recently checked all six STPs in the city, he said. The CPCC had also detected shortcomings in the functioning of four out of six sewage treatment plants. The four plants were releasing treated water with much higher bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) than the permissible level of the maximum 30 mg/litre. The latest report of January was compiled by the CPCC on the directions of the NGT, which has been keeping an eye on water pollution in the city. The STPs situated in Raipur Kalan, 3BRD, Maloya and Diggian are managed by the engineering department of the MC, while the engineering department of the administration maintains the STPs in Raipur Khurd and Dhanas. Of the six, four STPs — Raipur Kalan, Raipur Khurd, Dhanas and 3 BRD — are releasing treated water with more BOD level than the permissible limit of 30 mg/litre. The administration, in its action plan, had submitted that they would upgrade all STPs in the city by 2022, but the NGT panel had directed it to complete the job by 2020. In August 2018, taking suo motu cognizance of media reports on pollution in the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed the chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to constitute a special task force (STF) to clean the river. The NGT committee in Chandigarh, along with officials of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, had visited various points of Sukhna Choe in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-in-trouble-as-ngt-lowers-bacteria-levels-for-stps/articleshow/76633660.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Official visits 5 districts to assess damage by locusts in Rajasthan||JAISALMER: Union agriculture ministry joint secretary Atish Chandra visited Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Barmer districts on Thursday to take stock of the damage done by locusts. The officer met officials of the locust control department and the district administration to discuss the problem. Chandra said pink locusts will turn yellow in the coming days and huge swarms are expected to fly in the desert area causing huge damage to crops. He said a complete plan in coordination with the local district administration had been chalked out to destroy the pests. He said this time the locusts had entered in April, a month in advance compared to previous years. In all, 15 machines have been received at Jaisalmer out of 60 sprayer machines ordered from London. Another 15 machines will be delivered by July 20. He said apart from sprayers, a private helicopter will be delivered in next 8-10 days which will be deployed in Jaisalmer and Barmer. A pilot is being trained at Dehradun and process of permission for operation was in progress. He said since there are many waterbodies, fields and human population in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts, aerial control using the chopper will be done in only those areas where there is no human interference and no wells and ponds. Five machines from London will be delivered in September-October which will be fitted in Indian Air Force's MI 17 helicopter. A team from the company in London recently came to Chandigarh where they saw how to assembly this machine with MI17 helicopter and is preparing the design accordingly. Besides this, Rajasthan will received 25 drones of which 12 have already become operational. Villagers apprised Chandra about the damages caused by locusts and requested him to get them relief. Chandra personally met the villagers and evaluated the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/official-visits-5-districts-to-assess-damage-by-locusts/articleshow/76633661.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jaipur||Severe storm hits several Jaisalmer villages||JAISALMER: More than a dozen villages suffered heavy damages due to severe storm in myazlar area in the district late Wednesday night. Dozens of kucchs houses collapsed while even pucca houses suffered damages. Dozens of electric poles were uprooted. There was no loss of human lives. According to the information yesterday at around 8pm there was severe storm that hit dozens of villages including karda, pocheena, gunjangarh, dav, moolsingh ki dhani, sohansingh ki dhani etc that threw life of people out of gear.houses both pucca and kucha, poles etc collapsed in no time. People in these areas came under the sky. Karda village resident Kishan Singh said that this storm has within minutes made people to come under the open sky as their houses turned into debris. Karni Singh karda said that temporary and permanent houses suffered heavy damages and every house in these villages have suffered heavy damages. Another villager Lalu Singh sodha said that electric poles have fallen down and many trees have uprooted. Villagers of these villages have asked the senior officers of the district to survey the damages and get them compensation. Sodha said that 20 houses collapsed in karda village while 7 and five houses collapsed in pocheena and gunjangarh respectively. Electric poles have broken to pieces in binjraj ka tala, kunpsingh ki dhani, karda and gunjangarh. Many sheep and goats for buried under the stones and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/severe-storm-hits-several-jaisalmer-villages/articleshow/76633657.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Virtual meeting of AMC general board||Ahmedabad: The AMC general board meeting on Friday, will be held virtually and not at Tagore Hall, after the home department directed that not more than 50 persons should gather at a place. The corporation has nearly 180 councillors. Mayor Bijal Patel said, “It will now be a virtual meeting. The meeting will be telecast live by the AMC.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virtual-meeting-of-amc-general-board/articleshow/76633260.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Severe storm hits several Jaisalmer villages||JAISALMER: More than a dozen villages suffered heavy damages due to severe storm in myazlar area in the district late Wednesday night. Dozens of kucchs houses collapsed while even pucca houses suffered damages. Dozens of electric poles were uprooted. There was no loss of human lives. According to the information yesterday at around 8pm there was severe storm that hit dozens of villages including karda, pocheena, gunjangarh, dav, moolsingh ki dhani, sohansingh ki dhani etc that threw life of people out of gear.houses both pucca and kucha, poles etc collapsed in no time. People in these areas came under the sky. Karda village resident Kishan Singh said that this storm has within minutes made people to come under the open sky as their houses turned into debris. Karni Singh karda said that temporary and permanent houses suffered heavy damages and every house in these villages have suffered heavy damages. Another villager Lalu Singh sodha said that electric poles have fallen down and many trees have uprooted. Villagers of these villages have asked the senior officers of the district to survey the damages and get them compensation. Sodha said that 20 houses collapsed in karda village while 7 and five houses collapsed in pocheena and gunjangarh respectively. Electric poles have broken to pieces in binjraj ka tala, kunpsingh ki dhani, karda and gunjangarh. Many sheep and goats for buried under the stones and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/severe-storm-hits-several-jaisalmer-villages/articleshow/76637114.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Congress workers booked for flouting norms while protesting petrol, diesel hike; party cries foul||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Congress members, led by state chief Pritam Singh, held a protest on Thursday against the price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder. Raising slogans against the Centre and the state government, the opposition party members formed a human chain from Congress headquarters to Clock Tower and Darshan Lal Chowk. However, taking a strict note of the matter, the district authorities booked 15 Congress members and 150 odd others under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act for not following social distancing norms and holding without the protest without permission. Congress’ state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana, however, said social distancing norms were followed. “We will not be deterred from raising the issues of people. The social distancing norms were maintained, and we will continue to raise our voice against the wrong decisions of the Centre and the state government,” he said. Meanwhile, the Congress chief criticised the government for booking the party workers. “Now, even raising issues faced by the common man has become a crime,” he said. He added, “By frequently increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG since 2014, the BJP government has looted Rs 80 lakh crore from the people. At a time when the entire country is reeling under the threat of Covid-19, the government has made situation even worse for the common man by raising the prices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-workers-booked-for-flouting-norms-while-protesting-petrol-diesel-hike-party-cries-foul/articleshow/76631888.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 26, 2020||India||Framework to make producers manage plastic waste is out||NEW DELHI: Four years after making producers’ responsible for managing plastic waste in the country, the Centre has come out with a much awaited framework where it suggests three different models to be adopted by manufacturers, importers and brand owners to handle the waste under supervision of a central authority. Introduction of a system of plastic credit, establishing Producer Responsibility Organisations (PROs) and setting up a fee-based mechanism are three different models which will be available to producers of plastic products, including FMCG companies, under this framework. The proposed uniform Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR) framework, released by Union environment ministry this week, also has provisions to impose penalties on producers if they fail to meet their targeted collection. This money will be used for creating infrastructure for plastic waste management A single national registry will be created to enlist all stakeholders. It will improve monitoring and help bring transparency in the plastic waste management system in the country where 40% of its daily waste remains uncollected, posing a threat to environmental and human health. The monitoring of the entire mechanism of the EPR will be the responsibility of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A graded approach for achieving the targets will be recommended, starting with 30% in the first year and moving up to 90% in five years. “The proposed framework, though much needed, needs serious revision. In its current form, it is too cumbersome and unimplementable, and will not deliver the desired results. A good EPR framework is one which has a lower regulatory cost and higher investments in waste management,” said Chandra Bhushan, CEO, International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST). He said, “In its current form, the draft framework is putting a high regulatory cost on companies. Under the ‘fee-based model’, the framework proposed that the producers will contribute to the EPR corpus fund at the central level. This may be an escrow account, managed by SPV, where private and other stakeholders can become members. The amount to be contributed by each of the producers will be calculated based on generation of plastic waste vis-a-vis efforts required and money spent by urban local bodies to handle the plastic part of the waste. Under the PRO model, an organisation will manage the waste on behalf of producers. Municipal bodies can also register as PRO or waste collector. There will be a national authority - National PRO Advisory Committee - to govern plastic waste management in the country. The draft framework says a plastic credit model is envisaged where a producer is not required to recycle their own packaging, but to ensure that an equivalent amount of packaging waste has been recovered and recycled to meet their obligation. “However, producers are mandated to acquire evidence of recycling or recovery from properly accredited processors (recyclers, W2E plant operators, cement co-processors, users utilizing plastic in road) or exporters. Producers and processors/ exporters may exchange plastic credits for a financial transaction at a price and other terms as negotiated between them. The producers can exchange credits from processors that have been specifically accredited for this purpose and through proper registration at the EPR portal,” it says. The ministry had in 2016 notified the Plastic Waste Management Rules where the generators of waste have been mandated to take steps to minimize plastic waste, ensure segregated storage of waste at source and handover segregated waste to local bodies or agencies authorised by the local bodies. Though the 2016 rules mandates the provision of Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR), its framework has not yet been finalised. The stakeholders, including producers and domain experts, are expected to submit their comments on the draft framework by July 31. The environment ministry will come out with the final framework after analysing those comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/framework-to-make-producers-manage-plastic-waste-is-out/articleshow/76635067.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun to conduct survey of street vendors who returned to their villages during lockdown||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation will be conducting a survey to check the status of street vendors in the city who had returned to their villages during the lockdown. The survey is part of the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Scheme which is extending loans of Rs 10,000 to street vendors to support their livelihood. Talking to TOI, city mission manager of National Rural Livelihood Mission Vijay Pal Singh Negi said “In the last survey conducted, we had compiled a list of nearly 1,758 vendors. Since a lot of street vendors had returned to their native villages, they will also be included in the survey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-to-conduct-survey-of-street-vendors-who-returned-to-their-villages-during-lockdown/articleshow/76631934.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Trichy||‘Academically weaker students passing Class X this yr a concern’||Trichy: A few government school teachers in Trichy have expressed concern at the performances of academically weaker students in their quarterly and half-yearly examinations, after school education minister K A Sengottaiyan recently announced that all Class X students must be passed.As per the instruction from the directorate of government examination, every student of Class X whose name is in the nominal roll of the school must be passed. Following this announcement, the school education department is busy calculating quarterly and half-yearly scores to award marks, so that the students can choose the stream for Class XI based on their marks.Teachers said that only 50% of students in government schools pass in all subjects in quarterly exams and the remaining fail in multiple subjects. They are trained according to their weak areas and made to prepare for their board exams.Getting admission to Class XI may not be easy for these students, the teachers said. They would get vocational group but that will also be a challenge if schools conduct entrance test for admission, they added.Teachers said that strict evaluation is also a reason why many students do not pass. They want to ensure that students don’t get overconfident with their quarterly marks. This exam also serves as a medium for teachers to identify academically weaker students.Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said irrespective of marks scored in quarterly and half-yearly exams, all the students will be given pass as per the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/academically-weaker-students-passing-class-x-this-yr-a-concern/articleshow/76634153.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 26, 2020||Goa||Lobo spills beans, says Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar wanted to join BJP||PANAJI: A day after Rajya Sabha MP from Goa and former BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar described the latest political development involving two GFP MLAs as “only rumours”, ports minister Michael Lobo in a contrary statement on Thursday said that Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar and Siolim MLA Vinod Paliencar indeed want to join the saffron party, but their move has been delayed due so some reason. “There is no smoke without fire,” Lobo told TOI, referring to the speculations in political circles about the two GFP MLAs joining the BJP. Both GFP MLAs have, however, vehemently denied any plans of quitting their party. Salgaonkar has categorically said it is a conspiracy to malign their image. He said that the rumours are emanating from the BJP camp and pointed out that former tourism minister Dilip Parulekar was giving credence to this talk. BJP core committee members said that chief minister Pramod Sawant and BJP organising secretary Satish Dhond were part of the negotiations to bring Salgaonkar and Paliencar to the BJP and that the decision has been kept on hold in view of the two Covid-19-related deaths. “The party does not want people to discuss politics in view of the Covid-19 deaths,” a senior core committee member said. When asked, chief minister denied knowing about any such move or even having any such discussion in the party. Lending credence to Lobo’s statement, the senior core committee member said that the GFP MLAs are also keen to join the BJP. Pointing out the advantage the move will entail for the two GFP MLAs, political observers said that BJP is strong in both Saligao and Siolim. If they join the BJP and contest the seats on the party’s ticket then it will be a smooth sailing for them in the next assembly elections, political observers said. Both GFP MLAs had defeated sitting ministers Dilip Parulekar and Dayanand Mandrekar in Saligao and Siolim constituencies, respectively. The senior core committee member said that political equations have changed since 2017 when the assembly polls were last fought, which is why the GFP MLAs are in negotiations with the BJP. Another reason behind the merger, political observers felt, is to embarrass GFP president Vijai Sardesai, who has been vocal against the government and instrumental in creating unity among the opposition. The move comes after all three GFP MLAs, including Sardesai, a former deputy chief minister, were unceremoniously dropped by Sawant almost a year ago. But the main idea behind the move is to make Sardesai politically weak and marginalise his political bargaining power as there was a strong hunch in BJP that he was veering towards Congress and may strike an understanding for the next assembly polls, political observers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-spills-beans-says-jayesh-and-vinod-wanted-to-join-bjp/articleshow/76633675.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||CBSE & CISCE students relieved on one count, but anxiety over results remains||Pune: At least one uncertainty over the conduct of standard X and XII exams for students of both CBSE and CISCE is over, but another one has cropped up. Both parents and their wards are now worried what formula will be used to compute their results. The Central Board of Secondary Education informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that all pending exams for class X and XII remain cancelled with an option given for standard XII students to appear for the exam if they wish to. Following the CBSE’s footsteps, CISCE also announced that it will adopt the CBSE’s decision ending some stress about exams for the students. The wait is now on for what formula would be adopted by both the boards to calculate the marks in subjects where the exams could not be conducted to prepare the final report card. The assessment holds the key for admission to colleges. Dipika Jha, a parent, said the students’ marks now will be based on the assessments made by the school, and not the board. “It can be disheartening for many,” she added. Sandhya Parihar, parent of a CBSE standard X student said the students can relax and not fret over their exams now. “For three months, my daughter was overly tense and spent the entire lockdown mulling about her papers she could not give. As news kept floating around, it became difficult for all students like her to keep their patience with respect to the papers,” she said. Some parents said it was sad that students have been deprived of the full exam experience. DAV Public School principal C V Madhavi said an examination is the best method to assess students in the higher classes, but in the unprecedented circumstances of a pandemic, the board’s decision to cancel the examination is timely. The school, she said, was waiting for the CBSE’s guidelines on how the average marks will be calculated for students in the papers they have not appeared for. Chances of an average of preliminary examination marks being considered were high, she added. Schools have been allaying fears of students by calling them up and explaining that the decision has been taken in their favour. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal at SNBP International School, said it is an indicator that the results can be declared soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cbse-cisce-students-relieved-on-one-count-but-anxiety-over-results-remains/articleshow/76633010.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Biz man loses Rs 7L to Mumbai trader||Pune: The Samarth police on Wednesday booked a trader from Mumbai for duping a 31-year-old businessman from Nana Peth of Rs7 lakh on the pretext of supplying him with the stock of N95 masks since April. The complainant, Taha Rajkotwala, found the contact details of the Mumbai-based trader online in April and reached out to him for purchasing 25,000 N95 masks.“Rajkotwala sent Rs10.50 lakh to the trader via net-banking. The stock, however, was not delivered,” an officer from the Samarth police said. The officer said that when Rajkotwala got in touch with the trader, the latter told him that the masks were out of stock. He then transferred Rs10 lakh back to the businessman, and promised to adjust the balance amount it in the next bill,” the officer said. “Rajkotwala again placed an order and sent Rs6.50 lakh to the trader’s account after the latter confirmed that the masks were now available. But, this order also remained undelivered, following which the businessman asked the trader to repay Rs7 lakh but the suspect refused,” the officer said. Sub-inspector Vivek Padvi from Samarth police said, “Our probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biz-man-loses-rs-7l-to-mumbai-trader/articleshow/76633027.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||1,053 drug peddlers arrested in 5 years in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: From January 2015 to June 25, 2020, as many as 1,038 FIRs were registered under the NDPS Act and 1,053 drug peddlers arrested. Of them, 101 were women and 16 foreigners, states police data. There has been a rise in the smuggling of medicinal drugs, like banned injectable vials, capsules and syrups. Records show that 12,598 banned injectable vials of pheniramine and buprenorphine, 10,556 tablets and capsules and 1,161 syrup bottles were recovered from smugglers during the period. In 2015, UT police had recovered 55 banned vials. The figure rose to 470 in 2020 (till June 25). At least 8.600kg heroin, 8.925kg opium, 101kg poppy husk and 44.800kg charas were seized from 2015 to date. The maximum (598kg) seizure was of ganja. The UT police had arrested 168 peddlers, including 20 women and seven foreigners, in 173 drug cases in 2015. In 2016, as many as 157 smugglers were nabbed in 144 cases. They included 18 women and two foreigners. In 2017, 244 drug traffickers, including 20 women and four foreigners, were caught. The year after, 178 such FIRs were registered and 182 smugglers, including 16 women and three foreigners, were arrested. The previous year saw 226 drug cases and arrest of 225 drug peddlers, including 18 women and 10 foreigners. This year till June 25, 73 cases have been registered and 77 drug peddlers nabbed. Of them, nine were women. DSP Charanjit Singh, UT Police PRO, said, “There is zero tolerance towards drug trade.” NCB arrests 280 peddlers Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Chandigarh zonal unit, which has under its jurisdiction Punjab, Haryana (except NCR), Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, registered 338 FIRs under the NDPS Act and arrested 280 drug peddlers between January 1, 2015, and June 25, 2020. Vials bought from UP, Hry Cops said the drug peddlers mostly bought the banned vials from Saharanpur in UP and Ambala in Haryana. While they bought a vial for Rs 60 to Rs 80, they sold it for Rs 250 to Rs 350. The peddlers bought heroin from Delhi and sold it for Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 per gram. “The price of heroin, however, depends on its purity,” said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1053-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-5-years-in-city/articleshow/76633684.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 26, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: After Aadhaar, ePos makes PDS foolproof||LUCKNOW: After weeding out 25 lakh ghost ration card holders through biometric and Aadhaar-based distribution network, the state government has now achieved 100% authentication-based food grain distribution system, cementing chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resolve to plug leakages and create a robust, fool-proof PDS. The food and civil supplies department achieved this feat before June 20, when it embarked on Centre’s flagship PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana that envisages free food grain distribution to the needy, particularly migrants who returned to the state following the pandemic-triggered lockdown. Confirming the development, food commissioner Manish Chauhan said, earlier 6-7% beneficiaries were provided food grain without authentication. “Even when thumb impression and iris scan did not match, we provided ration,” he told TOI. The distribution system was fortified a year ago through electronic point of sale (ePoS) — thumb impression and iris scan — at 80,000 ration shops. Now, an option of punching in mobile numbers of beneficiaries has been introduced. “A one-time password is generated in a particular mobile number that verifies the beneficiary,” Chauhan said. “If the beneficiary does not have a cell phone, the mobile number of PDS shop owner or nodal officer has to be provided,” he said. The OTP generated allows the department to provide ration through proxy, but it remains an authenticated transaction. Earlier, PDS reforms through Aadhaar-based distribution had stalled scraping of the exchequer by at least Rs 1600 crore. The food commissioner said, food grain was distributed through proxy on 3.36 lakh ration cards in June. The second distribution cycle under PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana began on June 20 and would continue till June 30. The department would also provide free ration to migrants, who have been issued temporary ration identity cards. According to food and civil supply department records, food grain is being distributed under National Food Security Act (NFSA) to 32 lakh ration cards, including stranded migrants. The department, Chauhan said, has issued 2.34 lakh temporary ration cards to provide food grain to 6.1 lakh migrants in two months. In the first distribution cycle from June 1, as many as 3.34 crore families covering 13.91 crore people were provided 7.69 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-aadhaar-epos-makes-pds-foolproof/articleshow/76634165.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 26, 2020||Pune||Case against BJP MLC||Pune: The Baramati city police on Thursday registered an offence against BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar for his controversial remarks against the NCP chief, Sharad Pawar. The Baramati city youth wing chief of the NCP, Amar Dhumal, filed an FIR with the police. Padalkar on Wednesday had made some remarks against Pawar during his visit to Pandharpur in Solapur district. Inspector Audumbar Patil of the Baramati city police said, “Our probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-against-bjp-mlc/articleshow/76633049.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||RPF told to ensure no migrant leaves stn sans verification||Ludhiana: In a crucial step to overcome the issues related to crowd management of migrant labourers on the railway station premises, who are returning to the city in passengers trains, the railway authorities have given direction to the local railway security force to coordinate with local ticket checking staff to ensure proper implementation of safety norms among the passengers waiting for their trains at the station. Moreover, the ticket checking staff has been asked to share local passengers’ data with the district health department team for early management of the work of conducting medical screening of all passengers and ensure that no passenger leaves the station without undergoing the medical test before entering the city limits. This action has been taken by the railways after it found that several migrant labourers had to stand in long queues for several hours while waiting for their turn to get medical screening facilities before entering the city limits. Apart from that, the railways have made all CCTVs cameras functional to keep a check on the movement of passengers, so that they could not leave the station premises without undergoing medical screening and verification process.s The railway authorities have made an appeal to the district health authorities to increase the number of health officials for conducting screening of a large number of migrant labourers because there could be a heavy rush of migrants labourers at the city railway station in the next few day as different farmer association are helping them return to the business caption city due to the ongoing paddy season. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “It’s positive news that migrant labourers are returning to the city and we have given directions to the ticket checking staff to coordinate with the Railway Protection Force to ensure proper implementation of safety norms, so that no one leaves the station premises without sharing his data with the local health department team.”  Giving more information on this, a local ticket checking staff member said, “As per directions from the higher authorities, the ticket checking staff is already coordinating with the district health department team to ensure that no passenger is able to leave the city station premises without undergoing medical screening and verification process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rpf-told-to-ensure-no-migrant-leaves-stn-sans-verification/articleshow/76633047.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Pune||Police seize MD in drug bust, duo held||Pune: The crime branch on Wednesday arrested two men and seized 56g methamphetamine (also known as MD), a car and two cellphones, collectively worth Rs5.87 lakh. The crime branch team led by senior inspector Rajendra Mohite on Wednesday night laid a trap near Navle bridge and took the duo — Saqlain Qureshi (23) of Camp and Shakil Sayyad (42) of Kondhwa — into custody. The duo have been remanded to police custody till June 30. In another action, the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Wednesday arrested 29-year-old Kunal Rajput from Bavdhan and seized 850g marijuana and a scooter, collectively worth Rs67,000, from him. The Pune rural police arrested Sidhesh Shinde (32) of Chakan and seized 21kg marijuana and a sports utility vehicle (SUV), collectively worth Rs6 lakh on Wednesday. Assistant inspector Arjun Ghode Patil of the Narayangaon police nabbed Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-seize-md-in-drug-bust-duo-held/articleshow/76633035.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Thieves attempt to steal cash from ATM||CHANDIGARH: Some unidentified persons tried to steal cash from an ATM of the State Bank of India (SBI) at Sector 44 on Wednesday. However, the ATM is intact and the thieves failed to steal money from it. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when a security guard reached the ATM kiosk and found the lock of the charging room broken. He also found that the accused tried to damage the machine from the rear. The security guard said the accused also sprayed some chemical on the CCTV installed in the ATM kiosk. According to information, Baldev Singh, SHO, Sector 34 police station, along with other cops, reached at the ATM kiosk and inspected the crime scene. The SHO has asked the bank officials to provide the CCTV footage of the ATM kiosk. On the statement of the bank manager, Sector 34 police have registered a case against unknown persons and started a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thieves-attempt-to-steal-cash-from-atm/articleshow/76633690.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||MIDC victim identified as painter from Rajiv Nagar||NAGPUR: MIDC police have on Thursday managed to establish the identity of the man found injured near Lokmanya Nagar MahaMetro station at IC Chowk. Nikhil Warkhede, 25, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, was later declared dead at Government Medical College and Hospital. Addicted to alcohol, Warkhede was found with injuries on his hand. There was also an ATM outlet in the vicinity, which had its glass facade damaged. There was also blood on the outlet’s floor. It’s learnt that Warkhede was a painter and addicted to liquor. He had left home with Rs200, but ended up consuming liquor with the money. Police had registered it as a case of murder, as he was found under mysterious circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/midc-victim-identified-as-painter-from-rajiv-nagar/articleshow/76633707.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Local polls on schedule, says election commission||GANDHINAGAR: Putting to rest all worries and speculations, the state election commission has said that urban and local body polls will be held according to schedule in November. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the commission also said that all necessary precautions will have to be taken to hold the polls. Civic body elections will be held for six municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar — along with 56 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 230 taluka panchayats. M V Joshi, secretary and spokesperson of the state election commission, said, “The commission is fully prepared to conduct the urban and rural local body elections in November. There is no deliberation to postpone the polls due to the current Covid-19 issue.” Joshi added that the election commission has already begun preparations to conduct the local body elections in November. “The state government has recently added areas of municipalities and outgrowth areas in different municipal corporations, so we have initiated necessary ward delimitation process. We expect that within two months we will be able to complete delimitation, if the state government issues necessary notifications on time,’’ Joshi added. Commenting on the safety precautions, Joshi said consultations have been planned with different stakeholders and district officials about safety aspects in the pandemic scenario. “A detailed plan will be prepared for managing elections in containment areas, if any, at the time of elections. We will also study measures being taken by the Election Commission of India for the various assembly seat bypolls and adopt all such measures in our local elections,’’ he said. Replying to a question about electoral rolls, the official said that the state election commission will adopt the assembly election electoral rolls for the November elections. “However, after delimitation, some rural voters will be counted as urban voters and adjustments will be made accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/local-polls-on-schedule-election-commission/articleshow/76633258.cms||Kapil Dave
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Working hours of Railway Mail Service cut to 9 hrs after employee found Covid +ve||Ludhiana: The working of Railway Mail Service department has been affected after a local employee was found positive with Covid-19 soem days back after undergoing throat swab testing, which led the department to change its operating time to just nine hours against 24 hours earlier. After hearing reports about a positive case in the Railway Mail Service department of the city railway station, the health department of the railways swung into action to trace the contacts of the officials who had come in close contact with the virus infected person during duty hours. Following this, the health department has taken the sample of 32 officials of the same department and gave directions to them to remain in home quarantine for the next few days until their final reports come. Moreover, the health department has got disinfectants sprayed inside the premises of the Railway Mail Service department to ensure the safety of officials who are working there. There are 50 officials working in the department of the Railway Mail Service for handling the working. Meanwhile, sources in the railway department said, “This is the main processing unit for delivering all postal documents to different states through rail transportation service as it acts as a bridge between the district postal department and railway transportation service for delivering documents by post to its final destination”.  “After the local official tested positive, the work of delivery of postal documents has been affected in the past few days as most of staff has been kept in home quarantine, which has led to difficulties in its operation,” they added. Ramesh Chander, superintendent of sorting department of Railway Mail Service department, said, “After one of employee tested positive a few days ago, the department has changed its operating time. Although, it has not suspended its work of delivering postal documents to different states as we have pitched in more than 15 officials for the same work but the working time of nine hours will be changed only after the reports of rest of the officials come out negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/working-hours-of-railway-mail-service-cut-to-9-hrs-after-employee-found-covid-ve/articleshow/76633061.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber cell helps woman escape from being duped of Rs 91,000||NAGPUR: The cyber cell unit of city police helped a 24-year-old woman get Rs 90,979 refunded from an e-commerce company, after the amount got deducted from her credit card balance on Wednesday. A Jharkhand-based cyber crook nearly duped the woman with a phishing call, but she promptly approached the cops, who helped get the amount refunded. The woman received a message that an amount of Rs90,979 was deducted from her credit card balance. This was shortly after she had shared her banking details and also a one-time password (OTP) with a telecaller, who posed as a representative of the bank’s credit card department. The woman was allegedly lured by the cyber crook to share her banking details to increase the credit limit by Rs1 lakh. After she shared her personal banking details, the crook downloaded a mobile application (app) for making purchases. He later generated an OTP, and urged the cardholder to share it with him. As she shared the OTP, the crook is learnt to have placed orders of various merchandizes on the e-commerce company’s website. The cyber cell team, under DCP Shweta Khedkar and addl CP Nilesh Bharne, immediately contacted the nodal officer of the e-commerce company and generated a request mail stating the police complaint filed by the cardholder. The e-commerce company had received the payment through the app, but cancelled the orders placed online and refunded the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-cell-helps-woman-escape-from-being-duped-of-rs91k/articleshow/76633702.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cyber criminals on the loose, cops helpless||HYDERABAD: Amidst the Covid-19 situation across the country, cyber-crime cops are facing a tough time nabbing offenders, with most of the accused based in Delhi, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and West Bengal. This has impacted the percentage of cases detected by the teams during the lockdown. Over 300 cybercrime cases have been registered across the city, including all three commissionerates, this year. “Each team who is sent to Northern states stay for at least for two to three weeks and take up at least five cases to investigate there. But due to the pandemic, travel is the biggest issue. We have strong clues for nearly 60% of the cases, but due to transportation, those cases are on hold,” said Rachakonda cybercrime ACP, S Harinath. Last year, nearly 1,200 cases were reported, while nearly 40% of the cases were detected. “When it comes to offenders from the Telugu states, we can travel on vehicles by road to nab the offenders. In cyberbullying and cyberstalking cases, the detection is close to 80%,” added the officer. In most cyberstalking cases, the offenders have been found to be a known person to the victims and are from the state. “When it comes to marketplace fraud, KYC fraud and other financial fraud, most accused are traced to Rajasthan, Jharkhand, West Bengal etc.,” said a police source from cybercrime cell, further stating over Rs 30 lakh has been lost in these cases, with the amount lost ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 5 lakh. “When a person sees an iPhone selling for Rs 18,000, they fall into the trap and send the money, thinking it is a good offer. The accused even lure victims stating they have won an SUV after shopping online or lottery on TV shows. During the lockdown, most of the frauds identified were KYC updates of PayTM,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-criminals-on-the-loose-cops-helpless/articleshow/76633720.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Tipplers sneak into Sivaganga despite curbs on dist borders||Madurai: The Madurai district police have tightened restrictions at district borders to curb movement of two-wheelers without e-passes based on instructions from the state government. But, the crackdown did not deter tippers from Madurai, as a large number of them entered Sivaganga district, where Tasmac shops were open. The tipplers used smaller roads to stealthily get inside the neighbouring district, while police focused on prominent roads. As a result, liquor shops in bordering villagers were overcrowded. The measure to tighten restrictions was taken as inter-district movement was stopped, scrapping the previous decision to allow vehicles to move freely between districts in the same zone. “Only vehicles with e-passes are allowed inside Madurai district. Earlier, four-wheelers and heavy vehicles were strictly monitored. Now we are monitoring the movement of two-wheelers also. Those without e-passes are strictly not allowed. However, people exempted by the government order are allowed to proceed,” said a police officer posted at the Madurai-Sivaganga border on Ramanathapuram highway. Meanwhile, more vehicles were seen plying on the Madurai roads on Thursday on the second day of the lockdown. People were allowed to purchase vegetables and other essentials. The movement was tightened after 2pm. All vehicles were stopped after 2pm and asked to produce identity cards to validate they are into essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tipplers-sneak-into-sivaganga-despite-curbs-on-dist-borders/articleshow/76634162.cms||---
June 26, 2020||India||ED plans SC move to nix Rajiv Saxena’s approver status||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has decided to move Supreme Court seeking to revoke the approver status of Rajiv Saxena in the Rs 3,600 crore AgustaWestland money laundering scam in which many top politicians of the country are under investigation. Earlier this month, the Delhi High Court had rejected a plea of the agency to revoke Saxena’s approver status despite ED claiming that the accused had been withholding a lot of crucial information related to some of the high-profile people who are beneficiaries of a Rs 423 crore payoff. The AgustaWestland deal was signed during the UPA regime in 2010 and a multi-agency investigation later revealed payoffs made in the deal. The ED’s money trail led to the identification of deposits in Swiss banks and assets purchased from the bribe money in many tax havens. Last month, the agency attached assets worth over Rs 385 crore, including a villa in Palm Jumeirah in Dubai worth $20 million and deposits in five Swiss banks worth $46 million, all in the name of Saxena and his wife, who, the ED claimed, fronted for many politicians and their relatives for laundering the kickbacks received in defence deals. The Delhi High Court has told the agency to wait for the trial to begin in the case before a decision can be taken on revoking the approver status of Saxena who was deported from Dubai in January last year and arrested by the agency here. According to sources, Saxena withheld crucial information related to Ratul Puri, nephew of former MP CM Kamal Nath, and many other high-profile people who were involved in the money laundering scam. The ED later arrested Puri for his connection with Saxena while trailing the bribes received in the AgustaWestland deal and others. Puri was also accused of threatening witnesses in the case and spent more than 100 days in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-plans-sc-move-to-nix-rajiv-saxenas-approver-status/articleshow/76635068.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 26, 2020||Mumbai||Shoots to resume, but elaborate costume dramas must reimagine scale||MUMBAI: Film and television bodies finally settled their long-pending issues on Thursday and decided to resume shooting with immediate effect after Federation of Western India Cine Employees, Cine And TV Artistes’ Association and Indian Film and TV Producers’ Council agreed to provide members two sets of Covid-19 insurance—a death cover of Rs 25 lakh and a hospitalisation cover of Rs 2 lakh—as well as a reduction in the credit cycle for TV cast and crew from 90 days to 30 days for at least the first three months. Even as cameras start rolling again with a scaled-down cast and crew and preventive measures, not everyone might be able to ride the wave, especially productions too big to accommodate massive staff, elaborate sets, and complex costumes and makeup. After all, turbaning up to play Razia Sultan or twirling up Peshwa Bajirao’s moustache is not a one-person job. Period dramas are called costume dramas for a reason. When it comes to mythologies and historical dramas, the fold in a garment, details in the eye of a goddess or the shape of a scar are just as important as the storytelling. The bag of tricks that makeup and hair artistes step into the green room with, to interpret a period through the look of each character, will now have to be reimagined given the social distancing norms laid down by the culture ministry that recommend actors do their own makeup and hair as well as trials and fittings at home. Other than mythology, the small-screen is flooded with fantasy and supernatural shows, most of which rely on latex, rubber, blood and prosthetics and can be nearly impossible to DIY under the current safety guidelines. “Costume dramas will take at least two or three months more to return to the floors since it is a complex affair. One-fourth of a day is invested in just getting a character ready,” says Sunjoy Wadhwa, founder, Sphereorigins, which made the historical drama Peshwa Bajirao. Grand set constructions and a cast of hundred extras can be a challenge too in the wake of migrant exodus. “Forty per cent of our junior artistes and second line of workers— lightmen, spotboys, makeup and set design artistes—who comprise the workforce for epics and historical sagas have gone to their hometowns,” said Ashoke Pandit, president of Indian Film & Television Directors’ Association. But there’s always the trusted spectrum of computer-aided visual methods to fall back on. “Costume dramas use panoramic views. So, it is possible to widen the camera lens and shoot against a green screen for special effects,” says Wadhwa. Contiloe Pictures that pioneered historical and mythological shows on Indian TV, including 21 Sarfarosh: Saragarhi 1897, Jhansi ki Rani, Mahayoddha Rama and Vighnaharta Ganesh, is leaning on tech solutions to create crowds and geographies. “The situation gives us an impetus to innovate and explore a new language in the genre,” says Abhimanyu Singh, founder, Contiloe. While television channels had once taken a gamble with these shows with budgets far higher than regular soaps, it may not pay off as it did in the past with advertising revenues on a downslide and broadcasters asking for budget cuts. “Technology is expensive and will push costs up but it’s about survival. We will have to start on a small scale, not get ambitious about grandeur,” says Dharmesh Shah, an old hand at directing period dramas like Shakuntala, Veer Shivaji, and Siya Ke Raam. “Shooting in studio sets outside city limits would help isolate a unit and reduce transmission risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shoots-to-resume-but-elaborate-costume-dramas-must-reimagine-scale/articleshow/76633266.cms||Mohua Das
June 26, 2020||Nagpur||21-year-old diabetic girl is Vidarbha’s youngest Covid-19 victim||NAGPUR: A 21-year-old girl from Kendra (Khurd) village in Hingoli district, who was brought to Akola GMCH for treatment of type-1 diabetes, died at Akola late on Wednesday. Her swab samples taken for Covid-19 tests after death tested positive on Thursday. The girl became youngest patient to die due to Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Earlier, a 22-year-old boy from Nagpur was the youngest Covid victim. “The girl was a diabetic since childhood. As her condition deteriorated, she was first moved to Washim for treatment and later to Akola GMCH. She died during treatment. As per protocol, her swabs were taken for testing post death which revealed that she was having Covid-19 infection too,” said Dr KP Biswas, civil surgeon of Hingoli, which technically is in Marathwada region. Akola reported two more deaths on June 25 while Amravati and Buldhana recorded one each taking total Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha to 141. Apart from deaths, 71 new cases were reported from the region which took total cases in Vidarbha past 4,000-mark. Now, Vidarbha has 4,056 Covid-19 cases. It took 106 days to cross 4,000-mark. Highest 1,385 of these are from Nagpur district followed by 1,342 from Akola, 472 from Amravati and 260 from Yavatmal. Recoveries once again brought cheers for the region. Total 168 patients recovered on Thursday which is highest in a day till now. This took total number of recovered patients to 2,982 — 18 short to 3,000-mark. Recovery rate of Vidarbha surged to 73.50% which is way ahead of Maharashtra’s 50% and India’s 57%. In all five deaths were reported on Thursday. Three of them were from Akola. Apart from the 21-year-old girl from Hingoli, a 50-year-old man from Khamkhed in Balapur died on June 24 night. He was admitted on June 15. A 55-year-old woman from Baidpura locality — which is one of the hotspots in Akola city — died on Thursday afternoon. She was admitted since June 2. A 67-year-old woman from Malkapur, who died on June 23, tested positive on June 25 in Buldhana. This was the only case reported from Buldhana on Thursday. In Amravati, a 43-year-old man from Badnera died, which is 20th death of the district. AKOLA: Apart from three deaths, Akola recorded 33 new cases on June 25. Total 85 patients recovered and were discharged. Now, Akola has 1,342 cases including 990 recovered and 74 dead. Number of active cases here is 278. AMRAVATI: A Covid death and 12 new cases took the death toll to 20 and patient count of the district to 472 on Thursday. A release from civil surgeon’s office said a 48-year-old man from Almas Colony in Patelnagar area of Old City, Badnera, who tested positive on June 23, breathed his last this morning at Covid Hospital here. This is the second death in five days from Badnera, which has reported 66 cases to date. Patelnagar in Badnera gave four cases today, all females aged 42, 36, 42 and 12 while two more women aged 32 and 29 from Noornagar in Old City and new city, respectively. Other cases came from different localities of the city and one each from Morshi and Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsils. A 45-year-old woman from Vichori in Morshi tehsil and a 28-year-old man from Nandgaon Khandeshwar posted the rural cases of the day, taking the rural Covid count to 41. In city, the virus entered Janata Colony (M 42), Vrundavan Colony in Camp ( M 31), and Santoshinagar (M 40). The day also saw 16 getting discharge to take the number of recovered cases to 337. This has left 115 active cases, including 11 under treatment in Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: Two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Chandrapur on Thursday which took total number of cases here to 64. A 28-year-old youth from Kannamwar ward, who returned from Hyderabad, tested positive. A 27-year-old girl from Babupeth area, who had returned from Yavatmal and was in institutional quarantine since June 21, also tested positive. Till date, 41 patients have recovered from Chandrapur. The district has total 17 active cases. WARDHA: A 40-year-old man, who returned from Mumbai along with his wife and daughter, to meet his relatives at Sudampuri area in city tested positive on Thursday. He had returned on June 24. As soon as he reached Wardha, his health deteriorated and it was reported to health administration. He was immediately brought to the isolation ward of the district hospital. Swab sample of this man was sent to the lab and the report came positive on Thursday afternoon. Health department has imposed restrictive measures in Sudampuri area. The victim’s wife, daughter, mother-in-law and other family members who came in contact with him have been quarantined and their samples sent for testing. WASHIM: A 30-year-old man from Washim tested positive taking total number of cases in the district to 86 on June 25. On the other hand, six patients recovered and discharged. Now, 58 out of 86 patients have recovered from Washim and 2 have died. GONDIA: With 14 patients recovered in a day, Gondia’s total number of recovered patient reached 100 against the total cases 104. Now, the district has only 4 active cases, all young and asymptomatic patients. YAVATMAL: No new case was reported on Thursday. The number of active positive patients in GMCH is 72. GADCHIROLI: One Delhi returnee who was in institutional quarantine tested positive here. Total cases in the district have reached 62. Of them, 46 have already recovered, so the number of active cases is 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/21-yr-old-diabetic-girl-is-vidarbhas-youngest-covid-19-victim/articleshow/76633742.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Not feasible to lift finger prints from victims’ necks||Chandigarh: Haryana police has clarified that it is difficult for investigating officers (IOs) to lift finger prints from the body of the deceased in cases of manual strangulation/throttling during the investigation process. The DGP also made it clear that given the present level of research on the issue, it would not be advisable to issue directions to investigating officers and forensic science laboratory (FSL) teams to mandatorily lift fingerprints from the neck of a strangulation victim. A clarification in this regard has been sent by Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava to the advocate general (AG) Haryana. Haryana advocate general, B R Mahajan, in a demi-official letter dated March 2, sought the opinion of the DGP to explore the possibility of lifting fingerprints from the body of the deceased in cases of manual strangulation or throttling during investigation. Mahajan sought the opinion in pursuance to the observation made by the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a suspected case of murder due to strangulation. To ensure clarity on the issue of murder or suicide due to strangulation or in cases where a person was found dead due to strangulation, the HC wanted the state to explore the possibility of lifting of finger prints and necessary directions being issued to IOs. Responding to the issue, Haryana DGP, in a letter dated June 19, clarified to the AG that lifting fingerprints from the body of the victim of strangulation is by and large only a theoretical possibility. The reason cited for this was that fingerprints of the perpetrator disappear from the neck of the victim within a short time due to elasticity of human skin and also due to various factors such as perspiration and body temperature etc. “For this reason, at the present stage, giving the level of advancement of research in this field, it would not be advisable to issue directions to investigating officers and forensic science laboratory (FSL) teams to mandatorily lift fingerprints from the neck of a strangulation victim,” Yadava informed the AG. The DGP gave the opinion after obtaining the professional views of the director, State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB), Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-feasible-to-lift-finger-prints-from-victims-necks/articleshow/76633709.cms||Ajay Sura
June 26, 2020||Amritsar||Another judge to hear Nankana Sahib Sikh girl’s case||AMRITSAR: The statement of Nankana Sahib Sikh girl Jagjit Kaur alias Ayesha Bibi could not be recorded once again in the Lahore high court on Thursday, after she and her husband reportedly requested to transfer their case to another judge. According to sources, Ayesha was brought to the court from Dar-ul-Aman in an armoured vehicle, while a large contingent of riot police was deployed outside the court to prevent any untoward incident between Sikhs and Muslim relatives of the couple, who were already on the brink of clash in Nankana Sahib in past due to inter-religion marriage. Resident of Nankana Sahib, Jagjit Kaur was in relation with local Muslim boy Mohammad Hassan. She embraced Islam in August 28 last year and the next day she married Hassan against the wishes of her family, who lodged a complaint with the police for alleged forcible conversion and marriage of Jagjit. As the incident brought two communities face to face, the local court directed to send Ayesha to Dar-ul-Aman, Lahore where she has been staying since August 2019. Sources said since the case was getting delayed, Ayesha and Hassan had moved an application to transfer their case to another court for speedy justice. However, Muhammad Sultan Sheikh, counsel for Ayesha and Hassan, told TOI over phone from Lahore that earlier the case was in the court of justice Shehram Sarwar, but since the court was closed due to the lockdown and the judge was availing holidays, now it would be heard by justice Sayed Shabaj Ali Rizvi. He said the judge on Thursday sought some documents and fixed July 6 to produce them and also record Ayesha’s statement. Sultan said heavy police arrangements were made outside the court for security reasons. Ayesha’s husband Muhammad Hassan and relatives of Jagjit Kaur were also present in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/another-judge-to-hear-nankana-sahib-sikh-girls-case/articleshow/76633721.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Patna college names herbal garder after city doctor||Ludhiana: In a unique honour for a city-based author and doctor, a government Unani college in Patna has named a herbal garden after him and will formally invite him after the Covid scenario eases. Dr Kewal Dheer is also among the few authors who have been honoured by the House of Commons, Canada, for his contribution to society as a whole. “I joined Government Tibbi College, Patna, as a student of bachelors in indigenous system of medicine in 1951 and passed out from there in 1956. The college is one of the best and first Unani Medical Colleges in undivided India and was established about a century ago. So, last year as part of the 100-year celebration they had organised functions to honour the alumnis. They had called me as well in December last year but since my wife Kant Dheer was unwell, so couldn’t go there,” said 82 years old Dr Dheer. “In January, I got to know that they have set up a herbal garden and named it after me for my contribution to the profession, as an author and above all to society. They have now asked me to come and they will organise a small function and formally take me to the herbal garden named after me”. He added that it feels great to have a herbal garden named after him in such a prestigious institution and is anxiously waiting to go there and see it. Dr Dheer said that it was among the many honours he had got, including the one by House of Commons, Canada, in July 2011 as it had awarded him for his contribution to Urdu literature and society as a whole. He added that throughout his life, he had served in Unani department and joined as a medical officer and retired as joint director, Unani Medicines of Punjab, in 1996. The doctor and author said that he was director of micro-herbal institute in Hyderabad for one and a half years. He added that he had been writing books as well and had more than 100 books on literature and other contemporary subjects. Dr Dheer is a celebrated writer and is recipient of many national and international awards, which include Shiromani Urdu Sahitkar Award, National Hindi Award by ministry of HRD, government of India, Lifetime Achievement Award by The Asian Literary Foundation Inc. USA, Honour by House of Commons (Parliament of Canada), Vishawa Punjabi Gaurav Samman and many national awards by various state acadimies of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patna-college-names-herbal-garder-after-city-doctor/articleshow/76633070.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist officials unfazed by 230 new cases||Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 cases in the district increased by 230 on Thursday, taking the case-count to 4,266. Of the new patients, 77 are women. While 124 are from from the urban areas of the district, 106 are from rural pockets. Officials, however, said though the number of positive cases has seen a spike, the number of patients who have recovered too is encouraging. They said of the 4,266 patients, as many as 2,217 have recovered and have been allowed to go home. Currently, 1,821 patients are being treated at different Covid-19 treatment facilities, including the government medical college and hospital. The officials said the patients are being reported from the rural areas that are closer to the city. So far, 218 people have succumbed to the contagion in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-officials-unfazed-by-230-new-cases/articleshow/76633711.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Madurai||Custodial death victims laid to rest in Tuticorin district||Tuticorin: Bodies of father-son duo P Jayaraj, 58, and J Benicks, 31, of Sathankulam who died in judicial custody at the Kovilpatti government hospital on Monday night were laid to rest on Melasathankulam church burial ground around 8 pm on Thursday. Hundreds of villagers, traders and political personalities paid homage to the victims of the alleged police torture. Though autopsy was performed late on Wednesday night, their kin insisted on filing murder charges against the police personnel responsible for their death before they received the body. Convinced by the approach of Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidhasan who had conducted the inquest and the assurance he gave to the relatives for a fair probe and justice for the deceased, the family agreed to receive the body. The bodies were handed over to the kin around 4.30 pm at the Tirunelveli government medical college and hospital. Jayaraj’s eldest daughter J Persis told reporters that they have put their trust in God and judiciary and expressed confidence that they will get justice at the earliest. The bodies reached Sathankulam around 6.35 pm by road and were taken to Benicks’s mobile shop – where the trouble began with police late on June 19. The bodies were kept there for 10 minutes. Social distancing went for a toss as hundreds paid homage to them. The bodies were then taken to their house and kept for about five minutes for their kin, near and dear to pay homage. Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, Tiruchendur MLA Anitha R Radhakrishnan and representatives of various political parties paid homagees. “It is shocking that the CM has mentioned that the duo died of illness even before the autopsy was performed. The CM’s statement should not change the direction of the probe. We have trust in the judiciary and expect justice,” Kanimozhi told reporters. District collector Sandeep Nanduri and superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan supervised law and order. In a statement, president of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, N Jegatheesan, said the deaths have sent shock waves across the trading community. They sought action against sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Ragu Ganesh and other police personnel involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-death-victims-laid-to-rest-in-tuticorin-district/articleshow/76634170.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Chennai||Biz left out of fiscal support to get 1-time option to rejig debt||Chennai: The finance ministry has initiated steps for one-time restructuring of loans of businesses that were viable in the pre-Covid period, but are struggling under the weight of the pandemic now, the government said on Thursday.While the government has announced stimulus packages for various sectors, some businesses that were viable before the pandemic have not got fiscal support. “We are in intense engagement with the RBI for a one-time restructuring of debt and finances for businesses,” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The process to ascertain the characteristics of stress, whether they are Stress 1 or Stress 2 or NPA, is under way, she said. The idea is to help businesses exit the situation honourably, she said.At the macro level, the Financial Stability Development Council (FSDC) does stress tests based on three assumptions — baseline, medium and severe stress. Last month, in an interview to TOI, SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar had said that he expects the stress in the economy to be between the baseline and medium level. Although businesses are saved from a default tag until end August 2020 due to the moratorium allowed by the RBI, banks have been doing a stress test on individual accounts to determine how they will perform once the moratorium is lifted. The finance minister was responding to a query raised by the CEO of City Union Bank, N Kamakodi, during a Chennai International Centre webinar on small businesses. “We request you to consider a business-restructuring programme for those that were viable pre-Covid but have struggled since,” he said.The finance minister was dismayed at the slow transmission of rate cut benefits to borrowers. “The ministry of finance is intensely engaged with the RBI as to why the pace of transmission is not as speedy as it should be. Banks are citing their FD portfolios and MCLR rates. Customers must not be denied the benefits of lower interest rates,” she said.Responding to another query on private banks not coming forward for lending to MSMEs under the credit guarantee scheme, she said so far 16 private banks have been on-boarded by the government. “PSU banks have lent Rs 22,197 crore so far, while private banks have disbursed Rs 10,697 crore. Private banks must do more,” she said, especially when they were aggressively lending to SMEs.The minister also said that she would work out a scheme with banks where Mudra loans would be issued to those without a PAN card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biz-left-out-of-fiscal-support-to-get-1-time-option-to-rejig-debt/articleshow/76633718.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 26, 2020||Goa||Government extends last date for VAT returns to September 30||PANAJI: In order to give relief to businessmen, the department of commercial taxes has extended the last date for traders to file their VAT returns for the April-June quarter to September 30. The government is expected to notify the extension in the coming days. Commissioner for commercial taxes Hemant Kumar also said that traders can pay taxes for the months from April to July by August 31, without any penal interest being levied. However, these exemptions will be granted only to those business entities that had a turnover of less than Rs 5 crore in the previous financial year. “The decision to give exemptions to file returns has been given considering the Covid-19 situation. The order has not been issued as yet as we have just proposed it and the file had gone on the government on Wednesday,” said commissioner of commercial taxes Hemant Kumar. The relaxations in tax payments are aimed at easing the burden on MSMEs who maybe facing a fund crunch or loss of business due to the lockdown. “For the months of April, May, June and July a tax payee can file tax till August 31 and for this no interest will be charged. But this is only available to those who had turnover in the last year of less than Rs 5 crore,” said Kumar. He said that those firms or private entities that had a turnover of more than Rs 5 crore in the 2019-20 would have to pay their taxes and file returns as per the earlier schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-extends-last-date-for-vat-returns-to-sept-30/articleshow/76633728.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Ranchi||Congress backs Alam, says audio clip is BJP ploy||Ranchi/Dumka: The state unit of Congress on Thursday backed its Pakur MLA Alamgir Alam, who is also a minister in the Hemant Soren government, after he landed in a controversy over his alleged role in managing government contracts and intimidating a contractor in Sahibganj district. Alam allegedly threatened the contractor to back off from participating in a bidding for a toll collection work under Barharwa Nagar panchayat. Two days back, an audio purtotedly containing the telephonic conversation between Alam and the chief minister’s local representative, Pankaj Mishra, threatening Pakur-based contractor Shambhu Nandan Kumar was made viral by BJP. In the audio, the minister and Mishra could be heard mounting pressure on the contractor to quit from participating in the bidding process. Later, when Kumar did not budge, he was allegedly manhandled by “goons” sent by Alam and Mishra. Later on Tuesday night, Kumar lodged an FIR against Alam, Mishra and four others at Barharwa police station. Reacting to it, JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon dubbed it as a ploy by BJP. He said, “The audio is a ploy by BJP to defame our leader who is a sincere politician and a stalwart in Santhal Pargana. The conversation was in a different light between two members of a family, but it was misconstrued in a different light by BJP. One shouldn’t read much into it.” BJP on the other hand has been running a social media campaign against Alam demanding chief minister Hemant Soren to remove him from the cabinet berth. BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi wrote a letter to Hemant in this regard. Meanwhile, Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta told reporters police have begun a probe after an FIR was filed. He said, “An FIR has been lodged against the CM’s representative and others and the investigation is on. The mobile conversation between the complainant and the accused persons will also be examined to ascertain the facts before further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congress-backs-alam-says-audio-clip-is-bjp-ploy/articleshow/76633120.cms||---
June 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||Hawkers back in Sakchi market 12 hours after eviction drive||JAMSHEDPUR: Barely 12 hours of a special eviction drive, hawkers on Thursday morning occupied the Sakchi market here completely. Late on Wednesday, officials of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee along with city police had carried out the raid for two hours and drove out more than 50 hawkers from the marketplace. In the past, several such drives were carried out but have not yielded any results. To resolve the perennial problem, the district authorities had agreed to construct at least 12 vending stalls for the hawkers in the district, but the work has remained stuck because of the lockdown. The hawkers, who have been demanding the stalls, have currently no place to sell their wares than occupying market places. In the absence of organised trade and formal checking, the hawkers have also been using plastic, a banned item in Jharkhand, while selling and procuring their wares. Sumit Agarwal, who owns an electrical equipment showroom at the market, said illegal hawkers and street food vendors had completely captured the path leading to his shop. “My customers find it extremely difficult to negotiate the way to my shop,” he lamented. A cloth shop owner also said, “The number of illegal hawkers in the market has shot up manifold during Unlock 1.0.” He added that during the period when relaxations for cloth and footwear shops were not given, the roadside vendors hawking the same items were doing brisk business “right under the nose of the police”. The shopkeepers of the market also rued that customers are now shying away from visiting big shops and showrooms as they have no space to walk. Meanwhile, tension is rising between the shopkeepers and the illegal hawkers over the issue. While the shopkeepers charged the latter with illegally occupying pathways and shop fronts, the hawkers alleged that they were being victimised by the former with help from district administration officials. Police personnel of a PCR van at the market said they could not do anything about the return of the hawkers unless an order comes from higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/hawkers-back-in-sakchi-market-12-hours-after-eviction-drive/articleshow/76633100.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
